Because vitamin C can deactivate histamine, vitamin C supplements might be beneficial in treating the common cold. true. Mishlee is looking to increase her dietary sources of vitamin C. However, she expresses a strong. Dislike for all citrus fruits. Which of the following foods would you recommend she eat to give her.
The total fat content of dairy products can vary a lot. Fat in milk provides calories for young children and also contains essential vitamins such as vitamin B2 and vitamin B12. However, much of the fat in milk and dairy foods is saturated fat. For older children and adults, eating too much fat can contribute to excess energy intakes, leading to becoming overweight.
Water soluble vitamins. B vitamins. Milk contains appreciable amounts of many of the B vitamins, and is particularly rich in vitamin B 12. Vitamin B12 is required for maintenance of healthy nerves and red blood cells, energy production and normal cell division. This is because vitamin A is dissolved within the milk fat fraction which is removed to varying levels when producing lower fat milk products. Vitamin A is required for good vision, immune health and for normal growth and development of body tissues.
Milk and milk products are highly nutritious foods. They contain a unique “package of nutrients” that are an essential part of a healthy eating plan. Milk is not easily replaceable with other foods; the substitutes are not the same. Research continues to identify positive ways that milk impacts health. In addition to these health benefits, milk and milk products taste good, are convenient, are affordable and—most importantly—provide three of the four nutrients that are often deficient in Americans’ diets: calcium, vitamin D and potassium. For that reason, the USDA recommends that adults consume three servings per day.
2. A general characteristic of the water-soluble vitamins is that they must be consumed frequently. 3. A general characteristic of the fat-soluble vitamins is that excesses are eliminated from the kidneys so they are unlikely to create a problem of toxicity. 4. An explanation why B vitamin deficiencies lead to lack of energy is that many of them function as coenzymes needed for energy metabolism. 5.
Milk and dairy products contain many nutrients and provide a quick and easy way of supplying these nutrients to the diet within relatively few calories. Milk, cheese and yogurt all provide the following beneficial nutrients in varying quantities. 1  Calcium-for healthy bones and teeth. 2  Phosphorous-for energy release. A diet containing fruit and vegetables, low-fat dairy products and low salt helps reduce blood pressure (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension: DASH diet). The potassium, magnesium and calcium found in dairy products are all linked to healthy blood pressure-for more information see section on blood pressure.
Whole milk contains some vitamin A, however levels in semi skimmed and skimmed milks are much lower. This is because vitamin A is dissolved within the milk fat fraction which is removed to varying levels when producing lower fat milk products. Vitamin A is required for good vision, immune health and for normal growth and development of body tissues.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Carbohydrates-lactose, 11 grams Fat: Depending on what kind of milk you choose (nonfat to whole milk), milk contains anywhere from negligible amounts of fat in non-fat milk to eight grams of fat per 8-ounce glass in whole milk. 
Milk contains small amounts of niacin, pantothenic acid, vitamin B6, vitamin C, and folate and is not considered a major source of these vitamins in the diet. Milk contains the fat soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. The content level of fat soluble vitamins in dairy products depends on the fat content of the product. Reduced fat (2% fat), lowfat (1% fat), and skim milk must be fortified with vitamin A to be nutritionally equivalent to whole milk. Fortification of all milk with vitamin D is voluntary. Milk contains small amounts of vitamins E and K and is not considered a major source of these vitamins in the diet. This page describes the Vitamins and Minerals present in milk, and the Effects of Heat Treatments and Light Exposure on the Vitamin and Mineral Content in Milk. A description of the nutritional function of vitamins and minerals is provided on the Nutritional Components in Milk page in the Nutrition Facts section.