During the Pap smear, your doctor may choose to collect samples of the fluid around the cervix to test for Gonorrhea or Chlamydia. Other tests that your doctor may choose to perform as part of a standard STD screen include urine testing for Gonorrhea or Chlamydia, and blood testing for HIV, Hepatitis B, and syphilis.
If your test detects any borderline changes to your cervical cells, then we will automatically test the sample to see if you have an HPV infection, and which types of HPV. This does not meant that you have cervical cancer. This will help to detect whether any borderline changes are as a result of an HPV infection.
A Pap test is primarily used to screen for cervical cancer. It is used to look for cervical and/or vaginal cells that are cancerous or that may be precancerous.
Cervical screening. Cervical screening tests help to prevent cervical cancer by checking the health of your cervix (neck of the womb) and detecting abnormal cells. The tests do not include tests for chlamydia or other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) , such as gonorrhoea.
A cervical swab provides the most sensitive and specific test result for Chlamydia, and has the added advan­tage of the physician being able to assess the patient’s general genital health. Screening is easily done during routine Pap tests and is still considered best practice by the Simcoe Muskoka District Health Unit.
Cervical cytology (i.e., a Pap test) is an effective, low-cost screening test for preventing invasive cervical cancer. In a 2004 survey, 49% of all STD clinics in the United States reported providing cervical screening services, and 20% reported use of HPV DNA testing (419).
Pap smears are performed as a screening test to look at the cells from the cervix, which is the lower part of the uterus. These tests can detect abnormal cells that have the potential to transform into cervical cancer, a process that is linked to infection with Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). HPV is the most common sexually transmitted disease in this country. The Pap smear itself does not detect any other sexually transmitted diseases.
The pap smear is a swab of the cervical tissue; testing looks for abnormalities or irregularities in the tissue. Pap smears on their own are not comprehensive STD testing, and if you’re sexually active or have unprotected sex, you may want to consider more thorough testing.