In addition to learning what it takes to become a home inspector, you'll have the chance to take a step-by-step, guided tour through the actual home inspection process, and earn industry credits through the National Association of Home Inspectors. A home inspector also needs to be able to evaluate both the operation of the plumbing system and how the plumbing system relates to the entire house structure. Objectives: 1  Name and describe the components of heating and cooling systems. 2  Describe the advantages and disadvantages of each system.
Now is the Time to Become a Home Inspector! Click in the Boxes Below to Learn More Residential Home Inspector Click here to learn more about our Home Inspector Training Packages. Home Inspector Requirements in Your State Home Inspector Licensing Requirements are different in every state. 
(as of Dec 2014) Visit the Texas website for details. To become a Certified Radon Tester, take InterNACHI's free, online Advanced Radon Measurement Service Provide Course, which is NRPP-approved for both initial certification training and Continuing Education. The course details are located at http://www.nachi .... Become a Certified Home Energy Inspector. The online training and certification is free for members. No infrared, no blower door, and no additional training needed.
If you have ever considered becoming a home inspector, we recommend that you start soon, while you have time, and complete our 450 hour course before the deadline. Become a Texas Professional Home Inspector with the TREC-approved Texas State University (Office of Continuing Education) course. We provide the materials for the course which satisfy all 450 hours required to be a Texas Professional Home Inspector with no apprenticeship/sponsorship required. 
Take InterNACHI's free, online Home Inspection Business Course.. InterNACHI's Marketing Team will design a new logo for your inspection business or re-design your existing logo, and design and customize your business cards, flyers and brochures. It's all for free. Become a Certified Home Energy Inspector. The online training and certification is free for members. No infrared, no blower door, and no additional training needed.
Steps to become a licensed home inspector in Texas. 1  Complete an approved 448 hour home inspection course or perform 250 supervised home inspections. 2  Take and pass the Texas State Home Inspectors Exam. 3  Start your own home inspection business or go to work for an existing home inspection company! 1 Note: Texas is one of just a few states that requires classroom home inspection training. 2  Unfortunately the state of Texas does not accept any online home inspection training courses to meet their home inspection training requirements.
Steps to become a licensed home inspector in Texas. 1  Complete an approved 448 hour home inspection course or perform 250 supervised home inspections. 2  Note: Texas is one of just a few states that requires classroom home inspection training. 1 Note: Texas is one of just a few states that requires classroom home inspection training. 2  Unfortunately the state of Texas does not accept any online home inspection training courses to meet their home inspection training requirements.
Without a doubt, the first decision is whether to take the Texas Home Inspection training courses in–class or online. Adding to that challenge is choosing a home inspection school that gives you the best chance for success as a home inspection professional. The key to success in today’s Home Inspection profession is not only knowledge and innovation—but also making a wise decision—day one.
To prepare for the state exam, you can take InterNACHI's Online Home Inspector Exam (free), take the InterNACHI State Exam Prep Course (free for members), and take InterNACHI's online courses (free for members). Become a Certified Home Energy Inspector. The online training and certification is free for members. No infrared, no blower door, and no additional training needed.