From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The primary gustatory cortex is a brain structure responsible for the perception of taste. It consists of two substructures: the anterior insula on the insular lobe and the frontal operculum on the inferior frontal gyrus of the frontal lobe. 
The olfactory bulb is one of the structures of the limbic system and a very ancient part of the brain. As mentioned in the previous description of the olfactory process, the information captured by the sense of smell goes from the olfactory bulb to other structures of the limbic system. All of this is very valuable information. The sense of smell is a strong sense for identification purposes and can have a strong impact in your brain because it is such an integral part of it (to the point that strong chemical smells can definitely elicit seizures).
Brain stem. The brain stem controls your lungs and heart and blood pressure. It sits at the top of the spine and receives messages from the rest of the body. In some ways this is the most important part of the brain because it keeps you alive. Hurting this part of the brain is very serious
Parietal lobe. The parietal lobe gives you a sense of 'me'. It figures out the messages you receive from the five senses of sight, touch, smell, hearing and taste. This part of the brain tells you what is part of the body and what is part of the outside world. The brain stem controls your lungs and heart and blood pressure. It sits at the top of the spine and receives messages from the rest of the body. In some ways this is the most important part of the brain because it keeps you alive.
Of course, we have to know what we are eating, so taste, smell, and trigeminal messages meet in a part of the brain called the insula (not shown in the image above), which identifies what the flavor is. The tips of the taste cells reach toward a tiny opening on the tongue-the gustatory pore-through which food chemicals can fall. Nerve endings for the taste system and for the touch/temperature/pain system surround the base of the taste bud cells.
The cranial nerves carry taste information into the brain to a part of the brain stem called the nucleus of the solitary tract. From the nucleus of the solitary tract, taste information goes to the thalamus and then to the cerebral cortex. Like information for smell, taste information also goes to the limbic system (hypothalamus and amygdala). Another cranial nerve (the trigeminal nerve, V) also innervates the tongue, but is not used for taste. Rather, the trigeminal nerve carries information related to touch, pressure, temperature and pain.
Brain Regions Responsible for the Expression of Conditioned Taste Aversion in Rats. 1  Takashi Yamamoto. 2  Correspondence to be sent to: Takashi Yamamoto, Department of Behavioral Physiology, Graduate School of Human Sciences, Osaka University, 1-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan. 
Smell, the nose, and the brain. Molecules of the food you are eating move through the back of the throat and reach olfactory nerve endings in the roof of the nose. The molecules bind to these nerve endings, which then signal the olfactory bulb to send smell messages to two critical parts of the brain: The tips of the taste cells reach toward a tiny opening on the tongue-the gustatory pore-through which food chemicals can fall. Nerve endings for the taste system and for the touch/temperature/pain system surround the base of the taste bud cells.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Manasa chivakula. Confidence votes 313. The brain has three main parts, the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the brain stem. The brain is divided into regions that control specific functions. THE CEREBRUM is mainly responsible for taste & smell. 