How old are chicks when you can tell if its a rooster? These are my first chicks (and I ordered females, 10% chance of them being males??) and I am wondering how old they usually are when they crow for the first time or what kinds of traits to look for to tell the difference? 
For instance, one of my hens has a larger comb than any of her sisters of the same breed, and a larger comb than any of my roosters, too. When sexing most juveniles, the best, most fail-safe method is to look at the saddle feathers in front of the tail when the bird is about 3 months old. By that age, cockerels will have long and pointy saddle feathers, while a hen's will be rounded. Take a look at this rooster's saddle feathers. Plus, generally speaking, you will be able to tell by feathers much earlier since roosters don't usually begin to crow until they are 4 or 5 months old. However, we have had roosters wait until a little later, and begin a little sooner, too.
There really is no good way to accurately determine the age of a chicken. In general, from hatch to feathering takes up to 12 weeks. First eggs are laid at about 5 months. F … irst molt (the lose and change feathers) takes place at about 12 to 14 months old depending on the breed. 
We show a variety of breeds of hens and roosters that are all the same age, 9 weeks, and explain why they are either a hen or rooster and how to tell the difference at this age. Single and rose comb chicks are shown. 
Cheepers lives up to her name, she is a talker! This is how to tell if a chicken is a rooster or a hen. If you breed chickens, this is an easy way at one to one and a half months old. The main breed shown in here are Barred Rocks, a breed I really like. 
The indicators for aging hens may be a little more accurate, and since you received your birds in pairs I’m assuming the male and female are similar in age. One way to tell the age of a hen is by how many eggs she lays, if she’s laying eggs at all, and the size of the eggs. Most breeds start laying between 5 and 6 months of age. The eggs are wonky for a little while; you may get eggs that have no shell or have a very soft shell. 
The age at which a pullet becomes a hen and a cockerel becomes a cock depends on what type of chicken is being raised. Purebred poultry producers have very age-specific definitions. A chicken is a cockerel or pullet if it is less than one year of age. After one year of age, the chicken is referred to as a hen or cock. In the commercial chicken industry a female chicken is called a hen after it begins egg production (around five months of age). A sexually mature male chicken (again, around five months of age) is referred to as a rooster
However they're not as thin or as long as rooster feathers. Take a closeup look at hen hackles: Now here's a closeup of rooster hackles to compare: Notice that you can really tell more of a difference in the slender shape of the hackles further up the neck toward the head, rather than where they meet the body feathers. Plus, generally speaking, you will be able to tell by feathers much earlier since roosters don't usually begin to crow until they are 4 or 5 months old. However, we have had roosters wait until a little later, and begin a little sooner, too.
How to sex chickens Although everybody can tell a hen from a rooster when they're fully grown, it can be difficult to disentangle your cockerels (male) from your pullets (female) if you're raising straight run (un-sexed) chicks.
Birds of a Feather. Look at the tail feathers of your baby chicken. A rooster’s tail feathers tend to be longer and brighter than hen’s feathers. A rooster’s tail feathers are the easiest way to tell him apart from a hen, when he is grown. Unfortunately, as a chick, you can’t really tell the difference. You could check your chick’s neck feathers for an easier way to tell the difference between the two.