The Nova Scotia Duck-Tolling Retriever looks somewhat like a small Golden Retriever. It is a well-muscled dog that is medium to heavy boned. It has a deep chest that is well-insulated for swimming in cold water. 
1 A dog named “Drake” is usually named after male ducks which are hunted. 2  Other cool hunting dog names include “Bullet”, “Admiral”, “General”, or “Jet”. 3  Since hunting dogs are very sensitive to commands, never pick out a name that rhymes or has a similar-sounding name with commonly used commands. 1 If you’re bringing home an older hunting dog which has already been registered or has already been given a nickname, giving it a new nickname can be confusing for him and you might find that he will fail to respond to its new name.
Our Favorite Dog Names: Dog Names is a fun place to visit if you are looking for a new name for your favorite four legged friend. Since 1997 Dog Names at the PuppyDogWeb.Com has been naming one puppy dog at a time. Remember you can also name you cat, kitten, bird, teddy bear or whom ever you wish! We have compiled a comprehensive listing of names from traditional to outrageous.
13,791 pages on this wiki. The Dog (sometimes called the Laughing Dog) in Duck Hunt for the Nintendo Entertainment System is an infamous character. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS & Wii U, he becomes a part of Duck Hunt (character) . Despite the fact that you can shoot the dog in the VS. arcade version of Duck Hunt, unofficial titles have been released on the internet where the dog can be shot. These are typically more graphical and often result in the dog dying rather than just a face full of gunpowder like in the Vs. Series version.
Talk to Breed Rescue. Most people who love Tollers love all Tollers. That’s why breed clubs have rescue organizations devoted to taking care of homeless dogs. The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever Club can help you find a dog that may be the perfect companion for your family. You can also search online for other Toller rescues in your area.
1 The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever is a rare breed and it may take time to locate a reputable breeder who has puppies available. 2  Expect a wait of six months to a year or more for a puppy. 3  To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. 1 The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever is not a miniature Golden Retriever; their temperaments are quite different. 2  The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever is a rare breed and it may take time to locate a reputable breeder who has puppies available. 3
The hunting dog names list includes some of my favorite names for your gun dog, pointer, flusher, retriever and more. The list also includes many of my favorite one syllable dog names. Some of the names are tied to gun manufacturers, old movie actors or hunting commands. Some are here just because I like how they sound. 
Some bonds are truly unbreakable. Like the one between a boy and his dog Duck. To keep him healthy and active at every stage of life, there's IAMS. Ideal nutrition so you can always look forward to what's next. Discover IAMS for Life at http://bit.ly/K9Zo7m. 1  Pets & Animals. Like the one between a boy and his dog Duck. To keep him healthy and active at every stage of life, there's IAMS. Ideal nutrition so you can always look forward to what's next. Discover IAMS for Life at http://bit.ly/K9Zo7m