You probably aren't even aware of just how much sodium is in your diet. Consider that a single teaspoon of table salt, which is a combination of sodium and chloride, has 2,325 milligrams (mg) of sodium. And it's not just table salt you have to worry about. Many processed and prepared foods contain sodium. See how sodium sneaks into your diet and ways you can shake the habit. 
Low sodium in the blood can lead to what is called hyponatremia. Signs of hyponatremia are fatigue, seizures, muscle spasms, confusion and coma. Sodium deficiency is usually caused by vomiting, diarrhea, drinking excessive fluid (especially water), and excessive sweating. Sodium, unlike other minerals, has a distinct and appealing taste. It is commonly found in table salt, which is 40% sodium. The other portion of table salt is made of chloride. Sodium is needed for muscle contractions, nerve transmissions, maintaining pH balance, and hydration.
Sodium is readily available from various sources—foods that contain sodium naturally, foods containing salt and other sodium-containing ingredients, and from salt added to foods during cooking and at the table. As a component of salt, sodium’s most recognized role is to make foods more flavorful. Less well-known, yet important roles of sodium-containing ingredients include helping to preserve foods, improving the texture of foods, and ensuring the safety of some foods. This IFIC Review provides background on the use of sodium as a food ingredient and sodium’s role in sustaining health. It also summarizes current knowledge on the effects of sodium and salt intake on the development and treatment of disease.
Common salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl), a chemical compound belonging to the larger class of salts; salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. Most of the sodium in the Western diet comes from salt. The habitual salt intake in many Western countries is about 10 g per day, and it is higher than that in many countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. The high level of sodium in many processed foods has a major impact on the total amount consumed.
Sodium vs. Salt: A Shade of Difference. Salt is sodium plus chloride. Both are minerals. Salt is made up of 40% sodium and 60% chloride. It's that 40% that causes so much concern among doctors today. Their findings point to the dangers of people overdoing salt intake in their daily diets. High blood pressure, strokes, and kidney disease have all been associated with excessive salt intake. 
SODIUM GUIDELINES. Sodium is a mineral found naturally in foods and also added to foods. Sodium plays an important role in maintaining normal fluid balance in the body. A low-sodium diet is important to follow in order to control your heart failure symptoms and prevent future heart problems. 
U.S. guidelines call for less than 2,300 milligrams of sodium per day: about 1 teaspoon of table salt. And half of Americans should drop to 1,500 milligrams a day. You may be surprised by some of the foods that are high in sodium. 1 Very low-sodium: 35 milligrams or less per serving. 2  Low-sodium: Less than 140 milligrams per serving. 3  Reduced sodium: Sodium level reduced by 25%. 4  Unsalted, no salt added, or without added salt: Made without the salt that's normally used, but still contains the sodium that's a natural part of the food itself.
The manufacture of salt is one of the oldest chemical industries. A major source of salt is seawater, which has a salinity of approximately 3.5%. This means that there are about 35 grams (1.2 oz) of dissolved salts, predominantly sodium (Na+) and chloride (Cl−) ions, per kilogram (2.2 lbs) of water. Most of the sodium in the Western diet comes from salt. The habitual salt intake in many Western countries is about 10 g per day, and it is higher than that in many countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. The high level of sodium in many processed foods has a major impact on the total amount consumed.
1 The Nutrition Facts Label lists the Percent Daily Value (%DV) of sodium in one serving of a food. 2  The %DV for sodium is based on 100% of the recommended amount of sodium, which is less than 2400 milligrams (mg) per day. High levels of sodium may seem “hidden” in packaged food, particularly when a food doesn’t “taste” salty – but sodium is not hidden on the Nutrition Facts Label! 1 
Salt is the main source of sodium for most people, but some common food additives – like monosodium glutamate (MSG), sodium nitrite, and sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) – also contain sodium and contribute in lesser amounts to the total amount of “sodium” listed on the Nutrition Facts Label. High levels of sodium may seem “hidden” in packaged food, particularly when a food doesn’t “taste” salty – but sodium is not hidden on the Nutrition Facts Label! 1  The Nutrition Facts Label lists the Percent Daily Value (%DV) of sodium in one serving of a food.