Medications and supplements that can raise your blood pressure. From acetaminophen to stimulants, know which drugs and supplements can affect your blood pressure. Heart-Healthy Living Subscribe to our Heart-Healthy Living e-newsletter to stay up to date on heart-health topics. Certain pain and anti-inflammatory medications can cause you to retain water, creating kidney problems and increasing your blood pressure. Examples include: 1  Indomethacin (Indocin, others). 2  Naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn). 3  Naproxen Sodium (Anaprox). 4  Piroxicam (Feldene). 5  Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB). 6  Meloxicam (Mobic).
Reference ID: 3595524. 5. Abnormal bleeding: PAXIL CR and other antidepressant medicines may increase your risk of bleeding or bruising, especially if you take the blood thinner warfarin (Coumadin ® , Jantoven ®), a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs, like ibuprofen or naproxen), or aspirin. 6. Seizures or convulsions 7.
Yes, like any SSRI Prozac can raise blood pressure. It acts on serotonine receptors. Serotonine is not only responsible for certain emotions, but is active in a lot of our body parts. It also controls our body temperature, heartbeat, blood pressure and appetite for example. 
I have read and heard that it can cause high blood pressure, but I was just wondering if anyone had any experience with it. I have taken Paxil for 2 years and I have high blood pressure. I was just wondering if the high blood pressure could be caused from the Paxil. I too take paxil. I started out taking 20 mg a day and now I am back down to 10mg. I would have the following symptoms: Racing heart, sweating, palpitations, chest pain,elevated blood pressure and fear of death thoughts.
Since he also has other side effects related issues such as high blood pressure and epididymitis, I hope he can stop taking this anyway... Q and A http://www.medhelp.org/posts/Depression-Mental-Health/Paxil-and-getting-pregnant/show/1371777 Affects on sperm quality http://www.conceiveonline ... I too take paxil. I started out taking 20 mg a day and now I am back down to 10mg. I would have the following symptoms: Racing heart, sweating, palpitations, chest pain,elevated blood pressure and fear of death thoughts.
Antidepressants work by changing your body's response to brain chemicals, including serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine, that affect your mood. These chemicals may also cause your blood pressure to increase. Examples of antidepressants that can raise your blood pressure include: 1  Venlafaxine (Effexor). 2  Bupropion (Wellbutrin). 3  Desipramine (Norpramin). Certain pain and anti-inflammatory medications can cause you to retain water, creating kidney problems and increasing your blood pressure. Examples include: 1  Indomethacin (Indocin, others). 2  Naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn). 3  Naproxen Sodium (Anaprox). 4  Piroxicam (Feldene). 5  Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB). 6  Meloxicam (Mobic).
Summary: Blood pressure increased is found among people who take Paxil, especially for people who are 50-59 old, have been taking the drug for 1 - 6 months, also take medication Vioxx, and have Depression. We study 68,519 people who have side effects while taking Paxil from FDA and social media. 
What To Do. It is too soon to say that tricyclic and SNRI antidepressants definitively cause high blood pressure. However, if you have hypertension or are at risk for it, you and your doctor should weigh the risks and benefits of these drugs before starting on one. The long-held notion that depression and anxiety can elevate your blood pressure certainly seems plausible. After all, a mood or anxiety disorderand the toll it takes on your lifeleads to chronic stress, which contributes to hypertension.
Anxiety doesn't cause long-term high blood pressure (hypertension). But episodes of anxiety can cause dramatic, temporary spikes in your blood pressure. If those temporary spikes occur frequently, such as every day, they can cause damage to your blood vessels, heart and kidneys, as can chronic high blood pressure. In addition, when you have anxiety you're more likely to resort to other unhealthy habits that can increase your blood pressure, such as: 