As a shipping container, the word pail is a technical term for a bucket shaped package with a sealed top or lid which is used as a shipping container for chemicals and industrial products. Roman bronze situla from Germany, 2nd-3rd century. A wooden bucket. German 19th century leather fire-buckets. bucket or pail is typically a watertight, vertical cylinder or truncated cone, with an open top and a flat bottom, attached to a semicircular carrying handle called the bail. A common volume is 10 liters (dm³) .
A bucket or pail is typically a watertight, vertical cylinder or truncated cone, with an open top and a flat bottom, attached to a semicircular carrying handle called the bail.A common volume is 10 liters (dm³) .
slop jar, slop pail-a large pail used to receive waste water from a washbasin or chamber pot. vessel-an object used as a container (especially for liquids). water wheel, waterwheel-a wheel that rotates by direct action of water; a simple turbine.er dinner pail swung from her right hand, and she had a blissful consciousness of the two soda biscuits spread with butter and syrup, the baked cup-custard, the doughnut, and the square of hard gingerbread.
pail. n. 1. A watertight cylindrical vessel, open at the top and fitted with a handle; a bucket.2. The amount that a pail can hold. [Middle English. , probably from Old French. , warming pan, perhaps from Latin. , small pan; see paella .].lop jar, slop pail-a large pail used to receive waste water from a washbasin or chamber pot. vessel-an object used as a container (especially for liquids). water wheel, waterwheel-a wheel that rotates by direct action of water; a simple turbine.
pail. n. 1. A watertight cylindrical vessel, open at the top and fitted with a handle; a bucket.2. The amount that a pail can hold.er dinner pail swung from her right hand, and she had a blissful consciousness of the two soda biscuits spread with butter and syrup, the baked cup-custard, the doughnut, and the square of hard gingerbread.
Full Definition of PAIL. 1. : a usually cylindrical container with a handle: bucket. 2. : the quantity that a pail contains. — pail·ful \-ˌfu̇l\ noun. See pail defined for English-language learners. See pail defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : a round container that is open at the top and usually has a handle. : the amount held by a pail.
Noun. 1. pail-a roughly cylindrical vessel that is open at the top. bucket. cannikin-a wooden bucket. dinner bucket, dinner pail-a pail in which a workman carries his lunch or dinner. dredging bucket-a bucket for lifting material from a channel or riverbed. kibble-an iron bucket used for hoisting in wells or mining.lop jar, slop pail-a large pail used to receive waste water from a washbasin or chamber pot. vessel-an object used as a container (especially for liquids). water wheel, waterwheel-a wheel that rotates by direct action of water; a simple turbine.
1. a container, usu. cylindrical, with a handle; bucket. 2. the amount filling a pail. [before 1000; Middle English payle wooden container, Old English paegel pægel wine, container liquid (measure Compare Middle, Dutch Low german pegel half)]. pinter dinner pail swung from her right hand, and she had a blissful consciousness of the two soda biscuits spread with butter and syrup, the baked cup-custard, the doughnut, and the square of hard gingerbread.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. A blue pail. A blue pail. The definition of a pail is a round-shaped, handled container with a handle that is used for carrying liquids or other things. An example of a pail is the container a child uses to carry sand on beach. 