In linguistics, a transformational grammar or transformational-generative grammar (TG, TGG) is a generative grammar, especially of a natural language, that involves the use of defined operations called transformations to produce new sentences from existing ones. 
Generative grammar is a linguistic theory that considers grammar to be a system of rules that is intended to generate exactly those combinations of words which form grammatical sentences in a given language. Early versions of Chomsky's theory were called transformational grammar, and this is still used as a general term that includes his subsequent theories, the most recent being the Minimalist Program.
There are a number of competing versions of generative grammar currently practiced within linguistics. Other theories that have been proposed include dependency grammar, head-driven phrase structure grammar, lexical functional grammar, categorial grammar, relational grammar, link grammar, and tree-adjoining grammar. Early versions of Chomsky's theory were called transformational grammar, and this is still used as a general term that includes his subsequent theories, the most recent being the Minimalist Program.
Unsolved problems. Generative linguistics is a school of thought within linguistics that makes use of the concept of a generative grammar. The term generative grammar is used in different ways by different people, and the term generative linguistics therefore has a range of different, though overlapping, meanings. Formally, a generative grammar is defined as one that is fully explicit.
Top 10 facts about the world. The branch of linguistics known as generative linguistics rests on the idea of a generative grammar, a set of rules that generates an endless variety of sentences that are considered grammatically correct and no sentences that aren’t. Generative linguistics assumes that a speaker of a given language has command of certain linguistic knowledge in order to produce correct sentences in that language. Generative linguistics assumes that the human ability for natural language is innate. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow.
1 linguistics: Transformational-Generative Grammar-Transformational-Generative Grammar In the 1950s the school of linguistic thought known as 2  ... linguistics-linguistics linguistics, scientific study of language, covering the structure (morphology and ... Transformational-Generative Grammar. In the 1950s the school of linguistic thought known as transformational-generative grammar received wide acclaim through the works of Noam Chomsky.
Chomsky and other generativists have argued that many of the properties of a generative grammar arise from a universal grammar which is innate to the human brain, rather than being learned from the environment (see the poverty of the stimulus argument). Early versions of Chomsky's theory were called transformational grammar, and this is still used as a general term that includes his subsequent theories, the most recent being the Minimalist Program.
[ edit intro ]. Generative linguistics is a school of thought within linguistics that makes use of the concept of a generative grammar. The term 'generative' is a concept borrowed from mathematics, indicating a set of definitions rather than a system that creates something. In the 'Standard Theory', a generative grammar is formally defined as one that is fully explicit. It is a finite set of rules that can be applied to generate exactly those sentences (often, but not necessarily, infinite in number) that are grammatical in a given language, and no others.