The Fifteenth Amendment (Amendment XV) to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal and state governments from denying a citizen the right to vote based on that citizen's  race, color, or previous condition of servitude.. The Fifteenth Amendment does not confer the right of suffrage upon any one. It prevents the States, or the United States, however, from giving preference, in this particular, to one citizen of the United States over another on account of
Two months later, he came out in favor of a suffrage amendment to the Constitution. In January 1919, the bill passed the Senate, and on August 26, 1920, after two-thirds of the states had ratified the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, women won the right to vote.
Passed by Congress June 4, 1919, and ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th amendment guarantees all American women the right to vote. Achieving this milestone required a lengthy and difficult struggle; victory took decades of agitation and protest. 
Black Americans got the right to vote when the Republicans passed the 15th Amendment. It was ratified on February 3, 1870 and was the 3rd of the Reconstruction amendments. Many uninformed people think the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that was filibustered by the Democrats, gave blacks the right to vote. It didn't. It merely enforces already existing rights in a handful of southern states. Ratified February 3, 1870. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude..
The issue of voting rights in the United States has been fought for throughout United States history. Eligibility to vote in the United States is established both in the US Constitution and its amendments, and by state law. In 1986, the US Congress voted to restore voting rights on U.S. Military bases for all state and federal elections. But Washington, D.C., had to ratify Amendment 23, in 1961, to restore U.S. Presidential Elections for Washington, D.C., citizens in 1964, after a 164-year gap.
The Fourteenth Amendment ratified in 1868 gave suffrage to blacks in theory, but many states continued to deny blacks this right by enforcing rules such as the Grandfather Clause which indicated that if your distant relatives couldn't vote because of prior servitude conditions, neither could you. This didn't deny the vote to all blacks, as middle class blacks didn't regard the poll tax as a heavy burden, and middle class blacks could pass the literacy tests as well. Even so, it disenfranchised a whole lot of people. Women gained the right to vote piecemeal-Wyoming and Utah were very early in granting women the right to vote (1870 something in the case of Wyoming). But nationally it happened with the passage of the (19th? 20th?) amendment to the Constitution about 1920
Amendment XV did give black people the right to vote in 1870, and some used it right away, electing state and federal senators and representatives. Jim Crow quickly snatched away that right for all practical purposes, however, as poll taxes and literacy tests--and Klansmen--denied blacks that fundamental right. Ratified February 3, 1870. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude..
Introduction. Ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution granted American women the right to vote—a right known as woman suffrage. At the time the U.S. was founded, its female citizens did not share all of the same rights as men, including the right to vote. Wyoming, the first state to grant voting rights to women, was also the first state to elect a female governor. Nellie Tayloe Ross (1876-1977) was elected governor of the Equality State (Wyoming's official nickname) in 1924. From 1933 to 1953, she served as the first female director of the U.S. Mint.