Calculate your eyebrow transplant cost using this basic formula: Eyebrow transplant cost is based on the number of hairs grafted, usually a minimum of 100 individual transplants to add fullness to a brow and about 250 – 300 or more{for each brow} if the eyebrow must be completely reconstructed from grafts. An average eyebrow hair transplant will require between 200 and 600 follicular unit transplants, which are priced at around $10 each.
Eyebrow Transplant Cost – Discounts and Financing. There are discounts and promotions such as the ones offered by the famous Bosley hair restoration centers whereby a $250 gift certificate can be redeemed toward the price of a procedure. An average eyebrow hair transplant will require between 200 and 600 follicular unit transplants, which are priced at around $10 each.
For some, the cost might convince them that it is something that is simply out of reach because the fact is that depending on the amount of work that is required, an eyebrow transplant might simply be out of reach. The broad estimate for an eyebrow transplant finds that it can cost anywhere between $3,000 and $6,000. This cost includes the surgeon’s fee, anesthesia and facility fee. This type of surgery is typically considered to be cosmetic surgery and so it is not covered by health insurance. In general the better the surgeon (and the more renowned the surgeon) the higher the cost of surgery. It is always better to find a doctor who specializes in the procedure. A specialist is going to bump up the costs. If the transplant requires a lot of grafts per eyebrow the price is going to be higher.
Related articles: Hair Transplant, Hair Loss Treatments. 1  An eyebrow transplant typically costs between $3,000 and $6,000, including the surgeon fee, anesthesia and facility fee. 2  An eyebrow transplant typically is considered cosmetic and is not covered by health insurance. 1 This revision costs a fraction of the cost of the original procedure, and depends how many follicular units (groups of one or a few hairs) need to be transplanted. 2  Eyebrow transplants usually cost $5-$8 per follicular unit.
Factors Affecting the Cost of An Eyebrow Transplant. The large range of possible costs for an eyebrow transplant come down to a number of variables such as the skill of the surgeon, the number of hair grafts to be used, facility costs, the country in which the procedure is performed. In general the better the surgeon (and the more renowned the surgeon) the higher the cost of surgery. It is always better to find a doctor who specializes in the procedure. A specialist is going to bump up the costs. If the transplant requires a lot of grafts per eyebrow the price is going to be higher.
When you calculate your eyebrow transplant cost, just to get a ballpark figure, it’s easy to see that a procedure to fill sparse areas of the brow will cost a minimum of $2,000 and a full brow re-creation will cost between $5,000 and $6,000. An average eyebrow hair transplant will require between 200 and 600 follicular unit transplants, which are priced at around $10 each.
Related articles: Hair Transplant, Hair Loss Treatments. 1  An eyebrow transplant typically costs between $3,000 and $6,000, including the surgeon fee, anesthesia and facility fee. 2  For example, South Center Cosmetic Surgery and Med Spa in the Seattle area, charges about $2,900. 1 This revision costs a fraction of the cost of the original procedure, and depends how many follicular units (groups of one or a few hairs) need to be transplanted. 2  Eyebrow transplants usually cost $5-$8 per follicular unit.
1 An eyebrow transplant typically costs between $3,000 and $6,000, including the surgeon fee, anesthesia and facility fee. 2  For example, South Center Cosmetic Surgery and Med Spa in the Seattle area, charges about $2,900. 1 This revision costs a fraction of the cost of the original procedure, and depends how many follicular units (groups of one or a few hairs) need to be transplanted. 2  Eyebrow transplants usually cost $5-$8 per follicular unit.