The red arrow on the right shows a focus of probable invasion at the interface of the encysted area with the surrounding breast. Core 3 shows solid pattern tumour all of which, I believe, is non-invasive. Core 4: The central section 'A' shows papillary pattern encysted (in situ) carcinoma. The labels 'B' both represent the capsule. Left hand 'C' also shows papillary pattern tumour which is also in situ. Right hand 'C' is solid pattern tumour which is admixed with fat and therefore invasive. 
In this installment of Second Opinion we present a case of intracystic papillary carcinoma of the breast associated with low-grade ductal carcinoma in situ in a young woman. This is a distinct subtype of intraductal carcinoma that typically presents in postmenopausal women with a favorable prognosis. The differential diagnosis, diagnostic modalities and treatment implications are discussed. Intracystic Papillary Carcinoma of the Breast—Appearance of hypoechoic mass on ultrasound (H). Benign intraductal papilloma at 40x. Dr. Singh: A fibroadenoma is in the differential diagnosis based on the cytology, clinical exam, and age of the patient.
Classifying intracystic papillary carcinoma under invasive or in situ ductal carcinoma is still a matter of debate. The purpose of this study was to explore the genomic relationship of this tumor to its concurrent invasive ductal carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ using array comparative genomic hybridization. Comparing intracystic papillary carcinoma with ductal carcinoma in situ, the latter acquired a group of genes involved in cell adhesion and motility, whereas intracystic papillary carcinoma differentially expressed genes that are involved in papillary carcinomas of other organs (thyroid and kidney).
Intracystic papillary carcinoma (IPC) of the breast is a rare tumor with predilection for elderly women and distinctive pathological features that must be distinguished from ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of papillary type and from invasive papillary carcinoma. The clinical, radiological, and pathological features of 29 cases of IPC are reported. The cases were divided into three groups (IPC alone, associated with DCIS, or associated with invasive carcinoma) and studied in terms of their size, predominant architectural pattern, nuclear grade, and presence of necrosis.
The first one is a diffuse form, the papillary variant of DCIS, which includes medium and small ducts, and the second one is a localized form, intracystic (encysted) papillary carcinoma, which is a solitary tumour in a cystic and dilated duct. Methods: A literature review, facilitated by Medline, PubMed, and the Cochrane database, was carried out using the terms ‘Intracystic (encysted) papillary breast cancer’. Results: Intracystic papillary breast cancer (IPC) is best managed in the context of a multidisciplinary team.
Intracystic (encysted) papillary carcinoma of the breast: a clinical, pathological, and immunohistochemical study. Leal C(1), Costa I, Fonseca D, Lopes P, Bento MJ, Lopes C. Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Instituto Portugues português De, Oncologia. porto The clinical, radiological, and pathological features of 29 cases of IPC are reported. The cases were divided into three groups (IPC alone, associated with DCIS, or associated with invasive carcinoma) and studied in terms of their size, predominant architectural pattern, nuclear grade, and presence of necrosis.
When invasive carcinoma arises in an encysted papillary carcinoma, it is almost always detected at the periphery of the tumor. This can have various growth patterns and is rarely papillary in architecture.[6-9] It is important, however, to note the difference between true invasion and pseudoinvasion. Intracystic Papillary Carcinoma of the Breast—Appearance of hypoechoic mass on ultrasound (H). Benign intraductal papilloma at 40x. Dr. Singh: A fibroadenoma is in the differential diagnosis based on the cytology, clinical exam, and age of the patient.