Cracks can develop in the tanking systems due to the property settling-making Type A basement waterproofing less than ideal for new build properties. Another problem that tanking can face is cracks caused by underground vibrations.
Basement tanking is a term referred to in the construction industry that refers to different systems that help keep a basement, or even an underground structure, free from water. There are two basic systems that are referred to as tanking systems that are used today.
Tanking. Tanking may be one of the more unglamorous sides to waterproofing but it can sometimes be the most critical. Most building owners, developers, consultants and architects agree that of all the problems that can beset a building, inadequate waterproofing above and below ground creates the greatest havoc.
External basement tanking systems are most commonly installed when the basement or structure is made. The main concept of them is to keep water away from the junctions where the walls and the floor meet, since this is a weak spot formed by a joint.
Click here to see Tanking Products, check prices or Order. 'Tanking' is a general building term for coating or lining walls underground to seal them against water, hence the idea of forming a complete 'tank'. To really qualify as Tanking all the below ground walls and floors have to be coated or lined.
Newton Waterproofing Systems is a market leader in the UK for damp proofing and structural waterproofing solutions, including basement waterproofing (also known as tanking) and pumping products. Newton products are ideal for existing and new-build structures.
A positive tanking system for basement waterproofing. Horizontal and vertical tanking must prevent the ingress of water and water borne aggressive salts such as chlorides and sulphates penetrating concrete structures. Durability of design and materials is essential with below grade waterproofing systems.
Tanking and Waterproofing is a website from Antel specialising in products to prevent and cure penetrating damp, rising damp and condensation in any building that has been left exposed to the elements. We can help you save money by catching problems fast, preventing costly repairs in the future.