Hydroelectricity is very reliable energy. There are very little fluctuations in terms of the electric power that is being by the plants, unless a different output is desired. Countries that have large resources of hydropower use hydroelectricity as a base load energy source.
January 6th, 2015 James Bratley Hydropower. Hydroelectric power (commonly referred to as hydroelectricity) is the most widely used form of renewable energy due to the many advantages associated with it. There are however some significant disadvantages associated with generating hydroelectricity. 
Disadvantages of hydroelectric power. There are many disadvantages of hydroelectric power due to which it is not used on a very large scale all around the globe. Before employing something on an industrial level, you should consider pros and cons of hydropower. So the disadvantages are: The reservoir of water for hydroelectric power releases a large amount of carbon dioxide and methane. The area around the dam is filled with water. The plants and trees in them start rotting and decompose by other method without the use of oxygen.
Hydropower – Advantages and Disadvantages of Hydropower. Hydropower is the energy generated by the water power, using gravity and buoyancy waterfall. It is the most used form of renewable energy. Once built, a hydropower plant, it produces energy without emitting greenhouse gases compared to fossil fuels. 
by Penna Sparrow. After going through the advantages of hydroelectricity, a quick look on the limitations and concerns associated with it will help in giving a broader perspective of its actual impact. Altering earth’s natural processes, always incurs some costs. 3) Loss during transmission is very high, sometimes up to 30%. 4) Dams are expensive to build. 5) Building a dam affects the environment and wildlife of adjoining areas. Nearby low-lying areas are always under the threat of floods.
There are many advantages of hydroelectric power plants, but significant disadvantages as well. They can be dangerous to aquatic life and can cause many other environmental concerns. slide 1 of 2. Although hydroelectric power plants do have some benefits, there are drawbacks to their use as well. 
1. Hydroelectricity is a renewable energy source. Hydroelectricity uses the energy of running water, without reducing its quantity, to produce electricity. Therefore, all hydroelectric developments, of small or large size, whether run of the river or of accumulated storage, fit the concept of renewable energy. 2. In addition to this, it is the only large renewable source of electricity and its cost-benefit ratio, efficiency, flexibility and reliability assist in optimizing the use of thermal power plants. 4. Hydroelectricity contributes to the storage of drinking water.
However, while the advantages of hydroelectric power plants is that they can generate enormous amounts of energy – enough to meet the energy demands of a large proportion of the global population – there are clear environmental disadvantages that must be taken into account. 
Advantages Hydropower is a fueled by water, so it's a clean fuel source. Hydropower doesn't pollute the air like power plants that burn fossil fuels, such as coal or natural gas. Hydropower is a domestic source of energy, produced in the United States. Hydropower relies on the water cycle, which is driven by the sun, thus it's a renewable power source. Hydropower is generally available as needed; engineers can control the flow of water through the turbines to produce electricity on demand. Hydropower plants provide benefits in addition to clean electricity.