As the name suggests, there's blood in a blood blister. That's what causes the red, purple, black discolouration. But if you remember from the anatomy of the skin, there are no blood vessels in the epidermis (where friction blisters form). If you miss the blister prevention boat and end up with a blood blister, do all the normal things for blister treatment. But now, preventing infection really is your priority! Consider the options below, depending on your blister location, the environment you're in and what gear you have access to.
Blood blisters are commonly caused by accidents in which the skin is pinched by a tool, mechanism, or heavy weight without protective gear. Blood blisters can also arise from forcible human contact, including grappling. Blood blisters also may occur with friction caused by constant rubbing of skin against a surface. Because of this, baseball pitchers and drummers often contract blood blisters on the fingers. They also form as a result of frostbite.
A blood blister is a type of blister that forms when subdermal tissues and blood vessels are damaged without piercing the skin. It consists of a pool of lymph, blood and other body fluids trapped beneath the skin. If punctured, it suppurates a dark fluid. Blood blisters also may occur with friction caused by constant rubbing of skin against a surface. Because of this, baseball pitchers and drummers often contract blood blisters on the fingers. They also form as a result of frostbite.
However, blisters can be filled with blood (known as blood blisters) or with pus (if they become infected). Blisters are a very common cause of foot pain symptoms. They occur frequently on the bottom of the feet but can also be seen on the top and side of the foot. In the foot at least, the primary cause is friction. A Ildiko Biro, NASM Elite Trainer, Fitness, answered. A blister is a small pocket of fluid within the upper layers of the skin, typically caused by forceful rubbing (friction), burning, freezing, chemical exposure or infection. Most blisters are filled with a clear fluid called serum or plasma.
It looks dark under the skin, like a blood blister, and is a little smaller than a dime. It hurts like a pimple but I don't believe that's what it is. The skin has been... show more Something has formed under my skin on my hip that hurts when it is touched. 
Blood Blisters. Blood blister s are a type of blister that is filled with blood rather than the fluid commonly associated with blisters. Blood blisters are caused by a rupture of the blood vessels underneath the skin’s surface. This rupture is usually caused by some form of trauma, such as pinching. Like all forms of blisters blood blisters form on the upper layer of the skin. They are the body’s natural response to pressure or injury. Blood Blister. Blisters, a common skin injury has two basic forms. First is a “regular” blister which is filled with lymph. The other type of called a blood blister, and it is a bubble of blood that forms under the skin as a result of a pinch, bruise or trauma.
Moisture on your skin is a frequent cause of a blood blister because blisters form easier on moist skin. Prevent blood blisters by keeping your skin dry -- especially on your feet. Wear socks that are specifically made to absorb moisture and provide plenty of cushioning. Precautions to Take With Blood Blisters. 1  Never break the skin around the blood blister; it will heal naturally with no scarring. 2  This is the first thing that you should remember if you get a blood blister. 3  People often pop a blood blister and it’s the most common mistake made.
Decide if it is best to drain the blood blister. Although blood blisters will heal on their own, and should be left to do this in most cases, there are times when draining them might be the best option. For example, if it is collecting a lot of blood and causing a lot of pain. 
Blisters-Topic Overview. Blisters are fluid-filled bumps that look like bubbles on the skin. You may develop a blister on your foot when you wear new shoes that rub against your skin or on your hand when you work in the garden without wearing gloves. Home treatment is often all that is needed for this type of blister. Other types of injuries to the skin that may cause a blister include: