Ethnocentrism. Closely related to the concept of cultural relativity is the concept of ethnocentrism. The world ethno comes from Greek and refers to a people, nation, or cultural grouping, while centric comes from Latin and refers, of course to the centre. 
Cultural relativism means that actions should be measured by the standards of an individual's own unique culture, not by the standards of others. This explains why some things are perfectly acceptable in one society, but totally taboo in another. If you buy into the concept of cultural relativism, which you don't necessarily have to, then you tend to suspend judgment of other societies' controversial rituals and other practices, at least for a minute.
The world is a big place, full of many different groups of people, each with a unique perspective on how to survive and thrive. Collectively, all of a group's core beliefs, rituals, traditions, and other customs make up its distinct culture. Part of what makes the world interesting is that each human civilization has come up with a unique culture and value system, which leads to people viewing life and lifestyles differently. If you buy into the concept of cultural relativism, which you don't necessarily have to, then you tend to suspend judgment of other societies' controversial rituals and other practices, at least for a minute.
Cultural Relativism. This is a method whereby different societies or cultures are analyzed objectively without using the values of one culture to judge the worth of another. We cannot possibly understand the actions of other groups if we analyze them in terms of our motives and values. Cultural relativism means that the function and meaning of a trait are relative to its cultural setting. A trait is neither good nor bad in itself. It is good or bad only with reference to the culture in which it is to function. Fur clothing is good in the Arctic but not in the tropics.
Lesson Summary. Ethnocentrism is the belief that your own cultural or ethnic group is superior to other culture or ethnic groups. When ethnic groups teach their children to hate other groups and either avoid or kill their members, then they've crossed the ethnocentric line. 
There are many forms of relativism which vary in their degree of controversy. The term often refers to truth relativism, which is the doctrine that there are no absolute truths, i.e., that truth is always relative to some particular frame of reference, such as a language or a culture (cultural relativism). 
To this point, we have defined deviance as the violation of social norms. However, it is important to remember that social norms are defined by one’s group, culture or society. As a result, what is defined as deviant might vary from place to place, culture to culture. Even within a group or culture, however, social norms are continually evolving. Thus, our understanding of deviance also varies across time. In other words, we can only describe deviance relative to time, place, and culture.
Cultural relativism is the belief that the concepts and values of a culture cannot be fully translated into, or fully understood in, other languages; that a specific cultural artifact (e.g. a ritual) has to be understood in terms of the larger symbolic system of which it is a part. 
Cultural relativism is the principle of regarding the beliefs, values, and practices of a culture from the viewpoint of that culture itself. Originating in the work of Franz Boas in the early 20th century, cultural relativism has greatly influenced social sciences such as anthropology. In sociology, the principle is sometimes practiced to avoid cultural bias in research, as well as to avoid judging another culture by the standards of one's own culture. For this reason, cultural relativism has been considered an attempt to avoid ethnocentrism. Cultural relativism is related to but often distinguished from moral relativism, the view that morality is relative to a standard, especially a cultural standard.