Ueno Station was first built in 1883 and Japan's first subway line was constructed from Ueno Station to Asakusa in 1927. The Ueno Station area retains its 'shitamachi' (old city) feel and is a good place to shop for clothes from the many street stalls and clothing stores in the area. Ueno Station, Taito-ku, Tokyo. Max Toki Shinkansen and Komachi-Hayate Shinkansen at Ueno Station.
Ueno Station is on the JR Yamanote Line and was the major terminal for trains to northern Japan (Tohoku). Since the Shinkansen tracks were extended to Tokyo Station this role has largely been lost, but is a more relaxed option then Tokyo Station for starting a journey north. The Ueno Station area retains its 'shitamachi' (old city) feel and is a good place to shop for clothes from the many street stalls and clothing stores in the area. Ueno Station, Taito-ku, Tokyo. Max Toki Shinkansen and Komachi-Hayate Shinkansen at Ueno Station.
0.17 Km. Located in the heart of Tokyo, the Tokyo Ueno Touganeya Hotel is just a few minutes' walk to the subway and train station. All parts of Tokyo are easily accessible with nearby attractions available, such as Ueno Park & Zoo, Tokyo National Museum, Akihabara Electrical Town, and the Ginza shopping district. Hotel Marutani Annex, opened in 2010 as an annex of the Hotel Marutani, is located diagonally opposite the Marutani Hotel and is only a short walk from Ueno station. Guests can have a comfortable stay whether on business or holiday.
At nearby Keisei-Ueno Station is the terminus of the Keisei Main Line to Narita Airport. Ueno Station has a number of shops, restaurants and cafes in the station concourse including an Irish pub at the Iriya Exit. There is also a Super Hotel at this exit. The Ueno Station area retains its 'shitamachi' (old city) feel and is a good place to shop for clothes from the many street stalls and clothing stores in the area. Ueno Station, Taito-ku, Tokyo. Max Toki Shinkansen and Komachi-Hayate Shinkansen at Ueno Station.
Safety is not an issue, but the areas to the southwest of Ueno station has a high density of sex-clubs etc. with active bouncers and prostitutes soliciting their trade. Ueno has excellent connectivity not just around Tokyo, but to all of northern Japan as well. 1 From Keisei Ueno, terminating station of the Skyliner from Narita Airport, the walk is about 10 minutes. 2  ¥7000. 3  edit. 4  Kinuya Hotel, 2-14-28 Ueno, Taito-ku (3 minutes walk from JR Ueno Shinobazu exit), [15].
Ueno Station is located in Taito-ku in the north of central Tokyo and is the main point of access for Ueno Park and its many attractions including Ueno Zoo, Tokyo National Museum and the National Museum of Western Art. The Ueno Station area retains its 'shitamachi' (old city) feel and is a good place to shop for clothes from the many street stalls and clothing stores in the area. Ueno Station, Taito-ku, Tokyo. Max Toki Shinkansen and Komachi-Hayate Shinkansen at Ueno Station.
Ueno Park (上野公園 Ueno-kōen), adjacent to the station, is home to most of the attractions in the area, including the Ueno Zoo and a concentration of Japan's best museums. In cherry blossom season, Ueno Park is Tokyo's most popular spot for outdoor hanami parties. 1 From Keisei Ueno, terminating station of the Skyliner from Narita Airport, the walk is about 10 minutes. 2  ¥7000. 3  edit. 4  Kinuya Hotel, 2-14-28 Ueno, Taito-ku (3 minutes walk from JR Ueno Shinobazu exit), [15].
Ueno Station (上野駅 Ueno-Eki) was at one time the place from which steam locomotives chugged off to the snowy northeast, but nowadays the highspeed Shinkansen just make a brief stop. The JR Joban Line and JR Utsunomiya Line, which connect with the prefectures to the north still terminate here though. 1 From Keisei Ueno, terminating station of the Skyliner from Narita Airport, the walk is about 10 minutes. 2  ¥7000. 3  edit. 4  Kinuya Hotel, 2-14-28 Ueno, Taito-ku (3 minutes walk from JR Ueno Shinobazu exit), [15].
Ueno Station is one of Tokyo's most renowned sites. With the lowest hotel rates in town, Agoda.com offers many lodging options a short distance away from Train, Metro and Bus Stations. Find the perfect accommodation near Ueno Station, with choices like the Hotel MyStays Ueno Iriyaguchi and the Hotel Parkside Tokyo. Hotel Marutani Annex, opened in 2010 as an annex of the Hotel Marutani, is located diagonally opposite the Marutani Hotel and is only a short walk from Ueno station. Guests can have a comfortable stay whether on business or holiday.
At Hostel Komatsu Ueno Station, the excellent service and superior facilities make for an unforgettable stay. To name a few of the hotel's facilities, there are free Wi-Fi in all rooms, Wi-Fi in public areas, laundry service, elevator, bar. Hotel Marutani Annex, opened in 2010 as an annex of the Hotel Marutani, is located diagonally opposite the Marutani Hotel and is only a short walk from Ueno station. Guests can have a comfortable stay whether on business or holiday.