The Center for Scientific Review (CSR) is the gateway for NIH grant applications and their review for scientific merit. We organize the peer review groups or study sections that evaluate the majority (75%) of the research grant applications sent to NIH. 
The CSR contains information identifying the applicant (such as a distinguished name in the case of an X.509 certificate), and the public key chosen by the applicant. That means it's safe to send this by email because what is important in a PKI infrastructure is the private key, that you must keep to yourself. It's odd that a certificate authority asks you to send your CSR through email. Generally, they asks you to copy/paste the CSR in a textarea on their website when you subscribe, while being connected in HTTPS.
What is the format of the CSR code? A CSR code is a Base-64 block of text framed with -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE REQUEST----- and -----END CERTIFICATE REQUEST----- tags at the beginning and at the end. As a rule, the CSR code contains the following details; they should be filled in when creating the CSR code: Common name: Fully qualified domain name that needs to be secured with an SSL certificate.
A CSR or Certificate Signing request is a block of encrypted text that is generated on the server that the certificate will be used on. It contains information that will be included in your certificate such as your organization name, common name (domain name), locality, and country. It also contains the public key that will be included in your certificate. A private key is usually created at the same time that you create the CSR. A certificate authority will use a CSR to create your SSL certificate, but it does not need your private key.
The CSR code also contains the public key that will be embedded in the issued certificate. CSR code with the public key are generated out of the RSA private key and most often CSR and RSA key are generated at the same time depending on the control panel or webserver type the key pair is generated on. As a rule, the CSR code contains the following details; they should be filled in when creating the CSR code: Common name: Fully qualified domain name that needs to be secured with an SSL
up vote 1 down vote. Goodness. No it is not safe to send the CSR by email. The comments above regarding the lack of any secrets in the CSR are fine but they miss the point. A certificate authority, by signing a CSR and thus issuing a certificate, is stating that the contents of the CSR are true. It's odd that a certificate authority asks you to send your CSR through email. Generally, they asks you to copy/paste the CSR in a textarea on their website when you subscribe, while being connected in HTTPS.
In public key infrastructure (PKI) systems, a certificate signing request (also CSR or certification request) is a message sent from an applicant to a certificate authority in order to apply for a digital identity certificate. The above certificate signing request's ASN.1 structure (as parsed by openssl) appears as the following, where the first number is the byte offset, d=depth, hl=header length of the current type, l=length of content:
A CSR is what you give to the Certificate Authority such as GeoTrust or COMODO, to generate your SSL certificate. It is an essential part of obtaining an SSL certificate. As a rule, the CSR code contains the following details; they should be filled in when creating the CSR code: Common name: Fully qualified domain name that needs to be secured with
As the CSR only contains your public key: No, it's not dangerous to send it by email or publicize it in any other way. The only thing you can basically do with it is to generate certificates for that public key. Don't send your private key to anyone however. It's odd that a certificate authority asks you to send your CSR through email. Generally, they asks you to copy/paste the CSR in a textarea on their website when you subscribe, while being connected in HTTPS.
You need to generate a CSR and private key on the server that the certificate will be used on. You can find instructions in your server documentation or try the instructions from one of these certificate authorities: It also contains the public key that will be included in your certificate. A private key is usually created at the same time that you create the CSR. A certificate authority will use a CSR to create your SSL certificate, but it does not need your private key.