Melatonin is a hormone made by the pineal gland, a small gland in the brain. Melatonin helps control your sleep and wake cycles. Very small amounts of it are found in foods such as meats, grains, fruits, and vegetables. You can also buy it as a supplement. 
Melatonin is a hormone produced naturally by the pineal gland in response to darkness. Levels remain high during sleep until the pineal gland tapers off production in response to light. 
Best Answer: They are not the same thing. Synthetic melatonin is made in a lab. Melatonin has recently been found to exist in plants too (e.g. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez... that is what is meant by vegetarian melatonin. Some brands of melatonin come from plant extracts and are generally quite expensive when compared with the synthetic varieties. The two types are natural or synthetic. The natural form is extracted from the pineal glands of animals, usually sheep. The synthetic is made in a lab. With the natural form there is a risk of contamination. Source(s): http://familydoctor.org/online/famdocen/...
Melatonin supplements in pill form are usually a man-made synthetic melatonin, which is chemically identical to melatonin produced in your body. However, natural melatonin is made from the brain tissue of cows. Melatonin is a hormone produced by the pineal gland, a pea-sized gland that sits just below the center of your brain. Many people incorrectly search on the Internet for melatonin herb or melatonin vitamin, not knowing that melatonin is a hormone rather than a nutrient.
Melatonin is a hormone produced in the brain by the pineal gland from the amino acid tryptophan. The production and release of melatonin are stimulated by darkness and decreased by light, suggesting that melatonin is involved in circadian rhythm (the internal body clock) and regulation of diverse body functions. 
(1 mg = 1,000 mcg)Synthetic melatonin supplement is not a natural sleep aid-it is a man-made hormone designed to mimic melatonin produced by the brain.Since melatonin is a hormone, long-term (more than 3 months) use of synthetic melatonin supplements may have a negative impact on your health. 1 a natural sleep aid-it is a man-made hormone designed to mimic melatonin produced by the brain. 2  Since melatonin is a hormone, long-term (more than 3 months) use of synthetic melatonin supplements may have a negative impact on your health. 3  For this reason, in Europe melatonin is available only with prescription.
1 (1 mg = 1,000 mcg). 2  Synthetic melatonin supplement is. 3  a natural sleep aid-it is a man-made hormone designed to mimic melatonin produced by the brain. 4  Since melatonin is a hormone, long-term (more than 3 months) use of synthetic melatonin supplements may have a negative impact on your health. 1 a natural sleep aid-it is a man-made hormone designed to mimic melatonin produced by the brain. 2  Since melatonin is a hormone, long-term (more than 3 months) use of synthetic melatonin supplements may have a negative impact on your health. 3  For this reason, in Europe melatonin is available only with prescription.
Melatonin is a hormone made by a part of the brain called the pineal (say: pie-nee-all) gland. Melatonin may help our bodies know when it's time to go to sleep and when it's time to wake up. Melatonin supplements (in pill form) are also available. Two types of melatonin may be used in these pills: natural and synthetic (manmade). Natural melatonin is made from the pineal gland of animals. This form could be contaminated with a virus so it is not recommended. The synthetic form of melatonin does not carry this risk. If you are not sure if your melatonin is natural or synthetic, ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking it