The cost per hour per mover is about $25 – $30. How many hours of work will the movers do depends on the size of your home, how much stuff you’ve got in there, and if the movers are hired to pack or load/ unload. Hiring only moving labor could cost you about $50 to $70 per hour. When you ask a moving company for a quote for packing, they will give a price for putting your things in boxes, crates, etc. (loading/ unloading and transportation will not be included). Packing will cost you a minimum of $30 – $35 per hour and this price should include the necessary packing supplies as well.
Time of year. Most movers will be able to quote you a ballpark price for moving your home based on the numbers and types of rooms in your home. Movers are well trained in being able to estimate how much packing and moving is involved in a 400 square foot kitchen as opposed to a 200 square foot library. When you first contact your moving company, be prepared with as much information about the size of your home, number of rooms and type of rooms you are moving. One of the most anxiety inspiring aspects of the moving process is not knowing how much it will cost until it is too late to change your mind! There are a number of different factors that will influence the cost of hiring a moving professional.
For example if you are moving from a 2 bedroom house (with a garage, basement, living room, kitchen, etc) in most cases your stuff will weigh about 5-6000 pounds. If you move it to about 1000 miles away it will cost you about $3500-$4000 for the complete move. These prices include 2 men and a truck. So a sample mini move of 3 hours will cost you approximately 3hours + 1 hour travel time = 4hours x $85 in the best case scenario comes to $340 total.
1 The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. 2  Price for a three-bedroom, 1,750-square foot house using four movers who load, transport and unload, runs $600-$900 and takes about 6-9 hours. 1 Stairs, long or difficult distances from the truck to the door are priced higher. 2  Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 3  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound.
Companies often offer moving packages for a slightly less expensive rate, but you can expect the cost per mover to be at least $30 an hour, not including expenses for renting the truck, paying for fuel, and adding packing services. 1. Ask For Recommendations. There are a few ways you can make sure you’re getting the best deal when you hire movers. The first is to ask your friends for recommendations on who they’ve used to move in the past. They’ll be able to tell you first hand about the moving costs and the quality of the move overall.
1 A studio apartment takes two movers--at $25 each per hour--an average of 2-4 hours to load, transport and unload for a price of $100-$200. 2  The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. 1 Stairs, long or difficult distances from the truck to the door are priced higher. 2  Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 3  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound.
1 Moving out of a studio apartment with the help of 2 local movers will cost you around $150-$200 if the entire loading, transportation and unloading operations are complete within 3-4 hours. In fact the most important that will determine whether you hire movers or will have to wire in. The cost of moving depends on the type of the move. There are three general types of moves – local move, long distance move and commercial moves.
Usually mover charge 1 hour as a travel fee (the time the movers get to your location and back from the destination) with the regular hourly rate. Most professional movers rates are from $85/hour to $95/hour depending on the date. Busy dates are more expensive (in the end of the month, especially in the Summer). These prices include 2 men and a truck. So a sample mini move of 3 hours will cost you approximately 3hours + 1 hour travel time = 4hours x $85 in the best case scenario comes to $340 total. Most movers will ask for a deposit when scheduling the move so they can reserve the date for you
Make sure you keep this in mind when you speak with them to estimate moving costs. The average cost of movers for 2 men and a truck is between $90 and $120 per hour. If you decide to hire movers for labor only (without a moving truck), the professionals will charge about $60 to $80 per hour of labor. You can use our local moving cost calculator form on the top of the page as a cost estimator about the entire move. In fact the most important that will determine whether you hire movers or will have to wire in. The cost of moving depends on the type of the move. There are three general types of moves – local move, long distance move and commercial moves.