If the PDF you're converting was created from a scanned document, OCR is necessary to convert the image text in that document to rendered text that you can select and edit in Word or Excel. When you convert a PDF file to Word or Excel format, ExportPDF performs optical character recognition (OCR) on the PDF to convert image text to searchable/editable text.
Open Excel and select Open from the File drop-down menu. Select Text Files (.txt) and double-click the file you just made to open. You can also click on the file you made only once and then click Open at the bottom-right side of the prompt box. Your file should open into an Excel spreadsheet format. 
Edit PDF content in Word. With Word 2013 and 2016, you can convert a PDF into a Word document that you can edit. What this video shows about editing PDFs in Word 2013 also applies to Word 2016. To convert a PDF into an editable Word document, you open it like you would any other document. Click File Open. Choose the location of the PDF and click Browse. Find the PDF and click Open. The converted document might not have a perfect page-to-page correspondence with the original
It can also make for easier printing and distribution of your Excel spreadsheet. Excel allows you to create PDF versions from directly inside the program, but you can also use online conversion services if you need to convert a file but don't have Excel installed. Review the PDF. By default, the PDF file will open after it is created so that you can review it. If you aren't able to open the PDF file, you may not have a PDF reader installed. 1  It's not really possible to edit the PDF now, so if you need to make changes you'll want to make them in Excel and then create a new PDF.
How to Create an Excel Spreadsheet from a PDF File. Three Methods: Online Services Conversion Software Text to Columns. You ask your coworker for some data from a recent project. Your coworker is a well-meaning person, and so the data is placed into a PDF file so that it can be easily transferred to you. What your coworker didn’t realize however, is that you need to manipulate the data, and PDF files are static images. Instead of bugging your coworker for a new copy, you can convert that PDF into a workable Excel spreadsheet yourself in just a few minutes.
Depending on the type of data being imported, it may be possible to import the data contained in the PDF into an Excel workbook as text using the Text to Columns feature. 1  Open the PDF file in Adobe Reader and click the File menu. 2  Give the file a name you will recognize and then click Save. What your coworker didn’t realize however, is that you need to manipulate the data, and PDF files are static images. Instead of bugging your coworker for a new copy, you can convert that PDF into a workable Excel spreadsheet yourself in just a few minutes.
You can convert a PDF file, for example, into a doc or docx file, into a bmp, jpg, gif, or png file, etc. In our case, we’ll choose JPG from the list. Now type in your email address and click the Convert button. 
Converting a PDF to another format. The best format to work with is Microsoft Word, and its .DOC formats. In order to convert and edit PDF files, you will need a PDF to Word Converter program. A PDF converter will basically interpret the PDF file data, and convert it into a text file which Microsoft Word can recognize. 
1 Open the PDF file in Adobe Reader and click the File menu. 2  Select “Save As Other” and then click “Text”. 3  You can also use the “Save As” menu and select “Text file” as the file format. 4  Give the file a name you will recognize and then click Save. 5  It will be saved as a text file. What your coworker didn’t realize however, is that you need to manipulate the data, and PDF files are static images. Instead of bugging your coworker for a new copy, you can convert that PDF into a workable Excel spreadsheet yourself in just a few minutes.