Disclaimer. This website is owned and managed by CSOP Asset Management Limited (CSOP). CSOP reserves the right to change, modify, add or delete any content and the terms & conditions of use of this website without notice. Users are advised to periodically review the contents of this website to be familiar with any modifications. 
Tax-advantaged Company Share Option Plans (CSOP) A CSOP enables a company to grant options to selected directors and employees over shares with a value per individual of up to £30,000 as at the date of grant. To qualify to grant a tax-advantaged option under a CSOP, a company must be a listed company, or, if unlisted, must not be controlled by another company.The shares under option must form part of the ordinary share capital of the company, and be fully paid up and not redeemable.
Apart from job opportunities, we provide you a platform for your career development. CSOP Asset Management Limited is dedicated to cultivating a harmonious corporate culture with a positive incentive system to recognize employees' contribution. We would like to attract people who share the same vision with us. CSOP do not accept responsibility for any interference or damage to your own computer system, the records stored therein or those of any other person, which arises in connection with your use of this website or any linked website. A Cookies is utilized on this website.
Please note: The CSOP is based on U.S. laws and regulations. In order to be authorized to use the CSOP credential, you must meet the experience, education, ethics and examination requirements determined to be competency measures for security operations professionals. The certification advisory board for the CSOP designation has established these standard requirements. As a candidate, you must meet the following prerequisites in order to qualify to take the CSOP certification examination.
CSOP Asset Management Limited (CSOP) is a regulated institution in Hong Kong by the Securities and Futures Commission (“SFC”). This website contains information about CSOP and the services and products offered by CSOP. CSOP do not accept responsibility for any interference or damage to your own computer system, the records stored therein or those of any other person, which arises in connection with your use of this website or any linked website. A Cookies is utilized on this website.
In 2008, CSOP Asset Management Limited (“CSOP”) became the first offshore entity to be set up by a regulated Chinese asset manager, and has since remained at the forefront of China’s capital market liberalization. Leadership in QFII/RQFII^. CSOP is both an RQFII and a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (”QFII”), with a total RQFII quota of more than USD 7.5 billion. On a firm level, CSOP is the largest RQFII manager in the world (see charts below).
The Certified Securities Operations Professional certification is designed to: 1  Establish a recognized standard of knowledge and competence for securities operations professionals working within wealth management and trust organizations. 2  Formally recognize those who meet these standards. 
Investment involves risks, including the loss of principal. Investors should refer to the Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) Prospectus for further details, including the product features and risk factors. Past performance is not indicative of future performance and the ETF's NAV per unit may rise as well as fall. 