Not to be confused with kanamycin B. Kanamycin (also known as kanamycin A) is an aminoglycoside bacteriocidal antibiotic, available in oral, intravenous, and intramuscular forms, and used to treat a wide variety of infections. Kanamycin is isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces kanamyceticus and its most commonly used form is kanamycin sulfate. Bacteria that have been transformed with a plasmid containing the kanamycin resistance gene are plated on kanamycin (50-100 ug/ml) containing agar plates or are grown in media containing kanamycin (50-100 ug/ml).
Kanamycin is a mixture of three main components: kanamycin A, B, and C. Kanamycin A is the major component in kanamycin. The effects of these components do not appear to be widely studied as individual compounds when used against prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Bacteria that have been transformed with a plasmid containing the kanamycin resistance gene are plated on kanamycin (50-100 ug/ml) containing agar plates or are grown in media containing kanamycin (50-100 ug/ml).
Kanamycin is used in molecular biology as a selective agent most commonly to isolate bacteria (e.g., E. coli) which have taken up genes (e.g., of plasmids) coupled to a gene coding for kanamycin resistance (primarily Neomycin phosphotransferase II [ NPT II / Neo ]). Bacteria that have been transformed with a plasmid containing the kanamycin resistance gene are plated on kanamycin (50-100 ug/ml) containing agar plates or are grown in media containing kanamycin (50-100 ug/ml).
Kanamycin is an aminoglycoside bacteriocidal antibiotic that binds to 70S ribosomal subunits, which inhibits ribosomal translocation and causes miscoding. Antibacterial spectrum includes mycobacteria, many gram-positive and most gram-negative organisms. 1  Product Description. 
Kanamycin injection is used to treat serious bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. This medicine is for short-term use only (usually 7 to 10 days). Kanamycin belongs to the class of medicines known as aminoglycoside antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth.
Kanamycin injection is used to treat serious bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. This medicine is for short-term use only (usually 7 to 10 days). Kanamycin belongs to the class of medicines known as aminoglycoside antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections.
Neomycin can harm your kidneys, and this effect is increased when you also use certain other medicines harmful to the kidneys. Before using neomycin, tell your doctor about all other medicines you use. Many other drugs (including some over-the-counter medicines) can be harmful to the kidneys. Neomycin is used to reduce the risk of infection during surgery of your intestines. Neomycin is also used to reduce the symptoms of hepatic coma. Neomycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Neomycin is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. Neomycin is used to reduce the risk of infection during surgery of your intestines. Neomycin is also used to reduce the symptoms of hepatic coma. Neomycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Kanamycin injection is usually used for serious bacterial infections for which other medicines may not work. However, it may also cause some serious side effects, including damage to your hearing, sense of balance, and kidneys. This medicine is for short-term use only (usually 7 to 10 days). Kanamycin belongs to the class of medicines known as aminoglycoside antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth.