Wheeze with breathing difficulty. Breathing difficulty can mean breathlessness, fast breathing or difficulty getting your breath. If you have any breathing difficulty and do not already have clear instruction as to what to do then see a doctor immediately. (Some people with asthma have pre-arranged action plans as agreed with their doctor. In this situation it is best to see a doctor at some point if the symptoms do not soon clear. A recurring wheeze when you have viral respiratory infections may mean that you have asthma. The two lungs are found in the chest-one on the right side and one on the left side.
It is common to have a mild wheeze during a cough, cold, or similar viral infection of the respiratory tract. In this situation it is best to see a doctor at some point if the symptoms do not soon clear. A recurring wheeze when you have viral respiratory infections may mean that you have asthma. The two lungs are found in the chest-one on the right side and one on the left side.
1 Wheezing is accompanied by a fever of 101° or above; you may have a respiratory infection such as acute bronchitis, sinusitis, or pneumonia. 2  Your wheezing and coughing worsen, especially if you notice a change in the color of your mucus; you may have chronic bronchitis, emphysema, or COPD. 1 You begin wheezing suddenly and cough up frothy pink or white phlegm; this may be a sign of heart failure. 2  You cough up bloody phlegm or you have a sharp, localized chest pain (pleurisy); this could be a sign of pulmonary embolism.
The symptoms of wheezing include a musical or whistling sound and labored breathing, particularly when exhaling; sometimes they're accompanied by a feeling of tightening in the chest. You can hear wheezing more loudly if you plug your ears and exhale rapidly, or by using a stethoscope held at the neck or over the lungs. 1 You begin wheezing suddenly and cough up frothy pink or white phlegm; this may be a sign of heart failure. 2  You cough up bloody phlegm or you have a sharp, localized chest pain (pleurisy); this could be a sign of pulmonary embolism.
Wheezing is a whistling sound that can be made while breathing that may be a symptom of a Congestive heart failure illness or other causes or conditions. If wheezing is accompanied with difficulty breathing, this may be a medical emergency. The symptoms of wheezing include a musical or whistling sound and laboured breathing, particularly when exhaling; sometimes accompanied by a feeling of tightening in the chest.
The symptoms occur due to narrowing of the airways, inflammation and accumulation of mucus in the lungs or bronchial tubes. Increased production of mucus insides the airways can be a cause of the symptoms. It is not necessary that all people with this condition have the same symptoms. Bronchospasm or abnormal contractions of the airways, swelling of the airway linings, overproduction of mucus are common causes of wheezing in asthma. 1  Shortness of breath: Trouble breathing is a classic sign of an asthma attack.
There are various causes. If you have any breathing difficulty or other alarming symptoms in addition to wheezing-and you do not know what to do-then see a doctor immediately. This leaflet discusses the main causes of wheezing. Wheezing is a whistling sound that occurs during breathing when the airways are narrowed. In this situation it is best to see a doctor at some point if the symptoms do not soon clear. A recurring wheeze when you have viral respiratory infections may mean that you have asthma. The two lungs are found in the chest-one on the right side and one on the left side.
A wheeze (formally called sibilant rhonchi in medical terminology) is a continuous, coarse, whistling sound produced in the respiratory airways during breathing. For wheezes to occur, some part of the respiratory tree must be narrowed or obstructed, or airflow velocity within the respiratory tree must be heightened. The differential diagnosis of wheezing is wide, and the reason for wheezing in a given patient is determined by considering the characteristics of the wheezes and the historical and clinical findings made by the examining physician.
Causes. Wheezing results from a narrowing of the airways and typically indicates some difficulty breathing. The narrowing of the airways can be caused by inflammation from asthma, an infection, an allergic reaction, or by a physical obstruction, such as a tumor or a foreign object that's been inhaled. The most common cause of recurrent wheezing is asthma. Possible causes of wheezing include: 1  Allergies