The number in a U.P.C. barcode (called a GTIN) is typically 12 digits long. It starts with your U.P.C. Company Prefix and ends with a check digit. The numbers between the U.P.C. Company Prefix and the check digit are the item reference numbers that you will assign to your products. Now it’s time to take the next step. To sell your product in a store or online, you could be looking for a barcode, a GS1 Company Prefix, a Global Trade Item Number® (GTIN®), a U.P.C., or a GTIN-14.
Understand bar code basics. While the 12 digit barcode doesn't contain much human-readable information, you can still learn about how it functions. The first 6–10 digits of a 12-digit barcode identify the company that manufactures or sells the product (either company may choose to add a barcode). 1 For example, a company might be assigned the code 123456. 2  It can then print any 12-digit barcode that begins 123456, creating one for each product. 3  Compare two barcodes from the same company to see whether you can figure out what the company code is.
You will find the UPC, ISBN or EAN on the packaging and/or back cover of your item. The GTIN-14 appears on the shipping container. UPC. When entering a UPC, be sure to include the smaller numbers on the left and right sides of the bar code. UPCs are found below the bar code: ISBN. You may include hyphens when entering these numbers into Amazon.com search boxes but don't include hyphens in the Book Loader or Inventory Loader product-id field.
In rare cases, you can find a little more information by reading the 12 digits. Alternatively, impress your friends by learning how to translate the bars and spaces of a barcode into actual numbers. Have them cut off or hide the numbers at the bottom of the UPC bar code, then read' the numbers by looking at the bars. 1 For example, a company might be assigned the code 123456. 2  It can then print any 12-digit barcode that begins 123456, creating one for each product. 3  Compare two barcodes from the same company to see whether you can figure out what the company code is.
The Universal Product Code (UPC) is a barcode symbology (i.e., a specific type of barcode) that is widely used in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and in other countries for tracking trade items in stores. For example a UPC-E barcode with the number 654321 would expand to the UPC-A 065100004327 or 165100004324, depending on the parity pattern of the encoded digits, as described next. UPC-E check digits are calculated using this expanded string in the same way as used by UPC-A.
How to find the UPC, EAN, ISBN or GTIN number for any product in our database? Easy, just fill in the search box in at the top of any page. You can enter the UPC-E (8 digits), UPC-A (12 digits), ISBN (10 digits on books) or EAN-13 code to find an exact product. Or you can enter the product name (or part of it) to get a list of products that may match what you are looking for.
Anything other than 8 or 12 digits is not a UPC code! (And just because it's 8 or 12 digits doesn't mean it is a UPC.) You must enter every digit here. If you have a barcode scanner that outputs plain numbers, you should be able to use it to enter the UPC number here. Instructions. Enter the all digits printed on the UPC bar code, including any numbers to the right or left of the bar code itself, even if they don't line up with the main row of numbers. This should be 13 digits for an EAN/UCC-13, 12 digits for a Type A UPC code, or 8 digits for a Type-E (zero-supressed) UPC cod
1. Request a UPC or ISBN identification number for your product and/or company. This will allow all of your products to begin with the same numbers. Each additional product will differ in the last few UPC or ISBN number. 1  The UPC number is available through a website called Barcode.gs1us.org. 