No one speaks Albanian. (Excluding Kosovo). Answer: They speak Serbian, which is similar to Croatian and Bosnian. The official alphabet is in cyrillic, however, a latin alphabet is commonly used as well. There are 30 letters in the Serbian alphabet. Some Serbians speak Hungarian and Albanian. This guy made a mistake Serbia is not like Croatian, Croatian is … like Serbian because the croatian language was created after 1990 and the Serbian language in the 1400.
The idea of a Montenegrin standard language separate from Serbian appeared in the 2000s after Serbia and Montenegro broke up, via proponents of Montenegrin independence. Montenegrin became the official language of Montenegro with the ratification of a new constitution on 22 October 2007. 
They generally speak Serbian which is very similar to Croatian. Some Serbians speak Hungarian and Albanian. This guy made a mistake Serbia is not like Croatian, Croatian is like Serbian because the croatian language was created after 1990 and the Serbian language in the 1400. 
Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian are a single language: Serbo-Croat. Of course regional dialects exist, as they do in any other language, but a different dialect is not a different language. 
Serbian language is spoken mostly by the Serbs but other minority and ethnic groups like the Croats, Bosnians, Jews and Slovaks speak their respective languages. The Slavic ethnic groupsfor instance dwelling in Serbia usually speak in language that has a southern Slavic touch. primarily taken from a dialect that is popularly known as the Shtokavian dialect. There are other kind of dialects such as the Ekavian and Ijekavian whichare spoken by the Bosnians and Herzegovinians dwelling the landof Serbia. The prescribed alphabet that is widely used in Serbia is Latin and Cyrillic.
Other languages spoken in Serbia include Albanian (spoken in Preševo Valley and Kosovo), Hungarian, Romanian, Slovak, Rusyn, Croatian (all of which are official regional languages in the Vojvodina province), Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Romani, Czech, Bosnian, Vlach, Bunjevac, Macedonian, Montenegrin, etc. Contents. In practice, Serbian is a lingua franca of the region and number of declared native speakers of Serbian in the province exceedes the number of declared ethnic Serbs. Among other languages, Hungarian and Slovak are dominant in several municipalities, while other languages are dominant only in several villages.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: We speak Serbian in Serbia, and when Đoković, Ana, Jelena, Zimonjić etc. whoop others, they all speak Serbian! Haven't you heard, last time in Wimbledon, officials and the press seriously considered making Serbian the official language of the tournament. Go Nole!
In Serbia and Bosnia, those who speak a very similar language obeyed the will of the majority of their people and called the language Serbian or Bosnian. In Montenegro, the majority of the people claims to speak Serbian. The Serbian List insists that the language in the Constitution must be Serbian, considering, as they claim, that Montenegrins are in fact Serbs, or at least of Serbian roots. The Socialists People's Party, the People's Party and the Democratic Serbian Party are also in favour of Serbian as the official language.
Serbian language spoken in Serbia has several dialects: Šumadija-Vojvodina, Smederevo-Vršac, Kosovo-Resava, Prizren South Morava, Svrljig-Zaplanje, Timok-Lužnica (Torlakian), Eastern Herzegovina, and Zeta-South Sandžak. Šumadija-Vojvodina and Eastern Herzegovina dialects are basys for modern standard Serbian. In practice, Serbian is a lingua franca of the region and number of declared native speakers of Serbian in the province exceedes the number of declared ethnic Serbs. Among other languages, Hungarian and Slovak are dominant in several municipalities, while other languages are dominant only in several villages.