The downward force required to deform the rivet with an automatic riveting machine is created by a motor and flywheel combination, pneumatic cylinder, or hydraulic cylinder. Manual feed riveting machines usually have a mechanical lever to deliver the setting force from a foot pedal or hand lever. Riveting machines can be sub-divided into two broad groups — impact riveting machines and orbital (or radial) riveting machines.
Superior Rivet Machines is an innovative manufacturer and distributor of high quality rivet machines. Superior’s commitment to the customer is what drives us to bring the best solution to each individual application. Superior's Revolution impact rivet machines are made completely in-house in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Furthermore, we have partnered with companies from around the world to provide our customers with solutions where there may be special requirements or budgetary constraints.
A rivet is a permanent mechanical fastener. Before being installed, a rivet consists of a smooth cylindrical shaft with a head on one end. The end opposite the head is called the tail. On installation the rivet is placed in a punched or drilled hole, and the tail is upset, or bucked (i.e., deformed), so that it expands to about 1.5 times the original shaft diameter, holding the rivet in place. In other words, pounding creates a new head on the other end by smashing the tail material flatter, resulting in a rivet that is roughly a dumbbell shape. To distinguish between the two ends of the rivet, the original head is called the factory head and the deformed end is called the shop head or buck-tail.
Send Enquiry. Riveting Machine. Riveting Machine is used in automatic squeezing of rivets that provide support for joining two pieces together. The latest technology support used in these riveting machines makes them provide superior consistency and productivity. Further, these also offer lower operation costs in comparison to manual riveting.... These multi point riveting machines, multi spindle drilling machines allows riveting to be done on more than one rivet at a time. The smallest distance between the rivets can be 10 mm. The largest center distance can be about 60 mm.
Orbital Riveting and Forming. Orbital riveting and forming is a cold forming process using a peen tool held at a fixed angle to create a sweeping line of pressure around the part, progressively forming the material with each rotation. This process reduces the amount of forming force required by approximately 80% of a standard press. 
Noun. 1. riveting machine-a machine for driving rivets. riveter, rivetter. machine-any mechanical or electrical device that transmits or modifies energy to perform or assist in the performance of human tasks. 
Because there is effectively a head on each end of an installed rivet, it can support tension loads (loads parallel to the axis of the shaft); however, it is much more capable of supporting shear loads (loads perpendicular to the axis of the shaft). Bolts and screws are better suited for tension applications. In other words, pounding creates a new head on the other end by smashing the tail material flatter, resulting in a rivet that is roughly a dumbbell shape. To distinguish between the two ends of the rivet, the original head is called the factory head and the deformed end is called the shop head or buck-tail.
Click on a category to drill down. Automatic Riveting Machines For more than 90 years, Chicago Rivet & Machine Co. has designed and built the most innovative and reliable riveting machinery in the industry. 
For a complete Machine Selection Guide, click here. National Rivet’s rivet setting machines meet the needs of almost any fastening application, challenge or requirement. Our line includes: 1  Electro-mechanical riveters. 2  Electro-mechanical riveters are the most cost-effective, fastest cycling machines available. 3  Pneumatic riveters.
There are different types of riveting machines. Each type of machine has unique features and benefits. The orbital riveting process is different from impact riveting and spiralform riveting. Orbital riveting requires less downward force than impact or spiral riveting. Also, orbital riveting tooling typically lasts longer. Manual feed riveting machines usually have a mechanical lever to deliver the setting force from a foot pedal or hand lever. Riveting machines can be sub-divided into two broad groups — impact riveting machines and orbital (or radial)