The first step in determining how much insurance you need is to make an analysis of the value of your home (excluding the value of the land) and the personal property within it. In determining the value of your home, you must calculate how much it will cost to replace the home if it were completely destroyed. 
A homeowners insurance policy provides homeowners with financial compensation should they suffer losses related to their home. It would pay for the structure and contents of your home if they were damaged or destroyed, as well as legal costs if someone is injured in your home or on your property. Make sure your homeowners policy has enough liability coverage to cover the total dollar amount of your financial assets, like your home, retirement accounts, investments, and anything else worth money. You may also need to add onto the policy.
Most homeowners pay about 1000 to 1200 dollers a year for homeowners insurance. Also it is a lot cheaper if you have all your insurance under one company because you will get a discount. For example, if you have your car ins., heath ins. Next. Whats a good estimate for how much my homeowners insurance would be if I'm a first time buyer, my home is around 300,000. and I have good credit, plus the home is in a brand new developement.
How Much Does It Cost? The average yearly premium cost for U.S. homeowners insurance in 2008 (as of 2010, the latest year for which data is available) was $791, according the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, but premiums vary widely and depend on multiple factors. 1 While policies start in the range of $100,000 coverage, experts recommend having at least $300,000 worth of coverage according to the Insurance Information Institute. 2  For extra protection, a few hundred dollars more in premium may buy you an extra $1 million or more through umbrella coverage.
Average Cost is Under $500 Annually. According to an article as CNNMoney, the average annual cost of homeowners insurance is $481. The website Mortgage Q and A claims a rough estimate for homeowner's insurance is .3 percent to 1 percent of the loan amount. 
Estimates. According to the Federal Reserve Bureau, the average cost of an annual premium for homeowners insurance is between $300 and $1,000. For most homeowners, the annual costs for a homeowners insurance policy can be estimated by dividing the value of the home by 1,000, then multiplying the result by $3.50. One factor in the cost of homeowners insurance is what circumstances are covered under a particular policy. Some examples of typical disasters and incidents that are covered under a basic homeowners insurance policy are fire, vandalism and wind, says the Federal Reserve Board.
Insuring expensive items with floaters/endorsements. There may be limits on how much coverage you get for expensive items such as jewelry, silverware and furs. Generally, there is a limit on jewelry for $1,000 to $2,000. You should ask your agent or look it up in your policy. The cost of an umbrella policy depends on how much underlying insurance you have and the kind of risk you represent. The greater the underlying liability coverage, the cheaper the policy. This is becaue you would be the less likely to need the additional insurance.