What is theophylline: Theophylline is a bronchodilator which relaxes muscles in the lungs and chest. Theophylline is used in the treatment of heart failure, asthma, bronchitis, and pulmonary edema. Theophylline may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide.
theophylline. an alkaloid derived from tea or produced synthetically; it is a smooth muscle relaxant used chiefly for its bronchodilator effect in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, bronchial asthma, chronic bronchitis, and bronchospastic distress.
Precautions. Before using theophylline, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to aminophylline or oxtriphylline; or to theobromine or caffeine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Uses. This medication is used to treat and prevent wheezing and trouble breathing caused by ongoing lung disease (e.g., asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis). Theophylline belongs to a class of drugs known as xanthines.
Theophylline extended-release tablets in Japan. Theophylline, also known as 1,3-dimethylxanthine, is a methylxanthine drug used in therapy for respiratory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma under a variety of brand names.
1 Review. Theophylline is the generic name for the prescription drugs Uniphyl (in Canada) and Theo-24. It's used to treat airflow obstruction symptoms such as wheezing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness related to asthma and lung diseases, including emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
Theophylline comes as a tablet, capsule, solution, and syrup to take by mouth. It usually is taken every 6, 8, 12, or 24 hours. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take theophylline exactly as directed.
Theophylline is used to prevent and treat wheezing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness caused by asthma, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and other lung diseases. It relaxes and opens air passages in the lungs, making it easier to breathe.