Although inadequate intake of certain micronutrients is a concern, far greater problems come from the dietary excesses of energy, saturated fat, cholesterol, and refined carbohydrate, which are fueling the current epidemics of obesity and chronic disease. Increased requirements: energy, protein, essential fatty acids, vitamin A, vitamin C, B–vitamins (B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B12, folate, choline) & calcium, phosphorus**, magnesium, potassium, iron, zinc, copper, chromium, selenium, iodine, manganese, molybdenum.
In Chapter 12 Nutrition through the Life Cycle: From Pregnancy to the Toddler Years , we focused on the effects of dietary choices during pregnancy, infancy, and the toddler years. Nutrient needs are greater in adolescence than at any other time in the life cycle, except during pregnancy. The energy requirements for ages fourteen to eighteen are 1,800 to 2,400 calories for girls and 2,000 to 3,200 calories for boys, depending on activity level.
Compared with the values in the 1985 FAO/WHO/UNU report, energy requirements proposed by this consultation are about 12 percent lower in the first three months of life, 17 percent lower from three to nine months, and 20 percent lower from nine to 12 months (Table 3.4 and Figure 3.2). Table 3.2 shows the average energy requirements of infants from one to 12 months of age, combining the needs of breastfed and formula-fed infants. TEE was calculated with the predictive linear equations described in section 3.2 and the median weight for age of the WHO pooled breastfed data set (WHO, 1994).
As discussed in Chapter 12 Nutrition through the Life Cycle: From Pregnancy to the Toddler Years , the development of food allergies is a concern during the toddler years. This remains an issue for school-aged children. Nutrient needs are greater in adolescence than at any other time in the life cycle, except during pregnancy. The energy requirements for ages fourteen to eighteen are 1,800 to 2,400 calories for girls and 2,000 to 3,200 calories for boys, depending on activity level.
5.5 Older adults and the elderly. Many age-related changes that influence energy requirements occur continually throughout the adult life cycle. A decline in BMR with age has been recognized since the studies of Keys, Taylor and Grande (1973), who estimated it at a rate of 1 to 2 percent per decade. For example, the preliminary TEE results-and therefore energy requirements-of 70 to 79 year-old people in a United States study on health, ageing and body composition (Blanc et al., 2001) were 10.1 ± 1.8 MJ/day for men, and 8.0 ± 1.5 MJ/day for women.
As you age, your body's dietary needs will change. These changes will continue throughout all life stages with the requirements for calories, protein, vitamins and minerals adjusting as we grow older.
Energy. While most adults require 25 to 30 calories per kg, a 4 kg infant requires more than 100 kcals/kg (430 calories/day). Infants 4 to 6 months who weigh 6 kg require roughly 82 kcals/kg (490 calories/day). Energy needs remain high through the early formative years. Children 1 to 3 years of age require approximately 83 kcals/kg (990 kcals/day). Energy requirements decline thereafter and are based on weight, height, and physical activity. Requirements for fatty acids on a per–kilogram basis are higher in infants than adults (see below). Through desaturation and elongation, linolenic and alpha–linolenic acids are converted to long–chain fatty acids (arachidonic and docosahexanoic acids) that play key roles in the central nervous system.
Nutrition through the lifecycle. An individual's needs for nutrients and energy change over the life span. For example, while a typical adult woman may need only 6.7 milligrams of calcium per pound of body weight, a nine-month-old infant needs 27 milligrams of caclcium per pound of body weight. 
In the first 12 months of life a baby's energy requirement can be up to 3 times (200% greater) than the proportional-to size-needs of an a typical adult. Similarly, a young baby's needs compared with that of an adult are estimated: 1  3x energy need. 2  3x protein need. Pregnancy changes the proportions in which energy and some nutrients are required. Some changes include: 1  10% increase in energy requirement. 2  10% increase in protein requirement. 3  100% increase in vitamin C, calcium and folic acid requirements.