Also take 2 TABLEspoons of colloidal silver water,Three hours later take 2 TABLEspoons of MSM water (1.4 grams of MSM) plus 2 TABLEspoons of colloidal silver water,Three hours later take 3 TABLEspoons of MSM water (2.1 grams of MSM) plus 2 TABLEspoons of colloidal silver water. Total for Day 5 and Thereafter: 35.0 grams of MSM (750 ml. of “MSM Water”) and 24 TABLEspoons (which is 360ml.) of colloidal silver water. You need total of 1260 ml of colloidal silver & 91 gm. Of MSM (1950ml of MSM water) during these 5 days. Continue at Day 5 dose from 6th day onward
Whereas the original version of the OCC used 25 TABLEspoons of DMSO over a twelve hour period, this version only uses 12 TABLEspoons of DMSO. The dosage for MSM is also well within safe limits. The dosage of chlorine dixode is the same as it was for the first version of the OCC. You will be taking two TABLESpoons of MSM each hour. While the TABLEspoon of DMSO is 70% DMSO and 30% water, the MSM Water is mostly water. You will put the two TABLEspoons on your skin and take the MSM transdermally.
What happens is that instead of making colloidal silver, you will make 100% silver chloride or other salts (from the salt, or chlorine in the water, or silver fluoride from the fluoridation). As the silver chloride builds up it begins precipitating out (it has a solubility of only about .89 ppm). EIS is a combination of ionic silver and colloidal silver. It is typically about 90% ionic and 10% colloidal by weight, but can vary between 5% and 20% colloidal depending on how it is made.
Making and Using the MSM Water. Here is how you make a gallon of MSM Water: 1) Take a gallon of DISTILLED water, 2) Pour out about 2 cups of the distilled water, 3) PUT 1 and 1/2 CUPS of MSM granules into the gallon jug. It will take about half-an-hour for the MSM to totally dissolve in the water. You will be taking two TABLESpoons of MSM each hour. While the TABLEspoon of DMSO is 70% DMSO and 30% water, the MSM Water is mostly water. You will put the two TABLEspoons on your skin and take the MSM transdermally.
Where DMSO was noted for bad breath and dry itchy skin (often experienced from ingesting too much yellow sulphur), MSM seems to provide all the benefits and advantages without the troublesome side effects of its predecessor. MSM is a snow white, crystalline, water soluble, odorless and almost tasteless powder. It is neither a drug or food additive but what could be termed 'a nutritional mineral', such as sodium or sulphur required by the body for life processes.
I regularly use a nebuliser with Colloidal Silver but have not used it with DMSO in a nebuliser. And I regularly use DMSO when I want it to act as a carrier. Also DMSO can be used as described on the Jacobs/60 Minutes/Youtube site. Started inhaled steroids 30 years ago. Was put on nebulizer steroids to use with my usual does of nebulizer albuterol and Advair 500/50. In researching my options, I found the idea of using DMSO and Colloidal Silver in a nebulizer. I mix 7 cc of Colloidal Silver, 3 cc DMSO, 3 cc distilled water. This mix lasts me for 6 treatments, plus a little. I do three or four treatments a day with 2 cc of my mixed solution
In true colloidal silver, the majority of the silver content is in the form of silver particles. True colloids will typically contain more than 50% particles (often 50 – 80%), while the balance (20% to 49%) will be silver ions. When referring to colloidal silver, the word colloid means silver particles. 1 Product Name: These are the colloidal silver products listed in the Product Reports. 2  Click on the product name in the table below for the complete lab analysis. 3  Particle Surface Area: In the table below, Column 2 (Particle Surface Area) provides the best means for a direct comparison of the various products.