Vortioxetine is an antidepressant medication that works in the brain. It is approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). Symptoms of depression include: 1  Depressed mood-feeling sad, empty, or tearful. 2  Feeling worthless, guilty, hopeless, and helpless. 3  Loss of interest or pleasure in your usual activities. Stopping vortioxetine abruptly may result in one or more of the following withdrawal symptoms: headache, muscle tension, mood swings, sudden outbursts of anger, dizziness, and/or runny nose. Depression is also a part of bipolar illness.
Not only can they destroy your own life, but they can also turn you into a murderer. Now, the FDA has approved Brintellix, which may prove to be the worst of them all. In a press release by pharmaceutical company Lundbeck, the developer of Brintellix [1] , it’s admitted that the cause of depression is unknown. Nonetheless, they cavalierly play with brain chemistry about which they know very little. 
Brintellix (vortioxetine) is an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorder (MDD). Common side effects of Brintellix include nausea, constipation, vomiting, and sexual dysfunction. Antidepressants can raise the risk of suicidal thoughts among some users, especially among children, adolescents, and adults aged 18 to 24. The most commonly observed adverse reactions in MDD patients treated with BRINTELLIX in 6 to 8 week placebo-controlled studies (incidence ≥ 5% and at least twice the rate of placebo) were nausea, constipation and vomiting.
Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. This risk must be balanced with the clinical need. Short term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24, and there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older.
Read this Medication Guide before you start taking BRINTELLIX and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment. 
Melissa Healy. The Food and Drug Administration late Monday approved a new antidepressant medication that is a novel variant on the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, that have become the mainstay of depression treatment. 
This medication is used to treat depression. It works by helping to restore the balance of a certain natural substance (serotonin) in the brain. Vortioxetine is an SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) and serotonin receptor modulator. Also, you may experience symptoms such as mood swings, headache, muscle stiffness, and runny nose. To prevent these symptoms while you are stopping treatment with this drug, your doctor may reduce your dose gradually. Consult your doctor or pharmacist for more details. Report any new or worsening symptoms immediately.
Our Brintellix (vortioxetine) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. The most commonly observed adverse reactions in MDD patients treated with BRINTELLIX in 6 to 8 week placebo-controlled studies (incidence ≥ 5% and at least twice the rate of placebo) were nausea, constipation and vomiting.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a new medication Monday to treat clinical depression called Brintellix (vortioxetine). It has been approved for use in adults only. Brintellix was discovered by Lundbeck researchers in Copenhagen, Denmark. The clinical trial program in the U.S. was conducted jointly by Lundbeck and Takeda, and Takeda holds the new drug application for the U.S. market.