The development of the prefrontal cortex plays a significant role in maturation. The brain develops in a back to front pattern, and the prefrontal cortex is the last portion of the brain to fully develop. This does not mean that children do not have functional prefrontex cortices. The prefrontal cortex is involved in a wide variety of functions, including: 1  Coordinating and adjusting complex behavior. 2  Impulse control and control and organization of emotional reactions. 3  Personality.
The prefrontal cortex governs social control. The brain's prefrontal cortex is responsible for regulating behavior, emotions and social control. Modern Homo Sapiens are believed to have a more developed prefrontal cortex than that possessed by their Neanderthal predecessors. I don't believe that it is due to an injury, but injuries to this part of the brain would present problems with its function. It has been shown that the smaller the prefrontal cortex is, the less it works and the more aggressive or depressed the person becomes. These symptoms are related to so. many mental disorders.
The Prefrontal Cortex is that part of the brain located behind our forehead that is responsible for the executive function, meaning that it acts like a conductor communicating, guiding, and coordinating the functions of the different parts of the brain. 
Unfortunately, the PFC is one of the brain regions most susceptible to injury. When the pathways between the prefrontal cortex and the rest of the brain are damaged or altered, serious personality changes can result. I don't believe that it is due to an injury, but injuries to this part of the brain would present problems with its function. It has been shown that the smaller the prefrontal cortex is, the less it works and the more aggressive or depressed the person becomes. These symptoms are related to so. many mental disorders.
The frontal lobe contains most of the dopamine-sensitive neurons in the cerebral cortex. The dopamine system is associated with reward, attention, short-term memory tasks, planning, and motivation. 
The prefrontal cortex is a part of the brain located at the front of the frontal lobe. It is implicated in a variety of complex behaviors, including planning, and greatly contributes to personality development. The prefrontal cortex is involved in a wide variety of functions, including: 1  Coordinating and adjusting complex behavior. 2  Impulse control and control and organization of emotional reactions. 3  Personality.
The prefrontal cortex has been defined based on cytoarchitectonics by the presence of a cortical granular layer IV. It is not entirely clear who first used this criterion. The table below shows different ways to subdivide the prefrontal cortex starting from Brodmann areas. Note that the term dorsolateral has been used to denote areas 8, 9, and 46 as well as areas 8, 9, 44, 45, 46, and lateral 47 and several terms are given to areas 47, 11 and 10.
Primary functions of the prefrontal cortex involve planning a person's response to complex and difficult problems. The prefrontal cortex resides at the front of the brain, and it is subdivided by the brain's right and left hemispheres. It acts as an executive for the decision making process, weaving past events to present experiences in order to make the best choices. Damage to the prefrontal cortex can cause personality changes. People with frontal lobe lesions may experience loss of muscle control necessary to perform ordinary tasks, such as teeth brushing. A concussion can temporarily damage the prefrontal cortex.
In mammalian brain anatomy, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the cerebral cortex which covers the front part of the frontal lobe. The PFC contains Brodmann areas 9, 10, 11, 12, 46, and 47. The table below shows different ways to subdivide the prefrontal cortex starting from Brodmann areas. Note that the term dorsolateral has been used to denote areas 8, 9, and 46 as well as areas 8, 9, 44, 45, 46, and lateral 47 and several terms are given to areas 47, 11 and 10.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is located in the very front of the brain, just behind the forehead. In charge of abstract thinking and thought analysis, it is also responsible for regulating behavior. I don't believe that it is due to an injury, but injuries to this part of the brain would present problems with its function. It has been shown that the smaller the prefrontal cortex is, the less it works and the more aggressive or depressed the person becomes. These symptoms are related to so. many mental disorders.