In the past, cava was referred to as Spanish champagne, which is no longer permitted under European Union law, since Champagne has Protected Geographical Status (PGS) and Spain entered the EU in 1986. Colloquially it is still called champan champán or champana Champaña in spanish or Xampany. in catalan According to Spanish law, cava may be produced in eight wine regions: Aragon, the Basque Country, Castile and Leon, León, Catalonia, Extremadura, Navarra rioja or The Valencian. community
The noun VENA CAVA has 1 sense: 1. either of two large veins that return oxygen-depleted blood to the right atrium of the heart. Familiarity information: VENA CAVA used as a noun is very rare. precava; superior vena cava (receives blood from the head and arms and chest and empties into the right atrium of the heart; formed from the azygos and both brachiocephalic veins).
The Catalan word cava (masculine, plural caves) means  cave  or  cellar . Caves were used in the early days of cava production for the preservation or aging of wine. Catalan winemakers officially adopted the term in 1970 to distinguish their product from French champagne. According to Spanish law, cava may be produced in eight wine regions: Aragon, the Basque Country, Castile and Leon, León, Catalonia, Extremadura, Navarra rioja or The Valencian. community
Noun. 1. vena cava-either of two large veins that return oxygen-depleted blood to the right atrium of the heart. vein, vena, venous blood vessel-a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart; all veins except the pulmonary vein carry unaerated blood.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of vena cava): inferior vena cava; postcava (receives blood from lower limbs and abdominal organs and empties into the posterior part of the right atrium of the heart; formed from the union of the two iliac veins). precava; superior vena cava (receives blood from the head and arms and chest and empties into the right atrium of the heart; formed from the azygos and both brachiocephalic veins).
Cava (. [ˈkaβə] , plural caves) is a sparkling wine of Denominacion denominación De (ORIGEN) do, status most of which is produced In. Catalonia it may be (white) blanco or (rose). Rosé rosado, the macabeu parellada·and xarel lo are the most popular and traditional grape varieties for. producing cava According to Spanish law, cava may be produced in eight wine regions: Aragon, the Basque Country, Castile and Leon, León, Catalonia, Extremadura, Navarra rioja or The Valencian. community
Meaning: Either of two large veins that return oxygen-depleted blood to the right atrium of the heart. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (vena cava is a kind of...): vein; vena; venous blood vessel (a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart). precava; superior vena cava (receives blood from the head and arms and chest and empties into the right atrium of the heart; formed from the azygos and both brachiocephalic veins).
• SUPERIOR VENA CAVA (noun). The noun SUPERIOR VENA CAVA has 1 sense: 1. receives blood from the head and arms and chest and empties into the right atrium of the heart; formed from the azygos and both brachiocephalic veins. Familiarity information: SUPERIOR VENA CAVA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Meaning: R
When followed by a noun in the ablative case, the Latin preposition in means in or on. When followed by a noun in the accusative case it means into, onto or sometimes … against (e.g. impetum in Persas, an attack against the Persians). The Latin word 'cava' means concave, hollow. In terms of a river, it may mean 'deep-channelled'. In terms of the moon, it may mean 'waning'. It's the feminine form of the adjective whose masculine form is 'cavus'.