Parkinson's disease is a progressive, chronic brain condition that results from the loss of cells in a region of the brain that controls movement. Parkinson's disease is a common condition of the brain that typically begins in the middle to later part of life. This loss causes a deficiency of a certain brain chemical (dopamine), which causes movement problems. Parkinson's disease is a common condition of the brain that typically begins in the middle to later part of life. It is a progressive condition, meaning that it continues to get worse with time.
Parkinson's disease belongs to a group of conditions called movement disorders. Movement disorders describe a variety of abnormal body movements that have a neurological basis, and include such conditions as cerebral palsy, ataxia, and Tourette syndrome. According to the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, the economic toll of the disease in the USA is nearly $25 billion annually, including direct and indirect costs. The average annual medication costs for an American with Parkinson's disease is between $2,500 and $10,000.
A Shortage of Dopamine. Parkinson's disease occurs when nerve cells, or neurons, in an area of the brain that controls movement become impaired and/or die. Normally, these neurons produce an important brain chemical known as dopamine, but when the neurons die or become impaired, they produce less dopamine. This shortage of dopamine causes the movement problems of people with Parkinson's.
Parkinson's disease (PD, also known as idiopathic or primary parkinsonism, hypokinetic rigid syndrome (HRS), or paralysis agitans) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system mainly affecting the motor system. The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease result from the death of dopamine-generating cells in the substantia nigra, a region of the midbrain. The causes of this cell death are poorly understood.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive nervous system disorder that affects how the person moves, including how they speak and write. Symptoms develop gradually, and may start off with ever-so-slight tremors in one hand. According to the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, the economic toll of the disease in the USA is nearly $25 billion annually, including direct and indirect costs. The average annual medication costs for an American with Parkinson's disease is between $2,500 and $10,000.
Parkinson's disease results from the loss of brain cells in a region of the brain that controls movement. This loss creates a shortage of dopamine, which is a chemical in the brain called a neurotransmitter. This loss of dopamine results in the problems with movement that are characteristic of Parkinson's disease. This loss causes a deficiency of a certain brain chemical (dopamine), which causes movement problems. Parkinson's disease is a common condition of the brain that typically begins in the middle to later part of life. It is a progressive condition, meaning that it continues to get worse with time.
Parkinson's disease affects the way you move. It happens when there is a problem with certain nerve cells in the brain. Normally, these nerve cells make an important chemical called dopamine. Dopamine sends signals to the part of your brain that controls movement. 
In Parkinson's disease, a loss of neurons in the brain results in a reduction of the amount of dopamine, a chemical messenger that helps control muscle movement. Without dopamine, nerve cells cannot properly send messages. Parkinson's disease is a neurological disorder that affects a patient's ability to produce and control body movement. It is chronic (persisting over a long period of time) and progressive (getting worse over time).
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota has been recognized as the best Neurology & Neurosurgery hospital in the nation for 2015-2016 by U.S. News & World Report. Parkinson's disease is a progressive disorder of the nervous system that affects movement. It develops gradually, sometimes starting with a barely noticeable tremor in just one hand. But while a tremor may be the most well-known sign of Parkinson's disease, the disorder also commonly causes stiffness or slowing of movement. In the early stages of Parkinson's disease, your face may show little or no expression, or your arms may not swing when you walk. Your speech may become soft or slurred.