Remember, Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies. The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 film about a banker named Andy Dufresne, who is accused of double murder in the 1940s and begins a life sentence at the fictional Shawshank prison, where he befriends an older inmate named Red.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It is not based on a true story but it is based on the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption. There were several differences between the novella and the film, but the film was never based on anything in real life. Report Abuse. No. The Shawshank Redemption is a work of fiction, by Stephen King. It came from the story “Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption” in his 1982 book, Different Seasons. The Rita Hayworth in the title refers to the poster which Andy Dufresne hides his escape tunnel behind.
This discussion guide will help you discuss the movie from a biblical perspective as you reflect on the themes of hope, endurance, freedom, and peace. Based on: The Shawshank Redemption (Columbia Pictures, 1994), written and directed by Frank Darabont. Adapted from the Stephen King novella, “Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,” first published in Different Seasons (New York: Viking Penguin Inc., 1982). 
Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption is a novella by Stephen King, from his 1982 collection Different Seasons, subtitled Hope Springs Eternal. It was adapted for the screen in 1994 as The Shawshank Redemption, which was nominated for seven Academy Awards in 1994, including Best Picture. In 2009, it was adapted for the stage as the play The Shawshank Redemption.
In researching this post, there were a few who noted that The Shawshank Redemption story and movie were based on the 1979 film, Escape from Alcatraz. It should be noted that both were heavily inspired by the history-and ensuing mythology-of the escape from Alcatraz by Morris and the Anglin brothers in 1962. In 1982, Stephen King wrote a short novel called “Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption.” King penned Shawshank along with some other short novels in a collection entitled Different Seasons. In 1994, that short story would come to life as the movie known and loved by many, The
Written and directed by: Frank Darabont, based on the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. And no good thing ever dies. The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 film about a banker named Andy Dufresne, who is accused of double murder in the 1940s and begins a life sentence at the fictional Shawshank prison, where he befriends an older inmate named Red.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence. The critical consensus states . The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison drama with sensitive direction and fine performances .. The film also has a score of 80 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 19 critics indicating generally favorable reviews'.
He declined to talk to reporters and remained jailed on Tuesday night, said Cpl. Dave Jacobs. The Shawshank Redemption film, based on a 1982 Stephen King novella, is set in a prison in Maine, but was filmed at the Ohio State Reformatory. Top news galleries. Frank Freshwaters, who was imprisoned in Ohio jail used to film the Shawshank Redemption, escaped in 1959 after earning the trust of guards.
no it's not, the movie is only based upon a book: 'The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 movie, written and directed by Frank Darabont, based on the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption.. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shawsha... mycloud · 9 years ago. Report Abuse. No. The Shawshank Redemption is a work of fiction, by Stephen King. It came from the story “Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption” in his 1982 book, Different Seasons. The Rita Hayworth in the title refers to the poster which Andy Dufresne hides his escape tunnel behind.