Botulism, also known as botulinus intoxication is a serious illness that causes paralysis, caused by the botulinum toxin. The toxin is caused by Clostridium botulinum, a type of bacterium. There are four ways in which the toxin can enter the human body: All types of botulism eventually lead to paralysis, which generally starts with the face muscles and then spreads to the limbs.
Botulism is a rare but serious paralytic disease caused by a bacterial toxin usually produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. There are four generally recognized naturally-occurring types; foodborne, wound, infant, and, rarely, adult intestinal colonization. Iatrogenic and inhalational botulism may also occur. 
Botulism is a rare, but serious illness caused by a germ called Clostridium botulinum. The germ is found in soil and can survive, grow, and produce toxin in a sealed jar of food. This toxin can affect your nerves, paralyze you, and even cause death. Even taking a small taste of food containing this toxin can be deadly. 
Botulism is caused by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum, found in soil, dust and river or sea sediments. The bacteria themselves are not harmful, but they can produce highly poisonous toxins when they are deprived of oxygen (such as in closed cans or bottles, stagnant soil or mud, or occasionally the human body). 
Wound botulism. When C. botulinum bacteria get into a wound — possibly caused by an injury you might not notice — they can multiply and produce toxin. Wound botulism has increased in recent decades in people who inject heroin, which can contain spores of the bacteria.
Botulism is a serious illness that causes flaccid paralysis of muscles. It is caused by a neurotoxin, generically called botulinum toxin, produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum (and rarely by C. butyricum and C. baratii). 1 Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 2  Never taste-test food that may have gone bad. 3  Wound botulism is due to Clostridium bacteria infecting a wound and releasing the neurotoxin.
1 The neurotoxin is produced by bacteria called Clostridium botulinum. 2  The neurotoxin paralyzes muscles and can be deadly. 3  There are three major types of botulism that differ in how they are acquired: food-borne, wound, and infant botulism. 4  Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 1 Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 2  Never taste-test food that may have gone bad. 3  Wound botulism is due to Clostridium bacteria infecting a wound and releasing the neurotoxin.
Infant botulism signs and symptoms may include: Botulism is caused by botulinum toxin, a poison produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. The organism is common in the soil and exists in untreated water, and can survive in this environment as a resistant spore. The toxin is caused by Clostridium botulinum, a type of bacterium. There are four ways in which the toxin can enter the human body: All types of botulism eventually lead to paralysis, which generally starts with the face muscles and then spreads to the limbs.
Botulism is a disease caused by the bacterium scientifically known as Clostridium botulinum. Botulism food poisoning occurs when a toxin produced by the bacteria is consumed in improperly preserved foods. The disease is caused by a potent neurotoxin produced by the bacteria. It manifests as abdominal cramping, double or blurred vision, difficulty breathing, muscle weakness, and other serious symptoms. Botulism is not spread from person to person.
Botulism is caused by botulinum toxin, a natural poison produced by certain bacteria in the Clostridium genus. Exposure to the botulinum toxin occurs mostly from eating contaminated food, or in infants, from certain clostridia growing in the intestine. Causes and symptoms. Toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum is the main culprit in botulism. Other members of the clostridium genus can produce botulinum toxin, namely C. argentinense, C. butyricum, and C. baratii, but they are minor sources.