Definition. An operating system is a program that acts as an interface between the user and the computer hardware and controls the execution of all kinds of programs. Following are some of important functions of an operating System. Memory Management. Processor Management. Device Management.
OS is an abbreviation for the word Operating System. An Operating System is the software that tells a computer how to operate. It controls hardware, executes programs, manages tasks and resources, and provides the user with an interface to the computer. You can also find out if your computer is running a 32-bit or 64-bit version of Windows in the same areas listed above. Macintosh. OS X (Mac OS X) - Click the Apple menu at the top of your screen then click About this Mac. To get more detailed information after that click More Info Software.
Not all computers have operating systems. The computer that controls the microwave oven in your kitchen, for example, doesn't need an operating system. It has one set of tasks to perform, very straightforward input to expect (a numbered keypad and a few pre-set buttons) and simple, never-changing hardware to control. 
An operating system is a program designed to run other programs on a computer. A computer’s operating system is its most important program. Desktop PC. Multitasking operating systems can run more than one program at the same time. A computer's operating system is one of its most important aspects. An operating system can be used to managed files on a computer hard drive. A central processing unit.
In computing, the kernel is a computer program that manages I/O requests from software, and translates them into data processing instructions for the central processing unit and other electronic components of a computer. The kernel is a fundamental part of a modern computer's operating system. 
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. An operating system is a program designed to run other programs on a computer. A computer’s operating system is its most important program. It is considered the backbone of a computer, managing both software and hardware resources. Desktop PC. Multitasking operating systems can run more than one program at the same time. A computer's operating system is one of its most important aspects. An operating system can be used to managed files on a computer hard drive. A central processing unit.
Part of the Operating systems glossary: Mac OS is the computer operating system for Apple Computer's Macintosh line of personal computers and workstations. A popular feature of its latest version, Mac OS X, is a desktop interface with some 3-D appearance characteristics.
Operating System. An operating system, or OS, is software that communicates with the hardware and allows other programs to run. It is comprised of system software, or the fundamental files your computer needs to boot up and function. Every desktop computer, tablet, and smartphone includes an operating system that provides basic functionality for the device. Common desktop operating systems include Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux. While each OS is different, they all provide a graphical user interface, or GUI, that includes a desktop and the ability to manage files and folders. They also allow you to install and run programs written for the operating system.