The modern day PAN takes the shape of the standard plastic bank-card. It bears a facial picture of the holder, the date of birth, the date of issue and a hologram sticker, which acts as an additional security feature. 1 IT PAN card is issued under Section 139A of the Income Tax Act. 2  The PAN structure is as follows: AAAPL1234C: First five characters are letters, next four numerals, last character letter. 3  The first three letters are sequence of alphabets from AAA to ZZZ. 4  The fourth character informs about the type of holder of the card.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Permanent Account Number (PAN) is a code that acts as identification of Indians, especially those who pay Income Tax. It is a unique, 10-character alpha-numeric identifier, issued to all judicial entities identifiable under the Indian Income Tax Act 1961. 1 IT PAN card is issued under Section 139A of the Income Tax Act. 2  The PAN structure is as follows: AAAPL1234C: First five characters are letters, next four numerals, last character letter. 3  The first three letters are sequence of alphabets from AAA to ZZZ. 4  The fourth character informs about the type of holder of the card.
1 Pan-as a prefix (Greek πᾶν, pan, all, of everything, involving all members of a group), e.g.: 2  Pan-American. The acronym PAN can refer to: 1  USA-207, a secret American military satellite (sometimes called Palladium At Night or Pick A Name). 2  Permanent account number, (PAN card) India's national identification number for taxpayers. 3  Personal area network, a type of computer network.
Permanent Account Number (PAN) is a code that acts as identification of Indians, especially those who pay Income Tax. 1 IT PAN card is issued under Section 139A of the Income Tax Act. 2  The PAN structure is as follows: AAAPL1234C: First five characters are letters, next four numerals, last character letter. 3  The first three letters are sequence of alphabets from AAA to ZZZ. 4  The fourth character informs about the type of holder of the card.
The word pansexual is used as an inclusive term as opposed to bisexual, as bisexuality only refers to people liking both men and women, and does not including a wider variety of gender-neutral or gender-fluid terminology. Pansexual can also refer to an organization, event or group. Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. The term pansexual can take on a variety of different meanings depending on the social group, but it is generally defined as someone who is attracted to other people regardless of their gender or sexual orientation.
Pan is the Greek god with the legs of a goat and the body of a pipes-playing man known for his mischievousness. Pan is also the god of shepherds, pastures, and fertility. Pan is also a Hindi name meaning leaf or feather. 
(1) In all capitals, PAN is short for Personal Area Network. Based on the electric-field transmission medium, is an IBM technology that allows individuals to exchange data with a simple touch or grasp, such as a handshake. 
PAN India Presence. PAN stands for Presence Across Nation. PAN India Presence simply means when that one is operating at many places in India. To give you an example, our company is currently operating from a single place i.e. Gurgaon, but now it is going to start its operations at 17 different locations.
The prefix pan-comes from an Ancient Greek term meaning all or every. Omni-comes from a Latin term meaning all. Pansexual is derived from the word pansexualism, dated back to 1917, which is the view that the sex instinct plays the primary part in all human activity, mental and physical. Pansexuality, or omnisexuality, is sexual attraction, romantic love, or emotional attraction toward people of any sex or gender identity.
In other words it is going to have a PAN India Presence. Pan is also a prefix which simply means ALL. So when you say Pan India presence its simply means all India presence. Similar usages like Pan America which means all the nations in America including North, Middle and South America. PAN India Presence simply means when that one is operating at many places in India. To give you an example, our company is currently operating from a single place i.e. Gurgaon, but now it is going to start its operations at 17 different locations.