1 Place 4 pork chops in a zipper-lock bag. 2  Pour in the flavor brine and seal the bag. 3  Place the bag in a bowl in case it leaks and refrigerate for 2 to 6 hours, depending on the thickness of the chops. 4  Remove the chops, discard the flavor brine, and pat the chops dry. 1 Pour in the flavor brine and seal the bag. 2  Place the bag in a bowl in case it leaks and refrigerate for 2 to 6 hours, depending on the thickness of the chops. 3
Pork Brine Recipe: 3/4 cup coarse kosher salt 3/4 cup granulated sugar 1 cup boiling water 1 gallon cold water 1 tablespoon black pepper. Preparation: A heavy-duty plastic tub, stainless-steel bowl, or re-sealable plastic bag can work as a brining container, as long as the pork is fully submerged.
Soak your pork tenderloin in a brine before cooking for a moist and juicy pork roast. The differences in the amounts of kosher salt between brands is due to the difference in grain size and density of the various brands. If using another type of kosher salt, weigh 2.5 ounces of salt per pound of pork for the brine. A brine is a salty marinade used to add moisture and flavor to lean meats, such as pork tenderloin. As the name implies, pork tenderloin is a tender, lean cut of meat. While its lack of fat compared to other pork cuts has health benefits, it can dry out while cooking.
Brining is a technique that is makes the roast more juicy, by making possible the accumulation of juices within the meat during cooking. The proportion of salt to water must be 1/3 to 1/2 cup per each 2 quarts of liquid (or 2/3 to 1 cup of salt per gallon), in order for this transformation to occur. 1 Immerse pork roast of your choice in the cooled brine mixture, and refrigerate for 12 hours or overnight (up to 24 hours) turning occasionally if necessary for even brining.
Do not; however go longer than the times on this chart. Pork Chops (about 1 to 1 1/2 inches thick) - 12 to 24 hours. Whole Pork Tenderloin - 12 hours. Whole Pork Loin - 2 days. Brining times are not only determined by the weight and thickness of meat but also by the grain of the meat. While some cuts of pork can use days in a brine, even a relatively small amount of time can be helpful. Pork generally takes a long time to get the full effect. Now I wouldn't bother brining a cut of pork if you didn't have at least a few hours but with smaller cuts even 3 or 4 hours can do the trick.
1 Place pork loin in brine mixture and refrigerate for 8 to 10 hours. 2  Remove pork from brine, pat dry, and season all sides with salt and black pepper. 3  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). 4  Heat vegetable oil in an oven-proof skillet over high heat. 5  Cook pork, turning to brown each side, about 10 minutes total. 1 Transfer skillet to the oven and roast until pork is browned, about 40 minutes. 2  Mix 2 tablespoons maple syrup and Dijon mustard together in a small bowl. 3  Remove pork roast from the oven and spread maple syrup mixture on all sides. 4  Cook for an additional 15 minutes, until the pork is no longer pink in the center.
Instructions. Pour 1/2 cup kosher salt and 1/2 cup table salt into a 1 gallon zippered plastic bag. Add 1/2 cup white sugar and 1 quart of water per pound of pork tenderloin. For instance, if you are brining a 2 pound piece of boneless pork tenderloin, add 2 quarts of water to the zippered plastic bag.
1 Combine all ingredients in a saucepan. 2  Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer gently for 15 minutes. 3  Cool to room temperature. 4  Immerse pork roast of your choice in the cooled brine mixture, and refrigerate for 12 hours or overnight (up to 24 hours) turning occasionally if necessary for even brining. 1
This is also a great pork loin brine or pork chop brine. Brine a pork loin for at least five hours. Pork chops are usually good after two hours. If you wanted to make a cider brined pork loin or something similar all you would need to do is replace the water in the brine recipe above with an equal amount of apple cider. 
Place the bowl containing the brining meat into a refrigerator for at least 12 hours, up to 24 hours. How to Cook a Pork Loin Roast on a Gas Grill: Ok, so now we know about brining and we have soaked that pork loin roast in the brining solution for at least 12 hours. I am so glad I decided to brine this pork loin roast because the result was awesome! Most of our simple grilling recipes don't require a lot of prep time, but this one requires a little more planning. Plan on at least 12 hours of brining, overnight and up to 24 hours is optimal.