The Truman Doctrine was issued by President Harry S. Truman in 1947. In this doctrine, President Truman said that the United States would go to whatever lengths possible to contain the spread of communism and stop the United States' former ally, the Soviet Union. The Truman Doctrine. Given the recommendations of Kennan, President Truman made a special speech to a joint session of Congress. At the time, Great Britain had decided to stop aiding the countries of Greece and Turkey, making them susceptible to Soviet-supported communist revolutions.
Truman Doctrine. 1947 The provision by president Harry Truman (1884–1972) of US aid to Greece and Turkey as part of the anti-Communist foreign policy which signaled the start of the Cold War containment policy. Truman doctrine-President Truman's policy of providing economic and military aid to any country threatened by communism or totalitarian ideology.
The Truman Doctrine was the name given to a policy announced by US President Harry Trumanon March 12th, 1947. 
Harry S. Truman, President of the United States, 1945-53. A speech was made by American President Harry S. Truman to the U.S. Congress on 12 March 1947. In this speech he said he thinks that The United States should help Greece and Turkey to stop them being ' Totalitarianists ' although he meant Soviet Communism. This became known as the Truman Doctrine. Some Historians believe that this was the start of the Cold War. This speech was made after The United Kingdom said that they would stop helping Greece and Turkey in February 1947 since The United Kingdom was also poor after the cost of World War II. This plan was a big change to American politics. Political historian Walter LaFeber wrote that 'the doctrine became an ideological shield' which means that he believed that The United States used the doctrine as an excuse or reason. The Marshall Plan came after because this.
Noun. 1. Truman doctrine-President Truman's policy of providing economic and military aid to any country threatened by communism or totalitarian ideology. foreign policy-a policy governing international relations. Truman doctrine-President Truman's policy of providing economic and military aid to any country threatened by communism or totalitarian ideology
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Truman Doctrine was an American foreign policy to stop Soviet imperialism during the Cold War. It was announced to Congress by President Harry S. Truman on March 12, 1947 when he pledged to contain Soviet threats to Greece and Turkey. No American military force was involved; instead Congress appropriated a free gift of financial aid to support the economies and the militaries of Greece and Turkey. The Truman Doctrine became the foundation of American foreign policy, and led in 1949 to the formation of NATO, a full-fledged military alliance that is in effect to this day. Historians often use Truman's speech to date the start of the Cold War
The doctrine was announced on March 12th 1947 by US President Harry Truman in response to crises within Greece and Turkey, nations which American believed were in danger of falling into the Soviet sphere of influence. 
Addressing a joint session of Congress on March 12, 1947, President Harry S. Truman asked for $400 million in military and economic assistance for Greece and Turkey and established a doctrine, aptly characterized as the Truman Doctrine, that would guide U.S. diplomacy for the next 40 years. 