Top 10 facts about the world. A rose by any name smells as sweet, according to Shakespeare, and so does rose water, be it called gulub jal or goolub. It is the liquid or hydrosol remaining when rose petals and water are distilled together for the purpose of making rose oil. Usage of this liquid dates back, at least, to the early Romans, but production with steam distillation was probably first used by the Persian doctor Avicenna in the 10th century.
A bottle of Iranian rose water. Rose water is a flavoured water made by steeping rose petals in water. It is the hydrosol portion of the distillate of rose petals, a by-product of the production of rose oil for use in perfume. A rose water ointment is occasionally used as an emollient, and rose water is sometimes used in cosmetics such as cold creams. Medicinal use-Ayurveda: In India, rose water is used as eye drops to clear them.
1) Use rose water to prevent or reduce eye puffiness. Just place a bottle of rose water into the fridge for half an hour and then, apply some of it on a cotton pad and gently place it on your eyes. It will help sooth the tender skin around your eyes and prevent or reduce eye puffiness. Regular use of rose water as a toner can help prevent wrinkles (slowing down aging process), tighten pores and add a wonderful glow to the skin. 8) You can use rose water as an after-shave, to prevent irritation and sooth the skin.
One of the main benefits of rose water is that it acts as an anti-inflammatory, soothing irritated skin [source: Scirrotto ]. Some people also use roses as a rich source of antioxidants, which can help strengthen skin cells and regenerate skin tissue [source: Garwood-Jones ]. Today, beauty experts still consider rose water a wonderfully gentle, natural ingredient with fabulous skin-enhancing benefits. Rose water is a byproduct of steam distillation, the process that's used to isolate the plant's essential oil. Some of your beauty products probably contain rose water, but you might want to consider adding a bottle of this ingredient in its pure form to your bathroom inventory, too
Rose water is produced by steam distillation, the process which is used to isolate the plant’s essential oil. The discovery of the process is attributed to the Arabian Alchemist Avicenna (Abu Ali Sina, or Ibn-Sina, 980 – 1037 A.D.), way back in the 11th century. Rose water is also a healing agent, and can be used in treating wounds. Prevents sun damage. Some experts believe that rose water plays an important role in reducing damage from the harsh UV rays of the sun. Overexposure to sun destroys the elastin fibres that impart the stretching ability to the skin.
Rose water is a usual component of perfume. A rose water ointment is occasionally used as an emollient, and rose water is sometimes used in cosmetics such as cold creams. Medicinal use-Ayurveda: In India, rose water is used as eye drops to clear them.
Gets rid of pimples and Acne. Rose water is also used to clear pimples and to get rid of blackheads. The rose petals have antibacterial properties and are soothing to the skin. Mix rose water with lemon juice and applying to the skin twice a week. Rose water is also a healing agent, and can be used in treating wounds. Prevents sun damage. Some experts believe that rose water plays an important role in reducing damage from the harsh UV rays of the sun. Overexposure to sun destroys the elastin fibres that impart the stretching ability
One of the main benefits of rose water is that it acts as an anti-inflammatory, soothing irritated skin. Since roses are a rich source of antioxidants, they help strengthen skin cells and regenerate skin tissues. These properties make rose water particularly beneficial to people with sensitive skin. Rose water is also a healing agent, and can be used in treating wounds. Prevents sun damage. Some experts believe that rose water plays an important role in reducing damage from the harsh UV rays of the sun. Overexposure to sun destroys the elastin fibres that impart the stretching ability to the skin.
3. Hair Rinse. Another way I incorporate rosewater into my beauty regimen is to use it as a hair rinse (2 Tablespoons per 1 cup of water). After I shampoo and condition my hair, I thoroughly rinse and then follow up with the rosewater mix. It’s excellent for skin and leaves a very delicate scent in my locks. I use it in my Rose and Vanilla Almond Oil, or if I’m pressed for time, I mix rosewater and my regular body cream. You can also add it to scrubs and directly into bath water. A rose scented bath at the end of a long day is the best antidote to stress.