[ 2 syll. i-nas, in-as ] The baby girl name Inas is pronounced as ih-Nah-Z †. Inas is used mostly in Arabic and it is also of Arabic origin. Inas is of the meaning sociability. The names Inasa, Inass, Inassa, and Inasse are derivatives of Inas. Inas is not popular as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Home » Names. Arabic names are used in the Arab world, as well as some other Muslim regions. They are not necessarily of Arabic origin, though most in fact are. Compare also Iranian names and Turkish names. See also about Arabic names. Refine Search. First part of compound Arabic names beginning with عبد ال ('Abd al) meaning servant of the (such as عبد العزيز ('Abd al-'Aziz) servant of the powerful).
Ina /ina/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced EYE-nah, EE-nah. Diminutive ending of names ending with-ina like Georgina and Regina, used as an independent name. Also variant of Ena. In Ireland it can be a saint 's name, also found as Aghna, which may be an Irish form of Agnes. Cookbook author Ina Garten
You can also find Ina meaning and Translation in Urdu, Hindi, Arabic, Spanish, French and other languages. Find best online English to Arabic Dictionary and Arabic to English Translation with Arabic keyboard. Search words meaning along with Definition & Synonyms details.
You have searched the English word Ina meaning in Arabic إنعدام القابليات. Ina meaning has been search 402 (four hundred and two) times till 10/17/2015. You can also find Ina meaning and Translation in Urdu, Hindi, Arabic, Spanish, French and other languages Find best online English to Arabic Dictionary and Arabic to English Translation with Arabic keyboard. Search words meaning along with Definition & Synonyms details.
The name Ina has its origin in Latin. thia name is a used a feminine name and means 'mother'. Ina is pronounced as EYE-nah. This used as a short name for the names that end with the word 'ina'. 
Muslim Meaning: The name Inas is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Inas is: Sociability. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 12265 in baby name popularity for girls with 8 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Inas Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Inas has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Inas to other names.
Inas is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced I-nas. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 12265 in baby name popularity for girls with 8 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Inas Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Inas has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Inas to other names.