Method. 1  Make the posset first. 2  Put the cream in a big saucepan with the sugar and gently heat, stirring, until the sugar has melted. 3  Bring to a simmer and bubble for 1 min. 4  Turn off the heat and stir in the lemon zest and juice. 1 MySupermarket. 2  Make the posset first. 3  Put the cream in a big saucepan with the sugar and gently heat, stirring, until the sugar has melted. 4  Bring to a simmer and bubble for 1 min.
Lemon Posset is making a comeback and now the darling of quick, easy desserts. There is nothing easier than a Lemon Posset recipe for a quick, and deliciously tangy pudding. It is perfect for spring and summer days, but so seriously delicious you should eat it any time you like. Originally a posset was a drink made from hot milk and honey, spiced and laced with ale or wine. Preparation. 1  Finely grate the zest and juice the two lemons. 2  Bring the cream to a gentle** boil. 3  Let the posset cool slightly then pour into small ramekins or glasses. 4  To serve, traditionally a posset is served with slivers of toasted almonds but is also delicious with with summer berries and / or Scottish Shortbread.
A posset (also spelled poshote, poshotte) was a British hot drink of milk curdled with wine or ale, often spiced, which was popular from medieval times to the 19th century. The word is mainly used nowadays for a related dessert similar to syllabub. Recipes for it appear in other 15th-century sources: boil milk, add either wine or ale and no salt, let it cool, gather the curds and discard the whey, and season with ginger, sugar, and possibly sweet wine and candied anise.
Newsletter sign up. Newsletter sign up. Posset was originally a thick drink served hot. Now, it is a thick, flavoured cream served as a dessert, and served chilled. It used to be made from boiled milk, with some alcohol in it such as beer or wine to curdle it, and some sugar perhaps, thickened with bread. Consequently, it was relatively thin.
2 historical A drink made of hot milk curdled with ale, wine, or other alcohol and typically flavoured with spices. Example sentences. 1  A posset was a hot drink made from milk curdled with ale, wine, or other liquor, often with sugar, spices, and herbs added in. 2  Spiced cider and the alcoholic posset were served hot, but the staple beverage everywhere was beer, beginning with breakfast. 1 A posset was a hot drink made from milk curdled with ale, wine, or other liquor, often with sugar, spices, and herbs added in.
For the posset, place the double cream and the sugar into a large pan over a low heat and bring to the boil slowly. Boil for three minutes, then remove from the heat and allow to cool. Add the lemon juice and zest and whisk well. Technique: Zesting citrus fruit. 
The word posset is mostly used nowadays for a cold set dessert loosely based on the drink, containing cream and lemon, similar to syllabub. It is also used to refer to the semi-digested milk brought up by babies after a feed. Recipes for it appear in other 15th-century sources: boil milk, add either wine or ale and no salt, let it cool, gather the curds and discard the whey, and season with ginger, sugar, and possibly sweet wine and candied anise.
1 Make the posset first. 2  Put the cream in a big saucepan with the sugar and gently heat, stirring, until the sugar has melted. 3  Bring to a simmer and bubble for 1 min. 4  Turn off the heat and stir in the lemon zest and juice. 1 MySupermarket. 2  Make the posset first. 3  Put the cream in a big saucepan with the sugar and gently heat, stirring, until the sugar has melted. 4  Bring to a simmer and bubble for 1 min.