Directions. 1  Wash and rinse steak. 2  Rub steak with olive oil. 3  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 4  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 5  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 6  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 7  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT.  oil 1 Wash and rinse steak. 2  Rub steak with olive oil. 3  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 4  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 5  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 6  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 7  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT. 8  Oil eat with.  onions
1 Rub steak with olive oil. 2  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 3  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 4  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 5  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 6  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT. 7  Oil eat with.  onions 1 Wash and rinse steak. 2  Rub steak with olive oil. 3  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 4  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 5  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 6  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 7  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT. 8  Oil eat with.  onions
1 Wash and rinse steak. 2  Rub steak with olive oil. 3  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 4  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 5  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 6  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 7  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT.  oil 1 Wash and rinse steak. 2  Rub steak with olive oil. 3  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 4  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 5  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 6  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 7  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT. 8  Oil eat with.  onions
Place your steak into pan and time 30 seconds, then turn the steak. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes. 1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape.
Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes. Degrees of Doneness When the broiler is preheated, put your steaks on the pan and slide it under the flame. Method Pan-fry a T-bone steak quickly over high heat. Heat the pan on the stove top on high, then place the steak in the center of the pan. This sears one side of the steak almost immediately. Turn the steak after 6 to 8 minutes using tongs so you don't puncture the meat and let the juices escape.
1 Rather than oiling the pan, brush the steak with oil to prevent it sticking. 2  Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 3  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape.
1 Rub steak with olive oil. 2  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 3  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 4  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 5  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 6  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT.  oil 1 Wash and rinse steak. 2  Rub steak with olive oil. 3  Season with the salt and pepper, put aside. 4  Cut onions and saute sauté in 1 tbsp butter and put it. 5  Aside add 1 tbsp butter to, skillet and add. 6  Steak fry each side for 8 minutes on med low. 7  Heat if the pan begins to dry time after, time add, WATER NOT. 8  Oil eat with.  onions