The small tear(s) causes swelling and inflammation of your forearm tendons and muscles and is precisely what’s causing forearm pain and discomfort. Combined with the pain and discomfort, you may also experience some of the following symptoms: 1  forearm pain at night and in the morning. 2  difficulty in making a tight fist. 
Pain in your forearms is caused by adhesions, or stuck spots, in the Fascia that is found throughout the forearm muscles. It is a good idea to learn as much as you can about the conditions that are leading to your symptoms. Visit the Forearm Pain Symptoms page to explore this important subject. 
Forearm pain refers to any type of pain or discomfort of the arm between the wrist and the elbow. Pain in the forearm can arise from injury or inflammation that affects any of the tissues of the forearm, including the muscles, bones, blood vessels, tendons, and skin. Forearm pain can happen to anyone and is often related to a traumatic or repetitive use injury. Treatment for forearm pain depends on the cause of the pain. Mild forearm pain may go away with rest, home remedies, such as cold compresses, or over-the-counter pain medications. In more serious cases, forearm pain may require medical treatment, such as prescription medication, surgery, or physical therapy
1 Tennis elbow is a painful condition caused by inflammation or small tears of the forearm muscles and tendons on the outside or inside of the elbow. 2  Tennis elbow is caused by overloading the forearm muscles through repetitive stress and poor technique. 1 Tendonitis, such as tennis elbow or golfers elbow. 2  Tennis elbow is a painful condition caused by inflammation or small tears of the forearm muscles and tendons on the outside or inside of the elbow. 3
Pain in the arm can result from a number of factors. Abnormalities or injury of the skin, nerves, bones, joints, blood vessels, and soft tissues of the arm can all result in pain. Arm pain, depending on the location and cause, may be accompanied by numbness, redness, swelling, tenderness, or stiffness of the joints. Sometimes diseases that affect other organs in the body, like peripheral vascular disease or arthritis, can be the cause of pain in the arm. 
Sources of arm pain are numerous, affecting the muscles, tendons, ligaments, and bones of the arm, shoulder, elbow, wrist, hand, and fingers. If you’re experiencing a strange pain, tenderness, or numbness in your arm, and you don’t know why, consider the following 10 common causes of arm pain…. 
Forearm pain is caused by damage to the muscles, tendons, bones, or other tissues that make up the forearm. Forearm pain is usually the result of injury, such as a sports injury, or inflammation. Forearm pain may also be related to an infection, a growth, a nerve problem, or even cancer. 
Pain often occurs between the wrist and the elbow. The pain resulting from a forearm injury is exerienced as tenderness, ache, tightness and often an inability to perform repetitive tasks. Most commonly, forearm pain results from repetitive sress such as tennis, golf and typing. 1 Tendonitis, such as tennis elbow or golfers elbow. 2  Tennis elbow is a painful condition caused by inflammation or small tears of the forearm muscles and tendons on the outside or inside of the elbow. 3  Tennis elbow is caused by overloading the forearm muscles through repetitive stress and poor technique.
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Forearm pain. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Diabetes. 2  Peripheral artery disease. 3  Peripheral Neuropathy. 4  Chemical burn. 5  Heat burn. 6  Peripheral nerve trauma (see Nerve symptoms). Conditions listing medical symptoms: Forearm pain: The following list of conditions have ' Forearm pain ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
1 Cervical neuropathy is any disorder in the cervical spinal nerves. 2  The more common causes are nerve root compression (pinched nerve). 3  It can cause referred pain to the arm, forearm, hands or fingers. 4  It is usually when C5 and C6 or C6 and C7 are affected that forearm pain may be present. Overuse of the forearm and strain on structures may also need to pain, where they involves the joints if, bones, muscles and tendons or ligaments. The more important of these conditions that lead to forearm pain includes 1  : Tenosynovitis is the inflammation of the tendon sheath.