According to Witherly, when you eat tasty food, there are two factors that make the experience pleasurable. First, there is the sensation of eating the food. This includes what it tastes like (salty, sweet, umami, etc.), what it smells like, and how it feels in your mouth.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Well when you eat to much unhealthy food your body doesnt feel like its in its tip top shape. You end up feeling tired and lazy most of the time because of all the fats and sugar thats in the unhealthy food. But if you have a perfectly good diet your body will feel energized and more alert.
Well when you eat to much unhealthy food your body doesnt feel like its in its tip top shape. You end up feeling tired and lazy most of the time because of all the fats and su … gar thats in the unhealthy food. But if you have a perfectly good diet your body will feel energized and more alert.
When you eat a meal high in unhealthy fats and sugar, the sugar causes a large spike in your blood-sugar levels called post-prandial hyperglycemia.. In the long term this can lead to an increased risk of heart attack, but there are short-term effects as well, such as:
The excessive amounts of sodium in fast food can lead to elevated blood pressure. High blood pressure is a risk factor for heart disease and stroke. A diet high in saturated fat and trans fats also increases the risk of these diseases by clogging the arteries.
Well when you eat to much unhealthy food your body doesnt feel like its in its tip top shape. You end up feeling tired and lazy most of the time because of all the fats and sugar thats in the unhealthy food. But if you have a perfectly good diet your body will feel energized and more alert.
Most of us know that junk food is unhealthy. We know that poor nutrition is related to heart problems, high blood pressure, and a host of other health ailments. You might even know that studies show that eating junk food has been linked to increases in depression.
Go to this link http://www.ehow.com/how_7371114_eat-food... http://www.drlam.com/blood_type_diet/blo... It will tell you what to eat according to your blood type if you don't know your blood type go to your doctor and have them take a vile of your blood for testing your blood type.