Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day. 
If this is the first time she is laying an egg, it can take a while. i've noticed mine tend to fuss, get in then out of the box, act distressed. It's all new to them so can be a bit traumatic. Even seasoned hens will tend to sit in the nest box for hours sometimes before laying. 
The actual formation of the egg inside the chicken takes about 24 hours, but when they sit down to lay the egg it can take anywhere from 15 minutes to a couple of hours. In each of these parts 3 chickens will lay a third of the number of eggs (so 1 egg). Thus: 3 chickens will lay 1 egg in 1/2 of a day. Then it follows that 3 chickens will lay 2 eggs in 1 day. Now, if we allow those 3 chickens three times as long (3 days), they will produce 6 eggs. 3 chickens will lay 6 eggs in 3 days.
A chicken may take from about 5 minutes to an hour to lay her egg. She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes about 20 hours for an egg to be made inside her body. That's why she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg. It takes 20 hours to make an egg and between 5 minutes and an hour to lay it, depending on the hen. A rooster is necessary to have fertilized eggs, but a hen will lay eggs even if no rooster is present. Incubation time for fertilized eggs is 21 days. Days 1-18 require an internal temperature of 99.5 F and a humidity of 50-60%. Days 18-21 require an internal temp of 99.5 and a humidity of 70-80%.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Best Answer: How long does it take for a hen to lay an egg? The average laying hen lays 257 eggs a year. The actual time it takes for a hen to make an egg and lay it is 24 to 26 hours. http://www.aeb.org/kidsandfamily/time_to... How Many Eggs Can a Chicken Lay in One Day? When a hen reaches eighteen to twenty weeks of age, she begins to lay eggs. Roosters are only needed in order for the egg to be FERTILIZED (to have a baby). Hens lay eggs with or without a rooster around. How long does it take a mother hen to hatch her eggs? It takes 20 day for a mother hen to hatch her eggs, and 21 days if your using an incubator. Do hens take care of their eggs? yes all mothers take care of their eggs and youngones...All the hens lays eggs in a safe and same place regularly
Best Answer: If your hen is over 18 weeks old or has already started laying then it varies from a few to several minutes. Sometimes if they know you are watching they will figit and it can take a lot longer. Hens like to be in dark corners and secluded. Once she lays the egg she may not come off the nest... 
Chickens never lay more than one egg per day. As a rule, chickens lay in the morning, but each day a little later. Sometimes the last egg of a series is produced in the early afternoon. When it gets too late, they take the next day off. My five commercial hybrids will sometimes lay for a series of 30 days or more. All chickens lay eggs in a series-never more than one per day. If the eggs are not collected, and a sufficient number of eggs are allowed to remain in the nest, the hen may stop laying eggs and start brooding. When the hen leaves the nest after laying an egg, it cools which suspends the development of the embryo inside.