Autonomous Flight Systems Laboratory. The mission of the Autonomous Flight Systems Laboratory at the University of Washington is to support advances in guidance, navigation, and control (GN&C) technology relevant to autonomous vehicles and their payload.
Problem of transition flight to/from autonomous flight airspace. The complexity of air traffic and quantum of in–flight conflicts between aircraft in the AFA (or FFA) and its non–AFA neighborhood can be investigated using the theory of airspace fractal dimensions proposed by Mondoloni and Liang in [ 11 ].
This is a joint development project with Freewing Flight Technologies Inc., its primary technology provider and funding partner, and Autonomous Flight Systems Inc., its sole developer. The objective is to develop a vertical takeoff reconnaissance, autonomous flight-capable, pilot-less aircraft.
Autonomous Flight Systems Inc., is the R&D arm of the project, supported by notable consulting firms in the aircraft field. All fabrication is done by its sister company Zero Time Aircraft Corporation, and several key subcontractors.
Autonomous Flight Isn’t Science Fiction. Consider for a moment what it takes to deliver critical supplies, such as food and medicine, to a remote village in a country divided by civil unrest.
KEY CONTRACTORS. This is a joint development project with Freewing Flight Technologies Inc., its primary technology provider and funding partner, and Autonomous Flight Systems Inc., its sole developer. The objective is to develop a vertical takeoff reconnaissance, autonomous flight-capable, pilot-less aircraft.
The Autonomous Flight Airspace (AFA) [ 9 ] is the evolutional offspring of the Free Flight Airspace (FFA), and enabler of integrated flight operations of aircraft with autonomous flight capabilities (for instance, Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)).
ardrone-autonomy. An autonomous flight library for the ARDrone, built on top of the node-ar-drone library. Instead of directly controlling the drone speed, you can use Autonomy to plan and execute missions by describing the path, altitude and orientation the drone must follow.