Definition of WATERBOARDING. : an interrogation technique in which water is forced into a detainee's mouth and nose so as to induce the sensation of drowning. ADVERTISEMENT. Next Word in the Dictionary: water boat Previous Word in the Dictionary: water boa All Words Near: waterboarding
Waterboarding was characterized in 2005 by former CIA director Porter J. Goss as a  professional interrogation technique . According to press accounts, a cloth or plastic wrap is placed over or in the person's mouth, and water is poured onto the person's head. Torturers pour water onto the face over the breathing passages, causing an almost immediate gag reflex and creating a drowning sensation for the captive. Vomitus travels up the esophagus, which may then be inhaled. Victims of waterboarding are at extreme risk of sudden death due to the aspiration of vomitus.
Waterboarding is a form of torture that involves the use of water to coerce a prisoner or detainee into a confession. The victim is tied to an inclined board that positions the head lower than the feet. A piece of cloth is then secured over the victim’s face. Ironically, actual drowning during waterboarding torture is rare due to the fact that the position of the lungs in relation to the head prevents enough water from filling the lungs. But waterboarding can cause serious injury. A victim can suffer brain damage due to lack of oxygen and there can be damage to the lungs
Email. Waterboarding, as practised by the CIA, involves strapping down a detainee, covering their face with a cloth and then pouring water over the nose and mouth to create a terrifying sensation of drowning. It is widely considered to be a form of torture. Waterboarding, as practised by the CIA, involves strapping down a detainee, covering their face with a cloth and then pouring water over the nose and mouth to create a terrifying sensation of drowning. It is widely considered to be a form of torture. The technique dates back hundreds of years but it came to earn notoriety in the years after the 9/11 attack when the CIA employed it against suspects detained as part of the so-called war on terror.
Waterboarding is a form of water torture in which water is poured over a cloth covering the face and breathing passages of an immobilized captive, causing the individual to experience the sensation of drowning. Torturers pour water onto the face over the breathing passages, causing an almost immediate gag reflex and creating a drowning sensation for the captive. Vomitus travels up the esophagus, which may then be inhaled. Victims of waterboarding are at extreme risk of sudden death due to the aspiration of vomitus.
What Waterboarding Is. Waterboarding induces panic and suffering by forcing a person to inhale water into the sinuses, pharynx, larynx, and trachea. The head is tilted back and water is poured into the upturned mouth or nose. Eventually the subject cannot exhale more air or cough out more water, the lungs are collapsed, and the sinuses and trachea are filled with water. The subject is drowned from the inside, filling with water from the head down.
wa·ter·board·ing. n. 1. An interrogation technique, widely considered a form of torture, in which a person is restrained, usually by being strapped to a board with the feet higher than the head, and immersed in or doused with water to the point of drowning. 2. 
The CIA used waterboarding repeatedly on prisoners it considered to be of high value. In 2009 it emerged that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the man accused of plotting the attacks on New York and Washington, was waterboarded 183 times in March 2003. It is widely considered to be a form of torture. The technique dates back hundreds of years but it came to earn notoriety in the years after the 9/11 attack when the CIA employed it against suspects detained as part of the so-called war on terror.