Physician assistants (PAs) work closely with doctors and handle duties that range from taking medical histories to setting simple fractures. They are allowed to prescribe medications in some states. Many PAs specialize in a particular area of medicine, such as pediatrics.
PAs practice medicine (PDF): Read basic information about who PAs are and what they do. About AAPA (PDF): Find out more about the American Academy of Physician Assistants. PA Infographic: View a snapshot of the PA profession and how PAs practice medicine.
Physician assistants are often the first line of medical care in rural and underserved areas. In some cases, a physician assistant will refer the patient to a medical doctor or make arrangements for transferring the patient to a hospital or clinic.
If you're like most people, you've been going to physicians ever since you were born, but you're unaware that some or all of them could have been osteopathic physicians, also known as DOs. You may not even be aware that there are two types of complete physicians in the United States—DOs and MDs.
Physician assistants work under the supervision of a physician or surgeon; however, their specific duties and the extent to which they must be supervised differ from state to state. Physician assistants work in all areas of medicine, including primary care and family medicine, emergency medicine, and psychiatry.
What Physician Assistants Do. Physician assistants, also known as PAs, practice medicine on a team under the supervision of physicians and surgeons. They are formally educated to examine patients, diagnose injuries and illnesses, and provide treatment.
As of May 2013, the median annual salary of a physician assistant was $92,970 according to the BLS, with most earning between $62,030 and $130,620. The APPA estimates that there are approximately 90,000 certified PAs in the United States, as of 2013.
A physician is a professional who practices medicine, which is concerned with promoting, maintaining or restoring human health through the study, diagnosis, and treatment of disease, injury, and other physical and mental impairments.