Tuna salad is a spreadable dish most often used as a topping for sandwiches, pasta, and green salads. There are various recipes, but most contain a base mixture of chunk tuna mixed with mayonnaise or salad dressing. Tuna salad is a good example of a high-protein, low-fat meal. Chunk tuna may be mixed with salad dressing to make tuna salad. Fresh tuna sashimi makes an elegant alternative to canned tuna. A dash of lemon juice added to tuna before mixing makes tuna salad flavorful. Dill weed is often used to flavor tuna salad.
This is a really great tuna salad recipe I got from a friend who used it in her catering service business many years ago. The secret ingredients are the curry and Parmesan cheese! Odd combinations but this makes a terrific tuna sandwich! This tuna salad is packed with cheese and olives and is dressed in a mixture of citrus juice and olive oil, rather than mayonnaise, for a perfect summer salad.
Remove the lids and transfer the tuna fish to a mixing bowl. Add 2 tablespoons of mayonnaise, celery, shallot, lemon juice, pickle relish (if using), a sprinkle of salt, and a few cracks of fresh black pepper to the tuna fish. Stir with a fork to combine, breaking up any large chunks of tuna fish as you go. Add more mayo if you'd like smoother, creamier tuna salad. Use extra-virgin olive oil instead of mayo for a looser salad. Use canned salmon, smoked trout, or leftover chicken in place of the tuna. Add diced apples, raisins, or dried fruit to the basic recipe. Add diced fennel, shredded cabbage, diced cucumbers, or any other crunchy vegetable.
Tuna Salad Variations Use yogurt instead of mayo for a lighter salad. Use extra-virgin olive oil instead of mayo for a looser salad. Use canned salmon, smoked trout, or leftover chicken in place of the tuna. Add diced apples, raisins, or dried fruit to the basic recipe. Add diced fennel, shredded cabbage, diced cucumbers, or any other crunchy vegetable.
Tuna salad is typically a blend of two main ingredients: tuna and mayonnaise or mayonnaise-substitute. The tuna used is usually pre-cooked, canned, and packaged in water or oil. Pickles, hard-boiled egg, celery, relish, and onion are ingredients that are often added. When the spread is placed on bread, it makes a tuna salad sandwich
Other ingredients often used in tuna-based salads include pickles, onions, and dill. In most cases, the mixture is refrigerated and served cold. Tuna salad is a popular dish for many low-calorie and high-protein diet plans. Tuna salad is a good example of a high-protein, low-fat meal. Chunk tuna may be mixed with salad dressing to make tuna salad. Fresh tuna sashimi makes an elegant alternative to canned tuna. A dash of lemon juice added to tuna before mixing makes tuna salad flavorful. Dill weed is often used to flavor tuna salad.
Directions. 1  1 Drain the tuna in a strainer in the sink. 2  Chop the celery to measure 1/2 cup. 3  Peel and chop the onion to measure 1/4 cup. 4  2 In a medium bowl, mix the tuna, celery, onion, mayonnaise, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 5  3 Spread tuna mixture on 4 bread slices. 6  Top with remaining bread slices. Use fat-free mayonnaise for a tuna salad sandwich with 3 grams of fat and 240 calories. Substitute 1 1/2 cups chopped cooked chicken or turkey for the tuna. Omit the lemon juice.
Directions. In a small mixing bowl break up the tuna with a fork. Toss with the celery, onion, and parsley. Add the mayonnaise, mustard and season with pepper, to taste. Stir to combine. Add lemon juice, to taste, if using. 
A tuna fish sandwich, also known as a tuna salad sandwich or a tuna sandwich, is a type of sandwich made from canned tuna, usually combined with other ingredients such as mayonnaise and celery. Other common variations include the tuna boat and tuna melt. 