The term ‘sulfites’ is an inclusive term for sulfur dioxide (SO2) . SO2 is a preservative and widely used in winemaking (and most food industries), because of its antioxidant and antibacterial properties. SO2 plays a very important role in preventing oxidization and maintaining a wine’s freshness. 
Sulfites in foods are often placed there as a preservative. While most governments have banned the use of sulfites in foods like fresh fruits and vegetables, they are still commonly used to preserve dried fruits, wine making, and to preserve seafood and other meats. 
Some products like wine will say “contains sulfites” but for other products label reading is necessary. Here are ingredients to look for as they are the different names for sulfite containing chemicals. Also in some countries numbers are used and not names, so they are included as well. 1  Sulphite ammonia caramel E150d. Some people can have mild to severe reactions to these compounds, so it’s important to understand what sulfites are and in what forms they exist in foods and products.
Sulfites occur naturally in all wines to some extent. Sulfites are commonly introduced to arrest fermentation at a desired time, and may also be added to wine as preservatives to prevent spoilage and oxidation at several stages of the winemaking. Sulfites are used as a food preservative or enhancer. They may come in various forms, such as: 1  Sulfur dioxide, which is not a sulfite, but a closely related chemical oxide. 2  Potassium bisulfite or potassium metabisulfite.
Sulfites occur naturally in some foods and beverages as a result of fermentation, such as in beer and wine. As a food additive, sulfites have been used since 1664 and have been approved for use in the United States since the 1800s (Lester, 1995). Adverse reactions to sulfites in nonasthmatics are extremely rare. Although literature lists a range of figures as to what percent of the population is affected, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) estimates that one out of a hundred people is sulfite-sensitive, and of that group 5% have asthma.
A. Sulfites are a group of sulfur-based compounds that may occur naturally or may be added to food as an enhancer and preservative. The FDA estimates that one out of 100 people is sensitive to the compounds. A person can develop sensitivity to sulfites at any time in life, and the trigger for the sensitivity is unknown. For a person who is sensitive to sulfites, a reaction can be mild or life threatening. In 1986, the FDA banned the use of sulfites on fruits and vegetables that are eaten raw, such as lettuce or apples. 
Sulfites are chemicals that are commonly used as preservatives for a range of different types of foods and beverages. For example, sulfites are often added to shellfish to prevent discoloring, processed foods to give them a longer shelf-life, and dehydrated fruits and veggies to preserve them. You can also find these chemicals in soft drinks and alcoholic beverages like beer and wine.
Sulfites or sulphites are compounds that contain the sulfite ion SO 3 2− . The sulfite ion is the conjugate base of bisulfite. Although its acid (sulfurous acid) is elusive, its salts are widely used. Sulfites are substances that naturally occur in some foods and the human body. Sulfites are used as a food preservative or enhancer. They may come in various forms, such as: 1  Sulfur dioxide, which is not a sulfite, but a closely related chemical oxide. 2  Potassium bisulfite or potassium metabisulfite.
Sulfites are a common additive in many foods and drugs. Sulfites also occur naturally in some foods. Unfortunately, 5%-10% of people with asthma are also allergic to sulfites. An allergy is an increased sensitivity to a specific substance (called an allergen). The combination of asthma and sulfites can be dangerous.
Basically sulfites (sulphites) refer to compounds that contain a sulfite ion. This means they are made up of a sulfur atom and three oxygen atoms. They are usually combined with sodium or potassium before they can have industrial applications. Some people can have mild to severe reactions to these compounds, so it’s important to understand what sulfites are and in what forms they exist in foods and products.