The aurora borealis and aurora australis occur in the Ionosphere from around 100 km up. This layer of the atmosphere is also called the Thermosphere. In the upper mesosphere and the lower thermosphere, gas particles become electrically charged. Because these charged particles are called ions, this part of the thermosphere i … s called the ionosphere. In polar regions these ions radiate energy as shimmering lights called auroras, usually in latitudes above 50 degrees.
The Aurora Borealis and its southern counterpart the Aurora Australis are formed high in the atmosphere in the ionosphere, which is sometimes considered as part of the thermosphere, the outermost actual atmosphere. Above this layer, the exosphere has so few molecules that they can escape into space. In the upper mesosphere and the lower thermosphere, gas particles become electrically charged. Because these charged particles are called ions, this part of the thermosphere i … s called the ionosphere. In polar regions these ions radiate energy as shimmering lights called auroras, usually in latitudes above 50 degrees.
The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The thermosphere is directly above the mesosphere and below the exosphere. It extends from about 90 km (56 miles) to between 500 and 1,000 km (311 to 621 miles) above our planet. 
In the atmosphere Auroras usually occur in the ionosphere (the highest part of the atmosphere, between the thermosphere and the exosphere. The ionosphere gets its name because … it is ionized by solar radiation.). We typically see auroras only in high-latitude areas above about 50 degrees (north or south). The Northern Lights (or Aurora Borealis) and their southern counterpart the Aurora Australis are formed high in the atmosphere in the ionosphere, which is sometimes consider … ed as part of the thermosphere, the outermost actual atmospheric layer.
The ionosphere and auroras. The upper part of the mesosphere, and most of the thermosphere, is also known as the ionosphere, 80–400 kilometres above the earth’s surface. The air becomes noticeably ionised (electrically charged), caused mainly by ultraviolet light from the sun. The aurora can even be seen north of Auckland during active times. The next period of maximum solar activity should occur in 2012 or 2013. This will be a good time to look out for the waving curtains and moving rays.
The Aurora Borealis and its southern counterpart the Aurora Australis are formed high in the atmosphere in the ionosphere, which is sometimes considered as part of the thermosphere, the outermost actual atmosphere. Above this layer, the exosphere has so few molecules that they can escape into space. The Northern Lights (or Aurora Borealis) and their southern counterpart the Aurora Australis are formed high in the atmosphere in the ionosphere, which is sometimes consider … ed as part of the thermosphere, the outermost actual atmospheric layer.
Thermosphere-overview. The aurora (Northern Lights and Southern Lights) mostly occur in the thermosphere. Credit: Image Science & Analysis Laboratory, NASA Johnson Space Center. The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The thermosphere is directly above the mesosphere and below the exosphere. It extends from about 90 km (56 miles) to between 500 and 1,000 km (311 to 621 miles) above our planet.
The aurora borealis and aurora australis occur in the Ionosphere from around 100 km up. This layer of the atmosphere is also called the Thermosphere. The Northern Lights (or Aurora Borealis) and their southern counterpart the Aurora Australis are formed high in the atmosphere in the ionosphere, which is sometimes consider … ed as part of the thermosphere, the outermost actual atmospheric layer.
The Aurora Borealis and its southern counterpart the Aurora Australis are formed high in the atmosphere in the ionosphere, which is sometimes considered as part of the thermos … phere, the outermost actual atmosphere. Above this layer, the exosphere has so few molecules that they can escape into space. In the upper mesosphere and the lower thermosphere, gas particles become electrically charged. Because these charged particles are called ions, this part of the thermosphere i … s called the ionosphere. In polar regions these ions radiate energy as shimmering lights called auroras, usually in latitudes above 50 degrees.