Inclusive education means that all students attend and are welcomed by their neighbourhood schools in age-appropriate, regular classes and are supported to learn, contribute and participate in all aspects of the life of the school. All children benefit from inclusive education. It allows them to: 1  Develop individual strengths and gifts, with high and appropriate expectations for each child. 2  Work on individual goals while participating in the life of the classroom with other students their own age.
(April 2014). Mainstreaming, in the context of education, is the practice of educating students with special needs in regular classes during specific time periods based on their skills. This means regular education classes are combined with special education classes. Schools that practice mainstreaming believe that students with special needs who cannot function in a regular classroom to a certain extent belong to the special education environment. 
Inclusion in the classroom requires an educator to consider the entire student body and individual students simultaneously to plan for their learning needs and to address the curriculum (Hutchinson, 2007; Mitchell, 2005). Yet, when inclusion as a practice is examined it is typically through a narrow lens – one focused on students with exceptional needs and how to differentiate instructional material in order to include these students with their same grade peers.
Inclusion means teaching all children together, regardless of ability level. Inclusive programs celebrate children's similarities as well as their different abilities and cultures. In inclusive classrooms, children with special needs take part in the general education curriculum based on their ages and grades. 
Inclusion in education describes an approach wherein students with special educational needs spend most or all of their time with non-disabled students. Inclusion was once thought only necessary for educating students with special educational needs until dual certification of special educators as school teacher leaders. Now it is crucial that all of teachers ensure inclusive practice for all students in their classroom and the wider school. Implementation of inclusion practice varies and schools most frequently use the strategy for select students with mild to severe special needs. Some advocates of inclusion promote the adoption of progressive education practices. In the progressive education or inclusive classroom, everyone is exposed to a rich set of activities, and each student does what he or she can do, or what he or she wishes to do and learns whatever comes from that experience.
Inclusive education is about how we develop and design our schools, classrooms, programs and activities so that all students learn and participate together. Neighbourhood schools are the heart of our communities, and Inclusion BC believes they are essential for a quality inclusive education system. Therefore we believe it is important to support a public education system in B.C. All children benefit from inclusive education. It allows them to: 1  Develop individual strengths and gifts, with high and appropriate expectations for each child. 2  Work on individual goals while participating in the life of the classroom with other students their own age.
1 The special education teacher can help all children in an inclusion classroom, not just special education students. 2  A key teaching strategy in an inclusion classroom is to break students into small groups and teach kids according to their particular learning style and ability. 1 Studies show that general education students benefit from the resources available in an inclusion classroom. 2 
In an inclusion classroom, a general education teacher and a special education teacher work together to meet the needs of students. Many schools have inclusion classrooms. Some have a special education teacher in the room at all times. 1 Studies show that general education students benefit from the resources available in an inclusion classroom. 2  The special education teacher can help all children in an inclusion classroom, not just special education students.
1 In an inclusion classroom, a general education teacher and a special education teacher work together to meet the needs of students. 2  This type of classroom gives special education students the support they need while they learn alongside their general education peers. 1 Studies show that general education students benefit from the resources available in an inclusion classroom. 2  The special education teacher can help all children in an inclusion classroom, not just special education students.
Kids Safe Kansas. Inclusion is the educational practice of educating children with disabilities in classrooms with children without disabilities. Prior to the PL 94-142, the Education of All Handicapped Children Act, promised all children a public education for the first time. 