Constipation may occur if your child is not eating enough high-fiber foods, drinking enough fluids or getting enough exercise. In many children, a cause for constipation cannot be found. Painful bowel movements may cause a child to begin resisting the urge to have a bowel movement. Not having a bowel movement when the urge occurs can lead to constipation. Your child could be scared of being alone in the bathroom or scared of the toilet. If your child doesn't have a bowel movement for 3 or 4 days in a row, you should call your doctor. He or she will probably want to remove the stool that has collected in the lower bowel. Your doctor can do this in the office by giving your child an enema or a suppository.
If eliminating yogurt from your diet hasn't improve the regularity of your bowel movements, try eliminating all dairy products, including milk, cheese, yogurt, cream and butter, for the following 2 weeks or so. It is possible that yogurt may not be the only food causing your constipation. If you eat yogurt every day, it could be responsible for your constipation, but other foods in your diet could also be the problem. Keeping a food journal may help you make associations and discover a pattern, especially when you try eliminating some foods from your diet to improve your regularity.
But if a patient is having three or more watery or soft bowel movements a day, then they likely do have diarrhea, Lustbader said. To diagnose diarrhea, a doctor may want to determine the condition’s cause, especially for patients whose symptoms are severe and/or ongoing. Complications. Diarrhea can be nothing to worry about, or it can be potentially life-threatening, said Lustbader, who explained that the underlying cause of a patient's diarrhea is what determines the seriousness of this uncomfortable ailment.
Diarrhea. On the flip side, if your child is experiencing diarrhea, Landers first suggests parents determine if the diarrhea is acute, recurring or chronic. Acute diarrhea is when the body produces loose stools for less than 14 days, and it is usually a sign of infection. Color of stools and number of daily bowel movements can vary from kid to kid, but Landers says that on average, children should have one bowel movement per day. If your kid goes two to three times a day and the stools are solid and pass easily, though, parents shouldn’t be concerned.
Other foods that can make you poop are whole grains and seeds. Whole grains (bran flakes, brown rice, fortified cereal and/or oat bran) are rich in fiber, which can ease constipation and increase the frequency of your bowel movements. Fiber stimulates bowel movements by pushing food through your intestines. Yogurt. If you are wondering what to eat to have a bowel movement then yogurt is a good choice. Yogurt contains a healthy bacterium that protects your body from harmful free-agents like infections, viruses and diseases. It also improves the condition of your gastrointestinal system and encourages bowel movement
View full size image. Diarrhea — or loose, watery bowel movements that occur more frequently than usual — is one of the most commonly reported ailments in the United States (second only to respiratory infection), according to the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG). Complications. Diarrhea can be nothing to worry about, or it can be potentially life-threatening, said Lustbader, who explained that the underlying cause of a patient's diarrhea is what determines the seriousness of this uncomfortable ailment.
If bowel movements are painful, a child may try to hold his or her stools, making constipation worse. In children who have constipation, formed, soft or liquid stools can leak from the anus (the opening to the rectum) around a mass of stool stuck in the lower bowel and cause soiling. If your child doesn't have a bowel movement for 3 or 4 days in a row, you should call your doctor. He or she will probably want to remove the stool that has collected in the lower bowel. Your doctor can do this in the office by giving your child an enema or a suppository.
1 The most common problems with bowel movements are constipation and diarrhea. 2  Do not rush toilet learning. 3  Children can worry and hold back bowel movements if they feel pressured. 4  Try to get your child used to a regular daily toilet routine. 5  There are many causes of diarrhea, though it’s usually caused by a virus. 