Results. Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure creatinine levels in your blood and urine. These tests give information about how well your kidneys are working. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours. 
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. Creatinine levels that reach 2.0 or more in babies and 10.0 or more in adults may indicate severe kidney impairment and the need for a dialysis machine to remove wastes from the blood.
Children have lower levels than both men and women. Creatinine is measured in milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). Here are the normal values by age: 0.9 to 1.3 mg/dL for adult males. 0.6 to 1.1 mg/dL for adult females. 0.5 to 1.0 mg/dL for children ages 3 to 18 years. 0.3 to 0.7 mg/dL for children under age 3. If your creatinine is high, it may mean you have: 
In children, the normal range of creatinine is 0.2 to 1.0mg/dl but will increase with age as there is better and better physical constitute and muscle buildup. Two units are often used to measure creatinine level, this is, mg/dl and umol/l. 1 mg/dl equals to 88.4umol/l. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females. Generally, a high blood urea nitrogen level means that the kidneys are not performing well, particularly if the result is above 50mg/dl.
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
In this article. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys.
242,131 Helpful Votes. 190 Followers. A. Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dl) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. (In the metric system, a milligram is a unit of weight equal to one-thousandth of a gram, and a deciliter is a unit of volume equal to one-tenth of a liter.). 
When there is kidney damage or kidney disease, and the kidneys are not able to filter waste efficiently, there will likely be a rise in creatinine levels in the blood. For adults with kidney disease, dialysis is recommended when creatinine levels reach 10.0 mg/dL. Creatinine is a chemical waste product in the blood that passes through the kidneys to be filtered and eliminated in urine. The chemical waste is a by-product of normal muscle contractions. Creatinine is made from creatine, a supplier of energy to the muscle.
Healthy kidneys can keep the level of blood creatinine stable, but age, gender and some other factors may affect the normal creatinine level, which are commonly as follow: ● 0.6-1.2 mg/dl for adult males. ● 0.5-1.1mg/dl for adult females. ● About 0.2 or more for infants. ● 1.8 or 1.9 mg/dl for a person with only one kidney. If the blood test shows one person has high creatinine level, it may indicate some underlying conditions.