ARTEMON αρτεμων m Ancient Greek. From an ancient Greek name which was derived from the name of the Greek goddess ARTEMIS. ASKLEPIADES ασκληπιαδης m Ancient Greek. Ancient Greek personal name which was derived from the name of the Greek god ASKLEPIOS ... Means born of Hermes from the name of the messenger god HERMES combined with Greek γενης (genes) born. HERMOKRATES ‘ερμοκρατης m Ancient Greek. Means power of Hermes from the name of the messenger god HERMES combined with Greek κρατος (kratos) power.
Ancient Greek name derived from the name of the god APOLLO ... [more]. APOLLODOROS απολλοδωρος m Ancient Greek. Means gift of Apollo from the name of the god APOLLO combined with Greek δωρον (doron) gift. Means born of Hermes from the name of the messenger god HERMES combined with Greek γενης (genes) born. HERMOKRATES ‘ερμοκρατης m Ancient Greek. Means power of Hermes from the name of the messenger god HERMES combined with Greek κρατος (kratos) power.
Greek form of EUTHYMIUS. EUTHYMIUS m Ancient Greek (Latinized). Latinized form of the Greek name ευθυμιος (Euthymios) which meant in good spirits, derived from the word ευθυμος (euthymos) , which was composed of the elements ευ (eu) good and θυμος (thymos) soul, spirit ... Greek form of PLATO. PLOUTARCHOS m Ancient Greek. Greek form of PLUTARCH. POLYCARP m Ancient Greek (Anglicized). From the Greek name πολυκαρπος (Polykarpos) meaning fruitful, rich in fruit, ultimately from Greek πολυς (polys) much and καρπος (karpos) fruit ...
DORIEUS: Of the Dorian tribe.. Greek name derived from the name of an obscure, ancient Hellenic tribe called the Dorians, supposed to have existed in the north-eastern regions of Greece, ancient Macedonia and Epirus. Their founder was Dorus, son of Hellen (also called Hellenas). ACHAIKOS: Greek name meaning from Achaia.. ACHILLEUS: Original Greek form of Achilles, meaning either pain or lipless.. ACTAEON (Actaeon): Actæon greek myth name of a hunter who was torn to pieces by his own, dogs meaning.. Effulgence he was then transformed into a, deer thus himself becoming the. hunted
DEMOCRITUS m Ancient Greek (Latinized). Latinized form of δημοκριτος (Demokritos) , a Greek name meaning judge of the people from the elements δημος (demos) the people and κριτης (krites) judge, critic ... Greek form of PLATO. PLOUTARCHOS m Ancient Greek. Greek form of PLUTARCH. POLYCARP m Ancient Greek (Anglicized). From the Greek name πολυκαρπος (Polykarpos) meaning fruitful, rich in fruit, ultimately from Greek πολυς (polys) much and καρπος (karpos) fruit ...
The Greeks (Greek: έλληνες) have been identified by many ethnonyms. The most common native ethnonym is Hellen (ἕλλην), pl.  Hellenes  (ἕλληνες); the name Greeks (Latin :  Graeci ) was used by the Ancient Romans and gradually entered the European languages through its use in Latin. The name Hellenes was probably used by the Greeks with the establishment of the Great Amphictyonic League, an ancient association of Greek tribes. According to legend it was founded after the Trojan War, by the eponymous Amphictyon, brother of Hellen.
Latinized form of the Greek name ευτροπιος (Eutropios) , which was derived from the word ευτροπος (eutropos) versatile, formed of the elements ευ (eu) good and τροπος (tropos) direction, manner, fashion. EUTYCHIA ευτυχια f Ancient Greek. Feminine form of Eutychios (see EUTYCHIUS). Means born of Hermes from the name of the messenger god HERMES combined with Greek γενης (genes) born. HERMOKRATES ‘ερμοκρατης m Ancient Greek. Means power of Hermes from the name of the messenger god HERMES combined with Greek κρατος (kratos) power.
Construction. The complete Ancient Greek name consisted of a given name, a patronym, and sometimes a name indicating ethnicity. Given names were often dithematic, that is having two elements, which were usually based on Ancient Greek vocabulary words. For example, the name δημοστρατη (Demostrate) was formed of the elements δημου (demou) = of the people and στρατος (stratos) = army. Ancient Greek names are commonly used in modern Greece. A large number are also used throughout Europe, transmitted by the New Testament and as saintly names. Examples of English-language forms include:
Ancient Greek form of ARISTOTLE. ARISTOTLE m Ancient Greek (Anglicized). From the Greek name αριστοτελης (Aristoteles) which meant the best purpose, derived from αριστος (aristos) best and τελος (telos) purpose, aim ... Greek form of PLATO. PLOUTARCHOS m Ancient Greek. Greek form of PLUTARCH. POLYCARP m Ancient Greek (Anglicized). From the Greek name πολυκαρπος (Polykarpos) meaning fruitful, rich in fruit, ultimately from Greek πολυς (polys) much and καρπος (karpos) fruit ...