The common law tradition emerged in England during the Middle Ages and was applied within British colonies across continents. The civil law tradition developed in continental Europe at the same time and was applied in the colonies of European imperial powers such as Spain and Portugal. Only in the seventeenth century did common law triumph over the other laws, when Parliament established a permanent check on the power of the English king and claimed the right to define the common law and declare other laws subsidiary to it.
In Depth Tutorials and Information. British colonial expansion brought the administration of English common and statutory law to the newly acquired territories in America, Asia, Africa, and the Pacific. Common law had been developing in England since the twelfth century, and denominated a body of mostly unlegislated law founded on custom and precedent. Nevertheless, British administrators in all three types of colonies soon recognized the need to adapt their imported law according to local circumstances, and they amended English common and statutory law with colonial statutes in response to specific colonial situations.
Most European countries and countries with a European –French, Spanish, Portuguese, German and Dutch – colonial history follow civil law systems. Similarly, the “English” common law system is followed in the U.S. and former English colonies such as Canada and Australia. However, based on constitutional laws and statutes enacted by congress, U.S. federal law comprises a civil law system.
English law is based upon a common law system. This developed historically because of the fact that prior to the Norman Conquest, there were various different legal systems governing different parts of the British Isles, each reflecting the influence of particular invaders (such as the Norse in northern England). Certainty is a fundamental principle of the rule of law, and the common law therefore assists in this. Linked to this advantage is the fact that unlike a codified system of rules that have been developed in abstract, the common law is based on response to real situations with all their complexities and nuances.
The common law tradition emerged in England during the Middle Ages and was applied within British colonies across continents. The civil law tradition developed in continental Europe at the same time and was applied in the colonies of European impe-rial powers such as Spain and Portugal. 
A reception statute is a statutory law adopted as a former British colony becomes independent, by which the new nation adopts (i.e. receives) pre-independence English law, to the extent not explicitly rejected by the legislative body or constitution of the new nation. Common law is a third branch of law, in contrast to and on equal footing with statutes which are adopted through the legislative process, and regulations which are promulgated by the executive branch.
Common law (also known as case law or precedent) is law developed by judges, courts, and similar tribunals, stated in decisions that nominally decide individual cases but that in addition have precedential effect on future cases. Common law is a third branch of law, in contrast to and on equal footing with statutes which are adopted through the legislative process, and regulations which are promulgated by the executive branch.
Although the English legal system is not the only common law system in the world (the system was, for example, exported to many of her colonies and territories during her imperial expansion), the English common law can be said to be a unique system, as it has historically developed in a particular way. Certainty is a fundamental principle of the rule of law, and the common law therefore assists in this. Linked to this advantage is the fact that unlike a codified system of rules that have been developed in abstract, the common law is based on response to real situations with all their complexities and nuances.
Roman Dutch Commons law is a bijuridical or mixed system of law similar to the common law system in Scotland and Louisiana. Roman Dutch common law jurisdictions include South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Swaziland, Sri-Lanka and Zimbabwe. Common law is a third branch of law, in contrast to and on equal footing with statutes which are adopted through the legislative process, and regulations which are promulgated by the executive branch.
RECEPTION OF COMMON LAW English-trained lawyers in North Carolina, most, including James Ire-dell, who became a Justice of the United States Supreme Court, studiedin law offices in North Carolina and other colonies. Georgia had nocourts until 1733. WILLIAM AND MARY LAW REVIEW Of the few English law books known to have been in the coloniesbefore 1700, almost all were treatises. Coke on Littleton was the pre-dominant treatise for lawyers during the entire colonial period.