Endangered Orchid on the Edge. More than 200 species of orchids blossom in North America. Their names are as mesmerizing as their flowers: Dragon’s mouth. Threebirds orchid. Yellow lady’s slipper. But unlike their showy cousins in the tropics, the orchids of the temperate zone often flower unseen. More than half are endangered or threatened somewhere in their native range. To germinate and grow, an orchid seed needs to land on moist soil with just the right fungus nearby. Its relationship with the fungus enables the orchid to grow into a microscopic protocorm, and later grow into a seedling. Gradually the fungi start to penetrate its cells and form coils of hyphae called pelotons.
1 Learn-Learn more about prairie fringed orchids and other endangered and threatened species. 2  Understand how the destruction of habitat leads to loss of endangered and threatened species and our nation's plant and animal diversity. 3  Tell others about what you have learned. 1 Range-The eastern prairie fringed orchid occurs mostly east of the Mississippi River in fewer than 60 sites in Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Ohio, Virginia, Wisconsin, and in Ontario, Canada.
1 Listing-The prairie fringed orchids were added to the U.S. List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants on September 28, 1989. 2  Recovery Plan-The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is developing recovery plans that describes actions needed to help this plant survive. 1 Range-The eastern prairie fringed orchid occurs mostly east of the Mississippi River in fewer than 60 sites in Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Ohio, Virginia, Wisconsin, and in Ontario, Canada.
Western Prairie Fringed Orchid. The eastern and western prairie fringed orchids are threatened species. Threatened species are animals and plants that are likely to become endangered in the foreseeable future. Endangered species are animals and plants that are in danger of becoming extinct. 1 Range-The eastern prairie fringed orchid occurs mostly east of the Mississippi River in fewer than 60 sites in Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Ohio, Virginia, Wisconsin, and in Ontario, Canada.
The three orchids in the study. A) Downy rattlesnake orchid, endangered in Florida; B) Cranefly orchid, endangered in Massachusetts and New York; C) Lily-leaved twayblade, endangered in Connecticut, New York and Rhode Island. (Melissa McCormick/SERC). Meanwhile, the fungi displayed a strong preference for older forests. All this implies that to save endangered orchids, it’s not a simple matter of planting new forests to replace the ones that were destroyed. If the forests aren’t old enough or don’t have enough of the right fungi, lost orchids may take decades to return, if they return at all.
Orchid smuggling is one part of the epidemic of plant and wildlife smuggling, with an illegal commercial trade totaling $5 billion in 1994 (Schevitz, p. C2). Besides orchids, other plants that are illegally traded include threatened or endangered cacti and carnivorous plants. (see PLANT case). In the past, authorities in the West have usually turned a blind eye to plant smuggling because they had more serious issues to deal with. However, the majority of orchids grow in warm climates. In the United States, orchids are most likely to be found in Hawaii and Florida. Most internationally traded orchids come from the tropical nations of Asia or South America, such as India, Thailand, China, Singapore, Madagascar, Brazil, and Guatemala.
Orchids can be notoriously picky plants – a fact which makes conserving the endangered ones a difficult job for ecologists. In a paper published this month in the journal Molecular Ecology, SERC ecologists revealed that an orchid’s survival hinges on two factors: a forest’s age and its fungi. Downy rattlesnake orchid. All this implies that to save endangered orchids, it’s not a simple matter of planting new forests to replace the ones that were destroyed. If the forests aren’t old enough or don’t have enough of the right fungi, lost orchids may take decades to return, if they return at all.
Dr Eric Danell explains why some orchid species are endangered in Northern Thailand and what is necessary to protect them.  1 Jubilate: Frogdens Herranom by Eric Ericson Chamber Choir, The (Google Play • eMusic • iTunes • AmazonMP3). Dr Eric Danell explains why some orchid species are endangered in Northern Thailand and what is necessary to protect them. Music. Category. License.