(Opthalmology). Ophthalmology is the medicine discipline which deals with the anatomy and diseases of the eye. An “ophthalmologist” refers to a specialist in both medical and surgical eye problems, as ophthalmologists perform operations on eyes. The word “ophthalmology” has Greek, as “ophthalmos” means eye and logos means a word or a thought. Thereby ophthalmology can literally be translated as “the science of eyes”. As a discipline, it applies to animal eyes also. However, veterinary medicine is regulated separately in many countries and states
It is important to understand what each of the three Os is qualified to do. Ophthalmologists. An ophthalmologist is a physician (doctor of medicine, MD, or doctor of osteopathy, DO) who specializes in the medical and surgical care of the eyes and visual system and in the prevention of eye disease and injury. An ophthalmologist is a medically trained specialist who can deliver total eye care: primary, secondary and tertiary (i.e., vision services, contact lenses, eye examinations, medical eye care and surgical eye care), diagnose general diseases of the body and treat ocular manifestations of systemic diseases.
5. Cancel. Ophthalmology is the study and treatment of diseases in the eye, usually through surgical methods to correct cataracts, vision impairments or abnormal growths. Find out what an ophthalmologist does with information from a practicing optometrist in this free video on eye health
Ophthalmology (/ˌɒfθɑːlˈmɑːlədʒi/ or /ˌɒpθɑːlˈmɒlədʒi/) is the branch of medicine that deals with the anatomy, physiology and diseases of the eye. An ophthalmologist is a specialist in medical and surgical eye problems. Since ophthalmologists perform operations on eyes, they are both surgical and medical specialists. 
Neuro-ophthalmology is an academically-oriented subspecialty that merges the fields of neurology and ophthalmology, often dealing with complex systemic diseases that have manifestations in the visual system. 
Ophthalmology is the branch of medicine that deals with the anatomy, physiology and diseases of the eye. All evaluations that purport to diagnose eye disease should be carried out by a physician. An ophthalmologist is a doctor of medicine who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the eye, in addition to diagnosing systemic disease that manifest in eye signs or symptoms. Since ophthalmologists perform operations on eyes, they are considered to be both surgical and medical specialists.
An Eye M.D. is an ophthalmologist, a medical or osteopathic doctor who specializes in eye and vision care. Eye M.D.s are specially trained to provide the full spectrum of eye care, from prescribing glasses and contact lenses to complex and delicate eye surgery. 
A. An Ophthalmologist is a Doctor who specializes in Ophthalmology. Ophthalmology, is the branch of medicine which deals with the diseases and surgery of the visual pathways, including the eye, brain, and areas surrounding the eye. ophthalmology. the branch of health science dealing with the eye, including its anatomy, physiology, pathology, and other aspects. adj., adj ophthalmolog´ic. (of'thal-mol'ŏ-jē), Avoid the misspellings opthalmology, ophthamology, or opthamology.
An ophthalmologist is a medical doctor (MD) or an osteopathic doctor (DO) who specializes in eye and vision care. Ophthalmologists are trained to perform eye exams, diagnose and treat disease, prescribe medications and perform eye surgery. They also write prescriptions for eyeglasses and contact lenses. 