Elements to the left of the line are considered metals. Elements just to the right of the line exhibit properties of both metals and nonmetals and are termed metalloids or semimetals. Elements to the far right of the periodic table are nonmetals. The exception is hydrogen (H), the first element on the periodic table. The metalloids separate the metals and nonmetals on a periodic table. Also, many periodic table have a stair-step line on the table identifying the element groups. The line begins at boron (B) and extends down to polonium (Po).
Elements in the periodic table are grouped as metals, metalloids or semimetals, and nonmetals. The metalloids separate the metals and nonmetals on a periodic table. Also, many periodic table have a stair-step line on the table identifying the element groups. The line begins at boron (B) and extends down to polonium (Po).
Metal elements are usually good conductors of both electricity and heat. The dividing line between metals and non-metals is not hard and fast, thus the distinction between Post-transition metals and Metalloids is represented differently on different versions of the Periodic Table. 
The elements of the periodic table can be broken into three different groups: metals, metalloids (or semi-metals) and nonmetals. This periodic table shows the three different groups of elements. The metalloid group separates the metals from the nonmetals. Elements to the left are metals and nonmetals are to the right. The exception is the element hydrogen. Hydrogen has properties of a nonmetal at normal temperatures and pressures.
Elements that have properties of both metals and nonmetals are called metalloids. They can be shiny or dull and their shape is easily changed. Electricity and heat can travel through metalloids but not as easily as they travel through metals. Metals, Nonmetals, & Metalloids. The periodic table on the left separates elements into three groups: the metals (green in the table), nonmetals (orange), and metalloids (blue). Most elements are metals.
Key: metal. metalloid. nonmetal. The elements can be classified as metals, nonmetals, or metalloids. Metals are good conductors of heat and electricity, and are malleable (they can be hammered into sheets) and ductile (they can be drawn into wire). The metals are to the left of the line (except for hydrogen, which is a nonmetal), the nonmetals are to the right of the line, and the elements immediately adjacent to the line are the metalloids. The elements can be classified as metals, nonmetals, or metalloids
Using the periodic table, you can classify the elements in many ways. One useful way is by metals, nonmetals, and metalloids. Most of the elements on the periodic table are classified as metals. Nonmetals have properties opposite those of the metals. The nonmetals are brittle, not malleable or ductile, poor conductors of both heat and electricity, and tend to gain electrons in chemical reactions. Some nonmetals are liquids. These elements are shown in the following figure. The nonmetals in the periodic table
Except for Germanium (Ge) and Antimony (Sb), all the elements to the left of that line can be classified as metals. These metals have properties that you normally associate with the metals you encounter in everyday life: They are solid (with the exception of mercury, Hg, a liquid). Nonmetals have properties opposite those of the metals. The nonmetals are brittle, not malleable or ductile, poor conductors of both heat and electricity, and tend to gain electrons in chemical reactions. Some nonmetals are liquids. These elements are shown in the following figure. The nonmetals in the periodic table