From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In finance, mezzanine capital is any subordinated debt or preferred equity instrument that represents a claim on a company's assets which is senior only to that of the common shares. Mezzanine financings can be structured either as debt (typically an unsecured and subordinated note) or preferred stock. Mezzanine capital is often a more expensive financing source for a company than secured debt or senior debt. The higher cost of capital associated with mezzanine financings is the result of its being an unsecured, subordinated (or junior) obligation in a company's capital structure (i.e., in the event of default, the mezzanine financing is only repaid after all senior obligations have been satisfied).
Mezzanine Finance 2 Mezzanine Debt--Another Level To Consider Mezzanine debt is used by companies that are cash flow positive to fund: further growth through expansion projects; acquisitions; recapitalizations; and, management and leveraged buyouts. 
What is Mezzanine financing. Finance, which has some of the characteristics of both senior bank debt and equity, is called mezzanine finance. Mezzanine finance by implication ranks between senior debt and equity for repayment and this is reflected in the pricing. 
A hybrid of debt and equity financing that typically is used to finance a company's expansion. Mezzanine financing is basically debt capital that gives the lender the right to convert to an ownership or equity interest in the company if the loan is not paid back in time and in full. It generally is subordinated to debt provided by senior lenders such as banks and venture capital companies. Mezzanine financing is advantageous for financing because it is treated like equity on a company's balance sheet and may make it easier to obtain standard bank financing.
Related Terms: Initial Public Offering; Leveraged Buyouts. Mezzanine financing is a hybrid between debt and equity. In a multi-tiered financing of an operation, for instances, the sources of money will be senior debt, senior subordinated debt, subordinated debt, mezzanine debt, and finally the owner's own equity. 
DEFINITION of 'Mezzanine Financing'. A hybrid of debt and equity financing that is typically used to finance the expansion of existing companies. BREAKING DOWN 'Mezzanine Financing'. Mezzanine financing is advantageous because it is treated like equity on a company's balance sheet and may make it easier to obtain standard bank financing.
Mezzanine finance (or the use of hybrid debt and equity securities, which is also known as mezzanine debt) comes in many forms. The common features of all mezzanine instruments and products are that they offer a risk/return profile that lies between debt and equity. Copyright © 2003-2012 Bond Capital Mezzanine Inc. - All rights reserved Mezzanine Finance 2 Mezzanine Finance Mezzanine finance is used by companies that are cash flow positive to fund further growth through expansion projects; acquisitions; recapitalizations; and management and leveraged buyouts.
Since mezzanine financing is usually provided to the borrower very quickly with little due diligence on the part of the lender and little or no collateral on the part of the borrower, this type of financing is aggressively priced with the lender seeking a return in the 20-30% range. BREAKING DOWN 'Mezzanine Financing'. Mezzanine financing is advantageous because it is treated like equity on a company's balance sheet and may make it easier to obtain standard bank financing.
Photo by: Jiri Hera. Mezzanine financing, also sometimes referred to as subordinated debt or financing, is a rarely used but viable financing option for small businesses in search of capital for rapid growth. 