They call themselves the Kahniakenhaka, “People of the Flint Place.” and are an Iroquoian-speaking indigenous people of North America. They were historically based in the Mohawk Valley in upstate New York; their territory ranged to present-day southern Quebec and eastern Ontario. 
Culture and History. The Mohawk are traditionally the keepers of the Eastern Door of the Iroquois Confederacy, also known as the Six Nations Confederacy or the Haudenosaunee Confederacy. Our original homeland is the north eastern region of New York State extending into southern Canada and Vermont
The Mohawk Indians are part of the Iroquois Indian confederation. They referred to themselves as the Kaniengehaga, which means the people of the flint. The Mohawk Indians are one of the indigenous tribes that inhabited what is now the Mohawk Valley of upstate New York. The Tribes spread throughout New York State and even up into Canada. The word Canada is actually a Mohawk name in itself. 
The Mohawks are original people of New York state. Here is our map of New York Indian tribes and the location of their original home lands. Some Mohawk people still live in New York today, but most Mohawks retreated to Canada in the 1700's. Today the Mohawk people have four First Nations in what is now Ontario and Quebec, including one reservation with land on both sides of the Canada-US border. Each of these Mohawk tribes is autonomous, which means the Indians who live there have the right to make their own government and laws.
The St. Regis Mohawk Tribe is located in Northern New York State, on the border of Canada. The Reservation also lands between the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec. Mohawks of … Kahnawake are located on the south shore of Montreal, Quebec. Mohawks of Kanesatake are located on Ottawa River, just up stream of Montreal, Quebec. Mohawks of Tyendinaga is located on the Bay of Quinte in southeastern Ontario, Canada. Wahta Mohawk Territory is a reserve in the District Municipality of Muskoka, Ontario, Canada. Six Nations of the Grand River is located on the Grand River which is just south of the City of Brantford, Ontario.
The Reservation also lands between the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec. Mohawks of Kahnawake are located on the south shore of Montreal, Quebec. Mohawks of Kanesatake are located on Ottawa River, just up stream of Montreal, Quebec. Mohawks of Tyendinaga is located on the Bay of Quinte in southeastern Ontario, Canada. Wahta Mohawk Territory is a reserve in the District Municipality of Muskoka, Ontario, Canada. Six Nations of the Grand River is located on the Grand River which is just south of the City of Brantford, Ontario. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The Mohawk people are a Native American tribe historically located in what is now known as the Mohawk Valley in present-day upstate New York in the United States, though their territory expanded to include parts of present-day southeastern Canada. A substantial Mohawk population remains throughout New York and in Quebec and Ontario, Canada. Mohawks own and operate casinos in upstate New York and were known in the 20th century for their work in the construction of many of New York City's skyscrapers, including the Empire State Building.
[ɡahnaˈwaːɡe] in Mohawk, Kahnawaˀkye kahnawáˀkye In) tuscarora is a reserve of the Traditionally-iroquoian Speaking mohawk nation on the south shore of The. St Lawrence river In, Quebec, canada across From. montreal 