The Middle English name for a spider web. Origin of the word is  coppeweb, coppe pronounced 'cobbie' being the Middle English word  for spider, which was introduced to Engla … nd by Dutch invaders and  originally pronounced 'kab' in the Netherlands. However the word cobweb can also be used to mean a single th … read  spun by a spider, whereas spider web tends to be used to describe a  multi strand pattern.    On saying this, the actual definition defines both cobweb and  spider web as being the same, with little or no difference  between them.
A cobweb is basically a disorganized spider web. Some spiders like house spiders and black widows actually spin cobwebs. Other cobwebs are formed from stray spider lines left behind by spiders which descend from the ceiling or by jumping spiders. They are not really. Apparently they are 2 different things. A spider web is when the spider is living there, and taking care of it every day. A cob web is after the spider has abandoned it.
The Middle English name for a spider web. Origin of the word is  coppeweb, coppe pronounced 'cobbie' being the Middle English word  for spider, which was introduced to Engla … nd by Dutch invaders and  originally pronounced 'kab' in the Netherlands. The silk is extruded from spinnerets on the bottom of the spider's abdomen (the rear end). Glands and structures called spinnerets located at the rear of the spider, apart f … orm spitting spiders where the sticky web is produced at the front.
On saying this, the actual definition defines both cobweb and  spider web as being the same, with little or no difference  between them.    A cobweb also refers to a web that is no longer in use by the  spider that made it for what ever reason the spider has moved on. The silk is extruded from spinnerets on the bottom of the spider's abdomen (the rear end). Glands and structures called spinnerets located at the rear of the spider, apart f … orm spitting spiders where the sticky web is produced at the front.
Best Answer: It's an old English term. it was called Coppeweb originally. Coppe, spider and coppe was head. It was short for the original term attercoppe. Ator was poison and coppe was head. Coppe came from the English mother tongue German and Kopf meant head. The English shortened it to kopfweb. It is further changed to cobweb. I've wondered this myself. I think that maybe a spider web is what a spider is living in. A cobweb is what's left after the spider moves away. Since the spider is no longer keeping up the web it falls into disrepair and gets all dusty -- and becomes a cobweb.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Middle English word coppe, meaning spider, is the original source of the word cob in cobweb. Whether it has a spider in it or not, or is covered with dust or not has nothing at all to do with the matter. What are called cobwebs in houses are normally irregular webs of the kind made by pholcid or theridiid spiders, both kinds that are common in houses. Spiders move from one place to another, especially when food is scarce. Although these days we refer to cobwebs as being old webs or just dust, in fact the word 'cob' is an old word for spider.
— Thankfully, Roger F. Yes, cobwebs are made by spiders. Arachnologically speaking, a cobweb is a web made up of short irregular strands arranged haphazardly, as opposed to the elegant and elaborate orb webs made by spiders of the family Araneidae. The cobweb spiders make up the family Theridiidae. 
What are known as cobwebs or tangled webs are produced by the family of spiders, known as the Theridiidae (known as tangled web spiders, cobweb spiders, or comb-footed spiders) and Linyphiidae (commonly known as sheet weavers or money spiders). 
A spider web, spiderweb, spider's web, or cobweb (from the archaic word coppe, meaning spider) is a device created by a spider out of proteinaceous spider silk extruded from its spinnerets. However, cobweb is used to describe the tangled three-dimensional web of some spiders of the theridiidae family. While this large family is also known as the tangle-web spiders, cobweb spiders and comb-footed spiders, they actually have a huge range of web architectures.