Normally bonuses are not paid during maternity leave because maternity pay is not counted as salary so bonuses would kick back in, depend on the terms of a particular bonus, once you started to receive your regular salary.
An eligible employee is entitled to a total of 12 weeks of FMLA leave in a 12-month period. If the employee has to use some of that leave for another reason, including a difficult pregnancy, it may be counted as part of the 12-week FMLA leave entitlement.
Peaches79. I'm planning on taking 12 months leave from my job...using all my annual leave, long service leave and maternity leave (including the govt). That way I'll get 49 weeks paid. During that time I will either look for another part time job that is more local to me.
Maternity leave and equal pay issues are usually connected to bonuses or pay rises that have been given while you are on maternity leave. Bonuses. If your bonus is contractual, then it will be covered by equal pay laws as it is part of your pay.
As I haven't received it! Editor: If this is a performance-related bonus, you would normally only be entitled to if for the compulsory first two weeks of maternity leave and not for the rest of your maternity leave until you return.
If the employee qualifies for SMP, this will be 39 weeks unless your policy is to pay company maternity pay extending beyond this period. In a final-salary (defined benefit) scheme, you must treat any period of paid maternity leave as pensionable service.
I have recently returned from maternity leave, having taken the full 12 months plus accrued holidays ie I was off for the whole of 2009. My organisation operates a performance rating system (1-5, 5 is high) and a discretionary bonus scheme.
My company pays a discretionary bonus and since I began at the company I was receiving a bonus of about 25 percent each year. In 2011 I went on maternity leave and for that year I received the standard 25 percent bonus.
You will have to claimIt through EI since it will be issued after your MAT leave starts. Mine was a Christmas bonus and although it was paid out the first week of December they still put it in for the week of the 25th. So I did not get paid for that full week because my bonus was more then they pay me for a week. I'm guessing it will be the same in your situation depending on how much your bonus is.