The tail of the peacock, with its ‘thousand eyes’ are symbolic of omnipotence and often ascribed to the Archangel Michael. The peacock’s feather is sometimes associated with St. Barbara. 1 Also, The peacock, (due to an ancient myth that Peacock flesh did not decay), is seen as a symbol of immortality. To the best of my knowledge, the Protestant denominations have never really used the Peacock as a symbol. It is used somewhat commonly in the Orthodox church (which is where I was first acquainted with its use), and can be seen in medieval Catholic churches.
Elaine Jordan. Seeing the beautiful background of peacock feathers on t he entrance to the Our Lady of Good Success page, I began to wonder about the symbolism of that majestic bird. I have also seen the peacock on art works in medieval paintings and manuscripts and used in decorative motifs on churches and buildings
The peacock is also seen as a symbol of resurrection: When the peacock sheds his feathers, he grows more brilliant ones than those he lost. 2. One may also hear the opinion that the peacock is the symbol of (ironically) humility, since it has great beauty, yet hides it all behind itself. To the best of my knowledge, the Protestant denominations have never really used the Peacock as a symbol. It is used somewhat commonly in the Orthodox church (which is where I was first acquainted with its use), and can be seen in medieval Catholic churches.
Peacocks are revered around the globe and have been for centuries: It is believed that a peacock (sometimes a pair of peacocks) stands guard at the entrance to the Gates of Paradise. They are also a symbol of the immortality of Christ. In Buddhist iconography, peacocks are symbols of wisdom. While some believe that having peacock feathers in the home is bad luck, I am of the opinion that the energy we put into our thoughts is what actually brings us our luck. The collection of feathers that we do have indoors was gifted to us at a music festival held at a peacock farm in Oregon by one of the caretakers.
It is also thought of as a symbol of good luck in most parts of the world. The feathers are used for decorative purposes in homes as well as means to keep away insects and flies. Peacock is considered as the manifestation of the celestial Phoenix bird, and its feather is often recommended in Feng Shui as a love cure. The Muslims used the quill of peacock feathers to write and mark passages in the Quran. The female peacocks are known to be very protective about their young ones, which is why many women get a peacock feather tattooed on themselves to symbolize this trait.
Native American cultures view the peacock as a symbol of dignity, wholeness, and beauty. In Greek mythology the peacock is associated with Hera, who placed the decapitated head of the hundred-eyed Argus on the tail of her favorite bird. It is seen to symbolize the heavens and the “eyes” of the stars. While some believe that having peacock feathers in the home is bad luck, I am of the opinion that the energy we put into our thoughts is what actually brings us our luck. The collection of feathers that we do have indoors was gifted to us at a music festival held at a peacock farm in Oregon by one of the caretakers.
Peacock Tattoos-Peacocks, and the colourful and flamboyant feathers (see Feathers) prominently featured in the extravagant tail display of the male Peacock have often been featured in tattoos, particularly those with an Asian or Far Eastern theme. 
Although a peacock can be seen in many parts of the world, it is native to the Indian subcontinent and parts of western China. Peacocks are magnificent birds known for their beauty and grace. They have multicolored stunning tail feathers. Only the male birds of this species have these beautiful multicolored feathers. The Muslims used the quill of peacock feathers to write and mark passages in the Quran. The female peacocks are known to be very protective about their young ones, which is why many women get a peacock feather tattooed on themselves to symbolize this trait.
What Does a Peacock Feather Symbolize. Peacock is a splendiferous bird. Its feather is a considered a powerful and mythical symbol in many different cultures of the world. This Buzzle article takes you through the various meanings and symbolism of a peacock feather. The Muslims used the quill of peacock feathers to write and mark passages in the Quran. The female peacocks are known to be very protective about their young ones, which is why many women get a peacock feather tattooed on themselves to symbolize this trait.
The peacock is a wonderful bird, it is colorful and beautiful, the first time you see one, it is spellbinding. It has often been believed that keeping peacock feathers in your house will bring you bad luck, so there is the first symbol that peacocks stand for, bad luck. Another symbol the peacock stands for is renewal. The reason for that is that the feathers of the entire tail of a peacock are renewed each year. Some cultures believe that a peacock or 2 peacocks stand guard at the entrance to the Gates of Heaven. Peacocks are also known to be a symbol of the immortality of Jesus Christ. To the buddhist, peacocks symbolize wisdom. While Native Americans believe that the peacock is a symbol of wholeness, beauty, and dignity.