A. involuntary or visceral motor nervous system: controls internal. homeostasis 1. motor fibers to smooth and cardiac muscles and glands 2. efferent pathway to effectors is 2 neuron chain a. preganglionic (myelinated) neuron cell body in CNS, synapses in an autonomic ganglion with. 
The autonomic nervous system has two branches: the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system is often considered the  fight or flight  system, while the parasympathetic nervous system is often considered the rest and digest or feed and breed system.
The sympathetic nervous system is described as being complementary to the parasympathetic nervous system which stimulates the body to rest-and-digest or feed and breed. The autonomic nervous system functions to regulate the body's unconscious actions. The sympathetic nervous system's primary process is to stimulate the body's fight-or-flight response. It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
As in the sympathetic nervous system, efferent parasympathetic nerve signals are carried from the central nervous system to their targets by a system of two neurons. The first neuron in this pathway is referred to as the preganglionic or presynaptic neuron. Nerve fibres of the parasympathetic nervous system arise from the central nervous system. Specific nerves include several cranial nerves, specifically the oculomotor nerve, facial nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, and vagus nerve. Three spinal nerves in the sacrum (S2-4) also act as parasympathetic nerves.
Sympathetic nervous system can accelerate heart rate; widen bronchial passages; increase perspiration (sweating); decrease motility (movement) of the large intestine; constrict blood vessels; increase peristalsis in the esophagus; cause pupil dilation, piloerection (goose bumps) and raise blood pressure. 
(January 2009). The sympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the parasympathetic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system functions to regulate the body's unconscious actions. The sympathetic nervous system's primary process is to stimulate the body's fight-or-flight response. It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
These are Fight or Flight responses. In these types of situations, your sympathetic nervous system is called into action-it uses energy-your blood pressure increases, your heart beats faster, and digestion slows down. Notice in the picture on the left that the sympathetic nervous system originates in the spinal cord. Now is the time for the parasympathetic nervous to work to save energy. This is when blood pressure can decrease, pulse rate can slow, and digestion can start. Notice in the picture on the left, that the cell bodies of the parasympathetic nervous system are located in the spinal cord (sacral region) and in the medulla.
Efferent pathways. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) consists of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) descends to the intermediolateral and intermediomedial cells in the thoracolumbar regions of the spine, extending from TI to L2. Sleep-wake cycles, hormonal cycles, fluid balance, exercise, metabolic status, and humoral factors influence thermoregulation. In the efferent pathway, thermoregulation is predominantly controlled by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) with only a little involvement of the parasympathetic system (PNS).
Within the brain, the autonomic nervous system is regulated by the hypothalamus. Autonomic functions include control of respiration, cardiac regulation (the cardiac control center), vasomotor activity (the vasomotor center), and certain reflex actions such as coughing, sneezing, swallowing and vomiting. The sympathetic nervous system is often considered the  fight or flight  system, while the parasympathetic nervous system is often considered the rest and digest or feed and breed system.