In lobsters, shrimps, crayfish, and crabs, the carapace is the part of the exoskeleton that covers the head and thorax and protects the dorsal and lateral surfaces. In many crustaceans, the term carapace is also used to describe the hard, protective covering of the cephalothorax, as that of the horseshoe crab. The carapace of a turtle's shell is composed of expanded ribs and vertebrae overlain by dermal plates and horny scales. Cite this article.
Carapace. Hard outer covering or case of certain organisms such as arthropods and turtles. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 5,432 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link
Full Definition of CARAPACE. 1. : a bony or chitinous case or shield covering the back or part of the back of an animal (as a turtle or crab). 2. See carapace defined for English-language learners. See carapace defined for kids.
carapace (kar´kâr) , əpās, shield or shell, covering found over all or part of the anterior dorsal portion of an. Animal in, lobsters, shrimps, crayfish and, crabs the carapace is the part of the exoskeleton that covers the head and thorax and protects the dorsal and lateral. surfaces In many crustaceans, the term carapace is also used to describe the hard, protective covering of the cephalothorax, as that of the horseshoe crab. The carapace of a turtle's shell is composed of expanded ribs and vertebrae overlain by dermal plates and horny scales. Cite this article.
Noun. 1. carapace-hard outer covering or case of certain organisms such as arthropods and turtles. cuticle, shell, shield. turtle-any of various aquatic and land reptiles having a bony shell and flipper-like limbs for swimming. car·a·pace. n. 1. Zoology A hard bony or chitinous outer covering, such as the fused dorsal plates of a turtle or the portion of the exoskeleton covering the head and thorax of a crustacean. 2.
A carapace is a dorsal (upper) section of the exoskeleton or shell in a number of animal groups, including arthropods such as crustaceans and arachnids, as well as vertebrates such as turtles and tortoises. In arachnids, the carapace is formed by the fusion of prosomal tergites into a single plate which carries the eyes, ocularium, ozopores (a pair of openings of the scent gland of Opiliones) and diverse phaneres. In a few orders, such as Solifugae and Schizomida, the carapace may be subdivided.
© A Dictionary of Biology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. carapace. 1. The dorsal part of the exoskeleton of some crustaceans (e.g. crabs), which spreads like a shield over several segments of the head and thorax. In many crustaceans, the term carapace is also used to describe the hard, protective covering of the cephalothorax, as that of the horseshoe crab. The carapace of a turtle's shell is composed of expanded ribs and vertebrae overlain by dermal plates and horny scales. Cite this article.
In crustaceans, the carapace is a part of the exoskeleton that covers the cephalothorax. The carapace functions as a protective cover over the cephalothorax. Where it projects forward beyond the eyes, this projection is called a rostrum. The carapace is calcified to varying degrees in different crustaceans. In arachnids, the carapace is formed by the fusion of prosomal tergites into a single plate which carries the eyes, ocularium, ozopores (a pair of openings of the scent gland of Opiliones) and diverse phaneres. In a few orders, such as Solifugae and Schizomida, the carapace may be subdivided.