Type: Composite volcano with caldera. The 1883 explosion on an uninhabited island in Indonesia was one of the most catastrophic in history. Before the eruption, this island in the Sunda Straits between Java and Sumatra islands was made up of three stratovolcanoes that had grown together. 
KraKatoa Eruption, 1883 The island of Krakatau lay in the Sunda Strait, approximately 40km south of Sumatra and 40km northwest of Java.During May 1883 the island first showed signs that the eruption had begun, with a column of ash from the Perboewatan cone that reached up to 11km into the atmosphere. 
For details of conditions prior to 1883, see Krakatoa. The 1883 eruption of Krakatoa in the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) began in the afternoon of August 26, 1883 (with origins as early as May of that year), and culminated with several destructive eruptions of the remaining caldera. 
Introduction. Over a century ago, on August 26,1883, the island volcano of Krakatau (Krakatoa) in Indonesia, a virtually unknown volcanic island with a history of violent volcanic activity, exploded with devastating fury. The eruption was one of the most catastrophic natural disasters in recorded history. Krakatau (Krakatoa) is located in the Sunda Strait, 40 km off the west coast of Java on the island of Rakata in Indonesia. The geographical coordinates of Krakatoa are 16.7 S. Latitude and 105.4 E. Longitude. Krakatoa is one of the volcanoes of the Sunda volcanic arc.
It is estimated that more than 36,000 people died. Many died as a result of thermal injury from the blasts and many more were victims of the tsunamis that followed the collapse of the volcano into the caldera below sea level. The island of Krakatau (Krakatoa) is in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra. It is part of the Indonesian Island Arc. Volcanic activity is due to subduction of the Indo-Australian tectonic plate as it moves northward towards mainland Asia. The island is about 3 miles wide and 5.5 miles long (9 by 5 kilometers). 
The renowned volcano Krakatau (frequently misstated as Krakatoa) lies in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra. Collapse of the ancestral Krakatau edifice, perhaps in 416 AD, formed a 7-km-wide caldera. Remnants of this ancestral volcano are preserved in Verlaten and Lang Islands; subsequently Rakata, Danan and Perbuwatan volcanoes were formed, coalescing to create the pre-1883 Krakatau Island.
...I saw with amazement that the island of Krakatoa, on my first trip to Sumatra [June 1679] completely green and healthy with trees, lay completely burnt and barren in front of our eyes and that at four locations was throwing up large chunks of fire. The eruption destroyed two-thirds of the island of Krakatoa. Eruptions in the area since 1927 have built a new island at the same location, named Anak Krakatau (which is Indonesian for Child of Krakatoa). Periodic eruptions have continued since, with recent eruptions in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012.
A composite volcano, such as Krakatoa, is formed when runny lava escapes through a fissure in the earths crust and spreads out. This occurence happens everytime the volcano erupts creating layers of cooled lava and ash. These types of volcanos are typicaly tall and have steep sides. 