The following information is a guide to help you make the best of your LPG installation in a caravan or motorhome, but please remember that any work on LPG equipment needs to be done by suitably qualified personnel. In the Club’s opinion this means properly trained and experienced gas experts.
The nut shown is a 5/16 nut because it fits on a 5/16 pipe. The recommended pipe dia. for a typical gas installation within a Caravan or Motorhome is 5/16 copper pipe. If you have a gas BBQ, Gas stove, Gas HWS, Gas heater and large Gas fridge-you may need 3/8 pipe, but your gas fitter can determine this.
At home we don't really think much about power sources and capacities-it's all there 'on tap'. In our motorhomes things are rather different, we need a portable and reliable heat source source and while you can 'have a hook-up' to mains electricity on site, that may not always be convenient.
UK. In the UK vehicles being used for work purposes have to show stickers indicating the vehicle is carrying compressed gas. If the vehicle is not being used for work, i.e. a camper van, you do NOT have to show the stickers. However, it is considered good practice to have the stickers if you are
A cylinder CANNOT be installed inside a Recreational Vehicle (RV). An RV includes Caravans, Motorhomes, Camper Trailers. 1) A gas cylinder can be installed in a compartment that is sealed from the inside of the RV, but vented to outside. A Red Reflective LP Gas Storage sticker is require to be fixed adjacent to the compartment. 2) A gas cylinder can be mounted externally on a draw bar.
Gas for Caravans and Motorhomes. Using liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in a caravan or motorhome is a flexible and convenient way to provide heating, cooking and refrigeration facilities, while remaining independent of site supplies.
Thanks DobeFanatic, I'm trying figure out what gas line/adaptor to purchase so I can use the quick connect gas line that runs from the camper. I normally use charcoal but I have a small gas grill to use for quick stuff. I rarely use my stove inside. Rather be outside.