Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic content, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters. In 1961, Dahl hosted and wrote for a science fiction and horror television anthology series called Way Out, which preceded the Twilight Zone series on the CBS network for 14 episodes from March to July.
Roald dahl wrote fiction tales such as Medusa. Some of his stories were funny and some were serious that taught you a lesson at the end. He writes entertaining books for both children and adults. Roald Dahl wrote his books in a shed at the back of his house, he wrote them there because he said that the shed was a peaceful place and so that he could concentrate on writing all his stories without any disruptions or loud noises. + 85 others found this useful. Bhaby Jane Decillo. Nicola.
Roald Dahl was a British novelist, short story writer and screenwriter of Norwegian descent, who rose to prominence in the 1940's with works for both children and adults, and became one of the world's bestselling authors.Dahl's first published work, inspired by a meeting with C. S. Forester, was Shot Down Over Libya. 
The Witches is a children's book by British author Roald Dahl, first published in London in 1983 by Jonathan Cape. The book, like many of Dahl's works, is illustrated by Quentin Blake. The story is partly set in Norway and partly in the United Kingdom, focusing on the experiences of a young boy and his Norwegian grandmother in a world where child-hating evil witches secretly exist.
Synopsis. Roald Dahl's Matilda won the Children's Book Award shortly after it was published in 1988, and it has continued to delight audiences ever since. Basket0
Roald Dahl wrote his books in his garden hut where he once stayed for a few days. It was the only place he got peace.   In his shed at the bottom of his garden. He wrote … his poems and books in a little hut in his garden away from all the noise. In his autobiography Boy, Roald Dahl says that he believes that he got his ideas for books from his childhood. Of course, a lot more thought goes into writing a book, but this … is how he started-getting ideas from his past.
Roald Dahl was born in 1916 at Villa Marie, Fairwater Road, in Llandaff, Cardiff, Wales to Norwegian parents, Harald Dahl and Sofie Magdalene Dahl (nee Née). Hesselberg'dahl s father had emigrated To britain From, Sarpsborg, norway and settled In cardiff in the. 1880s his mother came over and married his father in. 1911 In 1961, Dahl hosted and wrote for a science fiction and horror television anthology series called Way Out, which preceded the Twilight Zone series on the CBS network for 14 episodes from March to July.
Roald Dahl did most of his writing in the shed at the bottom of his garden in Gypsy Cottage. It was in the middle of his apple orchard. This was where he got the idea of Danny … 's home in Danny the Champion of the World. Roald Dahl wrote his books in a shed at the back of his house, he wrote them there because he said that the shed was a peaceful place and so that he could concentrate on writing all his stories without any disruptions or loud noises. + 85 others found this useful. Bhaby Jane Decillo. Nicola.
Roald Dahl wrote his books in his garden hut where he once stayed for a few days. It was the only place he got peace.   In his shed at the bottom of his garden. He wrote … his poems and books in a little hut in his garden away from all the noise. Roald Dahl wrote his books in a shed at the back of his house, he wrote them there because he said that the shed was a peaceful place and so that he could concentrate on writing all his stories without any disruptions or loud noises. + 85 others found this useful. Bhaby Jane Decillo. Nicola.