Muscle atrophy, or muscle wasting, results from loss of muscle tissue. Little or no physical exercise and a sedentary lifestyle are common causes of muscle atrophy, in this case called disuse atrophy.
There are two types of muscle atrophy. 1  Disuse atrophy occurs from a lack of physical activity. 2  In most people, muscle atrophy is caused by not using the muscles enough. 3  People with seated jobs, medical conditions that limit their movement, or decreased activity levels can lose muscle tone and develop atrophy.
Other common causes of disuse atrophy include medical conditions that decrease mobility, such as rheumatoid arthritis (chronic autoimmune disease characterized by joint inflammation) or osteoarthritis (thinning and weakening of the bones), and injuries, such as broken bones and burns.
There are many causes for the deterioration of muscles. Muscle wasting, or atrophy, occurs in two basic forms: disuse atrophy in which the muscles waste away due to lack of exercise, and neurogenic atrophy, which is muscle deterioration due to disease or injury.
Other causes for muscle atrophy include: 1  lack of physical activity (for any reason). 2  aging. 3  alcohol-associated myopathy (pain and weakness in muscles due to excessive drinking over long periods of time). 4  burns. 5  injuries and broken bones. 6  malnutrition. 7  spinal cord injuries.
The most common reason for atrophy to occur in the legs is disuse. Lack of activity for any reason -- illness, injury, seated desk job, sedentary lifestyle -- can lead to loss of leg muscle. Alcoholism and malnutrition can also inhibit muscle growth and cause the body to use muscle proteins for energy.
Muscle atrophy can result from lack of muscle movement and use, in which case it is called disuse atrophy. Causes include a sedentary lifestyle, being bedridden, injuries, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis (chronic autoimmune disease characterized by joint inflammation).
A less common cause of atrophy of the leg muscles is injury or illness affecting the nerves that connect to the muscles. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, neuropathy and polio are examples of nerve disease.
1 Disuse atrophy occurs from a lack of physical activity. 2  In most people, muscle atrophy is caused by not using the muscles enough. 3  People with seated jobs, medical conditions that limit their movement, or decreased activity levels can lose muscle tone and develop atrophy.
There are two types of muscle atrophy. 1  Disuse atrophy occurs from a lack of physical activity. 2  In most people, muscle atrophy is caused by not using the muscles enough. 3  People with seated jobs, medical conditions that limit their movement, or decreased activity levels can lose muscle tone and develop atrophy.