Elements such as manganese, iron, and copper in the water/mud during the petrification process give petrified wood a variety of color ranges. Pure quartz crystals are colorless, but when contaminants are added to the process the crystals take on a yellow, red, or other tint. Petrified wood is a fossil in which the organic remains have been replaced by minerals in the slow process of being replaced with stone. This petrification process generally results in a quartz chalcedony mineralization.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A petrification fossil is when a dead organism gets preserved. It could get preserved in many ways. That is the process of petrification fossils. the remains of a dead organism  A fossil is any evidence of ancient life that is preserved in  stone or other material.
Replacement, the second process involved in petrification, occurs when water containing dissolved minerals dissolves the original solid material of an organism, which is then replaced by minerals. This can take place extremely slowly, replicating the microscopic structure of the organism. A common source of silica is volcanic material. Studies have shown that in this process, most of the original organic matter is destroyed. Silicification most often occurs in two environments-either the specimen is buried in sediments of deltas and floodplains or organisms are buried in volcanic ash.
Petrification occurs when body parts of the organism are replaced by minerals dissolved in ground water. For example, a buried tree may have its wood replaced over millions of … years by silica that is dissolved in the surrounding ground water. the remains of a dead organism  A fossil is any evidence of ancient life that is preserved in  stone or other material.
Petrified wood is a fossil. It forms when plant material is buried by sediment and protected from decay by oxygen and organisms. Then, groundwater rich in dissolved solids flows through the sediment replacing the original plant material with silica, calcite, pyrite or another inorganic material such as opal. Petrified wood is not rare. It is found in volcanic deposits and sedimentary rocks at many of locations worldwide. It is sometimes found where volcanic activity covered plant material with ash, mudflows or pyroclastic debris.
— Albus Dumbledore on petrification. Petrification is the process of being turned to stone. The only proven causes of petrification are the gaze of the Gorgon and the Basilisk, the latter only when reflected in or seen through another object. However, there may be a Dark spell that does the same. The difference between petrification and death is that the petrified victim appears to enter rigor mortis instantaneously and remains that way, while a dead person enters, and leaves it, within a normal timeframe. A petrified ghost will turn a dark smoky grey and can only be moved using a fan.
petrification-the process of turning some plant material into stone by infiltration with water carrying mineral particles without changing the original shape. petrifaction. fossilisation, fossilization-the process of fossilizing a plant or animal that existed in some earlier age; the process of being turned to stone. 
Petrified wood (from the Greek root petro meaning rock or stone; literally wood turned into stone) is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree or tree-like plants having completely transitioned to stone by the process of permineralization. Petrified wood is a fossil in which the organic remains have been replaced by minerals in the slow process of being replaced with stone. This petrification process generally results in a quartz chalcedony mineralization.
In geology, petrifaction or petrification is the process by which organic material is converted into a fossil through the replacement of the original material and the filling of the original pore spaces with minerals. A common source of silica is volcanic material. Studies have shown that in this process, most of the original organic matter is destroyed. Silicification most often occurs in two environments-either the specimen is buried in sediments of deltas and floodplains or organisms are buried in volcanic ash.