Tweet. The marketing mix refers to the set of actions, or tactics, that a company uses to promote its brand or product in the market. Definition: The marketing mix refers to the set of actions, or tactics, that a company uses to promote its brand or product in the market. 
Definition of Marketing. Our starting point for learning about marketing is to begin with the basics and that starts with defining marketing. Since marketing has been an important part of business for a long time we could consult one of the many hundreds of books written on the subject to locate a definition. 
Six Useful Content Marketing Definitions. Our definition of content marketing depends on who we are talking to and what we are doing with it. Rob Yoegel, Content Marketing Director at Monetate, recently reached out to a group of content marketing experts searching for definitions. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Target Market'. Not all products and services are meant for all types of consumers. In fact, companies may tweak certain aspects of a product, such as the amount of sugar in a soft drink, so that it is more likely to be purchased by consumers with varying tastes. DEFINITION of 'Target Market'. The consumers a company wants to sell its products and services to, and to whom it directs its marketing efforts. Identifying the target market is an essential step in the development of a marketing plan.
Examples of MARKETING. 1  The company will increase its budget for marketing. 2  She has a job in marketing. 3  She runs the company's marketing department. 
DEFINITION of 'Marketing'. The activities of a company associated with buying and selling a product or service. It includes advertising, selling and delivering products to people. 
Marketing is the management process for identifying, anticipating and satisfying customer requirements profitably. The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM). Accessed 2012. There are many definitions of marketing. The better definitions are focused upon customer orientation and the satisfaction of customer needs. Also see the Philosophy and Theory of Marketing. Marketing is the social process by which individuals and organizations obtain what they need and want through creating and exchanging value with others. Kotler and Armstrong (2010). The definiton is based upon an a basic marketing exchange process, and recognises the importance of value to the customer
noun. The action or business of promoting and selling products or services, including market research and advertising: the Western arts of marketing and distribution [as modifier]: a marketing campaign. More example sentences. 1  The first workshops on export marketing will be conducted in Oshakati and Tsumeb. 