It costs $1,067 on average to insure your car in Jackson, which is 5% higher than the average city in Tennessee. For low-cost auto insurance in Jackson, we recommend starting with quotes from GEICO, State Farm, and Nationwide. Their average annual premium represents a $275 discount from the citywide average.
Furthermore, the average monthly premium for families was $414 (or $4,968 per year). Between 2010 and 2011, average premiums increased 9.6% for individual policies and 5.6% for families. The average cost of health insurance ranges between $119 in Iowa and $382 in New York.
Use our data to see what your states average premiums are to get a better idea of what you should be paying for insurance. To jump directly to the different types of insurance's average cost, click on the contents links below. 1  Car Insurance. 2  Car Insurance Rates: By Age.
The average cost of insurance for car owners of insuring their vehicles from accidents and other events has generally increased, with the exceptions of Arkansas, Georgia, North Carolina, and Virginia, who all saw their car insurance premiums drop between 1% and 5% in the last year.
The city ranks as the 11th cheapest for car insurance in Tennessee. At $981 a year, it’s just a few dollars shy of the state’s average – 3% less. For affordable car insurance in Chattanooga, we recommend starting with quotes from GEICO, State Farm, and Allstate.
Bristol's car insurance rates were the second cheapest in all of Tennessee with an average annual rate of $898. This is 34% cheaper than the most expensive city in TN and 12% cheaper than the state average. We found the cheapest quotes in Bristol at GEICO, USAA, State Farm, and Allstate.
The average cost of car insurance in Tennessee across the entire state was $1,015 per year – that’s based on rates we saw for single 25 year old female and 30 year old male driving a Toyota Camry. Here are the cities in alphabetical order, beginning with the state average.
Tennessee Insurance Costs for Drivers. For drivers in Tennessee, insurance is, again, a little cheaper than the national average. Throughout the country, drivers pay an average of $795 a year for car insurance; Tennessee drivers pay an average of $649.