Hans Holbein the Younger’s “The Ambassadors” of 1533 memorializes Jean de Dinteville, French ambassador to England, and his friend, Georges de Selve, who acted on several occasions as French ambassador to the Republic of Venice, to the Pope in Rome, and to England, Germany, and Spain. 
Although he was a skillful and inventive draftsman, printmaker, miniaturist and jewelry designer, Hans Holbein the Younger is best known as a painter, in particular as a portraitist. An assured, meticulous technician, Holbein's insights into the character of his. Hans Holbein the Younger was born in Augsburg into a family of artists. His father Hans Holbein the Elder (c. 1465-1524) was an artist, as was his uncle Sigismund Holbein (active 1501-died 1540) and his older brother Ambrosius (probably 1494-1519?).
He is called the Younger to distinguish him from his father, Hans Holbein the Elder, an accomplished painter of the Late Gothic school. Born in Augsburg, Holbein worked mainly in Basel as a young artist. Holbein's art was prized from early in his career. The French poet and reformer Nicholas Bourbon dubbed him the Apelles of our time, a typical contemporary accolade. Holbein has also been described as a great one-off of art history, since he founded no school.
Hans Holbein was essentially an artist in the traditional Flemish style, he was influenced by the Gothic teachings of his father Hans Holbein the Elder. He did display some of the Italian style of Leonardo da Vinci in his painting the Lais of Corinth using Leonardo's sfumato to blend the skin tones. Holbein's fame is forever linked to the English court of King Henry VIII. His portraits during the English Reformation provide an insight into the characters who dominated this famous and dangerous period of 16th century history. King Henry VIII. c. 1536.
Hans Holbein the Younger (. 1497 – between 7 October and 29 November 1543) was a German and Swiss artist and printmaker who worked in a Northern Renaissance style. He is best known as one of the greatest portraitists of the 16th century. Holbein's art was prized from early in his career. The French poet and reformer Nicholas Bourbon dubbed him the Apelles of our time, a typical contemporary accolade. Holbein has also been described as a great one-off of art history, since he founded no school.
He was the son of the artist Hans Holbein the Elder and studied under his father before going to Basle with his brother Ambrosius as an apprentice to the painter Hans Herbst. After a brief period working in Lucerne and Zurich, in 1519 he returned to settle in Basle and married Elsbeth Schmid a widow with an infant son. Holbein's fame is forever linked to the English court of King Henry VIII. His portraits during the English Reformation provide an insight into the characters who dominated this famous and dangerous period of 16th century history. King Henry VIII. c. 1536.
When the Reformation reached Basel, Holbein worked for reformist clients while continuing to serve traditional religious patrons. His Late Gothic style was enriched by artistic trends in Italy, France, and the Netherlands, as well as by Renaissance humanism. The result was a combined aesthetic uniquely his own. Holbein's art was prized from early in his career. The French poet and reformer Nicholas Bourbon dubbed him the Apelles of our time, a typical contemporary accolade. Holbein has also been described as a great one-off of art history, since he founded no school.
Hans Holbein the Younger (c. 1497–1543) was a German artist and printmaker who worked in a Northern Renaissance style. Born in Augsburg, Holbein worked mainly in Basel as a young artist, painting murals and religious works and drawing designs for stained glass and printed books. He produced the occasional portrait, and made his international mark with portraits of the famous humanist Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam.
Holbein, Hans (c. 1497–1543). Painter. It is hardly an exaggeration to suggest that our visual image of Henry VIII and his courtiers is derived from Holbein's portraits. Born the son of an Augsburg artist of the same name, Holbein paid two visits to England, a short one 1526–7 and a longer one 1532–43. The German painter and graphic artist Hans Holbein the Younger (c. 1497-1543) combined consummate technical skill with a keen eye for realistic appearance and was the first portrait painter to achieve international fame.
Hans Holbein the Younger, born in Augsburg, was the son of a painter, Hans Holbein the Elder, and received his first artistic training from his father. Hans the Younger may have had early contacts with the Augsburg painter Hans Burgkmair the Elder. The German painter and graphic artist Hans Holbein the Younger (c. 1497-1543) combined consummate technical skill with a keen eye for realistic appearance and was the first portrait painter to achieve international fame.