Based on the uncooked Spanish chorizo fresco, the Mexican versions of chorizo are made from fatty pork (however, beef, venison, kosher, and even vegan versions are known). The meat is usually ground (minced) rather than chopped, and different seasonings are used.
Chorizo is a name given to a variety of sausages, both fresh and cured, from Spain and Latin America. Chorizo is made from pork, is heavily seasoned, and has a characteristically red color. Although there are many regional varieties, most chorizo can usually be placed into one of two categories, Spanish or Mexican.
Mexican Chorizo. 1  How it's made and sold: Mexican chorizo is a spicy ground meat sausage that is most commonly sold fresh and uncooked, either loose or in a casing, although dried versions do exist. 2  It is sold with other raw meats or sausages at the grocery store.
Mexican chorizo is made with fresh ground pork and seasoned predominantly with chiles. It is sold in the fresh sausage section of the supermarket, with bratwurst and breakfast links. It is usually squeezed from its casing into a skillet and pan-fried to the consistency of ground beef.
1 Ingredients: While it is usually made of pork, Mexican chorizo is a highly seasoned fatty sausage and can be made out of other meats like beef. 2  Most versions are bright or dark red in color due to the seasonings, but there is also green chorizo, which gets its namesake color from chiles and cilantro.
The chorizo is made with chopped pork meat and pork fat, seasoned with paprika and garlic, all stuffed into natural gut. The sausage is stuffed into pork guts, whether the small intestine and the large (for instance), in our time are used edible skin of non-animal origin.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sausage, (chorizo) in spanish, is made from excess amounts of pig. A 'company' uses the legs, ears, skin, meat, for pork products, such as bacon and ham. but the amount of unnecessary flesh left is used for chorizo. And the part that pops out from the end of the chorizo is the pig's small intestine.
Chorizo is a chile-garlic flavored sausage much loved in Mexico and the American Southwest, but most of the commercially-available kinds are made with beef byproducts (such as salivary glands) that don't appeal to many folks. Here's a great recipe that uses ground pork, instead.