Common Myths and the Truth about Alligators Myth: Alligators can grow to enormous proportions, over 20 feet in length and weighing a ton or more. Fact: The longest recorded length for an alligator is 19' 2'. This animal was trapped in the early 1900's in the State of Louisiana. 
Confidence votes 116. Alligators can NOT run at 35 miles per hour, as the previous answerer said. 35 miles an hour is how fast a horse runs, or an Olympic speed skater-- it's faster than a deer. People tend to make outrageous claims about crocodilians with no basis. Just today I was on an everglades tour and the guide said they could go 35mph on land. A fast alligator might go 8 or 9 miles per hour on land. How fast can an alligator run on land? Smaller alligators can run 25mph for short distances, whereas the  larger alligators tend to belly run at 7mph.
Two, it implies that alligators can run faster than humans -- at least when they're running in a straight line. The truth is, although alligators are frighteningly quick, they're not cheetah fast and they don't like to run long distances. So sure, you could probably escape an alligator if you ran in a zigzag. You probably also could escape one if you ran in a straight line. But the likelihood that an alligator would ever chase you on dry land is so low that the old adage is more joke than genuine advice.
Alligators can NOT run at 35 miles per hour, as the previous  answerer said. 35 miles an hour is how fast a horse runs, or an  Olympic speed skater-- it's faster than a deer … . People tend to make  outrageous claims about crocodilians with no basis. It is not true that Alligators can run at speeds up to 25 mph. This old belief has been dispelled many times but still seems to be accepted even by folks who should know better. Some say alligators can jump 30ft out of the water, this is also, however, poppycock.
A fast alligator might go 8 or 9 miles per hour on land. According  to a study in Australia, young crocodiles might be able to reach  about 10.5 miles/hour over a few yards, but this species has the  ability to run at a different gait, called a gallup, which  alligators cannot (they can only belly run). It is not true that Alligators can run at speeds up to 25 mph. This old belief has been dispelled many times but still seems to be accepted even by folks who should know better. Some say alligators can jump 30ft out of the water, this is also, however, poppycock.
Confidence votes 110. Smaller alligators can run 25mph for short distances, whereas the larger alligators tend to belly run at 7mph. It is not true that Alligators can run at speeds up to 25 mph. This old belief has been dispelled many times but still seems to be accepted even by folks who should know better. Some say alligators can jump 30ft out of the water, this is also, however, poppycock.
That motion could be clocked at 20 MPH or more. But on land the alligator can not run fast for long and the suggestion that they can reach speeds of 35 MPH-nearly as fast as a greyhound is a myth as is the notion that zig zagging will help you escape a charging alligator. Source(s): I am a wildlife biologist and tour guide in the Everglades. JP · 7 years ago. Some say they can run up to 35 mph, but only for very short distances. It is easy to outrun an alligator if you run in a zig-zag pattern as they can't change directions easily. http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/cnhc/cbd-faq-q4...
Alligators don’t really like to run long distances, and although they can travel very quickly in the water, they are typically slower moving on land. However, even with their heavy bodies and slow metabolisms, alligators are capable of short bursts of speed that can exceed 30 miles per hour. This speed is typically seen when an alligator is lunging after prey on the bank of the water, not running across a large area of land. So, although alligators are capable of running, they typically only do this to flee threatening situations. There is no documented evidence of alligators running after human beings or any other land animal to prey upon them.
It's very rare for an alligator to chase a human on dry land. And the average human could easily outrun an alligator, zigzagging or not -- it tops out at a speed of around 11 miles per hour (18 kph), and it can't maintain that speed for very long [source: San Diego Zoo ]. More importantly, gaining on prey via a long sprint is not the alligator's attack tactic. So sure, you could probably escape an alligator if you ran in a zigzag. You probably also could escape one if you ran in a straight line. But the likelihood that an alligator would ever chase you on dry land is so low that the old adage is more joke than genuine advice.