PROXIMA CENTAURI (ALPHA CENTAURI C). Alpha Centauri C, better known as Proxima Centauri, is the nearest known individual star to the Sun, at a distance of 4.24 light years. Proxima Centauri lies in the constellation of Centaurus (The Centaur), just over four light-years from Earth. Alpha Centauri is a binary star system consisting of Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B. It is sometimes referred to as Alpha Centauri AB (α Cen AB).
Proxima is the closest star to Earth. Faint red Proxima Centauri – at only 3,100 K and 500 times less bright than our sun – is nearly a fifth of a light year from Alpha Centauri A and B. This great distance is what calls into question its status as part of a triple star system. Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating
Alpha Centauri is part of a double, or triple, star system. The two main components are Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B. The third star, a red dwarf called Proxima Centauri, is thought to be about 4.22 light-years distant and is actually our sun’s closest neighbor among the stars. Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating
Alpha Centauri B is in an elliptical orbit that takes it to 11 astronomical units of star A every 80 Earth years. The third star, Proxima, is 15,000 AU, or nearly a quarter of a light-year, from the other two stars. The stars of Alpha Centauri can best be seen from latitudes below about 29 degrees North. Two bright stars, Alpha Centauri A and B, form a binary system orbiting each other at about the distance from our sun to the planet Uranus. A third star, Proxima, is much dimmer and may be gravitationally bound to the other two. These are the stars closest to Ea
A comparison of the sizes and colors of the stars in the Alpha Centauri system with our sun. Via Wikimedia Commons. Alpha Centauri A and B are a double-star system, and a third star Proxima – whose location with respect to the other two is indicated here by arrow – might or might not be gravitationally bound to them. Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating star system.
Alpha Centauri B is the companion star, or secondary, of the binary system, and is slightly smaller and less luminous than the Sun. It is a main-sequence star of spectral type K1 V, making it more an orange color than the primary star. Alpha Centauri B is about 90% the mass of the Sun and 14% smaller in radius. Alpha Centauri C, also known as Proxima Centauri, is of spectral class M6 Ve, a small main-sequence star (Type V) with emission lines. Its B−V color index is +1.82 and its mass is about 0.123 solar masses (M☉), or 129 Jupiter masses.
The primary star of this system is Alpha Centauri A, which is the sun-like star, though bigger and brighter than our Sun. Alpha Cen A is richer in metals and older than our own star. The secondary star is Alpha Centauri B, which is an orange K-type star, meaning it is smaller, dimmer and cooler than our Sun. Alpha Centauri system is a system comprising of six planets and three stars, located 4.3 light-years away in the constellation Centaurus in the caelregio Simianus.
The two main stars are Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B, which form a binary pair. The third star, which may or may not be part of the system, is Proxima Centauri. It is about 4.22 light-years from Earth and is the closest star other than the sun. Alpha Centauri A and B orbit a common center of gravity every 80 years. The average distance between them is about 11 astronomical units (AU) — about the same distance as the sun is to Uranus. These stars are an average of 4.3 light-years from Earth
Alpha Centauri is the nearest star system to the Sun, located at a distance of 4.37 light years or 1.34 parsecs from Earth. It is the brightest star in Centaurus constellation and the third brightest star in sky, only slightly brighter than Arcturus in Booetes boötes constellation And vega In. lyra Alpha Centauri is a binary star system consisting of Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B. It is sometimes referred to as Alpha Centauri AB (α Cen AB).