The Cane Corso is a descendant of the canis pugnax, dogs used by the Romans in warfare. Its name derives from cane da corso, an old term for those catch dogs used in rural activities (for cattle and swine; boar hunting, and bear fighting) as distinct from cane da camera which indicates the catch dog kept as a bodyguard. The head of the Cane Corso is arguably its most important feature. It is large and imposing. The forehead should be flat and convergent to the muzzle. The muzzle is flat, rectangular (when viewed from above), and generally as wide as it is long; approximately 33% the total length of the skull (a ratio of 2:1).
The Cane Corso is also known as Dogo di Puglia, which means dog of Puglia.. The Cane Corso is a mastiff breed from Italy. He is a complex, powerful dog with special needs. For starters, he is a giant breed, weighing up to 120 pounds. He was created to hunt big game and guard property. The Cane Corso has a massive head, heavy rectangular body, and a short coat in black, gray, fawn, or red. 
The Cane Corso is a large Italian Molosser, which is closely related to the Neapolitan Mastiff. In name and form the Cane Corso predates its cousin the Neapolitan Mastiff. It is well muscled and less bulky than most other Mastiff breeds. The breed is known as a true and quite possibly the last of the coursing Mastiffs. The head of the Cane Corso is arguably its most important feature. It is large and imposing. The forehead should be flat and convergent to the muzzle. The muzzle is flat, rectangular (when viewed from above), and generally as wide as it is long; approximately 33% the total length of the skull (a ratio of 2:1).
Today: Companion and Guarding property. Now considered a fairly rare breed. The Cane Corso Mastiff, or Italian Mastiff as it is commonly known, descends from the ancient and original Canis Pugnax, or the Roman Molossus dog which was a heavier animal than the Corso.. The Neapolitan Mastiff was another Molossus which was in the same time frame and was not as large as the Corso. 
Copyright © 2000-2015. Often described as a coursing mastiff, the Cane Corso outdoes the other mastiff breeds in athleticism, agility, speed, energy level, and sense of adventure. This robust dog needs his share of exercise, but above all he requires personal interaction and lots of companionship. Once you have your Cane Corso home, you need to KEEP him healthy -- or if he's having any current health problems, you need to get him back on the road to good health. My dog health care book, 11 Things You Must Do Right To Keep Your Dog Healthy and Happy is the book you need.
The Cane Corso [ˈkaːne ˈkɔrso] ,also known as the Italian Mastiff, is a large Italian breed of dog, for years valued highly in Italy as a companion, Guard dog and hunter. Contents. The head of the Cane Corso is arguably its most important feature. It is large and imposing. The forehead should be flat and convergent to the muzzle. The muzzle is flat, rectangular (when viewed from above), and generally as wide as it is long; approximately 33% the total length of the skull (a ratio of 2:1).
The Cane Corso Mastiff is believed to have descended from the old Roman war dogs, Canis Pugnax. They were highly valued by hunters and farmers because of their immense power, loyalty, speed, courage, and willingness to work. Throughout the Middle Ages, these dogs were terrific hunters and wonderful bull baiters. The Cane Corso Mastiff is not recommended for the average handler. He is very powerful and can be dominant if not in the right home. The handler should always remain firm and consistent. A variety of training methods work best with this somewhat willful breed.
The Cane Corso [ˈkaːne ˈkɔrso] ,also known as the Italian Mastiff, is a large Italian breed of dog, for years valued highly in Italy as a companion, Guard dog and hunter. 1  1 Description. The head of the Cane Corso is arguably its most important feature. It is large and imposing. The forehead should be flat and convergent to the muzzle. The muzzle is flat, rectangular (when viewed from above), and generally as wide as it is long; approximately 33% the total length of the skull (a ratio of 2:1).
You may have heard of the Cane Corso Italian Mastiff referred to as the coursing mastiff.. This is a nod to the fact that the Cane Corso can exceed other mastiff breeds in terms of athleticism, agility, speed, energy level, and sense of adventure. The Cane Corso Italian Mastiff is best owned by an experienced handler, not a first-time owner. This is because it is a powerful dog and can be dominant. From the beginning, the owner needs to be firm and consistent at all times and assert his or her role as the pack leader.