With the high cost of funerals these days, many Australians are taking advantage of opportunities to prepare their finances in advance. A prepaid funeral plan allows you to fix the price of your funeral at today's prices. A contract is established with your preferred funeral director, setting out your desired type and style of funeral at an agreed price. There’s no more to pay at the time of your funeral, which means you’re protected from the rising cost of funeral prices into the future. The money you pay for your prepaid funeral plan is held independently of the funeral director and invested in a funeral trust. In the event that your chosen funeral director ceases trading, your money will be allocated to another funeral director of your cho
1 The average coverage is $10,000-$15,000 and most companies won't cover more than $25,000 in funeral costs. 2  It is usually purchased from a funeral home or mortuary. 3  Funeral insurance premiums are generally paid as an initial lump sum (for the total amount being pre-paid) or with a three-, five-or 10-year payment plan. Related articles: Will, Trust, Estate Planning, Funeral. 1  With a funeral trust, an account is opened in the customer's name. 2  Also called pre-need or burial insurance, funeral insurance is a form of term life insurance. 3  Final expenses insurance is a form of term life insurance purchased directly from an insurance agent.
1 With a funeral trust, an account is opened in the customer's name. 2  The account can be funded with a single initial payment (for the full amount of the prepaid funeral contract, typically $10,000 or $12,000, or a plan can be established to pay into the account over a longer period of time. Related articles: Will, Trust, Estate Planning, Funeral. 1  With a funeral trust, an account is opened in the customer's name. 2  Also called pre-need or burial insurance, funeral insurance is a form of term life insurance. 3  Final expenses insurance is a form of term life insurance purchased directly from an insurance agent.
According to AARP (www.aarp.org), the average cost of a funeral today is approximately $10,000. So by preplanning a funeral and creating an end of life plan, your are certainly doing a wonderful thing by helping to alleviate many of the funeral planning challenges. 
1 Also called pre-need or burial insurance, funeral insurance is a form of term life insurance. 2  The average coverage is $10,000-$15,000 and most companies won't cover more than $25,000 in funeral costs. Related articles: Will, Trust, Estate Planning, Funeral. 1  With a funeral trust, an account is opened in the customer's name. 2  Also called pre-need or burial insurance, funeral insurance is a form of term life insurance. 3  Final expenses insurance is a form of term life insurance purchased directly from an insurance agent.
1 The account can be funded with a single initial payment (for the full amount of the prepaid funeral contract, typically $10,000 or $12,000, or a plan can be established to pay into the account over a longer period of time. Related articles: Will, Trust, Estate Planning, Funeral. 1  With a funeral trust, an account is opened in the customer's name. 2  Also called pre-need or burial insurance, funeral insurance is a form of term life insurance. 3  Final expenses insurance is a form of term life insurance purchased directly from an insurance agent.
Advantages of Funeral Insurance. The average cost of a funeral in 2007 was $6,500 - with total costs, including burial, reaching over $10,000. As large as that number is, statistics show the cost of a traditional funeral doubles every ten to twelve years. Prepaid funeral insurance is a popular option for financing funerals. According to a recent article in The Washington Post, about one-third of funerals in the U.S. involved some sort of prepaid funeral or burial insurance.
“You may have three-, five-or 10- year payment plans, and age is a determining factor in how long you can expand payments.”. Those plans don’t necessarily come cheap. Hoff says payments for a $10,000 plan spread over 10 years could cost $300 to $350 per month. However, consumers may be able to pay them off early. That’s what Walsh and her husband did when they realized the cost was more than expected. Here are three commonly used approaches. 1. Plan and pay for your funeral in advance. A 2014 survey by the National Funeral Directors Association of adults older than 40 found only 19 percent of respondents had prearranged their funeral, and of those, about 26 percent had prepaid.