A lab test is used to find the serum level of creatine kinase (CK)  in blood. The normal CK level for adult females is 40-150 units/L  and 60-400 units/L for adult men. 1 person found this useful. 
Increased CK-MB can usually be detected in someone with a heart attack about 3-6 hours after the onset of chest pain. The level of CK-MB peaks in 12-24 hours and then returns to normal within about 48-72 hours. If there is a second heart attack or ongoing damage, then levels may rise again and/or stay elevated longer.
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired.
See also creatine kinase elevation. The creatine kinase normal range varies from males to females. For adult males, the normal values are between 38 and 174 units per liter of blood whereas for adult females, the normal level is between 90 and 140 units per liter of blood. An elevation beyond this point is likely to be diagnostically relevant
The creatine kinase test is a standard test that is conducted using a blood sample. For the patient, there is no difference from a normal blood test that might be conducted in a clinic. Blood is collected from a vein in the upper forearm and this blood is sent for analysis at a laboratory. For adult males, the normal values are between 38 and 174 units per liter of blood whereas for adult females, the normal level is between 90 and 140 units per liter of blood.
Creatine Kinase. Creatine kinase formerly known as creatine phosphokinase is primarily found in muscle cells including the heart, striated muscles and the brain. The normal range of creatine kinase for men is 38 - 174 units/L and for women 96 - 140 units/L. Men typically have more muscle mass than women which accounts for the higher range values. African Americans have been found to have higher normal range for creatine kinase as well
Creatine kinase is often incorrectly referred to as creatinine kinase. There are three different forms of creatine kinase that can be measured: CK-MM (located in the skeletal muscles and heart), CK-MB (mainly located in the heart), and CK-BB (located in the brain). An elevated level of creatine kinase, specifically CK-MB, occurs within hours of a heart attack as the heart muscle cells die. The enzyme level continues to rise for the first 18 to 24 hours after a heart attack and slowly returns to normal after a few days. If creatine kinase is elevated, a more specific test (troponin) can help confirm the presence of a heart attack.
Creatine kinase (CK) — also known as creatine phosphokinase (CPK) or phospho-creatine kinase — is an enzyme (EC 2.7.3.2) expressed by various tissues and cell types. CK catalyses the conversion of creatine and utilizes adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to create phosphocreatine (PCr) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP). ) This test is not specific for the type of CK that is elevated. Creatine kinase in the blood may be high in health and disease. Exercise increases the outflow of creatine kinase to the blood stream for up to a week, and this is the most common cause of high CK in blood.
Normal Range Of Serum Creatine Kinase. The normal range of serum creatine kinase is between 10 and 120 micrograms per liter of blood. Values above or below this range indicate possible pathologies. This is a fairly large range of values, of course.
The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired.