I see no problem having two anti-virus programs on the computer but only one should be active and running... the other can be used on demand but even then I would shut down or disable the other while a scan in in progress. In addition to the on-board and on-line AV solutions, two different anti-spyware solutions, a file shredder (which is used to overwrite the infection's files permanently) and a third party software firewall are included in the anti-malware arsenal and physically wired behind a fire walled router.
Well, yes and no. Depending on what you mean by run, two can be better, or two can be a total mess. •. Much like anti-virus programs, anti-spyware programs typically have two modes of operation: Scan: in this mode, the utility examines memory and files on disk for traces of malware. The problem with running more than one anti-spyware application is that second mode: monitoring. More than one set of spyware monitoring components can cause conflicts. They might coexist peacefully, but they might also prevent each other from working properly, or perhaps even declare each other as spyware.
It also can download other malicious programs from internet and install it on the computer.Spyware works like adware but is usually a separate program that is installed unknowingly when you install another freeware type program or application. Malware is short for malicious software and used as a single term to refer to virus, spy ware, worm etc. Malware is designed to cause damage to a stand alone computer or a networked pc. So wherever a malware term is used it means a program which is designed to damage your computer it may be a virus, worm or Trojan.
You need to be careful when using more than one anti-spyware tool. Used improperly more than one tool can cause conflicts. by Leo A. Notenboom, © 2006. I have Microsoft Antispyware in my windows XP computer but recently I read reviews in PC magazine and it recommended Spyware Doctor 3.5. The problem with running more than one anti-spyware application is that second mode: monitoring. More than one set of spyware monitoring components can cause conflicts. They might coexist peacefully, but they might also prevent each other from working properly, or perhaps even declare each other as spyware.
Spyware works like adware but is usually a separate program that is installed unknowingly when you install another freeware type program or application. Once installed, the spyware monitors user activity on the Internet and transmits that information in the background to someone else. Since spyware is installed like any other application on your system it will leave traces of itself in the system registry and in other places on your computer. Anti-spyware software will look for evidence of these files and delete them if found.
1 Some anti-malware programs attempt to do two or all three of those operations simultaneously – meaning that it’s easy to accidentally have two or more programs trying to do the same thing. 2  There’s no perfect anti-virus or anti-spyware tool – meaning that sometimes you’ll want to have others available. Anti-spyware tools operate much like anti-virus tools, and that typically means the same two modes: 1  Scan: the utility examines memory and the hard disk for traces of spyware. 2  Monitor: like anti-virus programs, anti-spyware programs often have a “real time” component that monitors for certain spyware-like activities.
You can buy separate anti-spyware software programs. Keep your anti-spyware software updated and run it regularly. To avoid spyware in the first place, download software only from sites you know and trust. Piggybacking spyware can be an unseen cost of many free programs. Don't click on links in pop-up windows or in spam email. Anti-virus software protects your computer from viruses that can destroy your data, slow down or crash your computer, or allow spammers to send email through your account. Anti-virus protection scans your computer and your incoming email for viruses, and then deletes them.
You can read more about spyware on the website www.securelist.com. Kaspersky Anti-Virus does not have a separate option enabling spyware detection because Kaspersky Lab considers Spyware as a subcategory of Malware. Malware comprises malicious programs, such as trojans, viruses, worms, malicious utilities.
Anti-spyware software works by identifying any spyware installed on your system and removing it. Since spyware is installed like any other application on your system it will leave traces of itself in the system registry and in other places on your computer. Anti-spyware software will look for evidence of these files and delete them if found.