1 (biology): Cerebral peduncle: a band of neurons, looking like a stalk, which connects various parts of the brain, enabling brain function. ( 2 botany): peduncle is the botanical name for the stalk that supports the flowerhead, connecting the root to the flower, i.e. the stem or stalk of the flower. The function of the cerebral peduncle is the impulse to control the  movements of the body. The cerebral peduncle is two cylinders  composed entirely of nerves. Edit.
Functions of the Cerebral Peduncle. The cerebral (meaning having to do with the brain) peduncles (meaning a stem like connection between organs) are two tracts of neural fibers that are usually hidden by the temporal lobes of the brain. The cerebral peduncles run from the base of the cortex to the pons (bridge) and carry information about movement.
After integrating and analyzing the information from these two sources, the cerebellum sends ... Click to read more below. A cerebellar peduncle is a nerve tract that permits communication between the cerebellum and the other parts of the central nervous system. Three pairs of cerebellar peduncles conduct this communication. The inferior peduncles bring sensory information about the actual position of body parts such as limbs and joints. 
The cerebral peduncle is a structure located in the middle portion of the brain. It consists of a bundle of nerve fibers that pass over the surface of the midbrain. This occurs on both sides of the midline, and the cerebral peduncle is responsible for connecting the hindbrain to the forebrain. Technically speaking, the cerebral peduncle includes everything that is located in the mesencephalon, with the exception of the tectum. The mesencephalon is the medical term for the midbrain. The nerve fibers arising from this area work to connect this part of the brain to the other parts.
The cerebral peduncles (also known as the cerebral crus) are the part of the midbrain that link the remainder of the brainstem to the thalami and thereby, the cerebrum. They are the most anterior structure in the midbrain and contain the large ascending and descending tracts that run to and from the cerebrum. 
Cerebral penduncle. The cerebral peduncle is made of a mass of nerve fibers, and there is one peduncle on each side of the brain. The term cerebral means it is related to the brain. A peduncle is a stem-like connector. The cerebral peduncles are connected to the pons, which is a part of the frontal brain stem that looks like a swelling. Many other nerve bundles also connect to the pons.
The cerebral peduncles are two cylinders composed entirely of nerves, with one on each side of the brain. These bundles of nerves carry information between the higher brain (the cortex) and the lower part of the brain (the brain stem). The information that the cerebral peduncles carry is information about body movement. Damage to the cerebral peduncles usually shows up in some other part of the body. The cerebral (meaning having to do with the brain) peduncles (meaning a stem like connection between organs) are two tracts of neural fibers that are usually hidden by the temporal lobes of the brain. The cerebral peduncles run from the base of the cortex to the pons (bridge) and carry information about movement.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The cerebral peduncle is made of nerve fibers. There is one on each side of the brain, and they help transport nerve impulses from the higher part of the brain to the brain stem. Its main function is to control body movement. 
Mainly, the three common areas that give rise to the cerebral peduncles are the cortex, the spinal cord and the cerebellum. The cerebral peduncle, by most classifications, is everything in the mesencephalon except the tectum. The region includes the midbrain tegmentum, crus cerebri and pretectum. By this definition, the cerebral peduncles are also known as the basis pedunculi, while the large ventral bundle of efferent fibers is referred to as the crus cerebri or the pes pedunculi