Best Answer: It is called Steering Axis Inclination (SAI). SAI is the measurement in degrees of the steering pivot line when standing in front of the vehicle. This angle, when added to the camber forms an included angle that causes the vehicle to lift slightly when you turn the wheel away from a straight ahead position. This action uses the weight of the vehicle to cause the steering wheel to return to the center when you let go of it after making a turn. Because of this, if the SAI is different from side to side, it will cause a pull at very slow speeds. The most likely cause for SAI being out is bent parts which must be replaced to correct the condition. Not sure if you are trying to adjust this your self.
Usually SAI is a built-in angle and is not adjustable in the alignment shop. The effect of the SAI is illustrated in Fig.1. Turning the steering wheel, results in the car body being slightly pushed up. Then the weight of the vehicle generates the force returning the wheel into the central position. As can be seen from the geometry of this arrangement, such self-centering force is non-linear by nature. 
Steering geometry. Front wheel alignment (also known as front-end geometry) is the position of the front wheels relative to each other and to the vehicle. Correct alignment must be maintained to provide safe, accurate steering, vehicle stability and minimum tire wear. Positive caster means that the top of the upper ball joint (or strut) is tilted toward the rear of the vehicle, and negative caster means that it is tilted toward the front. A vehicle with a slightly positive caster setting will have its lower ball joint pivot slightly ahead of the tire's center.
A positive caster angle produces a self-centering action of steering, and gives a steering feedback for the driver in straight line. This makes a vehicle easier to drive with a better steering response and directional stability. Due to this caster angle, a power steering is usually used by manufacturers. With a positive mechanical trail, the wheel is “pulled” by the vehicle as a wheel of a shopping trolley. Thus, it produces a self-righting effect in straight line which affects the vehicle’s straight-line stability. This induces forces in the steering and makes the vehicle sensitive to lateral forces
Then, the weight of the vehicle acts against this lift, and attempts to return the spindle to the straight-ahead position when the steering wheel is released. Figure 18 Steering axis inclination, in combination with caster, is responsible for the directional stability and self-centering of the steering. Positive caster means that the top of the upper ball joint (or strut) is tilted toward the rear of the vehicle, and negative caster means that it is tilted toward the front. A vehicle with a slightly positive caster setting will have its lower ball joint pivot slightly ahead of the tire's center.
These static angles play a very important role in the vehicle behavior and tire wear. Traditionally, automotive manufacturers adopt a negative toe angle (toe in) on the rear suspension to stabilize the rear of the vehicle and promote understeer, with a negative camber angle in order to decrease tire wear. Due to this caster angle, a power steering is usually used by manufacturers. With a positive mechanical trail, the wheel is “pulled” by the vehicle as a wheel of a shopping trolley. Thus, it produces a self-righting effect in straight line which affects the vehicle’s straight-line stability. This induces forces in the steering and makes the vehicle sensitive to lateral forces
Steering axis inclination is the number of degrees that a line drawn through the upper and lower ball joints (or strut and lower ball joint) and viewed from the front is tilted to the left or the right. This, in combination with caster, is responsible for the directional stability and self-centering of the steering. Positive caster means that the top of the upper ball joint (or strut) is tilted toward the rear of the vehicle, and negative caster means that it is tilted toward the front. A vehicle with a slightly positive caster setting will have its lower ball joint pivot slightly ahead of the tire's center.
Influence on the behavior: The kingpin offset is the “lever arm” of the longitudinal forces at the wheel center. It produces a self-centering action of steering, mainly sensitive at low speed. At high speed, it is usually minimal compared to other effects such as the caster angle effect. Due to this caster angle, a power steering is usually used by manufacturers. With a positive mechanical trail, the wheel is “pulled” by the vehicle as a wheel of a shopping trolley. Thus, it produces a self-righting effect in straight line which affects the vehicle’s straight-line stability. This induces forces in the steering and makes the vehicle sensitive to lateral forces