1. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose and the sugar in RNA is ribose. 2. DNA is a double strand and RNA is single strand. 3. DNA is in the nucleus and RNA travels around from nuc … leus to cytoplasm. or 1. RNA is generally single stranded 2. RNA contains Uracil in place of Thymine 3. There are three main ways in which DNA differs from RNA. First, RNA is single-stranded unlike DNA which is double-stranded. Second, DNA contains deoxyribose while RNA contains … ribose. Third, the base for adenine is thymine in DNA and uracil in RNA
(2) DNA is made up of these four bases: adenine & guanine, cytosine & thymine; R … NA is made up of adenine & guanine, cytosine & URACIL, the difference being that in RNA, uracil replaces thymine. (3) DNA is a double stranded molecule, and RNA is a single stranded molecule. - The sugar in RNA is ribose, and in DNA the sugar is deoxyribose. - RNA is usually single stranded, DNA is double-stranded helix. - RNA contains uracil instead of thymine. DN … A does contain thymine.
- DNA-double stranded-RNA-single stranded-DNA-contains deoxyribose sugar-RNA-contains ribose sugar-DNA-nitrogenous bases are A, T, C, and G. - RNA-nitrogenous bases are A, U, C and G. - DNA-It serves as heriditary material in most of the organisms-RNA-It is heriditary material for most of the viruses. - DNA-It consists of large number of nucleotides [ about 4 million] - RNA-it consists of less number of nucleotides [ about 12,000]. - DNA-Present in nucleus, mitochondria and chloroplasts-RNA-present throughout the cytoplasm except vacoules.
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. 1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring.
In DNA, the sugar molecule is called deoxyribose because it lacks an oxygen atom whereas in RNA, the sugar is ribose, which is richer in oxygen. Bonded to the sugar are molecules called nitrogenous bases that connect the two sides of the ladder together; these bases form the rungs of the helix. 
1. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose and the sugar in RNA is ribose. 2. DNA is a double strand and RNA is single strand. 3. DNA is in the nucleus and RNA travels around from nuc … leus to cytoplasm. or 1. RNA is generally single stranded 2. RNA contains Uracil in place of Thymine 3. - The sugar in RNA is ribose, and in DNA the sugar is deoxyribose. - RNA is usually single stranded, DNA is double-stranded helix. - RNA contains uracil instead of thymine. DN … A does contain thymine.
RNA and DNA differ in these ways: (1) DNA has deoxyribose sugar, and RNA has ribose sugar. (2) DNA is made up of these four bases: adenine & guanine, cytosine & thymine; R … NA is made up of adenine & guanine, cytosine & URACIL, the difference being that in RNA, uracil replaces thymine. There are three main ways in which DNA differs from RNA. First, RNA is single-stranded unlike DNA which is double-stranded. Second, DNA contains deoxyribose while RNA contains … ribose. Third, the base for adenine is thymine in DNA and uracil in RNA
Describe three ways that RNA differs from DNA. RNA is single stranded; DNA is double stranded all of the codons from the deletion point to the end of the transcript would be shifted by single nucleotide, so the sequence of amino acids specified from that point on would be dissimilar. Related Discussions:- Describe three ways that rna differs from dna, Assignment Help, Ask Question on Describe three ways that rna differs from dna, Get Answer, Expert's Help, Describe three ways that rna differs from dna Discussions.
3. DNA has deoxyribose; RNA has ribose. 4. DNA stays in the nucleus; RNA can goes out of the nucleus. Same: 1. DNA and RNA are both made of blocks called nucleotides, consisting of sugar/phosphate/nitrogen base. 2. DNA and RNA share the bases adenine, cytosine, guanine. The phosphates are the same, of course. 