It is separated from the Floridan Aquifer System by a confining bed of soil. Surficial aquifers provide most of the public freshwater supply southwest of Lake Okeechobee and along the Atlantic coast in St. Lucie, Martin, Palm Beach, Broward and Miami-Dade counties. 
Confining layer. Confining layer -- A continuous layer of low-permeability sediment or rock unit that is above or below an aquifer. Contaminant s -- Anything found in water (including microorganisms, mineral s, chemicals, radionuclide s, etc.) which may be harmful to the health of organism s or the ecosystem. Also known as a confining bed. confining layer A geologic formation characterized by low permeability that inhibits the flow of water (see also aquitard). Confining Layer: A geologic body of low hydraulic conductivity above or below one or more aquifers.
Discharge of artesian aquifers. Water that moves through artesian aquifers is discharged upward through areas of the overlying confining bed that are relatively permeable. Fault and fracture zones that penetrate the confining bed would also allow the water to escape upwards. In this case, the top of the aquifer supports a load of rock equal to about 520 lbs. per sq. in. (36.4 kg/cm2). A part of this load is supported by the sandstone aquifer and a part by the water, which is under artesian pressure and hence is pushing upward and downward against the confining beds.
Confined aquifer: An aquifer that lies between two relatively impermeable rock layers. Confining bed or unit: A body of impermeable or distinctly less permeable material stratigraphically adjacent to one or more aquifers ... ~ An aquifer that is bounded above and below by low permeability formations or aquitard s. Confined aquifer. Confined Aquifer. An aquifer in which ground water is confined under pressure which is significantly greater than atmospheric pressure. Source: Terms of the Environment ... Confined aquifer: Aquifers that are wedged between layers of relatively impermeable materials and are consequently under pressure. Also know as an artesian aquifer
Confining bed. A confining bed is a body of distinctly less permeable material that is located above or below one or more aquifers. Confined aquifer. A confined aquifer is an aquifer that is bounded above and below by confining beds.
GOUNDWATER BASICS-Aquifer. An aquifer is a geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation which contains sufficient saturated, permeable material to yield significant quantities of water to wells and springs. There are generally two kinds of aquifers: confined and unconfined. Unconfined aquifer. An unconfined aquifer, also called a water-table aquifer, is an aquifer which has the water table as its upper boundary. Unconfined aquifers occur near the ground surface. A confining bed is a body of distinctly less permeable material that is located above or below one or more aquifers. Confined aquifer. A confined aquifer is an aquifer that is bounded above and below by confining beds.
The study of water flow in aquifers and the characterization of aquifers is called hydrogeology. Related terms include aquitard, which is a bed of low permeability along an aquifer, and aquiclude (or aquifuge), which is a solid, impermeable area underlying or overlying an aquifer. If the impermeable area overlies the aquifer, pressure could cause it to become a confined aquifer. In unconsolidated aquifers, groundwater is produced from pore spaces between particles of gravel, sand, and silt. If the aquifer is confined by low-permeability layers, the reduced water pressure in the sand and gravel causes slow drainage of water from the adjoining confining layers.
- A water-bearing layer of rock, or of unconsolidated sediments, that will yield water in a usable quantity to a well or spring.. - A layer of rock, or of unconsolidated sediments, that retards the movement of water in and out of an aquifer and possesses a very low hydraulic conductivity.. From these definitions, all rocks can be thought of as either aquifers or confining beds. 
Consider that this sandstone is saturated and overlain by 500 feet of confining beds having an average density of about 2.4 (weight per unit volume = density; density of water = 1). In this case, the top of the aquifer supports a load of rock equal to about 520 lbs. per sq. in. (36.4 kg/cm2). A part of this load is supported by the sandstone aquifer and a part by the water, which is under artesian pressure and hence is pushing upward and downward against the confining beds.