The Murray River affects the livelihood and well-being of millions of Australians, both urban and rural dwellers. Products of the Murray irrigations are consumed by Australians every day. As well as its economic importance to agriculture and industry, the Murray is a resource of immense environmental and social value. While there is no doubt that the Murray-Darling River system is subject to the same ongoing processes of degradation which have lead to the destruction of rivers overseas, it is still a relatively healthy river system. Unlike most developed rivers in Europe and North America, along the Murray there are:
Mildura. Step onto the edge of the Australian outback and into an oasis by the Murray River. Sample the region's famous food and wine at citrus groves and vineyards, hit the water, or venture out into the rugged yet beautiful Mungo National Park. Mildura's fine food and wine has made a mark all over Australia. Work up an appetite and head to Langtree Avenue, nicknamed 'Feast Street', one of Victoria's renowned dining strips.
Mildura Region Economic Profile 2009 | www.milduraregion.com.au 37 There are many organisations and Government departments based in the Mildura region who focus on the environment and sustainability. The NSW DPI is in the Coomealla irrigation area, 3km from Dareton and 10km from Wentworth. The NSW DPI, Dareton is 243ha in area, and about one-third of this area has soils suitable for horticulture.
Welcome to Sunraysia Environmental. Sunraysia Environmental is a land, water and environmental consultancy providing professional services and solutions to individuals, companies and all levels of government. 
designed by EME DESIGN. he heart of the new Mildura Environmental Park, the MELC hub shows what is possible when people are passionate about sustainability. This is one of the most exciting projects I have worked on during my time at EME Design, a beautiful community driven project with the goal to inspire and educate. Naturally I was delighted to travel up them with the EME team for the grand opening and what a thrill to see it working and filled with over 200 locals!
Mildura Region Economic Profile 2009 | www.milduraregion.com.au 39 Department of Primary Industries-Victoria Aiding existing and emerging industries is the Department of Primary Industries. The NSW DPI is in the Coomealla irrigation area, 3km from Dareton and 10km from Wentworth. The NSW DPI, Dareton is 243ha in area, and about one-third of this area has soils suitable for horticulture.
The Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning advises and supports the Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Water, the Minister for Local Government and the Minister for Planning. Hot weather Thursday so be fire ready. Fire agencies are urging people not to be complacent about the fire danger on Thursday (15 October) with very warm to hot weather forecast across the Loddon Mallee Region in the coming days.
Salt. Salinity is one of Australia's major environmental issues, the innovative company SunSalt, is utilising the Mildura region's dry climate to turn a potential environmental problem into a gourmet food product. 
There are many organisations and Government departments based in the Mildura region who focus on the environment and sustainability. For more information click below to download: Environment and Sustainability (PDF) in the Mildura region section from our 2009 Mildura Region Economic Profile. 
Located on a damaged site that used to be landfill, this sculptural building is the seed for its regeneration. Elegantly marrying passive design to the latest Australian sustainable innovations, the hub building inspires and empowers visitors on a path towards a more sustainable future. This is one of the most exciting projects I have worked on during my time at EME Design, a beautiful community driven project with the goal to inspire and educate. Naturally I was delighted to travel up them with the EME team for the grand opening and what a thrill to see it working and filled with over 200 locals!