View the main page for this artwork. 1  One was the oneiric (dream-like) work of Salvador Dali, dalí Early Max, ernst And Rene. ( 2 René magritte freud believed that dreams revealed the workings of, the unconscious and his Famous Book the Interpretation of dreams was central).  to surrealism 
sur·re·al. adj. 1. Having qualities attributed to or associated with surrealism: Even with most facilities shut down ... a few mavericks managed to slip into the park to sample the almost surreal emptiness before the shutdown ended. (Peter H. King). 2. 
surrealism (səˈrɪəˌlɪzəm). ( 1 sometimes capital) a movement in art and literature in the 1920s, which developed esp from dada, characterized by the evocative juxtaposition of incongruous images in order to include unconscious and dream elements. 
Save. surreal /səˈriːl/ adjective. surreal. /səˈriːl/. adjective. Learner's definition of SURREAL. [more surreal; most surreal]. : very strange or unusual: having the quality of a dream. a surreal atmosphere/experience. The whole thing was completely surreal. 
sur·re·al·ism. n. 1. A literary and artistic movement of the 1900s that attempts to express the workings of the subconscious and is characterized by fantastic imagery and incongruous juxtaposition of subject matter. 2. Literature or art produced in this style. 
Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more 
noun. A 20th-century avant-garde movement in art and literature which sought to release the creative potential of the unconscious mind, for example by the irrational juxtaposition of images. Example sentences. 1  Similarly, Kelley combats critics who reduce surrealism to an aesthetic movement. 
Adj. 1. surreal-characterized by fantastic imagery and incongruous juxtapositions; a great concourse of phantasmagoric shadows --J.C. Powys; the incongruous imagery in surreal art and literature . Synonyms: phantasmagoric, phantasmagorical, surrealistic.
Use surreal in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of surreal is seeming like a dream or fantasy. An example of surreal is the experience of seeing a spirit.