Fractora is the most advanced fractional radio-frequency treatment providing anti-aging improvements on skin tone and texture for a more radiant appearance through ablation and skin resurfacing. The most common areas of treatment are the lower eyelid, upper eyelid, smile lines, cheeks, mouth and neck. RF energy heats the skin in a controlled schema to remodel deep collagen and improve the appearance of the skin.
The Fractora skin resurfacing treatment is the first bipolar radio-frequency fractional treatment for the purpose of skin tightening, rejuvenation, and reducing the look of deep acne, wrinkles, and scars. It works on scars by fractionally ablating the skin, which causes micro trauma to the depressed markings. 
Anyone looking for a procedure that will provide a more youthful appearance without looking fake or mask-like, the minimally invasive Mini Lift is a perfect option to consider. The Fractora treatments are safe and cost less than surgery. One may go back to work right after this treatment while surgery mandates weeks of downtime. The Fractora is a great choice for a younger, more rested look without the risks of surgery. 
Cost and Insurance Coverage. Depending upon the size of the area to be treated with the specialized equipment that requires physician expertise, the cost for a Fractora treatment falls between $750 and $2,500. This is an elective, cosmetic procedure so medical insurance does not cover the cost. 
The price of Fractora™ Skin Rejuvenation varies for each person depending on the extent of treatment necessary. Skin Laser & Surgery Specialists of New York and New Jersey accepts CareCredit® and Alphaeon™ Credit, two different financing options that work with every budget! Fractora™ Skin Rejuvenation uses radio frequency energy to stimulate collagen production in the deep layers of your skin. The treatment is effective for fine lines, deep wrinkles, scars, redness, superficial blood vessels and abnormal pigmentation.
Most patients experience results after one treatment, although more drastic results will be seen as more treatments are completed and the optimal look is maintained. It’s recommended that patients do a series of treatments spaced one to six weeks apart for optimal results. Before having a Fractora procedure, you should stop using any retinoids, chemicals, acids, or exfoliates for three to five days prior to treatment. Sun exposure, tanning, or tanning sprays or creams must also be avoided for at least one week
Fractora™ laser skin resurfacing is an advanced anti-aging treatment which can rejuvenate the facial skin for a more youthful, radiant glow. 
Fractora delivers RF energy to the skin through an array of pins producing localized heat and small micro-lesion dots in the treatment area. The gentle heat generated by the Fractora pins in the sub-dermal tissue promotes collagen restructuring for skin rejuvenation and an improved appearance in the skin. The most common areas of treatment are the lower eyelid, upper eyelid, smile lines, cheeks, mouth and neck. RF energy heats the skin in a controlled schema to remodel deep collagen and improve the appearance of the skin.
Fractional Skin Resurfacing Treatments in St. Louis. Fractora skin resurfacing is a new cosmetic procedure aimed at improving skin conditions including acne, acne scars, sun damage, sagging skin, wrinkles and hyperpigmentation issues through use of radio frequency technology. Before having a Fractora procedure, you should stop using any retinoids, chemicals, acids, or exfoliates for three to five days prior to treatment. Sun exposure, tanning, or tanning sprays or creams must also be avoided for at least one week
Physicians can offer a versatile fractional treatment that can provide non-ablative to minimally ablative results up to 1 mm in depth. Fractora can be used in areas that demonstrate fine or deep wrinkles, scars or discolored red and brown skin tone. The most common areas of treatment are the lower eyelid, upper eyelid, smile lines, cheeks, mouth and neck. RF energy heats the skin in a controlled schema to remodel deep collagen and improve the appearance of the skin.