Bacteria are very tiny organisms that fit into their own kingdom of life. There are currently six different kingdoms of life: Animals, Plants, Fungi, Protists, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria. The reason that bacteria fit into their own two kingdoms of classification is because of one unique characteristic. 
Eubacteria (true bacteria) are a domain of living organisms. They are spherical or rod-shaped single-celled microorganisms that have a rigid cell wall, and may use whiplike ta … ils or flagella for motion. Their cells do not possess a nucleus. 
The eubacteria is a super class which groups different types of bacteria except for archaebacteria. Eubacteria are mostly unicellular in nature and their nucleus is not enclosed in any membrane. These heterotrophic microbes obtain nutrition from a variety of sources. Most eubacteria are pathogenic in nature. The eubacteria examples and their descriptions presented below should help find some useful information about their characteristics and infection caused by them.
Kingdom Eubacteria Examples. Examples of eubacteria and details about characteristics of these organisms can be found below. Let us study them one by one. These eubacteria are 3-5 micrometers in length; their width is 1-1.2 micrometers. The eubacteria examples and their descriptions presented below should help find some useful information about their characteristics and infection caused by them.
Photo by: Sebastian Kaulitzki. Bacteria are microscopic organisms that comprise the domain Eubacteria. A domain is the highest grouping of organisms, superseding the level of kingdom in the classical Linnaean system of biological classification. 
Question: Does anyone knows... 3 examples of organisms belonging to the K Archaebacteria 5 examples of organisms belonging to the K Eubacteria 5 examples of organisms belonging to the K Fungi 5 examples of organisms belonging to the K Protista Please help me with this, i need it for my project. Thanks in advance :]].. I have to list the six kingdoms and then give the genus and species of seven examples for each of the six kingdoms. I have done the Animal, Plant, Fungi, and Protist kingdoms. I need help, please, for the Eubacteria and Archaebacteria kingdoms.
Classifying Organisms in their Kingdoms. The Kingdom Eubacteria consists of mostly heterotrophic bacteria that come in three main shapes. They are cocci (spherical), bacilli (rod shaped-as shown above), and spirilla (corkscrew shape). This kingdom is one of the two prokaryotic kingdoms. Bacteria in this kingdom have cell walls made without peptidoglycan. It is part of the Domain Bacteria
Archaebacteria are organisms that are actually very different biochemically and genetically from other bacteria. Hence, archaebacteria is an outdated term, and they are now classified in the Archaea domain. Classifications within this domain are unofficial due to debates over the descendancy of microbes. One example in the Archaea domain is Methanocaldococcus jannaschii, currently classified as Archaea: Euryarchaeota: Methanobacteria; Methanobacteriales: Methanobacteriaceae, Methanocaldococcus, and species jannaschii.