Say you want to blur your home from view on Street View, Google states that they provide easily accessible tools allowing users to request the further blurring of any image that features the user, their family, their car, or their home.. For businesses, the opt out process is less clear. 1 Go to Google Maps and enter your address. 2  Click on the Street View by clicking the little yellow person in the corner of the image window on the left side of the screen. 3  Make sure that the image of your home (or whatever you want blurred) is shown.
about a problem where street signs, such as highway markers, and street name markers, are inadvertently being blurred out along with other things that are legitimately being blurred out for privacy reasons. 
Privacy. Your privacy and security are important to us. The Street View team takes a number of steps to help protect the privacy and anonymity of individuals when images are collected for Street View, including blurring faces and license plates. You can easily contact the Street View team if you see an image that should be protected or if you see a concerning image. 
There's not a whole lot of privacy to go around nowadays, so it's a good idea to take advantage of any opportunity for anonymity you can find. It's actually pretty easy to ask Google to blur out your house from Street View. Here's how: Find your house on Street View by searching for your address on Google Maps. 
There are a lot of theories floating around on Reddit about why this building at 291 Clermont Avenue in Brooklyn is blurred out on Google maps—from there being naked people in the windows of the home, to the cover-up of a Sasquatch sighting. 
It is harassment to have Street View images of a house blurred when your siblings didn't want you to have the house and they contact Google maps and ask that the image be blurred!! 
(For what it's worth, it's blurred for me here in the U.S.). From the Google Maps support forum: All faces, licenses plates, etc. are blurred to protect privacy. Sometimes false images such as the sign you discovered gets picked up and blurred. This is an automated process and is not reversible. Google Maps: Street View: Privacy and Security (UK version). Individuals and license plates are blurred. We have developed cutting-edge face and license plate blurring technology that is applied to all Street View images.
Google has begun testing technology to blur faces in its Street View feature in an attempt to better balance privacy and the usefulness of a driver's-eye view of the world. There are some potential complications for Google Street View, though. False positives that blur billboards or works of art with faces could degrade Street View a bit, but missing some faces that are visible could pose privacy problems. Google thinks its technology has struck the right technology balance in general. It does a good job of figuring that out
7. Google has worked with thousands of business owners in eight countries to bring Street View technology inside buildings. The Business Photos service is currently available in the U.S., UK, Australia, New Zealand, France, Canada, Ireland and the Netherlands. 