: any of the smallest lymphatic vessels that are blind at one end and collect lymph in organs and tissues—called also lymph capillary. Medical Definition of LYMPHATIC CAPILLARY. : any of the smallest lymphatic vessels that are blind at one end and collect lymph in organs and tissues—called also lymph capillary. What made you want to look up lymphatic capillary?
lymph capillary. Definitions: 1. the beginning of the lymphatic system of vessels; it is lined with a highly attenuated endothelium with poorly developed basement membrane and a lumen of variable caliber. See: lacteal2. The definition information for lymph capillary is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
Function of the Lymphatic System. Mingled among the blood capillaries throughout your body is another network of tiny, thin-walled vessels called lymphatic capillaries. Lymphatic capillaries are designed to pick up the fluid that leaks into your tissues from your bloodstream and return it to your circulatory system.
In anatomy, lymphatic vessels or lymph vessels are thin walled, valved structures that carry lymph. As part of the lymphatic system, lymph vessels are complementary to the cardiovascular system. Lymph vessels are lined by endothelial cells, and have a thin layer of smooth muscles, and adventitia that bind the lymph vessels to the surrounding tissue. Lymph vessels are devoted to propulsion of the lymph from the lymph capillaries, which are mainly concerned with absorption of interstitial fluid from the tissues. Lymph capillaries are slightly larger than their counterpart capillaries of the 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymph capillaries or lymphatic capillaries are tiny, thin-walled vessels located in the spaces between cells (except in the central nervous system and non-vascular tissues) which serve to drain and process extra-cellular fluid. Lymphatic capillaries are slightly larger in diameter than blood capillaries, and have closed ends (unlike the loop structure of blood capillaries). Their unique structure permits interstitial fluid to flow into them but not out. The ends of the endothelial cells that make up the wall of a lymphatic capillary overlap.
The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
Blood Flow and Fluid Movement. Lymphatic capillaries are among a number of structures belonging to your lymphatic system. Your lymphatic system works in close concert with your circulatory system, which transports blood throughout your body. A working knowledge of your circulatory system will help you understand how your lymphatic system functions
A network of vessels, tissues, and organs in vertebrate animals that helps the body regulate fluid balance and fight against disease. The vessels of the lymphatic system drain excess fluid (called lymph) from the tissues and return it to the circulating blood. 1. lymphatic system-the interconnected system of spaces and vessels between body tissues and organs by which lymph circulates throughout the body.