It would NOT be part of my rules to have left the water on in the house. I always shut that off if gone for overnight, much less a whole summer. I've seen what happens when you are living in a house and a pipe or water heater breaks. Not good. But the warping of the wall your friend had likely had to do with the COMBINATION of the water leak and the temperature in the house, not just the heat. When we leave AZ in the summer we turn off the water at the main, set the airconditioner to 78 degrees, do a bug extermination inside and out, set the alarm, and give to someone reliable an emergency number.
A conventional thermostat simply regulates house heating at one temperature. For instance, in the winter, if you set the thermostat to 20°C (68°F), it will activate the heating system when the house temperature drops below 20°C and will shut the system off when the house air warms up past 20°C. A setback thermostat contains an electronic clock. The first one relates to comfort. A cool house can be uncomfortable in the winter. If you wake up at night before the time the thermostat resets to 20°C or 22°C (68°F or 71°F), the rooms will be cooler. The same applies if you have a setback daily when you leave for work, but you return home earlier.
The thermostat should be set around 50 degrees to keep appliances and pipes from freezing. The worst way to end a vacation is to come home to a flooded basement or frozen dishwasher. For every degree a thermostat is raised during the summer, a homeowner will save 2-3 percent on his or her electricity bill. If a thermostat usually set for a steady temperature of 72 degrees is raised to 90, then, at a minimum, this will result in a 32% savings on the electric bill for that period of time. An extended vacation gives you the opportunity to get rid of the food in the fridge, clean it a bit, and unplug it. If the house is vacant for only a few days, it's not worth the trouble to unplug the device, as much of the food will still be good upon return, but extended stays are a different story.
Summer is the traditional time of year to take a vacation, leaving behind an empty house. You have so many great options for controlling heat without raising your cooling bills, and a Mosby Home Energy Audit is the smart place to start. Learn more about the energy audit process here. To begin being energy efficient and comfortable in your home, call the Mosby office at 314.909.1800 or contact them here.
This information is great. We have a 1700sf home and I would like to know what the cost of running three dehumidifiers per month. The settings on my ac unit for summer (unoccupied) are thermostat 80 and humidistat 55. Can the temperture go above 80 if the humidity is below 55. When you are away it dosnt mater what the temp is (70 deg or 90 deg) as long as the humitity is below 70%. It makes no sense to cool your home to 70 deg when you are not home, thats a waste of energy.
Mosby Building Arts | July 15, 2010. The promise and excitement of getting away for a week or two during the summer does come with one big responsibility: caring for your vacant home while you’re away. To be worry-free while on vacation, address these five elements: Create the illusion of being home. 
The home I’d like to get energy efficient settings for will be a vacant and empty home, approx. 2000 sq. ft. , which I’d like to set up for at least one year, to include all ups and downs of the seasons outside temperature. When you are away it dosnt mater what the temp is (70 deg or 90 deg) as long as the humitity is below 70%. It makes no sense to cool your home to 70 deg when you are not home, thats a waste of energy.
What temperature should a house be set on for the months of November through March for an unoccupied furnished home in Northwest Washington state. Thank you for your reply. I would recommend consulting with a local professional to see if there are any specific needs that are recommended in your area. You have so many great options for controlling heat without raising your cooling bills, and a Mosby Home Energy Audit is the smart place to start. Learn more about the energy audit process here. To begin being energy efficient and comfortable in your home, call the Mosby office at 314.909.1800 or contact them here.
A few years ago I opened up a discussion, inviting locals to share the temperature at which they keep their home in the summer. I asked for the average temperature in Phoenix area house on a summer day when it is 100+ degrees outside, and you are at home. 
Turn off water at the meter if it isnot used for lawn irrigation. This will prevent floodingif a pipe should break. HUMIDITY MANAGEMENTIf You Don’t Have Air Conditioning The temperature in your home will rise during theheat of the day when you are away in the summer. 