Due to IRS rules, you can only contribute to a Roth IRA if you are retired but hold a part-time job, earn self-employment income by selling a product or offering a service, or if you receive alimony. Your Roth IRA contribution cannot exceed amounts you make from these sources.
You can contribute to a traditional or Roth IRA whether or not you participate in another retirement plan through your employer or business. However, you might not be able to deduct all of your traditional IRA contributions if you or your spouse participates in another retirement plan at work. Roth IRA contributions might be limited if your income exceeds a certain level.
Making Roth IRA Contributions in Retirement. Without earned income, you can't contribute to a Roth IRA – but a working spouse still can. By Kimberly LankfordSee my bio, plus links to all my recent stories. , January 20, 2012. Follow @Kiplinger. My wife is retired and has a pension.
Here are some frequently overlooked opportunities to contribute to a Roth. A Roth IRA is a great way to build up a tax-free stash of savings for retirement, and you can withdraw the contributions tax-and penalty-free at any age. IRAs for kids. There’s no minimum age to own a Roth IRA, either.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½.
Roth vs. traditional IRA. Whether to use a Roth or a traditional IRA for those contributions depends on your individual tax situation. Hevert favors the Roth because there is no RMD, so funds can continue to grow throughout retirement and can be tapped at a later date in retirement or left to heirs in an estate.
1 Danny’s grandmother can make the contribution on his behalf. 2  John, 42, has both a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA and can only contribute a total of $5,500 to either one or both in 2014. 3  Sarah, age 52, is married with no taxable compensation for 2014.
You can contribute up to $5,000 to your own Roth IRA (up to $6,000 if you’re 50 or older during the year) and up to $5,000 for your wife (or $6,000 if she’s 50 or older), as long as you earned at least as much for the year as the combined contributions.
For 2015, you can contribute the maximum $5,500 to a Roth IRA ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older by the end of the year) if you are single or the single head of a household and your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) is less than $164,000.