1 Sometimes called sleep dentistry, IV dental sedation provides moderate to deep sedation, and can cost $250 -$900 or more but is typically $500 -$700, depending on the dentist, length of the appointment and location. 2  Dentists must meet specific board requirements to do IV sedation. 1 Light oral sedation can cost $150 -$500 or more, depending on the type of medication (brand name or generic), the amount of sedatives needed, location and the individual dentist. 2  This is typically a pill with brand names such as Valium, Versed or Halcion that is taken before the appointment.
Post your comments about the cost of sedation dentistry to our blog. This survey found 97% of responding dentists happily offering OCS. The average fee for oral conscious sedation is about $300. Some dentists don’t charge, whereas others ask as much as $650. A third (35%) offer IV sedation, charging about $500. But intravenous sedation fees ranged from $250-$800
1 General anesthesia can cost $300 -$1,000 or more and averages about $600 -$700, depending on the complexity of dental procedure.Typically it is done by a dental anesthesiologist and only for surgical procedures. 1 Light oral sedation can cost $150 -$500 or more, depending on the type of medication (brand name or generic), the amount of sedatives needed, location and the individual dentist. 2  This is typically a pill with brand names such as Valium, Versed or Halcion that is taken before the appointment.
1 A survey by TheWealthyDentist.com reports an average cost of $482 for IV sedation. 2  General anesthesia can cost $300 -$1,000 or more and averages about $600 -$700, depending on the complexity of dental procedure.Typically it is done by a dental anesthesiologist and only for surgical procedures. 1 Light oral sedation can cost $150 -$500 or more, depending on the type of medication (brand name or generic), the amount of sedatives needed, location and the individual dentist. 2  This is typically a pill with brand names such as Valium, Versed or Halcion that is taken before the appointment.
1 DocShop is a site that provides information regarding sedation dentistry and the cost according to the site can range from $225 to $300. 2  These prices are good for sedation methods used less often in dentistry as well as those used for dental surgery. 1 It should be noted that the price for sedation dentistry does not include the cost of the actual dental procedure. 2  There are different types of sedatives that can be used depending on the type of procedure that will be performed, and the cost can differ based on this.
These fees are usually billed hourly, and thus the cost depends on the duration of the treatment. The average cost of general dental anesthesia is about $700, ranging from $300 for short treatments to over $1000 for more complex and lengthy procedures. The cost of sedation dentistry will vary depending on a variety of factors, including geographic location, sedation dentist’s experience, training and accreditations. 
* The sedation fee is separate from the cost of the dentistry. * Nitrous oxide (laughing gas) is often the most inexpensive form of sedation and is usually under $100 per visit and may be covered by some insurance companies. * Oral sedation costs vary greatly from $200 to over $400. Fees, Insurance, Payments. The cost of sedation dentistry will vary depending on a variety of factors and does not include the actual dentistry which is delivered based on individual need.
1 Average cost is around $200-$400. 2  IV Conscious Sedation: This is as deep as you can go without general anesthesia. 3  The sedation dentist will have to be specially trained, and pass a board exam to perform this procedure, and there are more risks involved. 1 These may be used alone, or in combination with nitrous oxide. 2  Average cost is around $200-$400. 3  IV Conscious Sedation: This is as deep as you can go without general anesthesia. 4
1 The location where sedation dentistry will be performed also has an effect on the price of the procedure. 2  For example, Calm Dental is a Sedation Dentistry service that is provided in the Los Angeles area; they can perform sedation dentistry using IV sedation that ranges anywhere from $300 to $800. 1 It should be noted that the price for sedation dentistry does not include the cost of the actual dental procedure. 2  There are different types of sedatives that can be used depending on the type of procedure that will be performed, and the cost can differ based on this.