3. Remove the battery, SIM card etc off the phone. If possible, remove the rear glass panel too. Apple uses two special 5-point Pentalobe screws to secure the back. There are two solution for you restore lost data from broken iPhone,you can recover iPhone file from iTunes backup; or restore data from iPhone directly. What’s more,this ios data recovery enable you to recover iPhone photos, videos, contact and messages which are missing or deleted accidently. Level 1 (0 points). Solution 2: Scan and extract iTunes backup to recover iPhone data. Step 1: Choose iTunes backup and scan it. Step 2: Recover deleted iPhone data. Tips: After recovering data and save them on your computer, you can transfer the restored data from computer to iPhone again with iPhone to Computer Transfer.
It allows you to directly recover data from dropped broken iPhone without backup, extract data from iTunes backup if your computer or iTunes can't recognize your device, or restore data from iCloud backup when the home button or touch screen totally doesn't work. If you haven't backed up your device, stop any operations on your iPhone and turn to Recover Data from iOS Device mode to get all iPhone files back. 1  Run this program after installing. 2  Connect your iPhone to that computer and click Start Scan to scan files on your device.
If you want to recover data from dead iPhone, a third-party program is needed here, which can help to directly scan your iPhone and take data on it.: iPhone Data Recovery (Mac) (for Mac users) or iPhone Data Recovery (for Windows users). This dead iPhone data recovery software can help to scan your iPhone to recover data from it, including contacts, messages, pictures, videos, notes and more. Currently, it works perfectly with iPhone 6S Plus/6S/6 Plus/6/5S/5C/5/4S/4/3GS/3G, all iPads, as well as iPod touch 5/4.
Additionally, if you want to import recovered contacts back to your iPhone, you can still use iPhone Data Recovery to do it with a few clicks. Step 1. To start with, run iPhone Data Recovery program. Choose the mode of  Recover from iTunes Backup File ”. Next, you can preview the files of your iTunes backup in detailed. Select those you want back and click “ Recover ” button to get them back to your computer. Step 1. Run iPhone Data Recovery, choose ” Recover from iCloud Backup File ” mode. Then sign in your iCloud with your account and password as below.
Recover data from iOS Device directly-Connect your iOS Device to computer and you can scan your iPhone/iPad/iPod touch directly to recover deleted data. Recover data from iTunes Backup-Find your computer iTunes backup automatically and scan the backup to recover your lost data. 
Water Damaged iPhone Data Recovery. Actually, if you've ever synced your iPhone with iTunes, you'll have a backup file generated by iTunes on your computer. Then you can use iOS Data Recovery (Mac) or iOS Data Recovery (Windows) to retrieve your water damaged iPhone data. Both of them can help to extract your iTunes backup and recover all data from it. Download the free trial version and try to retrieve data from water damaged iPhone. Step 1. Launch iOS Data Recovery. Download, install and Launch iOS Data Recovery on your computer. There are three recovery modes for you: Recover from iOS Device, Recover from iTunes Backup File and Recover from iCloud Backup File. Choose the first one and connect your water damaged iPhone to the computer.
How to Recover Data from Broken iPhone. A friend has an iPhone with a completely broken screen and wants to recover the data from it. The laptop that it was originally synced with is long gone and syncing with a new one will wipe all of the data. Next, you can preview the files of your iTunes backup in detailed. Select those you want back and click “ Recover ” button to get them back to your computer. Step 1. Run iPhone Data Recovery, choose ” Recover from iCloud Backup File ” mode. Then sign in your iCloud with your account and password as below.
Broken iPhone Data Recovery software can help you retrieve data from iPhone that won't turn on or screen is smashed. 1  Run this iPhone data recovery tool after installing, switch to Recover Data from iCloud backup. 2  Sign in iCloud with your Apple ID and password. If you haven't backed up your device, stop any operations on your iPhone and turn to Recover Data from iOS Device mode to get all iPhone files back. 1  Run this program after installing. 2  Connect your iPhone to that computer and click Start Scan to scan files on your device.