(United States). The average Medical Laboratory Technician in the United States can expect to rake in roughly $18.35 per hour. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $13.87 per hour and $23.88. Earnings for this group are mostly affected by geographic location, followed by the specific employer and years of experience. Place of residence plays a huge part in a Medical Laboratory Technician's salary, with Ocala Medical Laboratory Technicians earning salaries that are 26 percent less than the national average. Below-median salaries also turn up in Birmingham and Atlanta (7 percent lower)
Average Labcorp Salaries. The average salary for labcorp jobs is $48,000. Average labcorp salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term labcorp anywhere in the job listing. The labcorp salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional labcorp salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Full-Service Technical Support Arrangements. LabCorp offers technical support to hospitals seeking potential operational efficiencies. A limited or full technical support option allows the hospital to maintain control, while LabCorp manages most of the day-to-day operations of the laboratory. LabCorp acts as a technical and management facilitator to improve productivity and efficiency, while taking advantage of operational synerg
When companies put up job descriptions for open positions, they are essentially trying to do two things: 1) get applicants excited about their company... These Might Be the 5 Coolest Offices in the US (and Canada). PayScale recently gave readers a look inside some of the coolest offices around the globe. 
Average LabCorp hourly pay ranges from approximately $9.03 per hour for Lab Assistant to $26.92 per hour for Medical Technologist. Salary information comes from 992 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
LabCorp provides leading-edge medical laboratory tests and services through a national network of primary clinical laboratories and specialized Centers of Excellence. At LabCorp, the work you do will be challenging and the opportunities available to you are endless. 1 LabCorp offers forensic and DNA identity services, including mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequencing and PCR technologies for positive identification. 2  LabCorp provides clinical trial services that help support drug development programs. 3  LabCorp performs over a million tests per day.
We connect our company and our people in ways that few companies can. Each day, our team members have an opportunity to build rewarding careers and experience the satisfaction of knowing the work they do helps save lives. 