An airman certificate is a certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to persons qualified to authorize such persons to serve in the capacity for which the certificate was issued.
An airman certificate issued by the administrator must[iii]: 1  be numbered and recorded by the administrator; 2  contain the name, address, and description of the individual to whom the certificate is issued;
(e.g. 999-999-9999). WARNING: This is a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) computer system. FAA systems, including all related equipment, networks, and network devices (specifically including Internet access) are provided for the processing of official U.S. Government information.
A person who meets FAA airmen medical standards, based on a medical examination and an evaluation of medical history, is entitled to a medical certificate without restriction or limitation other than the prescribed limitation as to its duration.
1986), the court observed that “ National Transportation Safety Board definitions provide that “airman certificate” means any certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to an airman and shall include medical certificates required for an airman.
MedXPress-Moved Away From Paper. MedXPress, the electronic system used to apply for an FAA medical certificate or medical clearance, has been updated. You can access the enhanced MedXPress and its updated User Guide through the following link: https://medxpress.faa.gov.
NOTE: The date on the temporary certificate and the date of the applicant s certification statement on either the front side (section IV) or back side (A and B) of FAA Form 8610-2 (as applicable) must coincide.
A. If it is less than 60 days since the date of issue of your certificate, contact your AME (Aeromedical Examiner) for resolution of this issue. If it is 60 days or more since the date of issue of your certificate, contact the FAA Aerospace Medical Certification Division
Application Section. 1  NEW! The Flight Instructor Renewal based on Flight Instructor Refresher Course has been implemented in the enhanced version of IACRA. 2  NEW! Certification for Flight Instructor based on Military Competency (original, added category and renewal) is now available in IACRA.