For a fillet that is about 1″ thickness, bake the fish at 400° for about 10-12 minutes. When using a foil wrap, the fillet should be baked at 375° for about 15-20 minutes. ● Tail Fillet. The tail tip is the thinnest fillet and often the most tender. When seeking a cut of Salmon other than a steak, this will often be the best choice. Bake the tail at 415° for optimal results.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
(When using fillets, I usually ... it over. Preheat oven to about 375 F; ... top of the salmon, bake between 10-15 minutes ... about the same length of time. Preheat oven to 350°F. Place salmon in baking pan ... for the rice. Bake covered (or sealed ... for 1 hour. Before serving, remove the rosemary sprigs.
Cover the pan tightly with aluminum foil, and place the baking pan into the oven. Allow the salmon fillet to bake for approximately five minutes per ounce of weight. For example, if you have an 8-oz. salmon fillet, bake it for about 40 minutes. When done, the salmon’s flesh should flake easily with a fork.
Simply season the chicken and place on the NuWave Oven rack. Cook and turn over 1/2 way through. For thawed chicken, it is 15-17 minutes per pound or for frozen, 25-30 minutes. For my 3-1/2 lb chicken, it took a little less than 1 hour 20 minutes. 
To cut time, you can cook frozen salmon without thawing it in the oven. The flavor and consistency will remain comparable to salmon that was thawed prior to cooking. Approximately five minutes per ounce of weight is required to cook frozen salmon, not including oven-preheating time. This recipe is for one salmon fillet. Allow the salmon fillet to bake for approximately five minutes per ounce of weight. For example, if you have an 8-oz. salmon fillet, bake it for about 40 minutes. When done, the salmon’s flesh should flake easily with a fork.
This cut should be baked for a total of 12-15 minutes. When baking a tail wrapped in foil, use 375° as the heat setting and bake the fish for 20-22 minutes. ● Salmon Steak. Steaks of course are much thicker than a fillet. For each 1″ of thickness, figure on 10 minutes of baking time. Steaks should be baked uncovered at exactly 400°. When using a foil wrap, the fillet should be baked at 375° for about 15-20 minutes. ● Tail Fillet. The tail tip is the thinnest fillet and often the most tender. When seeking a cut of Salmon other than a steak, this will often be the best choice. Bake the tail at 415° for optimal results.
Season the salmon with your choice of herbs, spices, sauce or glaze. Bake the salmon for eight to 10 minutes per one-inch of thickness for thawed salmon or 12 to 15 minutes per one-inch of thickness for partially thawed salmon. The salmon is done when it is opaque and a knife or fork slides easily into the fish. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum baking time. 