If you didn’t already know, TRENABOL is the precursor to the androgenic steroid trenbolone. Trenbolone is not only 10x more androgenic than testosterone but also doesn’t aromatize to estrogen. You will be 100% worry free when it comes to side effects. Super Trenabol is 5 mg more of the compound in each capsule as well as an additional 30 servings. It’s basically just a stronger, super version of Trenabol. Super Trenabol $15 more, but well worth it: per milligram, it’s more affordable.
To increase its effective half-life, trenbolone is administered as a prodrug as an ester conjugate such as trenbolone acetate, trenbolone enanthate, or trenbolone cyclohexylmethylcarbonate (Parabolan). Plasma lipases then cleave the ester group in the bloodstream leaving free trenbolone. In the United States, possession or use of trenbolone for humans is a violation of federal law. The DEA classifies trenbolone as a schedule III drug. Trenbolone is classified as a Schedule 4 drug in Canada and a class C drug with no penalty for personal use or possession in the United Kingdom.
Tri Trenbolone (Tri Trenabol 150) that can be injected was first available for use by the cattle industry back in the 80’s. It was named Finajet during that time. Back then, it had a short acetate ester. The drug was utilized to fatten up cattle before they were slaughtered. 
In order to understand the functions and traits of Tri-Trenabol we merely need to understand Trenbolone. Trenbolone is an anabolic steroid derived from Nandrolone that carries an anabolic rating of 500 and an androgenic rating of 500. 1 Androgenic: As Trenbolone is highly androgenic the possible side effects of Tri-Trenabol will include those of an androgenic nature. 2  The possible androgenic side effects of Tri-Trenabol include acne, hair loss and body hair growth. 3  While all are possible they are highly dependent on genetic predispositions.
While providing pleasing results to the user, Trenabol also does not store water in your tissues. It is also helpful in providing your body with faster fat burning capabilities while increasing the hardness and bulk of your muscles. There are athletes who inject Trenabol once or twice a week, while body builders use 1 to 2 ampules in a day 3 to 4 weeks prior to a competition. A normal dosage is 228mg per week and that directly corresponds to 3 ampules a week.
After the first release of the original Trenabol, we soon discovered that you can take an even higher dosage of Trenabol without the side effects. Super Trenabol is 5 mg more of the compound in each capsule as well as an additional 30 servings. It’s basically just a stronger, super version of Trenabol. Super Trenabol $15 more, but well worth it: per milligram, it’s more affordable.
Product Description: Trenabol 75 is a fast-acting injectable steroid with a great effect on protein metabolism. Trenbolone is one of the best effective anabolic compounds, promoting protein synthesis, as well as creating a positive nitrogen balance. It is an appetite stimulant and improves the conversion of proteins. 
Trenabol. Trenabol is a type of injectable steroid that can influence better protein metabolism in your body. Containing trenbolone, Trenabol is beneficial for body builders and athletes who need to develop more strength and increase the size of their muscles and body in general. There are athletes who inject Trenabol once or twice a week, while body builders use 1 to 2 ampules in a day 3 to 4 weeks prior to a competition. A normal dosage is 228mg per week and that directly corresponds to 3 ampules a week.
Trenbolone is a highly androgenic steroid, with binding to the Androgen Receptor (AR) in the region of three times as high as testosterone. It does not aromatise and so is not subject to estrogenic side effects. 