Bioidentical hormone therapy is often called natural hormone therapy because bioidentical hormones act in the body just like the hormones we produce. But here again, that tricky word natural muddies the waters. Some women disliked the side effects of hormone therapy, such as breast tenderness or bleeding. Others worried about estrogen's link with breast cancer. Still others were opposed to taking drugs for symptoms because doing so implies that menopause is a disease rather than a normal life passage.
Hormone replacement therapy — medications containing female hormones to replace the ones the body no longer makes after menopause — used to be a standard treatment for women with hot flashes and other menopause symptoms. 
Bioidentical hormone replacement therapy (BHRT), also known as bioidentical hormone therapy or natural hormone therapy, is a poorly defined term referring to the use of hormones that are identical, on a molecular level, with endogenous hormones in hormone replacement therapy. The American Cancer Society also stated that natural and bioidentical hormones present the same risks as synthetic hormone replacement therapy such as heart disease, blood clots, strokes and an increased risk of breast cancer with long-term use.
According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and several medical specialty groups, the hormones marketed as bioidentical and natural aren't safer than hormones used in traditional hormone therapy, and there's no evidence they're any more effective. The term bioidentical means the hormones in the product are chemically identical to those your body produces. In fact, the hormones in bioidentical medications may not be any different from those in traditional hormone therapy.
The interest in a more natural approach to hormone therapy has focused attention on bioidentical hormones — hormones that are identical in molecular structure to the hormones women make in their bodies. Some women disliked the side effects of hormone therapy, such as breast tenderness or bleeding. Others worried about estrogen's link with breast cancer. Still others were opposed to taking drugs for symptoms because doing so implies that menopause is a disease rather than a normal life passage.
Marketers of bioidentical hormones say their products have certain advantages over traditional hormone therapy: 1  They're produced in doses and forms that differ from those in FDA-approved products. 2  They're custom made for you, based on a test of your saliva to assess your unique hormonal needs. The term bioidentical means the hormones in the product are chemically identical to those your body produces. In fact, the hormones in bioidentical medications may not be any different from those in traditional hormone therapy.
Bioidentical Hormone Therapy is the method by which we replace depleted hormone levels, so that the patient actually looks and feels young again. As we age, there is a steep decline in the amount of hormones naturally produced by our bodies – and the lack of these hormones makes us look and feel old. We highly recommend Bioidentical Hormone Therapy for menopause. We suggest a course of estrogen and progesterone to replace the declining levels of these hormones, which are usually produced by the ovaries.
Bioidentical hormones are one form of therapy for menopausal symptoms. Winfrey, who turns 55 this month, writes in February's edition of O, The Oprah Magazine that she felt out of kilter and had issues for two years that she suspected were hormonal. Upon a friend's recommendation, Winfrey went to a doctor who specializes in hormones. Winfrey writes that the hormone specialist told her that her hormonal tank was empty and gave her a prescription for bioidentical estrogen.
A major safety concern in bioidentical hormone replacement therapy is that there is no requirement to include package inserts, despite the potential for serious adverse effects (including life-threatening adverse effects) associated with HRT. The American Cancer Society also stated that natural and bioidentical hormones present the same risks as synthetic hormone replacement therapy such as heart disease, blood clots, strokes and an increased risk of breast cancer with long-term use.
Just like synthetic hormone therapy, bioidentical hormones are prescribed to increase or stabilize a woman's hormone levels. This is most often done during perimenopause, when hormone levels change unpredictably. It's also done after menopause, when the hormones drop to low levels. 