In southwestern Virginia, most rivers flow south (Holston River, Clinch River, Powell River) or west (Levisa Fork, New River) towards the Ohio River, then on into the Mississippi and the Gulf of Mexico. The Shenandoah River flows north, just like the Nile River in Egypt. 
A Fact File about the Nile River. Length : (From White Nile Source to Mouth) 6695km (4184 miles). Name: The Nile gets its name from the Greek word Nelios, meaning River Valley. Sources: The White Nile: Lake Victoria, Uganda. The Blue Nile: Lake Tana, Ethiopia. Countries: The Nile and its tributaries flow though nine countries. The White Nile flows though Uganda, Sudan, and Egypt. The Blue Nile starts in Ethiopia. Zaire, Kenya, Tanzanian, Rwanda, and Burundi all have tributaries, which flow into the Nile or into lake Victoria Nyanes. 
It flows north from Lake Tana towards Khartoum and merges with the White Nile to form the Nile River. Related to this is the Shenandoah River in Virginia. It also flows North. From the point where the North and South Rivers join in Port Republic to the mouth of the Potomac in Harpers Ferry W. Va.
Fly-Fishing on the White River. The White River (origin to Bull Shoals Lake) meanders in direction from its headwaters near Fayetteville and up through southern Missouri to its reentry in Arkansas as it heads southeast past Cotter and Batesville. It runs through this mountainous region of the Ozarks before tumbling into the Delta. 
The origins of the White Nile are in deep central Africa, as far south as southern Rwanda. The river flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and into Southern Sudan. The Blue Nile flows about 1,400 km (850 miles) to Khartoum from Lake Tana 1,800 meters above sea level in the Ethiopian Mountains. The White Nile is the longer of the tributaries, but the Blue Nile is the main source of water and fertile soil. A third river, the Atbara, flows into the Nile just north of Khartoum in the Sudan but it contributes less than one percent to total water flow.
The White and Blue Nile's are separate tributaries of the the Nile River. They converge at Khartoum in Sudan then head north through Sudan and Egypt and exit into the Mediterr … anean Sea. + 17 others found this useful. Rolene Morrison. Related to this is the Shenandoah River in Virginia. It also flows North. From the point where the North and South Rivers join in Port Republic to the mouth of the Potomac in Harpers Ferry W. Va.
The Nile is the longest river in the world, flowing 6695km (4184 miles). There are two main rivers which flow from the south into what is referred to as the Nile Proper, the Blue Nile, and the White Nile. The White Nile is the longer of the tributaries, but the Blue Nile is the main source of water and fertile soil. A third river, the Atbara, flows into the Nile just north of Khartoum in the Sudan but it contributes less than one percent to total water flow.
The White Nile (Arabic: النيل الأبيض ‎ an nīl al 'abyaḍ) is a river of Africa, one of the two main tributaries of the Nile, the other being the Blue Nile. In the strict meaning, White Nile refers to the river formed at Lake No at the confluence of the Bahr al Jabal and Bahr el Ghazal Rivers.
The Blue Nile, however, is the source of most of the water and silt. The White Nile is longer and rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa, with the most distant source still undetermined but located in either Rwanda or Burundi. It flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and South Sudan. The average flow of the White Nile at Malakal, just below the Sobat River, is 924 m 3 /s (32,600 cu ft/s); the peak flow is approximately 1,218 m 3 /s (43,000 cu ft/s) in October and minimum flow is about 609 m 3 /s (21,500 cu ft/s) in April.
Some of the prominent rivers of Indiana are the White River, Ohio River, Tippecanoe River, and Wabash River. The Wabash River flows from the west, through the north-central section of the state, and south into the Ohio, Eel, Tippecanoe, Mississinewa, and White Rivers. The Maumee and Kankakee Rivers flow through northern Indiana. In southwestern Indiana, the rivers drain into the White River which flows into the Wabash River. 