Pathogen means something that causes sickness (path- = suffering, gen- = creation). HIV stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus, which is a virus which sometimes, … in time, causes the disease AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). In other words, HIV is the pathogen, and being infected by HIV is the cause of the disease AIDS. The best ways to avoid being infected by HIV is never ever to share needles for drugs, and never ever to have penetrative sex without a condom.
AIDS is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). By leading to the destruction and/or functional impairment of cells of the immune system, notably CD4+ T cells, HIV progressively destroys the body's ability to fight infections and certain cancers. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: AIDS is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). By leading to the destruction and/or functional impairment of cells of the immune system, notably CD4+ T cells, HIV progressively destroys the body's ability to fight infections and certain cancers. Source(s): ` · 8 years ago.
Report Abuse. Other answers are correct. HIV is the virus and therefore the pathogen. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a retrovirus that can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a condition in humans in which the immune system begins to fail, leading to life-threatening opportunistic infections. The retrovirus HIV is the pathogen, and AIDS is the disease it causes. HIV is a member of the genus Lentivirus, part of the family of Retroviridae.
HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus, is itself a pathogen. HIV is a virus. HIV itself is a pathogen Human Immunodeficiency virus cause HIV/AIDS disease it belongs to r … etro virus which has ability to convert mRNA to DNA the reverse transcription and possess reverse transcriptase enzyme. 2 people found this useful. In other words, HIV is the pathogen, and being infected by HIV is the cause of the disease AIDS. The best ways to avoid being infected by HIV is never ever to share needles for drugs, and never ever to have penetrative sex without a condom.
Best Answer: The answer is HIV!!! HIV itself is the pathogen that causes AIDS. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is the name of the pathogen. @ A B are you kidding? HIV/AIDS is caused by a virus HIV is a virus. that's what the V stands for. and after a while HIV develops in to AIDS. The definition of pathogen is bacteria or virus that causes disease. So HIV is the virus that causes AIDS disease. Hope I helped :).
Pathogen that causes disease AIDS is Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). 7 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Robert Siekman. 247,569 Contributions. Engineer and college professor. 
HIV itself is the pathogen that causes AIDS. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is the name of the pathogen. HIV/AIDS is caused by a virus HIV is a virus. that's what the V stands for. and after a while HIV develops in to AIDS. The definition of pathogen is bacteria or virus that causes disease. So HIV is the virus that causes AIDS disease. Hope I helped :).
HIV destroys CD4 positive (CD4+) T cells, which are white blood cells crucial to maintaining the function of the human immune system. As HIV attacks these cells, the person infected with the virus is less equipped to fight off infection and disease, ultimately resulting in the development of AIDS. 