5. Don't use a material-specific glue. When it comes to gluing Styrofoam, you'll generally want to stay away from glues that are specifically designed to work on certain materials other than Styrofoam (e.g., wood glue, fabric glue, glues and epoxies used for construction projects, etc.).
Apply lines, called beads, of adhesive across the back of the polystyrene board, spacing the beads approximately 10 to 12 inches apart. Keep all beads at least 1 inch from the edges of the board to prevent excess adhesive from squeezing out the sides when it is pressed against the wall.
Part 1 of 3: Styrofoam Glue Table. Though basic craft glue works well for basic Styrofoam projects, a variety of specialty glues can give extra-strong hold. Consult the simple table below to learn which glues are best for attaching Styrofoam to several types of surfaces used in craft projects.
Apply the glue. When you're ready to start, apply your glue to the Styrofoam surface. For the strongest hold, use a thin, even layer that covers the entire surface. If you're not looking for a very strong hold, it's also OK to use beads or lines of glue.
For our tests we used polystyrene which is a composition of styrene, chlorodifluoroethane and ethyl chloride, for those of you who care. The most important things to remember when choosing an adhesive for styrofoam are: 1  Never use an adhesive that contains a solvent.
Pitted glues to see which one is the best glue for styrofoam (pink or blue). Contenders were Loctite PL300 Foamboard Glue, Super 77 Spray Adhesive, Glidden Gripper, Foam Fusion, Gorilla Glue, Great Stuff and StyroGoo. They were tested with the surface scratched/ unscratched and at 24/48 hours.
There is almost no mess, and the foam isn’t itchy like fiberglass insulation. There are a few ways to install the boards, but adhesive that is made for polystyrene is quick and doesn’t require furring strips on the wall the way nailed installation techniques do.
1 Never use a hot glue gun when it comes to gluing Styrofoam. 2  As Styrofoam is made from plastic, the hot glue gun can actually cause it to melt, potentially damaging your designs. 3  Hot glue guns should only be used to attach materials which are not affected by heat.