Otaku (おたく/オタク) is a Japanese term for people with obsessive interests, commonly the anime and manga fandom. Its contemporary usage originated with Akio Nakamori 's 1983 essay in Manga Burikko. Otaku is derived from a Japanese term for another person's house or family (お宅, otaku). This word is often used metaphorically, as an honorific second-person pronoun. In this usage, its literal translation is you. For example, in the anime Macross, first aired in 1982, Lynn Minmay uses the term this way.
Within Maori culture it is common if the birth parents feel they cannot raise their child for the child to be raised by a member of their whanau or extended family. This is called whangai. The term whangai literally means ‘to feed and nourish’. Within these cultures, the practice of whangai is very common, and is the tradition of whanau raising other whanau member’s children. Child, Youth and Family do not need to be involved in whangai placements.
Taku whānau (My family). Please note that in order to view this video you either need a web browser that supports HTML5 video or to ensure both JavaScript and Flash are enabled for your browser. TKI uses the New Zealand Education Sector Logon system for user accounts. A TKI account lets you personalise your experience-enabling you to save custom homepage layouts, create kete, and save bookmarks and searches. If you already have an Education Sector user ID and password, you are ready to log in.
Taha Whanau means the family health, so for your famlily to be healthy your home has to be healthy aswell as happy because it is really important to have a healthy home blahblahblahblahblah. Taha is the name of sora in quranTaha is thought to be one of the names of prorphet mohammed (aleh alsalat WA al salam)Taha also thought to be as separated letters to give cha … llenge to any one who think he can make any thing like quran.Note that all words between brackets are Arabic words written in English letters.
In a relationship couples will come with their own whānau ake. If they have children this becomes tō māua whānau ake (our immediate whānau). This can refer to a large group as it may also include friends. Learning to be part of whānau prepares members for their wider responsibilities to marae and hapū. On another occasion the same person may include great grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces and nephews, grandchildren and everyone they are related to. The context in which a whānau member finds themselves governs the response they give.
This paper in its original form was written as an assignment for a Psychology Department, University of Waikato, graduate paper, Kaupapa Māori and Psychology, co-ordinated by Linda Waimarie Nikora. The set question is included because it establishes both the audience and the context the paper was written. Whanaunga, n. Relative, blood relation. (Williams, 1992, p. 487.). Whaka- (ii), causative prefix; probably connected with the previous word. 1. Combined with an intransitive verb, an adjective or participle to form an intransitive verb, it signifies a beginning of, or approach to, the action or condition indicated.
In the sentence Ka whānau mai he whakaaro (an idea is born), it means to produce (an idea or thought), for example the inspiration for an art work such as a carving, a song or a book. Whānau is also used as a metaphor for close friends or associates, intended to be inclusive and build a sense of group unity. On another occasion the same person may include great grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces and nephews, grandchildren and everyone they are related to. The context in which a whānau member finds themselves governs the response they give.
Page 1 – Contemporary understandings of whānau. Whānau is often translated as ‘family’, but its meaning is more complex. It includes physical, emotional and spiritual dimensions and is based on whakapapa. Whānau can be multi-layered, flexible and dynamic. In the 2000s there are whānau who still have three generations in one household for a period of time, but it is no longer as common. Whānau members no longer usually share a common set of buildings, and many live in different parts of the country or in different places in the world.
The term ‘whānau’ (family) means more than mother, father, children. It is wider and more inclusive than the nuclear family. Our ‘tūpuna’ (ancestors) are really important in Māori culture. We honour them and recognise the value of the knowledge and aroha they’ve handed down to us. TKI uses the New Zealand Education Sector Logon system for user accounts. A TKI account lets you personalise your experience-enabling you to save custom homepage layouts, create kete, and save bookmarks and searches. If you already have an Education Sector user ID and password, you are ready to log in.
This reomation introduces us to Te Awarangi's family members – grandparents, parents and siblings. Te Awarangi elaborates more, using photos on the wall. TKI uses the New Zealand Education Sector Logon system for user accounts. A TKI account lets you personalise your experience-enabling you to save custom homepage layouts, create kete, and save bookmarks and searches. If you already have an Education Sector user ID and password, you are ready to log in.