As copper is transferred from the anode to the cathode any soluble impurities in the copper anode dissolve in the copper(II) sulfate and are removed later. Insoluble impurities fall to the bottom of the cell and form a sludge. Extraction of Copper-Purification by Electrolysis. In the purification of copper the rate at which the copper ions enter the electrolyte from the anode is the same as the rate at which the copper ions leave the electrolyte at the cathode. The concentration of the copper(II) sulfate solution therefore remains unchanged.
Optimum potential difference is 1.3 volt for this electrolytic process. During electrolysis, pure copper is deposited on the cathode plates and impurities which are soluble and fall to the bottom of the cell as anode mud or sludge. copied from http://www.citycollegiate.com/dblock4.ht... 
In this process, the positive electrode (the anode anode: The positive electrode during electrolysis. ) is made of the impure copper which is to be purified. The negative electrode (the cathode cathode: A cathode is the electrode (electrical conductor) attached to the negative terminal of a battery. ) is a bar of pure copper. The two electrodes are placed in a solution of copper(II) sulfate
1 In Copper Plants, during electrolysis, pure copper is deposited on the cathode plates and impurities which are soluble and fall to the bottom of the cell as anode mud or sludge. Contact. 1  In Copper Plants, during electrolysis, pure copper is deposited on the cathode plates and impurities which are soluble and fall to the bottom of the cell as anode mud or sludge.
Patents. A higher applied potential may be provided to a consumable anode to reduce sludge formation during electroplating. For example, a higher applied potential may be provided to a consumable anode by decreasing the exposed surface area of the anode to the electrolyte solution in the electroplating cell.... Abstract. A higher applied potential may be provided to a consumable anode to reduce sludge formation during electroplating. For example, a higher applied potential may be provided to a consumable anode by decreasing the exposed surface area of the anode to the electrolyte solution in the electroplating cell.
The animation shows what happens when electrolysis begins. Copper ions leave the anode and are attracted to the cathode, where they are deposited as copper atoms. The pure copper cathode increases greatly in size, while the anode dwindles away. The impurities left behind at the anode form a sludge beneath it. The electrode attached to the negative terminal of a battery is called a negative electrode, or cathode. The electrode attached to the positive terminal of a battery is the positive electrode, or anode.] (anode) is made of the impure copper which is to be purified. The negative electrode (cathode) is a bar of pure copper. The two electrodes are placed in a solution of copper(II) sulfate
This excessive anode sludge, hereinafter referred to as anode sludge, is usually seen as an excessive quantity of copper particulates which have corroded from the anode or anodes and settled into the tank or anode bag. Anode sludge indicates that something is wrong in the plating process. For current to flow, copper ions will be dissolved from the anode and deposited on the cathode, as electrons flow in the opposite direction. We visualize that copper is dissolving from the anode in proportion to the current density, according to Faraday's Law, in a smooth and uniform manner.