All foods need to be cooked for a minimum of 15 seconds at the required temperatures and roasts need to be held at 130 degrees F for 112 minutes before serving. The metal stem thermometer measures the inside, or internal, temperature of the food. 
When a source of heat is available, hold hot foods at 135 degrees Fahrenheit or higher and check the temperature every four hours. If the temperature of the food at four hours is less than 135 degrees Fahrenheit, the food must be discarded. There are many steps during the process of preparing and serving food in which time and temperature must be controlled. Harmful microorganisms grow well in foods held between temperatures of 41 degrees Fahrenheit and 135 degrees Fahrenheit.
1 Frozen foods must remain frozen. 2  Maintain hot foods at 140°F or above. 3  Properly cooked roasts may be held at 130°F or above. 4  Food made in-house and reheated for hot holding must reach an internal temperature of at least 165°F for 15 seconds. 1 Keep hot food hot and cold food cold. 2  Always use a thermometer to check food temperatures. 3  Potentially hazardous foods must pass through the temperature danger zone as quickly as possible.
Discard food that has been warmer than 5°C for more then 2 hours. Q. What temperature should I be cooking my food to? To ensure that food is cooked thoroughly, the core temperature should be brought to 75°C or equivalent e.g. 70°C for 2 minutes at the core of the food, which will kill any bacteria present. The core is taken as the thickest part of the food.
1 Food made in-house and reheated for hot holding must reach an internal temperature of at least 165°F for 15 seconds. 2  Food made in a food processing plant, opened in the food establishment, and reheated for hot holding must reach a temperature of 140°F. 3  Reheat foods rapidly, within two hours. 1 Keep hot food hot and cold food cold. 2  Always use a thermometer to check food temperatures. 3  Potentially hazardous foods must pass through the temperature danger zone as quickly as possible.
Food should be cooked thoroughly to kill food poisoning bacteria. The core temperature should reach 75°C instantaneously or equivalent, e.g. 70°C for two minutes. The core is taken as the centre or thickest part of the food. You should take the temperature of the food at the core of the food. If this is not possible, (e.g. vacuum packed and frozen foods) you should measure the temperature between packs. Your temperature probe should have an accuracy of at least ±0.5°C.
According to the USFDA 2009 Food Code, hot food should be held at 135°F (57°C) or above. Food should be hot held at 135 F for no more than 4 hours. Food should be reheated to 165 F for at least 15 seconds before the 4 hour point is reached. + 7 others found this useful. Nasir Mondal.
It is permissible to hold hot food without temperature controls for up to four hours if the following conditions are met: 1  Food must be held at 135 degrees Fahrenheit or higher before the food is removed from the temperature control. 2  Label the food upon receipt with the time it must be discarded. There are many steps during the process of preparing and serving food in which time and temperature must be controlled. Harmful microorganisms grow well in foods held between temperatures of 41 degrees Fahrenheit and 135 degrees Fahrenheit.
It is permissible to hold hot food without temperature controls for up to four hours if the following conditions are met:Food must be held at 135 degrees Fahrenheit or higher … before the food is removed from the temperature control.Label the food upon receipt with the time it must be discarded. Food should be hot held at 135 F for no more than 4 hours. Food should be reheated to 165 F for at least 15 seconds before the 4 hour point is reached. + 7 others found this useful. Nasir Mondal.