You look your best in monochromatic and neutral color combinations – that's because your coloring doesn't need a lot of color. Too vivid and too-deep colors will 'tip over' your look. To determine if you're a Soft Autumn or Soft Summer, you need to figure out if you suit warm or cool colors best. Some of your best colors are quite neutral (mix of warm and cool, deep and light) but you look fab in colors that are diffused with grey, making them look soft and cool. Soft greens are some of your fabulous colors as they bring out the sparkle in your light eyes. You do
If your dominant characteristic is Soft and Muted then you have the most neutral coloring in the seasonal color analysis because of the mixed warm and cool undertones that are present in your hair, eyes and skin tone. Some of your best colors are quite neutral (mix of warm and cool, deep and light) but you look fab in colors that are diffused with grey, making them look soft and cool. Soft greens are some of your fabulous colors as they bring out the sparkle in your light eyes. You don't need a lot of color.
You're a light season if everything about your coloring is extremely light and delicate-looking. You're a soft season if everything is very soft and blended and mid-tone and nothing really stands out. You're a dark season if the darkness of your features that are your most noticeable quality. The most important thing to do is to stand back and figure out your most predominant quality: soft, clear, warm, cool, dark or light. If everything about your coloring is cool with no yellow or red you are a cool season, either a Cool Winter or Cool Summer. If you have warm skin, eyes and hair you are a warm season, either a Warm Autumn or Warm Spring.
Eyes: Grey, blue-grey, soft hazel. Soft Summer wears blended colors very well. Often Soft Summer can be mistaken with Soft Autumn because these two Seasons are Sister Seasons, where Soft Summer is Cool and Soft Autumn is Warm. Rule To Remember: Make sure to use soft, muted and difficult colors, nothing too bright
Best Answer: A softer tire will grip better, but wear faster. A hard tire will have less grip, but last longer. Some newer tires have a hard compound in the middle sipes and a soft compound for the outer shoulder blocks since the outer parts of the tire grip more in turns. There's no tire that lasts a long time, is sporty and great in all weather. Also, weather is a factor.
In rare cases, some soft drinks, such as Dr Pepper, can be served warm. Soft drinks are available in many formats, including cans, glass bottles and plastic bottles (the latter in a variety of sizes ranging from small bottles to large 2 liter containers). The sweetener may be sugar, high-fructose corn syrup, fruit juice, sugar substitutes (in the case of diet drinks) or some combination of these. Soft drinks may also contain caffeine, colorings, preservatives and other ingredients.
However the difference between a dark haired Summer and a Winter is the quality of the coloring – which is softer than a Winter's. Note: Scroll further down for a more personalized color palette with your best colors – find out if you're a Cool, Light or Soft summer. 1 Your eyes have a soft, cool tone quality to them, such as slate and blue. 2  Often with some grey to them, such as greyish hazel, greyish blue, greyish green. 3  Your skin is dominantly cool with pink or blue undertone (without tan). 4  Your hair color is in general cool and ashy, with little or no red or golden highlights.
Pink toned. If you're a Light Summer then you are strictly light from top to toe (skin, eyes and hair). However if you have some warmth to your coloring it may indicate that you have a coloring flowing into Light Spring. Learn more about what it means to be a Light coloring and what colors to wear. 1 Your eyes have a soft, cool tone quality to them, such as slate and blue. 2  Often with some grey to them, such as greyish hazel, greyish blue, greyish green. 3  Your skin is dominantly cool with pink or blue undertone (without tan). 4  Your hair color is in general cool and ashy, with little or no red or golden highlights.
Typical Characteristics of a Soft Coloring. Hair color is often described as mousy-warm and cool-and often without any natural highlights. An exception would be if you have ashy light blonde hair but brown eyes which give your overall coloring a cool and warm look. Some of your best colors are quite neutral (mix of warm and cool, deep and light) but you look fab in colors that are diffused with grey, making them look soft and cool. Soft greens are some of your fabulous colors as they bring out the sparkle in your light eyes. You don't need a lot of color.
Your Dominant Characteristic in the Seasonal Color Analysis-Neutral & Muted. A classic example of a soft celeb is Jennifer Aniston. She has mousy hair color and blue eyes, and a neutral skin tone that looks both warm and cool. Many mixed women of color with lighter eyes and/or skin tone fall within this group. Some of your best colors are quite neutral (mix of warm and cool, deep and light) but you look fab in colors that are diffused with grey, making them look soft and cool. Soft greens are some of your fabulous colors as they bring out the sparkle in your light eyes. You don't need a lot of color.