The definition of appendices are the sections at the end of a book that gives additional information on the topic explored in the contents of the text. An example of information you might find in appendices is further details of specific research discussed in a book. Appendices is defined as more than one appendix which is part of the colorectal anatomy of a human that supports the immune system. An example of appendices are parts they were sometimes regarded useless in the human body and that can burst.
2 A section or table of subsidiary matter at the end of a book or document: a list of such activities was published as an appendix to the report outline answers may be found in Appendix 2. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  His recipe for this amalgam is included as an appendix to the present book. 
Information that is not essential to explain your findings, but that supports your analysis (especially repetitive or lengthy information), validates your conclusions or pursues a related point should be placed in an appendix (plural appendices). It must be a useful tool for the reader (Weaver & Weaver, 1977). Each separate appendix should be lettered (Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix B1, Appendix B2, Appendix C, etc). The order they are presented in is dictated by the order they are mentioned in the text of the report.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A collection of supplementary materials, usually appearing at the end of a report, proposal, or book. Plural: appendixes or appendices. An appendix typically includes data and supporting documents used by the writer to develop the report. 1 A final, optional component is an appendix. 2  Appendices allow you to include any additional information (survey resuilts, tables, figures, previous report findings, relevant letters or memos, etc.) that you have not built into your proposal's main text.  3 The contents of your proposal should not be of primary importance
The appendix is not a catch net for all the semi-interesting or related information you have gathered through your research for your report: the information included in the appendix must bear directly relate to the research problem or the report's purpose. It must be a useful tool for the reader (Weaver & Weaver, 1977). Each separate appendix should be lettered (Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix B1, Appendix B2, Appendix C, etc). The order they are presented in is dictated by the order they are mentioned in the text of the report. It is essential to refer to each appendix within the text of the report; for example,
Mars 2020 Science Definition Team Final Report-Appendices 162 constraints that may restrict full engagement in the significant amount of work that will be required in a reasonably short time frame. Applicants should indicate interest in serving as the chair or co-chair of the SDT. Mars 2020 Science Definition Team Final Report-Appendices 159 • For both baseline and any threshold payloads, describe priorities for scaling the mission concept either up or down (in cost and capability) and payload priority trades between instrumentation and various levels of sample encapsulation.
Full Definition of APPENDIX. 1. a: appendage b: supplementary material usually attached at the end of a piece of writing. 2. : a bodily outgrowth or process; specifically: vermiform appendix. See appendix defined for English-language learners. See appendix defined for kids. 
Sometimes excerpts from this supporting information (i.e. part of the data set) will be placed in the body of the report but the complete set of information (i.e. all of the data set) will be included in the appendix. It must be a useful tool for the reader (Weaver & Weaver, 1977). Each separate appendix should be lettered (Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix B1, Appendix B2, Appendix C, etc). The order they are presented in is dictated by the order they are mentioned in the text of the report.
The correct plural of appendix depends on the circumstances. When referring to the text at the end of a book or article, either the plural appendices or appendixes is correct. In the sense of the organ, appendixes is the only plural. Compare vacuum, which can pluralize to vacua or vacuums depending on the meaning. 1  Link/Cite. Appendices is defined as more than one appendix which is part of the colorectal anatomy of a human that supports the immune system. An example of appendices are parts they were sometimes regarded useless in the human body and that can burst.