1 An example of territory is all the land controlled by a king. 2  An example of territory is a subject on which you have a lot of knowledge. 3  An example of territory is the area where you have been granted an exclusive license to sell a product. noun. Territory is a plot of land controlled by a specific person, animal or country, or where a person has knowledge, rights or responsibilities. 1  An example of territory is all the land controlled by a king. 2  An example of territory is a subject on which you have a lot of knowledge
In the United States, Guam is one example of a territory. Though it is considered a part of the United States and is governed by the U.S. Congress, Guam does not have full rights of statehood, such as full representation in Congress or full coverage under the U.S. Constitution. TERRITORY. Apart of a country, separated from the rest, and subject to a particular jurisdiction. The word is derived from terreo, and is so called because the magistrate within his jurisdiction has the power of inspiring a salutary fear.
United States territory is any extent of region under the sovereign jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States, including all waters (around islands or continental tracts) and all U.S. naval vessels. Under Article IV of the U.S. Constitution, territory is subject to and belongs to the United States (but not necessarily within the national boundaries or any individual state). This includes tracts of land or water not included within the limits of any State and not admitted as a State into the Union.
Word Root of TERRITORY. The Latin word terra, meaning “ earth, ” “ land, ” or “ ground, ” gives us the root terr. Words from the Latin terra have something to do with the earth or land. A terr itory is an area of land ruled by a particular government. A terr ace is a piece of land with a flat top. Definition of TERRITORY for Kids. 1. : a geographical area belonging to or under the rule of a government. 2. : a part of the United States not included within any state but organized with a separate governing body. 3. : region 1, district.
A territory is a term for types of administrative division, usually an area that is under the jurisdiction of a state. 1 Unorganized territory, a region of land without a normally constituted system of government. 2  This does not mean that the territory has no government at all or that it is unclaimed territory. 3  In practice, such territories are always sparsely populated.