Even if you or your child has had only a mild anaphylactic reaction in the past, there's still a risk of more severe anaphylaxis. A number of allergens can trigger anaphylaxis, depending on what you're allergic to. Common anaphylaxis triggers include: 1  Certain medications, especially penicillin. 2  Foods, such as peanuts, tree nuts (walnuts, pecans, almonds, cashews), wheat (in children), fish, shellfish, milk and eggs. 3  Insect stings from bees, yellow jackets, wasps, hornets and fire ants. 
Answer: The common causes of anaphylaxis are foods, medications, insect stings, latex and exercise. There are some patients who experience anaphylaxis after exercise alone. There are other patients who experience anaphylaxis if they eat a particular food or ingest a drug and then exercise. Insect venoms that commonly cause anaphylaxis are stings by bees, wasps, yellow jackets, hornets, or ants. Now, there are other causes of anaphylaxis as well, but these are the most common.
Summary. During anaphylaxis, allergic symptoms can affect several areas of the body and may threaten breathing and blood circulation. Food allergy is the most common cause of anaphylaxis, although several other allergens – insect stings, medications, or latex – are other potential triggers. Rarely, anaphylaxis is triggered by exercise. Another uncommon form of anaphylaxis can occur when a person exercises soon after eating a problem food. 
1 Anaphylaxis is the most severe allergic reaction and is potentially life threatening. 2  Anaphylaxis is rare. 3  The vast majority of people will never have an anaphylactic reaction. 4  The most common causes of anaphylaxis include drugs, such as penicillin, insect stings, foods (peanuts, shellfish), X-ray dye, and latex. 1 The vast majority of people will never have an anaphylactic reaction. 2  The most common causes of anaphylaxis include drugs, such as penicillin, insect stings, foods (peanuts, shellfish), X-ray dye, and latex. 3  The symptoms of anaphylaxis may vary and can include hives, tongue swelling, vomiting, and even shock
The medications that most commonly cause anaphylaxis are antibiotics -- penicillins, cephalosporins, sulfa drugs. Other drugs that are capable of causing or commonly cause anaphylaxis are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications, such as aspirin or ibuprofen. Insect venoms that commonly cause anaphylaxis are stings by bees, wasps, yellow jackets, hornets, or ants. Now, there are other causes of anaphylaxis as well, but these are the most common.
1 The most common causes of anaphylaxis include drugs, such as penicillin, insect stings, foods (peanuts, shellfish), X-ray dye, and latex. 2  The symptoms of anaphylaxis may vary and can include hives, tongue swelling, vomiting, and even shock. 3  If someone is at risk, avoidance is the best form of treatment. 1 The vast majority of people will never have an anaphylactic reaction. 2  The most common causes of anaphylaxis include drugs, such as penicillin, insect stings, foods (peanuts, shellfish), X-ray dye, and latex. 3  The symptoms of anaphylaxis may vary and can include hives, tongue swelling, vomiting, and even shock
Causes. The most common causes of anaphylaxis are reactions to foods (especially peanuts), medications, and stinging insects. Other potential triggers include exercise and exposure to latex. Sometimes, anaphylaxis occurs without an identifiable trigger. This is called idiopathic anaphylaxis. 
Causes of anaphylaxis. Anaphylaxis is caused by a problem with the immune system, which is the body's natural defence against illness and infection. In the case of anaphylaxis, your immune system overreacts to a harmless substance and releases a number of different chemicals, such as histamine, to deal with the mistaken threat. 
Food is generally the most common cause of anaphylaxis. Common food triggers include nuts, shellfish (shrimp, lobster), dairy products, egg whites, and sesame seeds. Wasp or bee stings are also common causes of anaphylaxis. Additionally, exercise can trigger anaphylaxis if the activity occurs after eating allergy-provoking food. Medications are also a common cause of anaphylaxis. Pollens and other inhaled allergens (allergy-causing substances) rarely cause anaphylaxis.