10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Sundowners syndrome, also known as sundowning, is a type of mood or sleep disorder often associated with the early stages of dementia and Alzheimer's. Light is often a big part of treatment for this syndrome. Patients in hospitals and care facilities may not be exposed to very much sunlight during the day, which could upset the body's natural day and night rhythms and lead to sundowning.
By PRO STaff Writer. Sundowning is basically a group of symptoms that may come with or without a disease. By itself, it is not a disease; however, it may affect people with Parkinson’s, dementia, Alzheimer’s, Lewy Body Variant and the like. Sundowning, by its very name, occurs at a specific time of day, generally starting in the late afternoon and lasting until bedtime.
Most commonly associated with Alzheimer's disease, but also found in those with mixed dementia, the term sundowning was coined due to the timing of the patient's confusion. For patients with sundowning syndrome, a multitude of behavioral problems begin to occur in the evening or while the sun is setting. Sundowning seems to occur more frequently during the middle stages of Alzheimer's disease and mixed dementia. Patients are generally able to understand that this behavioral pattern is abnormal. Sundowning seems to subside with the progression of a patient's dementia. Research shows that 20–45% of Alzheimer's patients will experience some sort of sundowning confusion.
Sundowning. Sundowning is a symptom that can show up in people who have Alzheimer's disease or other dementias. When someone becomes confused, anxious, aggressive, agitated, or restless consistently later in the day (usually late afternoon or early evening), this is called sundowning. It is thought that sundowning can be a problem for as many as 66% of people with Alzheimer’s disease or other dementias. It can occur at any stage of the disease but it tends to peak in the middle stages of dementia and lessens as the disease progresses. Sundowning often affects the person’s quality of life and it can be exhausting for the caregiver.
Sundowning is most common with dementia, Alzheimer's type, and is seen with delirium. A term for disorientation, agitation, or general worsening of mental symptoms classically described in the elderly at dusk or nightfall. 
Sundowning is a symptom of Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia. Confusion and agitation worsen in the late afternoon and evening, or as the sun goes down. Sundowning is thought to be related to changes in the body’s circadian rhythms, or the sleep-wake cycle. Keeping your home brightly lit in the afternoon and evening may help reduce the symptoms of sundowning syndrome.
Sundowning behavior commonly occurs in people with Alzheimer’s disease, but it can also occur in older people without Alzheimer’s disease or other types of dementia. Sundowning is more likely to occur in an unfamiliar environment in a dark place. 
I've heard that sundowning may happen with dementia. The term sundowning refers to a state of confusion at the end of the day and into the night. Sundowning can cause a variety of behaviors, such as confusion, anxiety, aggression or ignoring directions. Sundowning can also lead to pacing or wandering. Sundowning isn't a disease, but a group of symptoms that occur at a specific time of the day that may affect people with dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease. The exact cause of this behavior is unknown
Symptoms are less pronounced earlier in the day. Sundowning most often affects people who have mid-stage and advanced dementia. The phenomenon of sundowning is also sometimes called “late-day confusion.” Reducing sundowning behavior can benefit both the person with dementia and the caregiver. Sundowning is thought to be related to changes in the body’s circadian rhythms, or the sleep-wake cycle. Keeping your home brightly lit in the afternoon and evening may help reduce the symptoms of sundowning syndrome.
Common Sundowning Triggers. Too Much End-of-day Activity: Some researchers believe the flurry of activity toward the end of the day as the facility's staff changes shifts may lead to anxiety and confusion. Fatigue: End-of-day exhaustion or suddenly the lack of activity after the dinner hour may also be a contributor. 