You will need to avoid exposure to the sun for at least 24 hours. Additionally, you should not use make up, sun block, or work out for 24 hours following the treatment. Specific instructions may vary based on your skin type, topical solution used, and the condition being treated. 
If you have dark patches on your skin from Melasma, there is actually good news for you. Our Skin Lightening RealPeel is specifically designed to treat Melasma, which is much different than other types of hyperpigmentation. After. Before & After Skin Lightening RealPeel-Here is a 49 year old who wanted to get rid of hormonal pigmentation that appeared last year on her cheeks and nose despite wearing daily sunscreen. She is pictured here before and just two weeks after her peel.
How long does each treatment take? Treatment is relatively quick and can be just 10 minutes for a single lesion or up to 45 minutes for a full face. How long do the results last? Immediately after treatment some thread veins will disappear but may re-occur a few days later, but be less visible. A course of laser treatments is usually required at 4 - 8 weekly intervals to follow the hair growth cycle. Treatment will leave your skin feeling smooth, soft and free from painful in-growing hairs. This treatment is for you if: 1  Unwanted facial or body hair is affecting your self confidence.
1 Connective-tissue grafts. 2  This is the most common method used to treat root exposure. 3  During the procedure, a flap of skin is cut at the roof of your mouth (palate) and tissue from under the flap, called subepithelial connective tissue, is removed and then stitched to the gum tissue surrounding the exposed root. 1 In this procedure, instead of taking tissue from the palate, it is grafted from gum around or near the tooth needing repair. 2  The flap, called a pedicle, is only partially cut away so that one edge remains attached. 3  The gum is then pulled over or down to cover the exposed root and sewn into place.
Someone who has a full-face dermabrasion, for example, will have a longer recovery time than someone who has just a small area of skin treated. Deeper abrasions take longer to heal. In general, regrowth of skin occurs in 5 to 8 days. This new skin is a pink or red color, which usually fades in 6 to 12 weeks. Until then, your normal skin tones can be achieved using makeup. Many people have little or no pain and can get back to their regular activities soon after the procedure.
There is some redness that occurs after the treatment for about 3 days but there is minimal to no swelling. The results from using Fraxel can take up to 3 to 6 months to see, although differentpatients can have different timeframes of seeing final results, as no two patients are alike. Another option for hyperpigmentation is SmartXide.
ANSWERS FROM DOCTORS. 5 years ago by Rejuve It takes usually 3-6 days for face to stop peeling before your face will normalize. It takes usually 3-6 days for face to stop peeling before your face will normalize. 5 years ago by Rejuve (View Profile). It takes usually 3-6 days for face to stop peeling before your face will normalize. I have dark splotches on my forehead as well as my upper lip. It looks like very large freckles and seems to be Melasma. I have done some research and I'm wondering if VI Peel is the best or if there is a more effective treatment for this problem.
Hyperpigmentation Vs Melasma. Tags: age spots, chemical peel, fraxel, hyperpigmentation, ipl, lasers, melasma, smartxide, women's health. Hyperpigmentation and Melasma are both skin conditions which generally affect the face. Hyperpigmentation is an area on the skin which is darker than the surrounding area. The results from using Fraxel can take up to 3 to 6 months to see, although differentpatients can have different timeframes of seeing final results, as no two patients are alike. Another option for hyperpigmentation is SmartXide.
VI Peel - 5 years ago. I have just received a peel and my face looks sunburned. I got nervous and washed it after 2 1/2 hours of the peel, it is still very red and tender. I have dark splotches on my forehead as well as my upper lip. It looks like very large freckles and seems to be Melasma. I have done some research and I'm wondering if VI Peel is the best or if there is a more effective treatment for this problem.
During the first 24 hours after treatment, your skin may feel as though it is sunburned. Ice packs/frozen peas are used 5-10 minutes per hour for the first 5-6 hours after the treatment. Your skin will peel for 2-7 days and will be pink for 3 to 6 weeks. This healing all depends on how deep your treatment is. After a week or so, you can wear make-up to cover the pink. Rarely, bruising may develop, which can take up to two weeks to resolve. Allow 2-4 weeks for weddings, reunions, family pictures, etc just to be safe.