Brown Banded Roaches. The Brown Banded Cockroach is often confused with the German Roach, but its habits are different. 1  They are often brought in dwellings in furniture. 2  Commonly found in the southern states, but may be found in warmer parts of buildings in the northern states. Brown Banded Cockroach Identification. They are light brown,about 1/2 inch long. They have two light, irregular bands along their wings. The German Roach has two dark, distinctive bands behind their heads.
The brown-banded cockroach (Supella longipalpa) is a small species of cockroach, measuring about 5⁄8 in (10 to 14 mm) long. It is the only species of the genus Supella. The brown-banded cockroach eats a wide variety of items. Cockroaches are usually scavengers, and thus can eat a wide array of items, often almost anything organic, including decaying matter. It has been known to cause problems in hospitals by emerging at night to feed on bodily fluids, thereby risking cross-infection.
Appearance. The smokybrown cockroach is a common pest of the southeastern Unites States. Although mainly found from central Texas eastward, and as far north as North Carolina, the smoky-brown cockroach also has been found as far north as Indiana and Illinois. 
The best advice for brown-banded cockroach control is to practice good sanitation. To prevent brown-banded cockroaches from infesting your space, vacuum often, keep a spotless kitchen, seal all entrances around utility pipes and ventilate crawl spaces to prevent moisture buildup. 
1 The Brown Banded and the German Roach are the most challenging of roaches to manage and eliminate. 2  To accurately and completely eliminate these roaches you need to attack them from several tools using baits, dusts, growth regulators and pheromone traps. Brown Banded Cockroach Identification. They are light brown,about 1/2 inch long. They have two light, irregular bands along their wings. The German Roach has two dark, distinctive bands behind their heads.
Appearance. One of the smallest of the invasive cockroaches, the adult brown-banded cockroach may reach 11 to 14.5 mm in length. These colorful roaches received their name from the light brown or tan transverse bands that are present on the wings of the adult and across the body of the young, or nymphs. Reproduction. An adult brown-banded cockroach can live anywhere from 130 to 315 days, with an average life span of 206 days. During that time, a female brown-banded cockroach will produce approximately 14 egg capsules, or oothecas, during the course of her life.
The brown cockroach (Periplaneta brunnea) is a species of cockroach in the family Blattidae. It is probably originally native to Africa, but today it has a circumtropical distribution, having been widely introduced. In cooler climates it can only survive indoors, and it is considered a household pest. This cockroach is similar in appearance to the American cockroach (P. americana), but darker in color and with thicker, wider, triangular cerci. It is a reddish brown color and has fully developed wings. It reaches up to 4 centimeters in length
Brown-banded cockroaches, like other cockroach species, are opportunistic feeders. However, when provided a choice, they have a preference for materials with a higher starch content, such as book bindings, wallpaper glue and stamps. Reproduction. An adult brown-banded cockroach can live anywhere from 130 to 315 days, with an average life span of 206 days. During that time, a female brown-banded cockroach will produce approximately 14 egg capsules, or oothecas, during the course of her life.
The Brown Banded Cockroach is often confused with the German Roach, but its habits are different. 1  They are often brought in dwellings in furniture. 2  Found only indoors. 3  They may be found throughout the building, especially in high areas such as picture frames and ceilings. Brown Banded Cockroach Identification. They are light brown,about 1/2 inch long. They have two light, irregular bands along their wings. The German Roach has two dark, distinctive bands behind their heads.