1 Most vaccines contain a little bit of a disease germ that is weak or dead. 2  Vaccines do NOT contain the type of germ that makes you sick. 3  Some vaccines do not contain any germs. 4  Having this little bit of the germ inside your body makes your body's defence system build antibodies to fight off this kind of germ. Here's how vaccines work: 1 
The vaccines do not protect against all HPV types— so they will not prevent all cases of cervical cancer. Since some cervical cancers will not be prevented by the vaccines, it will be important for women to continue getting screened for cervical cancer. The vaccines are less effective in preventing HPV-related disease in young women who have already been exposed to one or more HPV types. That is because the vaccines prevent HPV before a person is exposed to it. HPV vaccines do not treat existing HPV infections or HPV-associated diseases.
A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing micro-organism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that licensed vaccines are currently available to prevent or contribute to the prevention and control of twenty-five infections. The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Edward Jenner to denote cowpox.
HPV vaccination is recommended for 11 and 12 year-old girls. It is also recommended for girls and women age 13 through 26 years of age who have not yet been vaccinated or completed the vaccine series; HPV vaccine can also be given to girls beginning at age 9 years. The vaccines are less effective in preventing HPV-related disease in young women who have already been exposed to one or more HPV types. That is because the vaccines prevent HPV before a person is exposed to it. HPV vaccines do not treat existing HPV infections or HPV-associated diseases.
Some vaccination critics say that vaccines are ineffective against disease or that vaccine safety studies are inadequate. Some religious groups do not allow vaccination, and some political groups oppose mandatory vaccination on the grounds of individual liberty. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that licensed vaccines are currently available to prevent or contribute to the prevention and control of twenty-five infections. The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Edward Jenner to denote cowpox.
Sometimes vaccines are called immunizations, needles or shots. Here's how vaccines work: 1  Most vaccines contain a little bit of a disease germ that is weak or dead. 2  Vaccines do NOT contain the type of germ that makes you sick. 3  Some vaccines do not contain any germs.
The remaining doses of polio vaccine and the combination diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus vaccine (DPT) should be given three times before the age of one: at six weeks, 10 weeks and 14 weeks. Due to inherited immunity, measles vaccines are typically given at nine months. Today there are several types of vaccines. Some, such as the oral polio vaccine (OPV), are live, attenuated vaccines which means the virus has been weakened so that it stimulates antibody production, but does not cause the disease.
Vaccine (noun). the virus of vaccinia used in vaccination. Vaccine (noun). any preparation used to render an organism immune to some disease, by inducing or increasing the natural immunity mechanisms. Prior to 1995, such preparations usually contained killed organisms of the type for which immunity was desired, and sometimes used live organisms having attenuated virulence.
Most of the vaccines your child receives are given by shots. One can be given in a nasal spray (a version of the influenza vaccine). In the past, the polio vaccine was placed on a sugar cube and given by mouth (this form of the polio vaccine is no longer available in the United States). But no matter how they are given, the general ideas of the vaccines are all the same.
1 Vaccines do NOT contain the type of germ that makes you sick. 2  Some vaccines do not contain any germs. 3  Having this little bit of the germ inside your body makes your body's defence system build antibodies to fight off this kind of germ. Here's how vaccines work: 1  Most vaccines contain a little bit of a disease germ that is weak or dead. 2  Vaccines do NOT contain the type of germ that makes you sick. 3