Normal intraocular pressures average between 12-22 mm Hg. The “mm Hg” refers to millimeters of mercury, which is a scale for recording the eye pressure. Eye pressure can vary hourly, daily and weekly. Many factors can affect the up and down changes in a person's intraocular pressure. These daily changes are normal.
On this page: 5 causes of high eye pressure • High eye pressure treatment. Ocular hypertension means the pressure in your eyes  your intraocular pressure (IOP)  is higher than normal. Left untreated, high eye pressure can cause glaucoma and permanent vision loss in some individuals. 
Ocular hypertension increases a person's risk of developing glaucoma. Around 10% of people with untreated ocular hypertension go on to develop glaucoma. Eye pressure, also called intraocular pressure or IOP, is measured in millimetres of mercury (mmHg) using a procedure called tonometry. Normal eye pressure ranges from 10 to 21 mmHg. Ocular hypertension is an eye pressure of greater than 21 mmHg. The condition affects around 3-5% of people over 40.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the fluid pressure inside the eye. Tonometry is the method eye care professionals use to determine this. IOP is an important aspect in the evaluation of patients at risk from glaucoma. Most tonometers are calibrated to measure pressure in millimeters of mercury (mmHg). Intraocular pressure is mainly determined by the coupling of the production of aqueous humor and the drainage of aqueous humor mainly through the trabecular meshwork located in the anterior chamber angle.
Ocular Hypertension Overview. The term ocular hypertension usually refers to any situation in which the pressure inside the eye, called intraocular pressure, is higher than normal. Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. 
Measuring Eye Pressure. Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 12-22 mm Hg, and eye pressure of greater than 22 mm Hg is considered higher than normal. When the IOP is higher than normal but the person does not show signs of glaucoma, this is referred to as ocular hypertension. High eye pressure alone does not cause glaucoma. However, it is a significant risk factor. Glaucoma is a multi-factorial, complex eye disease with specific characteristics such as optic nerve damage and visual field loss. While increased pressure inside the eye (called intraocular pressure or IOP) is usually present, even patients with normal range IOP can develop glaucoma.
The term ocular hypertension usually refers to any situation in which the pressure inside the eye, called intraocular pressure, is higher than normal. Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. Ocular hypertension is an eye pressure of greater than 21 mm Hg. 
Normal-tension glaucoma (also called low-tension glaucoma) is a unique condition in which optic nerve damage and vision loss have occurred despite a normal pressure inside the eye. Eye pressure, called intraocular pressure (IOP), is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. Most people with glaucoma have IOP of greater than 21 mm Hg; however, in normal-tension glaucoma, people have IOP within the normal range. 
Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10 to 21 mm Hg. When a person's pressure is higher than 21 mm Hg, they are at an increased risk for developing glaucoma. Some people can tolerate pressures slightly higher than normal without developing glaucoma.