(chemistry) The mixing of atomic orbitals to form new orbitals suitable for bonding. Supplement. In biology, hybridization (or hybridisation) is usually used as a term in agriculture or in plant production where new hardy and disease-resistant crops are formed. Variant: hybridization. 
In chemistry, hybridisation (or hybridization) is the concept of mixing atomic orbitals into new hybrid orbitals (with different energies, shapes, etc., than the component atomic orbitals) suitable for the pairing of electrons to form chemical bonds in valence bond theory. In the case of simple hybridisation, this approximation is based on atomic orbitals, similar to those obtained for the hydrogen atom, the only neutral atom for which the Schroedinger schrödinger equation can be solved. exactly
Hybridization means to produce offspring from two organisms of a different variety, breed or species. Hybridization can be induced naturally, such as the natural crossbr … eeding of two different flower varieties through wind pollination, or manipulated through genetic implantations by humans. Hybridization is the crossing of dissimilar individuals to produce best of both organisms. One advantage of hybridization is that it can combine disease resistance of one organism with the production capacity of another.
sp HYBRIDIZATION. * Intermixing of one 's' and one 'p' orbitals of almost equal energy to give two identical and degenerate hybrid orbitals is called 'sp' hybridization. * These sp-hybrid orbitals are arranged linearly at by making 180 o of angle. * They possess 50% 's' and 50% 'p' character. * Intermixing of one 's' and two 'p' orbitals of almost equal energy to give three identical and degenerate hybrid orbitals is known as sp 2 hybridization. * The three sp 2 hybrid orbitals are oriented in trigonal planar symmetry at angles of 120 o to each other.
I think we're talking about orbital hybridisation. In simple terms, hybridisation is the mixing of atomic orbitals to form new bonding orbitals. If you consider methane (CH4). You see that carbon bonds to four hydrogen molecules equally. But this is difficult to explain given that carbon has only two unpaired electrons in the ground state. 
Hybridization is a process by which orbitals within the same atom undergoes mixing (rearrangements) such that it can provide (a) Uniform energy level and (b) Suitable ax … es of symmetry to the incoming bonding orbitals.   (a) S orbital has lower energy than p orbitals. Hybridization is the crossing of dissimilar individuals to produce best of both organisms. One advantage of hybridization is that it can combine disease resistance of one organism with the production capacity of another.
* In the excited state, the beryllium atom undergoes 'sp' hybridization by mixing a 2s and one 2p orbitals. Thus two half filled 'sp' hybrid orbitals are formed, which are arranged linearly. * These half filled sp-orbitals form two σ bonds with two 'Cl' atoms. * During the formation of ethylene molecule, each carbon atom undergoes sp 2 hybridization in its excited state by mixing 2s and two 2p orbitals to give three half filled sp 2 hybrid orbitals oriented in trigonal planar symmetry.
The most common type of hybridization involves crossing two organisms of different breeds within the same species. This is also called crossbreeding. In agriculture, it is used to create healthier crops or new flavors, such as the tangelo, a cross between a tangerine and a pomelo. In animal breeding, hybridization is used to create new breeds or to make a breed stronger. Many purebred animals are also inbred, due to a limited genetic pool, which tends to bring out genetic defects in animals. By hybridizing, breeders bring fresh genes into the mix, although the resulting animal is not a purebred.
In sp hybridization the 2s orbital is mixed with all three of the 2p orbitals to give a set of four sp hybrid orbitals. The number of hybrid orbitals must equal the number of original atomic orbitals used for mixing. The hybrid orbitals will each have the same energy but will be different in energy from the original atomic orbitals. In sp 3 hybridization one s and three p valence atomic orbitals mix up together to form a new set of our sp 3 hybrid orbitals. These are directed towards the corners of a regular tetrahedron and the angle between them is 109 o 29'. The summary of sp 3 hybridization is given below. Back to Top