The Maya civilization was a Mesoamerican civilization developed by the Maya peoples, noted for the Maya hieroglyphic script, the only known fully developed writing system of the pre-Columbian Americas, as well as for its art, architecture, and mathematical and astronomical systems. 
The ancient Maya built their civilization using ideas they learned from the Olmec, an earlier tribe. The Olmec society was built on agriculture. They established farming villages. They were the first people to built roads through the jungle, roads which were used by them as trade routes. The Maya, using their knowledge of astronomy, and building on the Olmec solar calendar, created the most accurate calendar in the ancient world. The Maya also created inventions of their own, inventions like the vast underground reservoirs that held fresh water safely in times of drought.
The Ancient Maya may be best-known in modern times for their supposed prediction of the apocalypse, but in fact, they were a surprisingly advanced culture of millions, inhabiting Middle America (the region between Mexico and South America) for thousands of years. Here are 10 fascinating facts about Mayan civilization. The Mayan number system was own as “calendar script”, and worked in conjunction with numerology, ritual astronomy and the calendar system that the Mayans themselves developed. The system included symbols for numbers zero through twenty, with the Mayans credited as the first culture to “discover” zero.
The Ancient Maya. Mayan civilization lasted for more than 2,000 years, but the period from about 300 A.D. to 900 A.D., known as the Classic Period, was its heyday. During that time, the Maya developed a complex understanding of astronomy
Save. The Mayans are an ancient civilization that emerged during 300 B.C. and 250 A.D. in parts of modern-day Mexico, Hondorus and Guatemala. The Mayan people lived as hunters and eventually adopted a system of farming. The civilization was at its peak from 600 A.D. to 900 A.D. During this time, the civilization developed a sophisticated system of writing. The Mayans also made advancements in mathematics and developed a functioning calendar system. Each day was given a specific name and a corresponding symbol. Later in their civilization’s development, the Mayans created a calendar that followed the solar year of 365 days. The Mayans gave names and symbols for each specific month in this calendar. There were a total of 18 months, with each month being 20 days.
As the Maya slowly took over the region from the Olmec, the Maya built on the many clever ideas of these earlier people. For example, the Olmec created a solar calendar. The Maya, using their knowledge of astronomy, and building on the Olmec solar calendar, created the most accurate calendar in the ancient world. The Maya also created inventions of their own, inventions like the vast underground reservoirs that held fresh water safely in times of drought.
Mathematics. Also interesting is that the Mayans independently developed a concept of zero in their numbering system by 36BC. While not generally considered a civilization known for their mathematics, they did nonetheless have an advanced grasp of it. Many of their dates and measurements are surprisingly specific
The ancient Mayan civilization was one of the most fascinating and influential cultures in our world s history. Factors that make it so interesting are the culture s curious sophistication and its sudden demise. 
Here are some known ancient Mayan inventions. Maya specifically created, or rather invented, a 260 day cycle in order to allow them to accurately track the occurrence of successive conjunctions involving the Earth and Venus, over a full 2000 year grand cycle. The mayan's invented the ball game. The Mayans were great sportsmen and build huge ballcourts to play their games. The Great Ballcourt of Chich n Itz is 545 feet long and 225 feet wide overall. It has no vault, no discontinuity between the walls and is totally open to the sky.
While much of what was left of the ancient Maya culture was subsumed by the Spanish conquistadors in the 16th century, the legacy of Mayan scientific achievement lives on in the discoveries that archeologists continue to make about this amazing ancient culture. Mayan civilization lasted for more than 2,000 years, but the period from about 300 A.D. to 900 A.D., known as the Classic Period, was its heyday.