Tibia (Shinbone) Shaft Fractures. The tibia, or shinbone, is the most common fractured long bone in your body. The long bones include the femur, humerus, tibia, and fibula. A tibial shaft fracture occurs along the length of the bone, below the knee and above the ankle. 
Fractures of the long bones of the lower leg are fairly common but fibula shaft fractures usually occur in combination with a tibial fracture or in isolation as the result of a direct blow or from twisting actions. The fibula is less commonly fractured as it is not the main weight bearing bone in the lower leg. This usually involves fracture of the medial malleolus, of the proximal fibula or fibular shaft and damage to the distal tibiofibular syndesmosis. Rickets is a disease of the growing long bones of the leg that affects children and adolescents. It is caused by the failure of osteoid to calcify in a growing person.
The fibula (/ˈfɪbjʉlə/) or calf bone is a leg bone located on the lateral side of the tibia, with which it is connected above and below. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the slenderest of all the long bones. 
Fibula Fracture. A acute fracture of the fibula bone in the lower leg occurs as a result of a direct trauma or impact to the leg or ankle. Stress fractures can also occur from overuse or repetitive impacts. Symptoms of fibula stress fractures tend to include a gradual build up of pain on the outside of the lower leg which eases with rest and increases with activity. It may be tender over the point of the fracture and there may be aching or throbbing pain at night.
The fibula is one of two long bones in the lower leg. A long bone is defined as one whose body is longer than it is wide, with growth plates (epiphysis) at either end, having a hard outer surface of compact bone and a spongy inner surface known as cencellous bone containing bone marrow. This usually involves fracture of the medial malleolus, of the proximal fibula or fibular shaft and damage to the distal tibiofibular syndesmosis. Rickets is a disease of the growing long bones of the leg that affects children and adolescents. It is caused by the failure of osteoid to calcify in a growing person.
Usually, when the shaft of the tibia is broken the fibula, the smaller bone of the lower leg, is broken as well. This bone serves mainly as an anchor point for muscle and hardly bears any weight. As a result it does not need to be perfectly straight when it heals. In the case of an isolated fracture of the fibula you may be able to walk, but with nearly all other fractures it is impossible to bear weight. Within a few minutes of the injury the leg will swell up. If there have been injuries to the nerves or arteries the foot may be numb or cold.
Click to read more below. The fibula is the long, thin and lateral bone of the lower leg. It runs parallel to the tibia, or shin bone, and plays a significant role in stabilizing the ankle and supporting the muscles of the lower leg. Compared to the tibia, the fibula is about the same length, but is considerably thinner. 
FRACTURES OF THETIBIA AND FIBULA Fractures of the tibia and fibula are a special concern because missingearly warning signs can result in a useless leg.The tibia and the fibula are the two long bones of the calf. Most fractures of the tibia and fibula (tib-fib fractures) healwithout complication, and the patient is able to resume his or hernormal activities. However, potentially serious complications can develop, and you mustbe aware of their early warning signs.
Fractures of the lower end of the tibia and fibula are covered in ankle fractures. Fractures of the upper end of the tibia are covered in knee fractures.The tibia bone is the largest and most important bone of the lower leg. It is quite vulnerable to injury. In the case of an isolated fracture of the fibula you may be able to walk, but with nearly all other fractures it is impossible to bear weight. Within a few minutes of the injury the leg will swell up. If there have been injuries to the nerves or arteries the foot may be numb or cold.