Bilirubin is primarily a product of the breakdown of red blood cells by the liver. Elevated bilirubin in urine causes include a malfunction of the liver-resulting in the kidneys performing the filtration responsibilities and therefore causing the bilirubin to be removed through the urine.
Dark urine can be the result of a problem with the liver or bile ducts, especially if accompanied by lighter-than-normal stools. Dark urine and light stools are one of the ways to detect jaundice, when there is too much bilirubin in the body.
Jaundice is a yellow discoloration of the skin and whites of the eyes due to abnormally high levels of bilirubin (bile pigment) in the bloodstream. Urine is usually dark because of the bilirubin excreted through the kidneys.
It is not usual for bilirubin to be present in the urine, which otherwise indicates a problem with either the liver or the red blood cells. The liver and red blood cells can both be affected by many temporary disease processes, including infections.
Dark brown but clear urine is a sign of a liver disorder such as acute viral hepatitis or cirrhosis, which causes excess bilirubin in the urine. Pink, red, or lighter brown urine can be caused by: 1  Beets, blackberries, or certain food colorings. 2  Hemolytic anemia.
While orange or brownish urine can have a multitude of causes, liver disease must be ruled out. Cirrhosis, hepatitis, pancreatic cancer, pancreatitis, bile duct cancer or blockage and alcoholic liver disease all are known to cause dark urine.
Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that causes jaundice and dark yellow colored urine when present in increased amounts. Some people normally have higher bilirubin in their blood. This is known as Gilbert's disease. So their urine will naturally have more bilirubin.
Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid produced by the liver. This article is about a lab test to measure the amount of bilirubin in the urine. Large amounts of bilirubin in the body can lead to jaundice.
Before getting into the details of what high bilirubin in urine indicates, it is important to first understand exactly what bilirubin is. Bilirubin is primarily a pigment that is the end product of the breakdown of red blood cells within the liver.