As an essential oil and spirit, camphor has been used in Asian medicine for centuries; according to Botanical.com, it was mentioned as a medicinal herb in Marco Polo's writings. Both camphor and spirit of camphor have a strong, penetrating odor and feel mildly cold and numbing to the touch. However, the use of camphor spirit may be linked to a number of side effects and should not be used without a doctor's consent by people with certain medical conditions. Spirit of camphor is not approved by health care professionals as a scientifically viable treatment for any medical condition.
Camphor is also used as an antimicrobial substance. In embalming, camphor oil was one of the ingredients used by ancient Egyptians for mummification. Solid camphor releases fumes that form a rust-preventative coating and is therefore stored in tool chests to protect tools against rust. Camphor is a component of paregoric, an opium/camphor tincture from the 18th century. Also in the 18th century, camphor was used by Auenbrugger in the treatment of mania.
It is used for its scent, as an ingredient in cooking (mainly in India), as an embalming fluid, for medicinal purposes, and in religious ceremonies. A major source of camphor in Asia is camphor basil (the parent of African blue basil). Camphor is a component of paregoric, an opium/camphor tincture from the 18th century. Also in the 18th century, camphor was used by Auenbrugger in the treatment of mania.
Camphor spirit is an alcohol-based solution of camphor, a white substance extracted from the evergreen camphor tree that's also known as the laurel camphor or gum camphor. 3dchem.com also reports that camphor can be artificially produced from oil of turpentine. However, the use of camphor spirit may be linked to a number of side effects and should not be used without a doctor's consent by people with certain medical conditions. Spirit of camphor is not approved by health care professionals as a scientifically viable treatment for any medical condition.
Camphor used to be made by distilling the bark and wood of the camphor tree. Today, camphor is chemically manufactured from turpentine oil. It is used in products such as Vicks VapoRub. Camphor products can be rubbed on the skin (topical application) or inhaled. Be sure to read the label to find out how the product should be administered. People use camphor topically to relieve pain and reduce itching. 1 Camphor is FDA-approved for use on the skin as a painkiller in concentrations of 3% to 11%. 2  It is in many rub-on products for cold sores, insect stings and bites, minor burns, and hemorrhoids. 3  Skin itching or irritation.
---Description--- Camphor is a white crystalline substance, obtained from the tree Cinnamonum camphora, but the name has been given to various concrete odorous volatile products, found in different aromatic plants. The commercial Camphor comes only from C. camphora and Dryobalanops camphora (fam. Dipterocarpacaea). 
1 Pain. 2  Camphor is FDA-approved for use on the skin as a painkiller in concentrations of 3% to 11%. 3  It is in many rub-on products for cold sores, insect stings and bites, minor burns, and hemorrhoids. 1 Camphor is FDA-approved for use on the skin as a painkiller in concentrations of 3% to 11%. 2  It is in many rub-on products for cold sores, insect stings and bites, minor burns, and hemorrhoids. 3  Skin itching or irritation.
It is found in the wood of the camphor laurel (Cinnamomum camphora), a large evergreen tree found in Asia (particularly in Sumatra, Indonesia and Borneo) and also of the unrelated kapur tree, a tall timber tree from the same region. Camphor is a component of paregoric, an opium/camphor tincture from the 18th century. Also in the 18th century, camphor was used by Auenbrugger in the treatment of mania.
Botanical.com reports that camphor and spirit of camphor taken internally are used as a calming agent for the nervous system, particularly in cases of hysteria or excessive nervousness. Camphor may also be beneficial as a treatment for diarrhea, excessive digestive gas, nausea or bronchitis. However, the use of camphor spirit may be linked to a number of side effects and should not be used without a doctor's consent by people with certain medical conditions. Spirit of camphor is not approved by health care professionals as a scientifically viable treatment for any medical condition.
Camphor spirit is a solution of alcohol and camphor, a strong-smelling compound found in a specific species of native Asian trees. Camphor spirit -- also known as spirit of camphor -- is used by many alternative medicine practitioners to treat a number of ailments, internally and externally. However, the use of camphor spirit may be linked to a number of side effects and should not be used without a doctor's consent by people with certain medical conditions. Spirit of camphor is not approved by health care professionals as a scientifically viable treatment for any medical condition.