Usually you'll see results within 12 to 24 hours. The dead worms should appear in the dog's stool during that period, and may continue to appear for another day or two.It's always advisable to use the wormer once, then repeat the treatment in 2 weeks to make sure all of the worms are killed.
Nemex is very safe and they may want you to repeat it sooner than the two weeks, although you will definitely want to repeat it in two weeks, and two weeks later you need to have a fecal exam to make sure no new worms have developed from eggs left in her system. Member 641257 answered on 10/31/10.
How long does it take for dewormer to kill worms in a horse? That depends on the type of parasites and the chemical used. It is  not an immediate result, which is why rechecking fecal egg counts  to determine efficacy is not recommend … ed for at least 10 days after  deworming.
Additionally, the type of worm affecting your cat should properly identified before you or your veterinarian try to treat it.Roundworms and tapeworms can be dealt with using non-prescription treatments. Tapeworms can be treated with Tapeworm Tabs, which use an anthelmintic called praziquantel.
Usually it takes 24-48 hours for the dewormer to work. It takes three doses, given two weeks apart, but I see that he has already had three doses of dewormer.
Parasitic worms plague pets of all kinds. The severity of any infestation depends on both your pet and the worms that threaten his or her health. Some worms cause symptoms that are only mildly uncomfortable while others can pose serious health risks.
Due to the high incidence of parasitism in puppies and the risks posed to humans by hookworms and roundworms, the Center for Disease Control recommends that puppies be started … on a preventative deworming schedule at 2 weeks of age and continued every 2 weeks until they are at least 8 weeks of age.
Confirm the Worm. Most worms that infect dogs -- including roundworms, tapeworms, hookworms, and whipworms -- live in the intestines, so that’s the first place for your vet to look. If it’s time for your dog’s annual check-up, or if you or your vet thinks your dog has worms, provide a fresh stool sample. Simply scoop up some of your pet’s poop, seal it in a clean plastic bag, and bring it to the appointment. If you can't do that, your vet can take a sample during the office visit.