Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
The normal pulse for healthy adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats per minute. The pulse rate may fluctuate and increase with exercise, illness, injury, and emotions. Females ages 12 and older, in general, tend to have faster heart rates than do males.
1 Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised. 3  Taking a person's pulse is a direct measure of heart rate.
For adults, a normal resting rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Athletes may have a rate as low as 40 bpm because their hearts are trained to efficiently pump blood. If your heart rate is consistently below 60 or above 100, you may have a heart condition, such as arrhythmia.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower.
A normal resting heart rate -- your heart rate when you're completely at rest -- for the average adult is 60 to 80 beats per minute. People who are very physically fit often have slightly lower resting heart rates. Also, heart rate, much like weight, tends to increase with age.
Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 4