Installing it is more or less like installing other vinyl tiles, except that you have no adhesive. What the manufacturer's directions often fail to tell you, however, is that you need to prime the floor with a latex floor primer first. If your're installing vinyl flooring over an existing tile floor, check that the grout lines are no larger than 1/4 inch. If they are, the floor will need to be leveled using a patching compound. Allure planks and tiles are pliable and over time, larger grout lines will become visible.
If you have a plywood subfloor you are installing the vinyl tiles on, you need to roll on an adhesive primer. An adhesive primer will make a nice smooth surface for the glue on the vinyl tiles to stick to ensuring that your tiles will actually stick to the floor. Do not try to cut all the way through the tiles with a utility knife. If you don’t have the arm strength or don’t want to use a utility knife, use a vinyl tile cutter. It is similar to an old-fashioned paper-cutter and cuts all the way through the tile in one fell swoop.
There are two types of vinyl tile: glue-down and self-adhesive. Glue-down tiles are set into a bed of mastic, which is a rather messy process. Self-adhesive vinyl tiles are a peel-and-stick product, making them ideally suited for do-it-yourselfers. Here, we asked Jimmy Tiganella, owner of Classic Tile in Oakville, Connecticut, to demonstrate how to install a long-lasting vinyl tile floor, a job that starts with covering the old floor with plywood underlayment. 
You can apply peel-and-stick vinyl tiles to an existing floor without first putting down an underlayment if your current floor is in good condition. You won’t need grout if you butt the tiles right up against each other, making this project not only inexpensive and simple, but doable in a very short amount of time. 2. Dilute 1/4 cup of ammonia in 1 gallon of water and mop the floor thoroughly to remove any traces of wax on the flooring. Dry the floor with shop cloths or old towels, and then it air dry for at least an hour to make sure that all traces of moisture are gone.
Luxe Plank™. Luxe Plank™ vinyl flooring is Armstrong's easiest floor to install. Luxe Plank™ will turn anyone into a do-it-yourselfer; it is truly as easy as place, peel, and stick. If you make a mistake you can remove and restick the planks until the adhesive sets. 
Step 1. Score and cut the tongue off the first row of vinyl planks using a utility knife. Set the first plank in place on the starting line with the cut side toward the wall, maintaining the expansion gap. Step 2. Prep your subfloor so that it is clean, dry and level within 3/16-inch change per 10 feet. Use a self-leveler on low spots and / or sand high spots of wood or concrete. Do not sand vinyl flooring – it may contain asbestos.
Peel-and-Stick Vinyl Plank Flooring. The floor preparation and layout are the same for peel-and-stick vinyl planks as they are for floating vinyl plank floors. To install each piece, peel the adhesive backing off of the plank and stick it to the subfloor. Step 2. Prep your subfloor so that it is clean, dry and level within 3/16-inch change per 10 feet. Use a self-leveler on low spots and / or sand high spots of wood or concrete. Do not sand vinyl flooring – it may contain asbestos.
Please try again later. 2 quick tips to help you install your vinyl flooring. Sometimes when you work on a budget you have to improvise. Don't forget to let the planks acclimate to the ambient room temperature for at least 4. 1  Howto & Style. 
Peel-and-stick wood-look flooring bonds against a clean subfloor. Peel-and-stick flooring, a type of low-maintenance vinyl flooring, bonds directly to a building's subfloor. Many peel-and-stick flooring panels have a natural wood-look finish and texture. 4. Look for a directional arrow on the peel-and-stick floor plank's release paper. Some manufacturers place pattern arrows on the release paper, others trust the flooring installer to judge the pattern.