fox8news@fox8live.com. BATON ROUGE, LA (WVUE) - If you're expecting a tax refund from the State of Louisiana, you may be in for a long wait. State lawmakers say they've been fielding complaints from residents who say they've been waiting weeks to get back the money they are owed. Senate President John Alario is now asking the La.
1 File electronically. 2  The average processing time for refunds is about ten days when you use electronic options such as Louisiana File Online, the state’s free tax filing web application. 3  For paper returns, the processing time is 12 to 16 weeks. 4  Visit Louisiana File Online at www.revenue.louisiana.gov/fileonline. 1 The average processing time for refunds is about ten days when you use electronic options such as Louisiana File Online, the state’s free tax filing web application. 2
If you file a paper return, the department says it could take up to 16 weeks for processing. For those taxpayers who file electronically, your check will be processed more quickly. Still, the department says online filers should still expect to wait at least 21 days from submission of tax forms. BATON ROUGE, LA (WVUE) - If you're expecting a tax refund from the State of Louisiana, you may be in for a long wait. State lawmakers say they've been fielding complaints from residents who say they've been waiting weeks to get back the money they are owed. Senate President John Alario is now asking the La.
Return the check with Form R-6642 (IT-710), statement of claimant to refund due on behalf of deceased taxpayer, and a copy of the death certificate. Form R-6642 (IT-710) can be found on our web site under Tax Forms in the Individual Income Tax general forms area. If you have submitted a paper income tax return, then the processing time for these returns can take 8-10 weeks. Some returns, whether electronic or paper, are randomly selected for review. If your return has been selected for review, then the review process can take up to 16 weeks.
The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated e-filed returns may take around 21 days for processing. 
If you electronically filed an income tax return, then you can expect that your refund will be issued within 21 business days. If you have submitted a paper income tax return, then the processing time for these returns can take 8-10 weeks. Some returns, whether electronic or paper, are randomly selected for review. If your return has been selected for review, then the review process can take up to 16 weeks. You can always check the status of your refund at www.revenue.louisiana.gov/refund, which is updated every night with the latest information on processed return
The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an  e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated  e-filed returns may take around 21 days … for processing. 2 people found this useful. 1 About 4-5 business days. 2  I filed my State Tax Returns through TurboTax E-File. 3  Federal direct deposit takes about 8 days but state returns can vary from a week to over a month. 4  I'm a Massachusetts resident and it has been close to 30 days and i still have not received the direct deposit.
With Louisiana File Online, you can: Check on the status of your individual income refund. View your business account data, including posted payments. View business tax information for previous years. Create unique user names and passwords to protect your information. Amend tax returns. You have arrived at Louisiana File Online, your gateway to filing and paying your state taxes electronically. Louisiana File Online is a fast, easy to use, absolutely free public service from the Louisiana Department of Revenue. We engineered this innovative tool for unmatched convenience and security.
Automated Income Tax Refund Status. Taxpayers may check the status of their individual income tax return refunds via the Department's refund status web page or by using the Department's automated telephone system (dial 1-888-829-3071 toll-free, or 922-3270 for the Baton Rouge area). 