Creatine is a chemical that is normally found in the body, mostly in muscles. It is made by the body and can also be obtained from certain foods. Fish and meats are good sources of creatine. Creatine can also be made in the laboratory. 1 Also, creatine does not seem to increase endurance or improve performance in highly trained athletes. 2  There is some evidence that creatine “loading,” using 20 grams daily for 5 days, may be more effective than continuous use.
http://www.axislabs.net/pure-microniz... Creatine is a natural compound made in the body and is derived from the diet through meat products. In the body, Creatine is changed into a molecule called phosphocreatine which serves as a storage reservoir for regenerating ATP. ATP is the chemical source of energy for muscle contraction and quick energy
More reps with more weight means more muscle growth. The more creatine phosphate you have in your muscles, the more energy the muscles will have. This will have a positive effect on the amount of weight you can lift and short-term maximum strength lifts. Let's go back to the bench press example. This is what creatine does. It helps replenishes short term energy (ATP), energy that is needed to keep on powering up the weight. More weight and reps
Overview. Creatine is a naturally-occurring amino acid (protein building block) that's found in meat and fish, and also made by the human body in the liver, kidneys, and pancreas. It is converted into creatine phosphate or phosphocreatine and stored in the muscles, where it is used for energy. During high-intensity, short-duration exercise, such as lifting weights or sprinting, phosphocreatine is converted into ATP, a major source of energy within the human body.
For the use of creatine to increase athletic performance, see Creatine supplements. Not to be confused with creatinine. Creatine (/ˈkriːətiːn/ or /ˈkriːətɪn/) is a nitrogenous organic acid that occurs naturally in vertebrates and helps to supply energy to all cells in the body, primarily muscle. This is achieved by increasing the formation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Creatine itself can be phosphorylated by creatine kinase to form phosphocreatine, which is used as an energy reserve in skeletal muscles and the brain. Synthesis primarily takes place in the kidney and liver, with creatine then being transported to the muscles via the blood. Approximately 95% of the human body's total creatine is located in skeletal muscle
Creatine has an indirect effect at building muscle and strength. Here's what creatine does: It is used to increase the amount of creatine phosphate you have in your muscle tissue. Creatine phosphate is than used to replenish ATP which acts as a quick energy source for activities that require quick bursts of energy such as strength training/weight lifting and sprinting. This is what creatine does. It helps replenishes short term energy (ATP), energy that is needed to keep on powering up the weight. More weight and reps means more muscle growth.
Muscle tissue does not produce creatine, and therefore it must take up creatine from the bloodstream. Once inside muscle cells, creatine gets a high-energy phosphate attached to it and is then known as phosphocreatine (PCr) or creatine phosphate. 
Creatine is a natural substance that turns into creatine phosphate in the body. Creatine phosphate helps make a substance called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP provides the energy for muscle contractions. The body produces some of the creatine it uses. It also comes from protein-rich foods such as meat or fish. 