Cost range: Between $800 and $1,000 for demolition alone. The total cost of your project will depend on what you decide to put in the patio ’s place. Typical project length: One day. Permit required: None for the project, although some municipalities require a permit for dumping concrete, so call ahead. Patios and walkways cost $6 (no color additives, broom finish) to $15 and up (coloring or other decorative techniques) per square foot; retaining walls will run $30 to $40 per square foot for a basic design.
Cost to Screen In Patio. The cost to Screen In Patio averages $4.75 - $6.35 per square foot in 2014. This Screened In Patio Installation cost estimate is calculated from average material costs, unit labor producitivity rates and national average hourly labor wages. To refine the estimate for your Screened In Patio Installation project: 1
Types. The overall cost depends on the type of your patio enclosure. For example, as of May 2011, a screened-in porch costs $500 to $15,000, while a four-season, custom-built sunroom with glass windows and temperature control costs upwards of $70,000, according to website Cost Helper. Prefabricated enclosed patios cost $10,000 to $30,000.
Roof Installation. If you're building a sunroom as your patio enclosure, the costs will revolve a lot around the windows you choose to surround the room. The cost to build a patio enclosure depends on what you envision. By enclosing the patio, you add more livable space to your home. Some people turn their patios into sunrooms, while others merely add screens to protect from bugs.
According to Remodeling Magazine, a 200-square foot sunroom addition with footings and slabs-on-grade foundation can cost up to $70,000, while a survey conducted on HomeAdvisor.com found the average cost on sunroom additions ran around $16,315. A variety of factors determine the cost of a sunroom, which is why you can’t pin down an exact price online. Patio Enclosures starts each sunroom project with a free, no obligation, in home estimate for homeowners ready for a sunroom.
How to Estimate the Cost for a Patio Enclosure. Enclosures can range from a cozy retreat to a summer party venue. A patio enclosure costs an average of $11,000, with the low end at $3,000 and the high end at $20,000, according to HomeAdvisor.com. At the extremes, a basic roof-plus-screening job can cost about $500 while a fully tricked-out sunroom averages $73,000. Considering the range of options available, you'll need some fairly firm ideas of what you want in a patio enclosure to estimate the cost. Wallet Busters. The biggest cost of a more elaborate enclosure, such as a sunroom, is the windows. A sunroom is typically defined as having at least 40 percent of its walls made of glass. Window prices vary. A lot. For example, a 2-foot-by-3-foot window can cost between $60 to $260 each at a home-improvement store.
Average Costs of a Patio Enclosure. Homeowners are often surprised to learn just how expensive it is to enclose a patio. However, it is important to realize that this enclosure actually increases the total square footage of the room, and it is essentially creating additional year-round living space to enjoy. The average price range for having a patio enclosure built by professionals is $12,608 to $17,678. An easy way to make the most of your patio is to build an enclosure and cover up the patio entirely, which protects it from inclement weather. Another option is to screen in the patio, which keeps out bugs and any debris carried by the wind.
Building a Sunroom. If you've decided to fully enclose your patio as an additional livable space, the patio enclosure costs will increase. If you go this route, a solid roof would need to be added, as well as walls with windows and a new floor. The cost to build a patio enclosure depends on what you envision. By enclosing the patio, you add more livable space to your home. Some people turn their patios into sunrooms, while others merely add screens to protect from bugs.
Cost to Screen In Patio - 2014 Cost Calculator. The cost to Screen In Patio averages $4.75 - $6.35 per square foot in 2014. This Screened In Patio Installation cost estimate is calculated from average material costs, unit labor producitivity rates and national average hourly labor wages. To refine the estimate for your Screened In Patio Installation project: 1