Practice Essentials. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare, but life-threatening, idiosyncratic reaction to neuroleptic medications that is characterized by fever, muscular rigidity, altered mental status, and autonomic dysfunction. The key to diagnosis is that NMS occurs only after exposure to an neuroleptic drug. On average, onset is 4-14 days after the start of therapy; 90% of cases occur within 10 days. However, NMS can occur years into therapy. Once the syndrome starts, it usually evolves over 24-72 hours
Part of the Network administration glossary: A network management system (NMS) is a set of hardware and/or software tools that allow an IT professional to supervise the individual components of a network within a larger network management framework. Network management system components assist with: 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a life-threatening, neurological disorder most often caused by an adverse reaction to neuroleptic or antipsychotic drugs. Symptoms include high fever, sweating, unstable blood pressure, stupor, muscular rigidity, and autonomic dysfunction. 
INTRODUCTION. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a life threatening neurologic emergency associated with the use of neuroleptic agents and characterized by a distinctive clinical syndrome of mental status change, rigidity, fever, and dysautonomia. While most patients with NMS are young adults, the syndrome has been described in all age groups from 0.9 to 78 years [ 2,4-6 ]. Age is not a risk factor [ 7 ]. In most studies, men outnumber women twofold.
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this repor
DEFINITION of 'Regulation NMS'. National Market System (NMS) is a set of rules passed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which looks to improve the U.S. exchanges through improved fairness in price execution as well as improve the displaying of quotes and amount and access to market data. 
Background. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare, but life-threatening, idiosyncratic reaction to neuroleptic medications that is characterized by fever, muscular rigidity, altered mental status, and autonomic dysfunction. The key to diagnosis is that NMS occurs only after exposure to an neuroleptic drug. On average, onset is 4-14 days after the start of therapy; 90% of cases occur within 10 days. However, NMS can occur years into therapy. Once the syndrome starts, it usually evolves over 24-72 hours
Approach Considerations. Treatment of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is mainly supportive; it is directed toward controlling the rigidity and hyperthermia and preventing complications (eg, respiratory failure, renal failure). 