Asafoetida is a plant. It has a bad smell and tastes bitter. That probably explains why it is sometimes called “devil’s dung.”. People use asafoetida resin, a gum-like material, as medicine. Asafoetida resin is produced by solidifying juice that comes out of cuts made in the plant’s living roots. Asafoetida is used for breathing problems including ongoing (chronic) bronchitis, H1N1 swine flu, and asthma. It is also used for digestion problems including intestinal gas, upset stomach, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and irritable colon. There is some scientific evidence that the chemicals in asafoetida might help treat irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and also might protect against high blood levels of certain fats including cholesterol and triglycerides. Chemicals called coumarins in asafoetida can thin the blood.
Derived from a species of giant fennel, asafoetida has a unique smell and flavor. It is called for often in Indian cooking, primarily with legumes and dishes featuring vegetables such as cauliflower. Asafoetida powder, also known as Hing, is a crucial ingredient in Indian vegetarian cooking.
Use a light hand with this one, folks, it is intense. Asafoetida is a unique-smelling spice to say the least. The pungent odor gives little hint at the onion and garlic flavors hiding within. Made from resin of the giant fennel plant, the intense sulfur compounds that dominate its raw form disappear when cooked, leaving a baked garlic pungency in breads and curries. 
Asafoetida is a plant from the Apiaceae family, which includes carrots, parsley, dill, celery, caraway, fennel, and lovage. Most similar in appearance to fennel, this herb has a smell that's often compared to rotting feet, which causes many cooks to feel nervous about using it. A pinch of asafoetida can be added to stir-fried dishes. It's crucial that pregnant women avoid using asafoetida, as the herb could trigger a miscarriage. Asafoetida is a plant native to the Middle East.
Asafoetida is not that kind of spice. To the uninitiated, its flavor and aroma can be downright alarming. Its origins and processing— it's the dried and powdered resin from a tree —make it one of those ingredients, like cheese, that make you wonder how we ever turned it into food. But oh what a wonderful substance it is! Asafoetida is one of the most distinctive spices in South Indian cuisine that transforms a dish (and the kitchen, and maybe the room adjacent to it) into something magical.
Asafoetida /aesəˈfɛtɨdə/ æsəˈfɛtɨdə is the dried (latex gum) oleoresin exuded from the rhizome or tap root of several species Of, ferula a perennial herb that grows 1 to.1 5 (m.3 3 to.4 9) ft. Tall the species is native to the deserts Of, iran mountains Of, afghanistan and is mainly cultivated in Nearby. india 1 Asafoetida reduces the growth of indigenous microflora in the gut, reducing flatulence. 2  In the Jammu region of India, asafoetida is used as a medicine for flatulence and constipation by 60% of locals.
Asafetida, also spelled asafoetida, gets its name from the Persian aza, for mastic or resin, and the Latin foetidus, for stinking. It is a gum that is from the sap of the roots and stem of the ferula species, a giant fennel that exudes a vile odour. 
Asafoetida or Hing, though characterized by an unpleasant odor, has numerous health benefits. For instance, it is a particularly valuable home remedy for relieving flatulence and stomach problems. 
Asafoetida /aesəˈfɛtɨdə/ æsəˈfɛtɨdə is the dried (latex gum) oleoresin exuded from the rhizome or tap root of several species Of, ferula a perennial herb that grows 1 to.1 5 (m.3 3 to.4 9) ft. tall 1 Asafoetida reduces the growth of indigenous microflora in the gut, reducing flatulence. 2  In the Jammu region of India, asafoetida is used as a medicine for flatulence and constipation by 60% of locals.
Asafoetida recipes. An extremely pungent spice extracted from a plant of the giant fennel family, asafoetida is frequently used in Indian and Middle Eastern cooking. In fact, asafoetida's strong, garlicky, dung-like smell is quite off-putting (the Germans call it Teufelsdreck – devil's dung!), but if you can overcome the stink, which disappears in the cooking process, the smallest amount of it transforms vegetable dishes, meat stews and fish.