Definition of SPINEL. 1. : a hard crystalline mineral consisting of an oxide of magnesium and aluminum that varies from colorless to ruby red to black and is used as a gem. 2. : any of a group of minerals that are essentially oxides of magnesium, ferrous iron, zinc, or manganese.
Learn about spinel, its crystal meanings and metaphysical and healing properties lore including aura cleansing, stress relief, high energy, and more. Spinel, though often mistaken historically for other stones such as ruby or sapphire, is a valid mineral in its own right and has many positive energetic properties. In metaphysical and crystal healing lore, spinel of virtually any color is known for these energy vibrations and more.
Spinel is a stone that comes in so many colors it's often confused for other stones. Spinel's a valid mineral in its own right, though, and has many positive energetic properties. In metaphysical and crystal healing lore, Spinel of virtually any color is known for the following energetic attributes. Spinel is a stone that can bring high energy to all efforts and all realms.
Spinel. Spinel (meaning): It is a precious gem of transparent red, darkish and yellowish red. Red color of spinel is so close to ruby that quite a few spinels were wrongly mistaken as rubies in the past. Ruby popularly known as ‘Black Prince’ among the jewels of the British Brown is not actually a ruby but it is a red spinel. Spinel is good for financial gains and protects the wearer against unforeseen losses. For more information on spinel properties click here.
Spinel is good for financial gains and protects the wearer against unforeseen losses. Ruby popularly known as ‘Black Prince’ among the jewels of the British Brown is not actually a ruby but it is a red spinel. Spinel is good for financial gains and protects the wearer against unforeseen losses. For more information on spinel properties click here.
Spinel is a hard vitreous magnesium aluminium oxide that has been used as a gemstone for centuries. The beauty of spinel has caused it to be mistaken for ruby and sapphire in the past. However, spinel deserves to be recognized as a gemstone that is worthy of appreciation in its own right. The name spinel is thought to have come from either the Latin word, spina, meaning thorn, due to its pointed crystal form, or the Greek word for spark, in reference to its bright colour. Spinel has been mined for centuries and one of the most famous historical spinel gemstones is known as the Black Prince's Ruby. As the name suggests, this is a red gemstone, which was thought to be a ruby. The Black Prince's Ruby was acquired by Edward, Prince of Wales in 1367
General. spə-ˈnel. Stone of Immortal Beauty. Spinel is often called the great impostor of the gemstone world, being that is has been mistaken for all sorts of other gemstones, occasionally on purpose to deceive a customer. Spinel is commonly mistaken for Ruby, Sapphires and Tanzanite. Spinel is now a gemstone that is treasured for its own beauty, it’s wonderful brilliance, hardness and wonderful range of spectacular colors. Their one ‘black mark’ is that often they are used to create a number of imitation birthstone rings, and as such people often believe the Spinel to simply be a fake.
BLACK SPINEL. The rich and regal spinel is a gemstone that ranges in color from pale pink to deepest black. The black spinel is one of the rarest spinels. The spinel is known as the great imposter in the world of gemstones. Several of the rubies in the Queen of England's crown jewels are actually spinels. 