Level 10 (92,130 points). That all depends on one's Internet speed and the content being downloaded, both HD and SD content start immediately for me. If you can tell us your Internet speed we can tell you how long a movie should take to download and how long before you can start to watch it. Level 1 (0 points). Winston C, Thanks for the reply.
Find your movie on the device you used to rent it. 1  On a Mac or PC: Go to the Rentals tab in the Movies section of the iTunes Library. 2  On an iOS device: Go to the Rental tab of the Videos app. 3  Using Apple TV (2nd or 3rd generation): Look in the top shelf of the main menu. Watch movies on the following devices: 1  A Mac or PC. 2  An iPhone, iPad, iPod touch (with iOS 3.1.3 or later). 3  An iPod classic or iPod nano (3rd, 4th, or 5th generation). 4  A TV through Apple TV.
Learn how to find, rent, and watch movies on your computer, using Apple TV, or on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. You can rent movies through the iTunes store on your computer or iOS device. To rent movies, you need: 1  A Mac or PC with the latest version of iTunes. Watch movies on the following devices: 1  A Mac or PC. 2  An iPhone, iPad, iPod touch (with iOS 3.1.3 or later). 3  An iPod classic or iPod nano (3rd, 4th, or 5th generation). 4  A TV through Apple TV.
The download time for a movie from iTunes will depend upon the length of the movie, if it is an HD movie, and the speed of the downloading connection. For example a 2 hour mov … ie will take about 25 minutes to download with a 5 MB broadband connection, but will take around an hour if it is in HD. Over a 1 MB connection it will take at least an hour and the HD version can take around 4 hours. Movies can be watched while they are being downloaded. You have 30 days for it in your computer, but after you start watching it, you have 24 hours to finish the movie. BUT. If you change your time in the computer you can keep it … for a longer time.
You have 30 days to start watching a movie after you rent it. After you start watching the movie, you have 24 hours (in the US) or 48 hours (elsewhere) to finish it. You can watch the movie as often as you like until it expires. If you don’t start watching a movie within 30 days, you must rent it again. Watch movies on the following devices: 1  A Mac or PC. 2  An iPhone, iPad, iPod touch (with iOS 3.1.3 or later). 3  An iPod classic or iPod nano (3rd, 4th, or 5th generation). 4  A TV through Apple TV.
A quick and easy to follow guide on how to get a refund from Apple's iTunes store. Many people think that once you buy something from the iTunes Store--be it an app, movie, or book--there’s no way to get a refund. But that’s not exactly true. We’ve taken a look at Apple’s iTunes’ Store refund policies and show you how to get your money back for that crappy app. What Happens Next. After you’ve submitted the item for refund it usually will take 12-24 hours to get an emailed reply from Apple. During this time a representative from the company will look at the item, your comments about it, and your explanation as to why you want a refund.
You should be able to watch an SD movie immediately, an HD movie should take approximately 2/3 of it's duration before you can start to watch it, for example an hour movie would be ready to watch in 40 mins, a 90 minute movie would be ready in an hour and a 2 hour movie in about an hour and twenty minutes. If you can tell us your Internet speed we can tell you how long a movie should take to download and how long before you can start to watch it. Level 1 (0 points). Winston C, Thanks for the reply.
iTunes Store: Download times will vary. When you buy an item from the iTunes Store, the amount of time it takes to download your purchase will vary according to the file's size and your Internet connection speed. A broadband connection is highly recommended for making music purchases and required for making video purchases or rentals. For reference, here are some examples of download times for various media types. Your download times may vary. If you want to know your speed specifics, your Internet Service Provider (ISP) can help you determine your download speed, or you can use CNET's Bandwidth Meter.
show more Ok, usually when I make a purchase off of itunes it takes sevral days for them to charge my card and I ususally get an email on like Saturday for my bill. I thought it would be like this for everyone but looking on here it says that they get charged like the next day. 