Cellulose is frequently used as a food additive to improve physical qualities such as smoothness, creaminess and mouth feel in products including dressings, sauces and even ice cream, according to MayoClinic.com. Cellulose can make baked goods firmer and absorb excess moisture in products, reducing spoilage. Fiber can be either soluble or insoluble. The form of cellulose used in foods is soluble fiber. It is important to eat other food sources containing insoluble fiber, such as wheat bran, vegetables and whole grain, to gain the maximum contribution of fiber to health.
Cellulose is the substance that makes up most of a plant's cell walls. Since it is made by all plants, it is probably the most abundant organic compound on Earth. Aside from being the primary building material for plants, cellulose has many others uses. Cellulose and plant cells. Since cellulose is the main building material out of which plants are made, and plants are the primary or first link in what is known as the food chain (which describes the feeding relationships of all living things), cellulose is a very important substance.
One more thing: You can eat starch, but you can't digest cellulose. Your body contains enzymes that will break starch down into glucose to fuel your body. (Click here for a way to taste this for yourself!) But we humans (and puppies and kitties) don't have enzymes that can break down cellulose. 
Some animals, particularly ruminants and termites, can digest cellulose with the help of symbiotic micro-organisms that live in their guts, such as Trichonympha. In humans, cellulose acts as a hydrophilic bulking agent for feces and is often referred to as a  dietary fiber . Some species of bacteria secrete it to form biofilms. Cellulose is the most abundant organic polymer on Earth. The cellulose content of cotton fiber is 90%, that of wood is 40–50% and that of dried hemp is approximately 45%. Cellulose is mainly used to produce paperboard and paper
uses of cellulose   Cellulose is a fibrous material found in most plants. Cotton for example is almost pure cellulose. Cellulose is used for making fibers for clothing etc. … and is also an ingredient in many chemical substances such as paint and lacquers. 
Cellulose is a type of polysaccharide plant fiber. Polysaccharide fiber is a carbohydrate composed of linked sugar molecules, however, humans lack the enzyme necessary to break cellulose down into component sugars, allowing your body to absorb it. Fiber can be either soluble or insoluble. The form of cellulose used in foods is soluble fiber. It is important to eat other food sources containing insoluble fiber, such as wheat bran, vegetables and whole grain, to gain the maximum contribution of fiber to health.
Cellulose is an organic compound with the formula (C 6H 10O 5) n, a polysaccharide consisting of a linear chain of several hundred to many thousands of β(1→4) linked D-glucose units. Cellulose is an important structural component of the primary cell wall of green plants, many forms of algae and the oomycetes. Some species of bacteria secrete it to form biofilms. Cellulose is the most abundant organic polymer on Earth. The cellulose content of cotton fiber is 90%, that of wood is 40–50% and that of dried hemp is approximately 45%. Cellulose is mainly used to produce paperboard and paper
Cellulose provides structure and strength to the cell walls of plants and provides fiber in our diets. Although some animals, such as ruminants, can digest cellulose, humans cannot. Cellulose falls into the category of indigestible carbohydrates known as dietary fiber. 
But we humans don't have enzymes that can break down cellulose. Some animals do, like termites, who eat wood, or cattle, who eat grass, and break down cellulose in their four-chambered stomachs. So unless you're a termite or a cow, don't try to nourish yourself on woodchips. Cellulose is a lot stronger than starch. Starch and cellulose are two very similar polymers. In fact, they are both made from the same monomer, glucose, and have the same glucose-based repeat units. There is only one difference. In starch, all the glucose repeat units are oriented in the same direction.