Click on “ Options ”. This brings up the specific options for all Windows explorer folders. There is a new section “ Privacy ” under the General tab. You can uncheck both “ Show recently used files in Quick access ” and “ Show frequently used folders in Quick access “. In Windows 10, the default behavior when you launch Windows Explorer is showing a list of recent frequent accessed file and folder in “ Quick Access “. The more you use the new operating system, the more Windows learn from your pattern, and it will identify those folders and files you access frequently.
InfoPath. On the Tools menu, click Options, and then click the General tab. Select or clear the Recently used file list check box. If you want to show your recently used files, in the Entries list, click the number of files that you want to display. Top of Page. PowerPoint. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click PowerPoint Options. Click Advanced. Under Display, in the Show this number of Recent Documents list, click the number of files that you want to display. If you do not want to display any files, click 0.
Keep a file on the recently used files list. Click the File tab. Click Recent to see a list of the recently used files. Right click the file you want to keep, and then select Pin to list, or click the pin icon: . When a file is pinned to the list, the pin icon looks like a push pin viewed from the top: . Click the pin button again to unpin the file. Change the number of files that appear in the list of recently used files. Click the File tab. Under Help, click Options. Click Advanced. Under Display, in the Show this number of Recent Documents list, click the number of files that you want to display. Note These steps do not apply to InfoPath 2010. Top of Page.
1 On the Tools menu, click Options. 2  On the General tab, click to clear the Recently used file list check box, and then click OK. 3  Start the program that you want to modify. 4  Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Program Name Options. 5  Note. 6  is the name of the program that you want to modify. 7  Click Advanced. 1 Start the program that you want to modify. 2  On the Tools menu, click Options. 3  On the General tab, click to clear the Recently used file list check box, and then click OK. 4  Start the program that you want to modify. 5
One of them is when you click on the File Explorer icon on the taskbar or when you use Windows + E hotkey, Windows 10 opens Home folder instead of Libraries or This PC (Computer). With default settings, the Home folder shows Favorites, Frequent folders and Recent files. Since Home folder is the location that you get when you click on the File Explorer icon, this Home location will be helpful to quickly access recently accessed files and folders. But there are many users who want to stop Windows from showing recently accessed files and folders for better privacy.
On the Tools menu, click Options, and then click the General tab. Select or clear the Recently used file list check box. If you want to show your recently used files, in the Entries list, click the number of files that you want to display. PowerPoint. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click PowerPoint Options. Click Advanced. Under Display, in the Show this number of Recent Documents list, click the number of files that you want to display. If you do not want to display any files, click 0.
You can bypass Quick Access view and show This PC view in File Explorer of Windows 10 if you’re not using Quick Access feature. The tutorial shows you how to disable and remove recently used files from appearing in Quick Access of Windows 10 File Explorer. 1  In File Explorer, click or tap on View in menu bar. 1 Go to General tab if it’s not already there. 2  In Privacy section, uncheck Show recently used files in Quick access to delete and hide recently used files from showing up in main content area on the right of File Explorer when in Quick Access view. 3  Click or tap OK when done.
1. Right click on the taskbar, select ‘Properties’, click on the Start Menu tab and uncheck ‘Store and display recently opened items in the Start menu and the taskbar’ (second one), 1  FilerFrog, Excellent File Handling Windows Explorer Shell Extension. 2  How to Show Hidden files, Folders and File Extension Names in Windows 8. 