The Gophers earned their first berth in the Rose Bowl by winning the 1960 Big Ten title. The following year, Minnesota returned to Pasadena despite a second-place finish in the conference. TCF Bank Stadium is the football stadium for the Minnesota Golden Gophers college football team at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The 52,525-seat on-campus horseshoe style stadium is designed to support future expansion to seat up to 80,000 people, and cost $303.3 million to build.
Minnesota beat UCLA 21-3 to claim its first and only Rose Bowl victory. Minnesota's last Big Ten title was in 1967, tying the Indiana Hoosiers and Purdue Boilermakers atop the standings. TCF Bank Stadium is the football stadium for the Minnesota Golden Gophers college football team at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The 52,525-seat on-campus horseshoe style stadium is designed to support future expansion to seat up to 80,000 people, and cost $303.3 million to build.
* A drought so long that every team in the Big Ten – including Northwestern, the league’s longtime doormat, and Nebraska, which didn’t even join the Big Ten until last year – has been to the Rose Bowl since Minnesota’s last appearance. A Big Ten team was in the Rose Bowl*, the SEC champ was in the Sugar Bowl, and a highly-regarded LSU team travelled to Miami. More along, nothing to see here. * The 1962 Rose Bowl would be the first telecast in color. S ince then, the Rose Bowl has changed in numerous ways.
The Gophers are trying to reclaim Paul Bunyan's Axe for the first time in a decade. Like the aforementioned Floyd of Rosedale, the Axe is awarded annually to the winner of another Minnesota rivalry game. Wisconsin has the last 10 times, with the Gophers' most recent victory against the Badgers coming in 2003. POSSIBLE BOWL GAMES. After Minnesota's 6-1 start, Gophers fans had high hopes for a bowl game. Some were even starting to think of the Rose Bowl as a possible goal. After Saturday's loss, dreams of the Rose Bowl were tempered a bit. Still, Minnesota has a chance to get to a better bowl game than the Texas Bowl, which it played in last year. Depending on who you ask, the Gophers could end up in any number of bowl games
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — It’s down to business for the Gophers football squad. The University of Minnesota team is on the ground in Orlando, Florida ahead of its Jan. 1 Citrus Bowl matchup with Missouri. The Gophers were headed to a high school field Friday for a 75-minute practice. This is the team’s first January bowl appearance since 1962. The Gophers enter with an 8-4 record. Missouri brings a 10-3 record to the field. The last time Minnesota and Missouri met in a game was 1970, which the Tigers won. 
Thanks to big wins against Iowa and Nebraska in the past three weeks, Minnesota still has a chance to accomplish that. The significance of Saturday's contest is by no means lost on the Gophers players, who were not even teenagers yet the last time Minnesota beat Wisconsin. Updated Nov 30, 2014 at 1:21p ET. MINNEAPOLIS -- Back in November of 1960, rivals Minnesota and Wisconsin faced off in the final game of the regular season. The Gophers needed a win to earn a trip to the Rose Bowl.
Until 1968 the national champion was decided before bowl games were played. And between 1933 and 1982 the Minnesota-Wisconsin game was the last game of the season. So in effect for all of Minnesota's national titles the Wisconsin matchup was Minnesota's national championship games (minus of course the 1904 NC). You weren't even alive the last time the Gophers won a national championship is a common retort from opposing fans. This week it's being made by Badgers everywhere. Such a boring argument.
The Minnesota Golden Gophers football program represents the University of Minnesota in college football at the NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) level. Founded in 1882, the program is one of the oldest in college football. TCF Bank Stadium is the football stadium for the Minnesota Golden Gophers college football team at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The 52,525-seat on-campus horseshoe style stadium is designed to support future expansion to seat up to 80,000 people, and cost $303.3 million to build.