Weeks after Narayana Murthy returned to Infosys, the country's second largest IT firm announced it will increase salaries of its employees in India for the fiscal year 2014 by an average 8 percent. Whatsapp. Comment. Bangalore/Mumbai: Country's two IT companies Thursday announced wage hikes, with Infosys saying its employees in India will get an average 8 percent increase and Wipro offering 6-8 percent raise for offshore employees.
BANGALORE: Country's second largest software services firm Infosys has raised salaries of its employees in the country by 6-7 percent and by 1-2 percent for onsite workers, effective April 1. We have increased salaries. We have given salary hikes of 6-7 percent for offshore and 1-2 percent onsite employees, effective April 1, Infosys CFO Rajiv Bansal said. The increase in salaries and promotions that have been rolled out and the investment in new visas is likely to impact the first quarter margins by about 3 percent, he added
Infosys announced the hikes through the company's internal intranet portal, Sparsh, on Thursday evening. For the 2015-16 financial year, employees on an average have been handed out hikes of around 6.5%, while top performers in the company will get about 9%. Onsite employees will receive a 2% hike. Compensation revisions are being rolled out in 55 countries across the globe, effective April 1 2015
The hike is subject to approval by the shareholders. Infosys announces salary hike of 6% effective October. On October 12, 2012 13:27 (IST). Infosys, India's second biggest IT exporter, has announced a salary hike for over 1.5 lakh employees it employs in India and overseas. Infosys had deferred wage hike in April and said it would decide on the same in October. On April 01, 2015 17:18 (IST). The Indian economy is expected to grow at the fastest pace in many years, but for lakhs of employees in the country's over $100 billion IT sector, the new fiscal year has begun on a sour note with Infosys announcing an average salary hike of just 6.5 per cent.
TCS handed out average salary hike of about 8% for employees in India, while Infosys rolled out average wage increase of 6.5% in March. 
(Employees on an average…). BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Infosys announced its lowest average wage increase in five years late on Thursday, causing widespread dampening of sentiment among employees and portending anaemic pay-raises for workers in India's $146-billion information technology industry. For the 2015-16 financial year, employees on an average have been handed out hikes of around 6.5%, while top performers in the company will get about 9%. Onsite employees will receive a 2% hike.
The Indian economy is expected to grow at the fastest pace in many years, but for lakhs of employees in the country's over $100 billion IT sector, the new fiscal year has begun on a sour note with Infosys announcing an average salary hike of just 6.5 per cent. (Read the full story). Some suggested that the subdued hike in salaries may be an attempt to get rid of unwanted executives without resorting to layoffs. Infosys give 6% salary hike for India employees. Hint: Well below inflation rate. Hint 2: Soft downsizing is on.