Essential Information. Physical therapy technicians, also known as physical therapy aides and assistants, help with the physical rehabilitation of patients recovering from illness or injury. In general, physical therapy aides have less demanding duties compared to physical therapy assistants. Education Requirements. The educational requirement for a physical therapy technician who will have no patient-care responsibilities is generally a high school diploma or GED. Many employers will provide on-the-job training for these positions.
Job Description for Physical Therapy Technician. 1  Prepare, clean and maintain work area and disinfect equipment after treatment. 2  Under close supervision of a physical therapist or assistant perform select tasks in preparing the patient and administering treatment therapy. 3  Perform clerical duties; take inventory, order and stock supplies, answer ... (United States). The average rate for a Physical Therapy Technician is $10.47 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this field.
Assisting with therapeutic procedures or administering procedures under a therapist 's supervision will be your primary responsibility as a physical therapy tech. Therapeutic procedures might include paraffin baths, hydrotherapy, mat exercises, gait training and weight training. By comparison, July 2011 figures from Payscale.com show the same range of $25,755-$61,415. These figures include overtime pay and bonuses. You will need to earn a 2-year physical therapist assistant associate's degree to become
Requirements. Education. A physical therapy technician must have an associate’s degree to work in this field. An Associate of Physical Therapy Assistant is a two-year program that incorporates classroom learning with clinical experience. Students take academic courses in algebra, anatomy and physiology, English and psychology. Training. After receiving the physical therapist technician/assistant qualification, an internship with a physical therapy facility provides experience in the field. Working internships prepare job seekers to understand better the nature of the work.
Physical therapy technicians, also known as physical therapy aides and assistants, help with the physical rehabilitation of patients recovering from illness or injury. Education Requirements. The educational requirement for a physical therapy technician who will have no patient-care responsibilities is generally a high school diploma or GED. Many employers will provide on-the-job training for these positions.
Physical therapy technicians (PTTs) provide invaluable services to patients experiencing physical discomfort. Working under the supervision of licensed physical therapists, technicians use massage, heat treatment, exercise and other non-invasive means to treat disease, injury and deformity. Training. After receiving the physical therapist technician/assistant qualification, an internship with a physical therapy facility provides experience in the field. Working internships prepare job seekers to understand better the nature of the work.
Physical Therapy Technician Salary. (United States). The average rate for a Physical Therapy Technician is $10.47 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this field.
A physical therapy technician helps injured patients and individuals recovering from surgery regain their mobility. Get information on their duties, future job prospects and educational requirements. Schools offering Physical Therapy Assistant degrees can also be found in these popular choices. By comparison, July 2011 figures from Payscale.com show the same range of $25,755-$61,415. These figures include overtime pay and bonuses. You will need to earn a 2-year physical therapist assistant associate's degree to become a physical therapy tech.
An unlicensed physical therapy technician assists in the therapy process by performing clerical duties, ordering supplies, updating patient records and answering phones. He or she may also keep the physical therapy areas cleaned and stocked, maintain equipment and bring patients to the therapy area. Education Requirements. The educational requirement for a physical therapy technician who will have no patient-care responsibilities is generally a high school diploma or GED. Many employers will provide on-the-job training for these positions.