Acro dance. Acro dance is a style of dance that combines classical dance technique with precision acrobatic elements. It is defined by its athletic character, its unique choreography, which seamlessly blends dance and acrobatics, and its use of acrobatics in a dance context.
Acro dance is a style of dance that combines classical dance technique with precision acrobatic elements. It is defined by its athletic character, its unique choreography, which seamlessly blends dance and acrobatics, and its use of acrobatics in a dance context. 
Acro dance is known by various other names including acrobatic dance and gymnastic dance, though it is most commonly referred to simply as acro by dancers and dance professionals. Acro is an especially challenging dance style for dancers as it requires them to be trained in both dance and acrobatic skills. Acro dancers must be in excellent physical condition as well, because acro is a physically demanding activity. Acro dance is not uniformly defined within the competitive dance industry. Some dance competition companies require an acro routine to have a minimum of four or five tricks with at most fifty percent acrobatic content.
Mixed Pair in One Arm Flag. Acrobatic Gymnastics (previously called Sport Acrobatics and nicknamed  Acro ) is a competitive gymnastic discipline where partnerships of gymnasts work together and perform figures consisting of acrobatic moves, dance and tumbling, set to music. 
Acro dance is a form that includes acrobatic movements. The gymnastic technique that acrobatic dancers can incorporate into a dance routine include handstands, cartwheels, and handsprings. It is this flowing transition that characterizes acro dance compared to other dance-like practices, such as tumbling. The dancing segments of a routine source inspiration from other forms of dance, like classical and jazz.
ACRO. Acro (short for acrobatics) incorporates both dance and gymnastics. It is usually built off of jazz technique, but also incorporates ballet and lyrical techniques as well creating smooth and fluid transitions between dance and acro skills. Acro is different from a gymnastics floor routine where more dance technique and each movement is carefully connected to the next. Acro teaches skills such as headstands, elbow stands, cartwheels and walkovers. Acro students also focus on tricks with partners and group
Acro dance is a style of dance that combines classical dance technique with precision acrobatic elements. It is defined by its athletic character, its unique choreography, which seamlessly blends dance and acrobatics, and its use of acrobatics in a dance context. Acro dance is not uniformly defined within the competitive dance industry. Some dance competition companies require an acro routine to have a minimum of four or five tricks with at most fifty percent acrobatic content.
Acro dance is a style of dance that combines classical dance technique with precision acrobatic elements. acro is a type of dance which is when you learn many gymnastic steps but without mats and insted of having your back straight alot in gymnastics, in acrobatics you bend your b … ack much more. Acrobatics is much more of a flexible sport than gymnastics i
acro is a type of dance which is when you learn many gymnastic steps but without mats and insted of having your back straight alot in gymnastics, in acrobatics you bend your b … ack much more. Acrobatics is much more of a flexible sport than gymnastics is. 1 person found this useful. 