The bottom line is that diagnosing prostate cancer based on the PSA results alone, is not recommended. According to a report published in the Journal of American Medical Association and the New England Journal of Medicine, PSA test when conducted with DRE, results in 70% increased chances of detecting prostate cancer. The PSA test is considered to be an important parameter to check the possibilities of prostate cancer, however, its accuracy has always been questioned. This Buzzle article will throw light on some of its aspects.
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood.
Therefore, the accuracy of PSA test alone, is questionable. It is due to the aforementioned factors that experts, which include the American Cancer Society and the American Urological Association, have strictly recommended doctors to conduct PSA tests only on men who are more than 50 years old. The PSA test is considered to be an important parameter to check the possibilities of prostate cancer, however, its accuracy has always been questioned. This Buzzle article will throw light on some of its aspects.
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a substance made by cells in the prostate gland (both normal cells and cancer cells). PSA is mostly found in semen, but a small amount is also found in the blood. Most healthy men have levels under 4 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The percentage of free PSA is lower in men who have prostate cancer than in men who do not. This test is sometimes used to help decide if you should have a prostate biopsy if your PSA results are in the borderline range (like between 4 and 10).
How Accurate is the PSA Test. The PSA test is considered to be an important parameter to check the possibilities of prostate cancer, however, its accuracy has always been questioned. This Buzzle article will throw light on some of its aspects.
Opponents of the PSA test (a blood test that measures levels of a protein called prostate-specific antigen) say it’s costly, often inaccurate and emotionally trying for the patient. Furthermore, they say, prostate tumors are slow-growing and most men die with prostate cancer, not of it. The free PSA test allows a more accurate prediction of whether cancer is present or not. If the free PSA is greater than 25%, then there is only a one chance in 12 that cancer is present. In contrast, if the free PSA is less than 10%, then there is nearly a 60% chance
1 Seven of the 10 men with a higher than normal PSA level will be found not to have prostate cancer at the time of screening. 2  90 men out of 100 tested will have a normal PSA level. 3  Of these 90 men 4  : 88 of the men with a normal PSA level will not have prostate cancer. No test is right all the time, and this is true of the PSA test. For every 100 men over age 50, with no symptoms, who have the PSA test 1  : 10 men out of 100 tested will have a higher than normal level of PSA.
Diagnosing prostate cancer. At the moment, men with symptoms of prostate cancer have a number of tests to find out if they have cancer. The tests include a PSA (prostate specific antigen) blood test and a rectal examination. A PSA test is not a very accurate test for prostate cancer. Some men with a high level of PSA in the blood have prostate cancer. But some men who have prostate cancer have a low PSA level. And PSA levels can also be raised by several other medical conditions not related to cancer. So, if you have a raised PSA, you need more tests to find out if you have prostate cancer. 
For every man who avoids a prostate cancer death due to PSA screening, about 50 men have to be treated unnecessarily -- and a third of these men will have serious problems with treatment, study co-author H. Gilbert Welch, MD, MPH, tells WebMD. The blood test detects prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in the blood. Rising PSA levels may, or may not, mean prostate cancer. So men with suspicious PSA levels undergo prostate biopsies.
The PSA test is a blood test that measures the amount of PSA in the blood. PSA is produced by the prostate and is normally present in a man’s blood in small amounts. An elevated PSA level may be an indication that cancer is present. No test is right all the time, and this is true of the PSA test. For every 100 men over age 50, with no symptoms, who have the PSA test 1  : 10 men out of 100 tested will have a higher than normal level of PSA.