The Edict of Nantes (French: Édit édit De), nantes signed probably on 30 april, 1598 By HENRY iv Of, france granted The Calvinist protestants Of (france also known As) huguenots substantial rights in the, nation which, was at the, time still considered Essentially. catholic The later revocation of the Edict of Nantes in October 1685 by Louis XIV, the grandson of Henry IV, drove an exodus of Protestants, and increased the hostility of Protestant nations bordering France.
Nantes, Edict of. Nantes, Edict of, 1598, decree promulgated at Nantes by King Henry IV to restore internal peace in France, which had been torn by the Wars of Religion; the edict defined the rights of the French Protestants (see Huguenots). 
Edict of Nantes [edit]. The Edict of Nantes had been issued on 13 April 1598 by Henry IV of France. It had granted the Calvinist Protestants of France (also known as Huguenots) substantial rights in a predominately Catholic nation. Through the Edict, Henry had aimed to promote civil unity. The Edict of Nantes of 1598, had granted the Huguenots the right to practice their religion without persecution from the state.
the edict of nantes gave the french protestants much needed freedom and rights after the Wars of Religion in france. also reduced the catholic's monopoly in france. The Edict of Nantes is a Decloration. It was from the French king Henry IV. The Edict of Nantes promised protestants that they could live peacefully. Also that they could esta … blish houses of worship if they wanted to.
Revocation of Edict of Nantes. 1598, decree promulgated at Nantes by King Henry IV to restore internal peace in France, which had been torn by the Wars of Religion; the edict defined the rights of the French Protestants.
In 1598, King Henry IV-who was raised a Protestant-issued the  Edict of Nantes, granting religious freedom in most of  France. It basically established civil rights for th … e Huguenots,  Calvinist Protestants within predominantly Roman Catholic France. The Edict of Nantes is a Decloration. It was from the French king Henry IV. The Edict of Nantes promised protestants that they could live peacefully. Also that they could esta … blish houses of worship if they wanted to.
In 1598, King Henry IV-who was raised a Protestant-issued the  Edict of Nantes, granting religious freedom in most of  France. It basically established civil rights for th … e Huguenots,  Calvinist Protestants within predominantly Roman Catholic France. The Edict of Nantes was one of the first things that he did as a king, and, basically, it allowed for the Protestants across the land to hold on to the cities that they had turned into their strongholds, while Catholics did the same, too.
The Edict of Nantes is a Decloration. It was from the French king Henry IV. The Edict of Nantes promised protestants that they could live peacefully. Also that they could establish houses of worship if they wanted to. The Edict of Nantes was one of the first things that he did as a king, and, basically, it allowed for the Protestants across the land to hold on to the cities that they had turned into their strongholds, while Catholics did the same, too.
Posted on. (Answer #1). The Edict of Nantes gave religious freedom to Protestants in Catholic France. It was enacted by Henri IV to end religious wars, but by the time Louis XIV became king, the Protestants had acquired quite a bit of power in France, despite the fact that it was still considered a Catholic country. 