Staph bacteria are one of the most common causes of skin infections in the United States. Most of these infections are minor (such as pimples and boils) and can be treated without antibiotics. However, staph bacteria can cause serious infections, such as surgical wound infections, bloodstream infections, and pneumonia. There are only a few different types of Staphylococcus bacteria known to cause infections in humans. Four of them include: There are a few strains of Staphylococcus bacteria that can cause staph infections in humans. Staphylococcus is a group of bacteria commonly found on the skin, mucous membranes, and within the bowels of healthy people.
1 Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome. 2  MRSA, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, is a type of Staph infection resistant to many different antibiotics. Staph Infection At A Glance. 1  Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome.
Staphylococcus is a type of bacteria that can cause many types of infections in your body. 1  Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome. Staph Infection At A Glance. 1  Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome.
A staph infection is caused by a Staphylococcus (or staph) bacteria. Actually, about 25% of people normally carry staph in the nose, mouth, genitals, or anal area, and don’t have symptoms of an infection. The foot is also very prone to picking up bacteria from the floor. Other staph infections of the skin include impetigo, a painful rash that is contagious, boils, and in babies and young children, staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome, which causes rash, blisters, and fever.
1 Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome. Staph Infection At A Glance. 1  Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome.
Many people carry staph bacteria and never develop staph infections. However, if you develop a staph infection, there's a good chance that it's from bacteria you've been carrying around for some time. These bacteria can also be transmitted from person to person. 
Health-Wire. Staphylococcus bacteria cause staph infection. This bacterial infection may occur in the skin, blood, or may include food poisoning, blood poisoning, pneumonia, or skin problems. MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) is the most dangerous, hardest-to-treat staphylococcus bacteria. 1 The MRSA bacteria may cause many contagious skin infections or cellulitis. 2  These are transmitted from an infected person to others. 3  Sharing towels or extensive physical contact with a person infected by the MRSA bacterial infection can lead to staph infection. 4  Poor hygiene also causes
Causes of Staph Infections. Since staph bacteria can live almost anywhere, the ways it can lead to infection are numerous. It can live in improperly sanitized medical equipment, in hot climates, in salty food items -- even cooking contaminated food won't kill it because the bacteria can survive high temperatures.