Cefdinir belongs to a class of antibiotics called cephalosporins, which work by killing bacteria or halting their growth. Be aware that cefdinir, which is available in capsules or in a strawberry-flavored powder that mixes with water, will not work on viral infections: It's not a cure for the common cold or the flu. Cefdinir should be used only to treat infections that have been proved or are strongly suspected to be bacterial, not viral. The overuse of antibiotics has been linked to the growth of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (“superbugs”).
Cefdinir is an antibiotic used to treat many different types of bacterial infections in children. You might see a brand name such as Omnicef on the label. It belongs to the cephalosporin family of antibiotics (“cousins” to the penicillins). This antibiotic comes as strawberry and cream flavored liquid or as capsules. 
13 Reviews. Cefdinir is an antibiotic prescribed to treat a wide range of bacterial infections, including certain types of pneumonia, sinusitis, bronchitis, strep throat, sore throat, middle-ear infections, and certain skin infections. Cefdinir should be used only to treat infections that have been proved or are strongly suspected to be bacterial, not viral. The overuse of antibiotics has been linked to the growth of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (“superbugs”).
Cefdinir is in a group of drugs called cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotics. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Cefdinir is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria. Cefdinir may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Cefdinir will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or bloody, stop taking cefdinir and call your doctor.
Uses of This Medicine. Cefdinir is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. It belongs to the class of medicines known as cephalosporin antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. Measure the oral liquid medicine with a marked measuring spoon, oral syringe, or medicine cup. Take all of the medicine in your prescription to clear up your infection, even if you feel better after the first few doses. This medicine is not for long-term use.
Cefdinir (Omnicef ®) is a prescription antibiotic used for treating a number of infections caused by bacteria in both children and adults. Cefdinir is most commonly used to treat the following infections: 1  Bronchitis. 2  Middle ear infection (otitis media). 3  Sinus infection (sinusitis). 4  Pneumonia. 
OMNICEF®. (cefdinir) for Oral Suspension. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of OMNICEF (cefdinir) and other antibacterial drugs, OMNICEF (cefdinir) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 
The total daily dose for all infections, except pneumonia and skin infections, is 600 mg, which can be taken twice a day in 300 mg doses, or in one 600 mg dose. The drug works best if taken at the same time every day. 1  For pneumonia and skin infections, take cefdinir twice a day in 300 mg doses. Cefdinir should be used only to treat infections that have been proved or are strongly suspected to be bacterial, not viral. The overuse of antibiotics has been linked to the growth of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (“superbugs”).
Cefdinir is in a group of drugs called cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotics. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Cefdinir is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria. Cefdinir may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Also tell your doctor if you have kidney disease or a history of intestinal problems. Take this medication for the full prescribed length of time. Your symptoms may improve before the infection is completely cleared. Skipping doses may also increase your risk of further infection that is resistant to