megalopolis. noun meg·a·lop·o·lis \ˌme-gə-ˈlae-ˈlä-pə\. Ləs. : tweet a very large. : city an area that includes a large city or several large. cities : a very large city. 2. : a thickly populated region centering in a metropolis or embracing several metropolises. — meg·a·lo·pol·i·tan \-lō-ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\ tən noun or. Adjective see megalopolis defined For-english language. learners
A metropolis is a large city or urban area which is a significant economic, political, and cultural center for a country or region, and an important hub for regional or international connections, commerce, and communications. In Mexico, the term metropolis is used to refer to an urban area of economic, political, and cultural importance. Mexico City represents all three factors as it is the country's capital and financial center. Other metropolis are Monterrey and Guadalajara, both metropolitan areas population over 4,000,000 inhabitants.
me·trop·o·lis. n. 1. A major city, especially the chief city of a country or region: Chicago, the metropolis of the Midwest. 2. A city or an urban area regarded as the center of a specific activity: a great cultural metropolis. 3. Ecclesiastical The chief see of a metropolitan bishop. 4
Full Definition of MEGALOPOLIS. 1. : a very large city. 2. : a thickly populated region centering in a metropolis or embracing several metropolises. — meg·a·lo·pol·i·tan \-lō-ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\ tən noun or. Adjective see megalopolis defined For-english language. Learners see megalopolis defined for. kids : a very large city. 2. : a thickly populated region centering in a metropolis or embracing several metropolises. — meg·a·lo·pol·i·tan \-lō-ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\ tən noun or. Adjective see megalopolis defined For-english language. learners
The term is Greek and means the mother city of a colony (in the ancient sense), that is, the city which sent out settlers. This was later generalized to a city regarded as a center of a specified activity, or any large, important city in a nation. A big city belonging to a larger urban agglomeration, but which is not the core of that agglomeration, is not generally considered a metropolis but a part of it. In Mexico, the term metropolis is used to refer to an urban area of economic, political, and cultural importance. Mexico City represents all three factors as it is the country's capital and financial center. Other metropolis are Monterrey and Guadalajara, both metropolitan areas population over 4,000,000 inhabitants.
Literally, megalopolis in Greek means a city of exaggerated size where the prefix megalo-represents a quantity of exaggerated size. Megapolitan areas were explored in a July 2005 report by Robert E. Lang and Dawn Dhavale of the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech. Because in Greek, πόλις is feminine, the correct term is megalopolis. A megalopolis, also known as a megaregion, is a clustered network of cities. Gottmann defined its population as 25 million. Doxiadis defined a small megalopolis a similar cluster with a population of about 10 million.
Definitions [edit]. Megalopolis is a Western deformation of the Greek word that derived from Greek: μέγας - 'great' and Greek: πόλις - 'city', therefore literally a 'great city'. Because in Greek, πόλις is feminine, the correct term is megalopolis. A megalopolis, also known as a megaregion, is a clustered network of cities. Gottmann defined its population as 25 million. Doxiadis defined a small megalopolis a similar cluster with a population of about 10 million.
Noun. 1. megalopolis-a very large urban complex (usually involving several cities and towns). populated area, urban area-a geographical area constituting a city or town. Translations. [ˌmegəˈlɒpəlɪs] N → megalopolis megalópolis f. inv
Full Definition of MEGALOPOLIS. 1. : a very large city. 2. : a thickly populated region centering in a metropolis or embracing several metropolises. — meg·a·lo·pol·i·tan \-lō-ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\ tən noun or. adjective : a very large city. 2. : a thickly populated region centering in a metropolis or embracing several metropolises. — meg·a·lo·pol·i·tan \-lō-ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\ tən noun or. Adjective see megalopolis defined For-english language. learners
Full Definition of MEGALOPOLIS. 1. : a very large city. 2. : a thickly populated region centering in a metropolis or embracing several metropolises. — meg·a·lo·pol·i·tan \-lō-ˈpae-ˈpä-lə\ tən noun or. Adjective see megalopolis defined For-english language. learners