When an adapter is used to connect a computer to a network, the labels of converged network adapter or NIC card (network interface controller) are used for the adapter depending on the type of physical connection between the device(s) and the computer. Other terms that are used to refer to an HBA are host controllers or host adapters with the name typically tied to the devices being connected as well as the I/O functionality provided by the adapter.
In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter (HBA) connects a host system (the computer) to other network and storage devices. The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, Fibre Channel and eSATA devices. The term host bus adapter (HBA) is most often used to refer to a Fibre Channel interface card. Fibre Channel HBAs are available for open systems, computer architectures, and buses, including PCI and SBus (obsolete today).
The PCI small form factor IBM SAS HBA Controller is based on LSI 1068E SAS processor offering. It can handle medium to large capacity server storage applications by connecting an 8 lane PCI-Express adapter with one external x4 SFF-8088 connector and four x1 internal 7 pin connectors. Specialized development on the IBM SAS HBA Controller enables support for integrated RAID 0, 1, 1E on System x3105 and System x3455 for an added overhead savings at lowest possible cost for high computing systems.
HBA (Host Bus Adapter). A HBA (host bus adapter) is an integrated circuit adapter or circuit board that is designed to provide physical connectivity between a computer host and storage devices or a network. Other terms that are used to refer to an HBA are host controllers or host adapters with the name typically tied to the devices being connected as well as the I/O functionality provided by the adapter.
The primary purpose of a host bus adapter (HBA) is to connect a computer host to storage and network devices. Other terms that are used to refer to an HBA are host controllers or host adapters with the name typically tied to the devices being connected as well as the I/O functionality provided by the adapter.
An HBA, or Host Bus Adapter, is an interface card which connects a host or a storage device to a SAN (Storage Area Network). An HBA can also be referred to as an I/O controller. 
HP EVA P6000 series. A host bus adapter (HBA) is a circuit board and/or integrated circuit adapter that provides input/output (I/O) processing and physical connectivity between a host system, or server, and a storage and/or network device. A SAS HBA typically connects a server or workstation to a storage device such as a hard disk drive, solid-state drive, JBOD device or tape drive. SAS HBAs are able to connect to single-or dual-port storage devices that are compatible with the serial ATA or SAS interface.
The disk controller is the circuit which enables the CPU to communicate with a hard disk, floppy disk or other kind of disk drive. Also it provides an interface between the disk drive and the bus connecting it to the rest of the system. Early disk controllers were identified by their storage methods and data encoding. The correct term for the component that allows a computer to talk to a peripheral bus is host adapter or host bus adapter (HBA). On the other hand, a disk controller allows a disk to talk to the same bus.
RAID and RAID Controllers What is a Controller Card? A controller card is a device that sits between the host system and the storage system, and allows the two systems to communicate with each other.There are two types of controller cards: Host Bus Adapters (HBAs), and RAID controller cards. 1. 1. An HBA is an expansion card that plugs into a slot (such as PCI-e) on the computer system’s motherboard and provides fast, reliable non-RAID I/O between the host and the storage devices.