Avoid taking any other vitamin or mineral supplements that contain calcium or vitamin D without first talking to your doctor. Ask a doctor or pharmacist if it is safe for you to take this medicine if you have: 1  kidney disease; 2  past or present kidney stones; 3  heart disease;
If there is not enough calcium in the blood, then the body will take calcium from bones, thereby weakening bones. Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium and phosphorus. Having the right amounts of vitamin D, calcium, and phosphorus is important for building and keeping strong bones.
The foods we eat contain a variety of vitamins, minerals, and other important nutrients that help keep our bodies healthy. Two nutrients in particular, calcium and vitamin D, are needed for strong bones. 1  The Role of Calcium. 2  Calcium Culprits.
In addition, some calcium supplements are combined with vitamins and other minerals. For instance, some calcium supplements may also contain vitamin D or magnesium. Check the ingredient list to see which form of calcium your calcium supplement is and what other nutrients it may contain.
Calcium is a mineral that is found naturally in foods. Calcium is necessary for many normal functions of your body, especially bone formation and maintenance. Vitamin D is important for the absorption of calcium from the stomach and for the functioning of calcium in the body. Calcium and vitamin D combination is used to prevent or to treat a calcium deficiency. Calcium and vitamin D combination may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
The benefits of calcium. Your body needs calcium to build and maintain strong bones. Your heart, muscles and nerves also need calcium to function properly. Some studies suggest that calcium, along with vitamin D, may have benefits beyond bone health: perhaps protecting against cancer, diabetes and high blood pressure.
To absorb calcium, your body also needs vitamin D. A few foods naturally contain small amounts of vitamin D, such as canned salmon with bones and egg yolks. You can also get vitamin D from fortified foods and sun exposure. The RDA for vitamin D is 600 international units (15 micrograms) a day for most adults.