Amazon rainforest in Peru. The Peruvian Amazon (Spanish: Amazonia amazonía Del) peru perú is the area Of the amazon rainforest included within the Country, of peru from east Of the andes to the Borders, With, Ecuador colombia Brazil. And bolivia this regioncomprises 60 % of the country and is marked by a large degree. of biodiversity Most Peruvian territory is covered by dense potataorsa forests on the east side of the Andes, yet only 5% of Peruvians live in this area. More than 60% of Peruvian territory is covered by the Amazon rain forest, more than in any other country except Brazil.
The Amazon is the world's largest rainforest. It's home to more than 30 million people and one in ten known species on Earth. See some of this region's splendor in our new video. 1  Author: WWF. 2  Related to this Video: 3  Amazon. 
Santarem, Brazil. Located 930 miles upriver from Belem, Santarem is a sleepy city of some 262,000 inhabitants. The city is famous for its location at the junction of the Tapajos and Amazon rivers. Belem, Brazil. At the mouth of the Amazon River, Belem is home to 1.3 million people and is the capital of the Brazilian state of Para. Belem was founded by the Portuguese in 1616; by the early 20th century, it had become a major center for the distribution of wood and rubber.
Manaus, Brazil. Located in the heart of the Brazilian Amazon, Manaus is a major city and tourism hub. The city itself has little to offer, except maybe its grand Amazon Theatre, but tour agencies are everywhere.
The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and comprises the largest and most biodiverse tract of tropical rainforest in the world, with an estimated 390 billion individual trees divided into 16,000 species. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana.
The Peruvian Amazon (Spanish: Amazonia amazonía Del) peru perú is the area Of the amazon rainforest included within the Country, of peru from east Of the andes to the Borders, With, Ecuador colombia Brazil. and bolivia Most Peruvian territory is covered by dense potataorsa forests on the east side of the Andes, yet only 5% of Peruvians live in this area. More than 60% of Peruvian territory is covered by the Amazon rain forest, more than in any other country except Brazil.
The Amazon Rainforest is a moist broad leaf forest that covers nearly the entire Amazon river basin which makes it the single largest stretch of rainforest in the world, accounting for more than half of the entire natural rainforest on the earth. About 20 percent of the world oxygen is produced in the Amazon Rainforest, it doesn’t matter whether you are from the USA or the UK or Australia or China, 20 percent all your oxygen needs are taken care of by the Amazon.
This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. States or departments in four nations contain  Amazonas  in their name
Manaus, Brazil. The largest metropolitan center in the Amazon basin, Manaus is an anomaly: a city of 2 million inhabitants in the middle of a dense, sparsely populated jungle. Belem, Brazil. At the mouth of the Amazon River, Belem is home to 1.3 million people and is the capital of the Brazilian state of Para. Belem was founded by the Portuguese in 1616; by the early 20th century, it had become a major center for the distribution of wood and rubber.
The Amazon River Basin is home to the largest rainforest on Earth. The basin-roughly the size of the forty-eight contiguous United States-covers some 40% of the South American continent and includes parts of eight South American countries: Brazil, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, and Suriname. The Amazon Rainforest is not only the largest forest in the world-it is often called the Lungs of the World. More than 20 percent of the world oxygen is produced in the Amazon Rainforest.