William Wilberforce: Christian Abolitionist, Reformer, Statesman. “God Almighty has set before me two great objects, the suppression of the slave trade and the reformation of manners,” said William Wilberforce (1759-1833), the man who would be the driving force in the ultimate end of slavery in the British Empire. On February 23, 1807, Parliament voted in favor of Wilberforce’s Abolition of the Slave Trade Act. Passing overwhelmingly, first in Lords and then in Commons by nearly an 18 to 1 margin, the bill received Royal Assent and became law on March 25, 1807.
On 18th April 1791 Wilberforce introduced a bill to abolish the slave trade. Wilberforce was supported by William Pitt, William Smith, Charles Fox, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, William Grenville and Henry Brougham. The opposition was led by Lord John Russell and Colonel Banastre Tarleton, the MP for Liverpool. 
William Wilberforce © Wilberforce was a deeply religious English member of parliament and social reformer who was very influential in the abolition of the slave trade and eventually slavery itself in the British empire. William Wilberforce was born on 24 August 1759 in Hull, the son of a wealthy merchant. Wilberforce retired from politics in 1825 and died on 29 July 1833, shortly after the act to free slaves in the British empire passed through the House of Commons. He was buried near his friend Pitt in Westminster Abbey.
William Wilberforce was a deeply religious man who dedicated his life and his work to acting on his beliefs. He had many religious and political influences during his lifetime. One of his earliest mentors was Isaac Milner, who was a young teacher when Wilberforce attended Hull Grammar School. 
William Wilberforce (24 August 1759 – 29 July 1833) was an English politician, philanthropist, and a leader of the movement to abolish the slave trade. Wilberforce's life and work have been commemorated in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. In Westminster Abbey, a seated statue of Wilberforce by Samuel Joseph was erected in 1840, bearing an epitaph praising his Christian character and his long labour to abolish the slave trade and slavery itself.
John Newton was an Anglican clergyman and former slave ship master. It took him a long time to speak out against the Slave Trade but he had an influence on many young evangelical Christians, particularly William Wilberforce. At just 11 years old, Newton went to sea with his father. Wilberforce took his advice, and spent the rest of his life working towards the abolition of slavery. In 1787, Newton wrote a tract supporting the campaign, 'Thoughts upon the African Slave Trade', which was very influential.
Newton, the former slave trader, whom God used to help Wilberforce see that he should take this course. A man guilty of crimes against humanity had helped set a friend on the path of service to humanity. At the same time, Wilberforce had become deeply concerned with fostering moral and cultural renewal in Britain. It was an inspired choice. Newton helped Wilberforce see that God had a special purpose for his life—that he could serve God in politics and make a difference there, just as Daniel and Joseph had done in Old Testament times. By 1787, Wilberforce had taken up the charge for which we remember him today: the fight to abolish the British slave trade
He was an MP, a Christian writer and a social reformer. In 1789, following his conversion to Christianity, Wilberforce became the voice in Parliament of the Abolition Movement; joining campaigners such as the Quakers, Thomas Clarkson and the former enslaved African Olaudah Equiano. For Wilberforce the slave trade was a sin for which Britain had to repent or be damned. 