This mineral's metallic luster and pale brass-yellow hue give it a superficial resemblance to gold, hence the well-known nickname of fool's gold. The color has also led to the nicknames brass, brazzle, and Brazil, primarily used to refer to pyrite found in coal. Pyrite is the most common of the sulfide minerals. The name pyrite is derived from the Greek πυρίτης (pyritēs), of fire or in fire, in turn from πύρ (pyr), fire.
Pyrite or iron pyrite is known as fool's gold because of its  color. It is somewhat gold in color and has many of the hues  associated with the precious metal. Pyrite can be identified as a bright-yellow mineral, with a  bright-metallic luster. Pyrite can be used to spark a fire if  struck against metal or another hard material. Py … rite was used as a  spark-producing material in flintlock firearms.
Pyrite: At first glance, pyrite and chalcopyrite are similar in their color and shiny metallic luster. However, the two can be distinguished by their hardness. Chalcopyrite is a soft mineral that can be scratched by a nail, while pyrite is hard enough that a nail cannot dig into its surface. Chalcopyrite’s bright yellow color and brilliant metallic luster distinguish it from most common minerals. Pyrite and gold are the only natural materials that are easily confused with chalcopyrite and the three can be distinguished by their hardness and response to stress.
Hand-specimens of pyrite are usually easy to identify. The mineral always has a brass-yellow color, a metallic luster and a high specific gravity. It is harder than other yellow metallic minerals and its streak is black, usually with a tinge of green. The only common mineral that has properties similar to pyrite is marcasite, a dimorph of pyrite with the same chemical composition but an orthorhombic crystal structure. Marcasite does not have the same brassy yellow color of pyrite. Instead it is a pale brass color, sometimes with a slight tint
Rainbow Pyrite Color Rainbow pyrite displays a shimmering rainbow of colors, including shades of gold, green, pink and blue. Pyrite crystals are normally pale-yellow, brass-yellow or gray-yellow in color, and are often tarnished with brown color owing to iron oxide. With rainbow pyrite, quality is not determined just by color, but also by the size and evenness of crystal coverage. 
Pyrite or iron pyrite is known as fool's gold because of its  color. It is somewhat gold in color and has many of the hues  associated with the precious metal. Edit. What color are pyrite? To the naked eye, it appears golden, with a negligibly less yellow tint. When scraped on a ceramic streak plate, it appears dark green, since the particles on the plate aren … 't able to reflect light like their original crystallized form.
Pyrite is a brass-yellow mineral with a bright metallic luster. It has a chemical composition of iron disulfide (FeS 2) and is the most common sulfide mineral. It forms at high and low temperatures and occurs, usually in small quantities, in igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks worldwide. The only common mineral that has properties similar to pyrite is marcasite, a dimorph of pyrite with the same chemical composition but an orthorhombic crystal structure. Marcasite does not have the same brassy yellow color of pyrite. Instead it is a pale brass color, sometimes with a slight tint of green
Pyrite is sometimes called Fools Gold because of its similarity in color and shape to Gold. In the old mining days, Pyrite was sometimes mistaken for Gold, as they frequently occur together, although Gold and Pyrite can very easily be distinguished by simple observation and testing of characteristics. 
Full Definition of PYRITE. : a common mineral that consists of iron disulfide, has a pale brass-yellow color and metallic luster, and is burned in making sulfur dioxide and sulfuric acid. See pyrite defined for English-language learners. See pyrite defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 