Skin lesion: Lesions appearing on the skin. See detailed information below for a list of 422 causes of Skin lesion, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Skin lesion: Causes | Symptom Checker ». The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Skin lesion as a symptom. Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments.
Birthmarks are primary skin lesions. Other types include: 1  blisters: also called vesicles; these are small lesions filled with a clear fluid. 2  Vesicles can be the result of sunburns, steam burns, insect bites, friction from shoes or clothes, and viral infections. 
Symptoms common to several types of brain lesions include the following: 1  Headaches. 2  Neck pain or stiffness. 3  Nausea, vomiting, and lack of appetite. 4  Vision changes or eye pain. 5  Changes in mood, personality, behavior, mental ability, and concentration. 6  Memory loss or confusion. 7  Seizures. 
Re: What Diseases Cause Brain Lesions. Brain lesion is a very general term, it just means an area of brain tissue that looks abnormal on x-ray, MRI or CAT scan. There are hundreds of different disorders (not to mention injuries) that can cause brain lesions of one type or another. 
Illness-related causes of skin lesions. Skin lesions may be caused by another illness including: Bacterial infection, such as scarlet fever, or meningococcal meningitis, a serious condition caused by group A Streptococcus, can cause a skin rash.
Chronic diseases like diabetes can lead to discoloration of the skin. There are also serious conditions that can cause skin lesions. For instance, an anaphylactic reaction with swelling of the throat would cause hives and rashes. This is life threatening because the inflammation could close up the airways. 
Brain Lesions (Lesions on the Brain) Related Diseases & Conditions. Medical conditions are often related to other diseases and conditions. Our doctors have compiled a list of ailments related to the topic of Brain Lesions (Lesions on the Brain) . These conditions may be a cause or symptom of Brain Lesions (Lesions on the Brain) or be a condition for which you may be at increased risk. Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that causes chronic inflammation of the joints, the tissue around the joints, as...learn more ». 
Causes. Often, a brain lesion has a characteristic appearance that will help your doctor determine its cause. Sometimes the cause of the abnormal-appearing area cannot be diagnosed by the image alone, and additional tests or follow-up tests may be necessary. Among the known possible causes of brain lesions are: 1  Brain aneurysm
1 Brain cell death or malfunction: The cause of certain brain lesions, like those seen with Parkinson's disease, are due in part to the malfunction and death of brain cells that produce dopamine. 2  However, the underlying cause may be related to genetics, toxic exposures, or various other combinations of potential causes. 
Skin lesions have a wide variety of causes. The most common causes of skin lesions are injury, aging, infectious diseases, allergies, and small infections of the skin or hair follicles. Chronic diseases such as diabetes or autoimmune disorders can cause skin lesions. Skin cancer or precancerous changes also appear as skin lesions. Skin lesions may be caused by another illness including: Bacterial infection, such as scarlet fever, or meningococcal meningitis, a serious condition caused by group A Streptococcus, can cause a skin rash.