Pumice is a light-colored, extremely porous igneous rock that forms during explosive volcanic eruptions. It is used as aggregate in lightweight concrete, as landscaping aggregate, and as an abrasive in a variety of industrial and consumer products. The second most powerful volcanic eruption of the 20th century was at Mount Pinatubo in 1991. The description below explains how enormous volumes of dissolved gas powered the eruption and how a cubic mile of ash and pumice lapilli was blasted from the volcano.
There are four major groups of the igneous rocks: basalt, andesite, dacite and rhyolite. Each of these different rock groups form different types of volcanoes. Volcanic rocks forming during eruption of Kilauea, USGS. Rhyolite rocks. Rhyolite magma cooling underground forms granite. Granite has large interlocking crystals that can be easily seen if you hold the rock at arm's length. Rhyolite is associated super volcanoes and explosive volcanic eruptions that create calderas. Basalt rocks. Basalt rocks are formed from dark heavy lava that usually forms in the upper mantle. Pillow basalt covers all the ocean floors. It forms when lava erupts on the ocean floor at spreading ridges where two crustal plates are separating.
The effects of the eruption were felt worldwide. It ejected roughly 10,000,000,000 tonnes (1.1 × 10 10 short tons) or 10 km 3 (2.4 cu mi) of magma, and 20,000,000 tonnes (22,000,000 short tons) SO 2, bringing vast quantities of minerals and metals to the surface environment. It injected more particulate into the stratosphere than any eruption since Krakatoa in 1883. Over the following months, the aerosols formed a global layer of sulfuric acid haze. Global temperatures dropped by about 0.5 °C (0.9 °F) in the years 1991-93, and ozone depletion temporarily increased substantially
Basalt and granite actually have quite a bit in common. Both are igneous rocks, which means that they cooled from a magma (the earth gets very hot just below the surface, and there is lots of liquid rock available). Both are made up of minerals from the silicate group, so both have large amounts of silicon and oxygen. Granite is the ultimate silicate rock. As discussed elsewhere in greater detail, on average oxygen and silicon account for 75% of the earth's crust. The remaining 25% is split among several other elements, with aluminum and potassium contributing the most to the formation of the continental granitic rocks.
Mount Pinatubo is a volcano on the island of Luzon in the  Philippines. It is best known for its enormous eruption on June 15,  1991. This eruption was the second largest of … the twentieth  century. 1 person found this useful. Similar to many other volcanoes it has a large assortment or rocks, a lot of granite as these rocks are carried out from the magma chamber. … There are other rocks such as basalt, Scoria, sandstone, mudstone, shale, limestone, quartize, hornfels, slate and marble. 4 people
Mount Pinatubo (Filipino: Bundok Pinatubo) is an active stratovolcano in the Cabusilan Mountains on the island of Luzon, near the tripoint of the Philippine provinces of Zambales, Tarlac, and Pampanga. Before the volcanic activities of 1991, its eruptive history was unknown to most people. It ejected roughly 10,000,000,000 tonnes (1.1 × 10 10 short tons) or 10 km 3 (2.4 cu mi) of magma, and 20,000,000 tonnes (22,000,000 short tons) SO 2, bringing vast quantities of minerals and metals to the surface environment. It injected more particulate into the stratosphere than any eruption since Krakatoa in 1883.
Dacite rocks. Dacite contains less quartz than rhyolite lava and more than andesite lava. The lava when it flows out a a volcano vent is so sticky that it piles on top of a volcano's vent forming a dome. Lava domes often form in the craters of stratovolcanoes like Mount Saint Helens. Basalt rocks. Basalt rocks are formed from dark heavy lava that usually forms in the upper mantle. Pillow basalt covers all the ocean floors. It forms when lava erupts on the ocean floor at spreading ridges where two crustal plates are separating.
Today, ancestral Pinatubo is exposed in relict walls of an old 3.5x4.5-km caldera, recognized by Delfin (1983, 1984) and named here the Tayawan caldera (fig. 3). Prominent points on the relict rim of that caldera include Mount Donald Macdonald (southeast caldera rim) and Mount Tayawan (north-northeast caldera rim). Radiocarbon ages suggest that eruptions from the modern Pinatubo have been clustered in at least six and possibly as many as a dozen eruptive periods. Each eruptive period is short in relation to intervening repose periods (table 1, fig. 5). Each of these six eruptive periods of modern Mount Pinatubo is described below.
Igneous Rocks. magma: The term used to describe the liquid when it is within the Earth's crust or mantle. lava: The term used to describe the liquid when it has reached the surface of the Earth. Classification. The Classification of igneous rocks is based on a combination of chemical composition and texture. Andesite. As noted earlier, these rocks form above active subduction zones on both continental and oceanic plates. Eruptions typically result in the construction of large, steep-sided, composite or strato volcanoes made up of alternating lava flows and pyroclastic (ash) deposits.
Rocks found at present day Mount Pinatubo are mostly dacite with andesitic xenoliths. Andesite is a volcanic rock that is gray to black in color. This rock mostly comes from stratovolcanoes in a form of thick lava flows. 