A new Princess concept is born. The Yucatan Platinum Princess All Suites & Spa is an adults only resort, taken to its finest expression, with an unbeatable location in front of the crystal clear Caribbean waters, in the heart of the Riviera Maya. Platinum Yucatan Yucatán *****. Princess a New princess concept is. Born The Yucatan Platinum Princess All & Suites spa is an adults only, resort taken to its finest, expression with an unbeatable location in front of the crystal Clear caribbean, waters in the heart of The Riviera. maya
Take the highway to Playa del Carmen south for approximately 52 km or 32 mi. See for Resorts sign. The Grand Sunset Princess is located next to Playa del Carmen, 52 km from Cancun, and to a similar distance of the Mayan archaeological zone of Tulum. The upscale beachfront Grand Sunset Princess Resort offers 672 upscale suites with a range of services and accommodation types including suites, deluxe suites and suites with direct access to the pool.
I saw three or four people receiving triage, they appeared to my eyes to be tourists.. Damage is evident to a part of the Grand Princess Riviera Hotel in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, after an explosion Sunday that killed seven people, including five Canadians. ((Pete Travers/570 News/Canadian Press)). I looked and you could see that the roof [of the restaurant]. An apparent natural gas explosion at the Grand Riviera Princess Hotel in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, killed seven people, including five Canadians, and injured at least 18 others on Sunday. ((Courtesy of Novedades de Quintana Roo
The Grand Sunset Princess is only 15 minutes from Playa del Carmen and the main nature parks in the region; and only 1 hour from Cancun Cancún International. Airport you will not be bored given the inexhaustible diversity of activities on offer At Riviera. maya 1 CANCUN (cancún hotel, area, beach) : nightlife 65/ km 1 hour 15. 2  MIN PLAYA DEL (Carmen City, centre 5th, avenue, restaurants, fashion) : leisure 10 / km 15. 3  MIN (merida historical) : city 320 / km 4. 4  HOURS (tulum archeological, site) : beach 60/ km 1.  hour
Birth and baptism [edit]. Princess Catharina-Amalia Beatrix Carmen Victoria was born at 17:01 CET on 7 December 2003 in the Bronovo Hospital in The Hague. Because Amalia was born on Sunday no official celebration was held. The Princess of Orange with her family on the balcony of the Royal Palace of Amsterdam on 30 April 2013. Princess Catharina-Amalia has two younger sisters: Princess Alexia (born in 2005) and Princess Ariane (born in 2007). She lives with her parents and sisters in Villa Eikenhorst on the estate De Horsten in Wassenaar.
[kaːtaːˈrinaː aːˈmaːlijaː] ; Catharina-Amalia Beatrix Carmen Victoria; born 7 December 2003), is the heir apparent to the throne of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, consisting of the countries the Netherlands, Curacao, Curaçao, aruba And Sint. maarten The Princess of Orange with her family on the balcony of the Royal Palace of Amsterdam on 30 April 2013. Princess Catharina-Amalia has two younger sisters: Princess Alexia (born in 2005) and Princess Ariane (born in 2007). She lives with her parents and sisters in Villa Eikenhorst on the estate De Horsten in Wassenaar.
The Grand Sunset Princess is located in the Riviera Maya approximately 4 Miles / 7 Kilometers away from downtown Playa del Carmen and 37 miles / 60 Kilometers south of Cancun. The upscale beachfront Grand Sunset Princess Resort offers 672 upscale suites with a range of services and accommodation types including suites, deluxe suites and suites with direct access to the pool.