Wikipedia Meaning and Definition on 'Allocution'. 1  Allocution: the common law legal procedure. 2  Allocution (disambiguation): An allocution is a formal statement. 3  Allocution (media theory): dissemination via media. 4  Papal allocution: a pope. 1 Allocution: the common law legal procedure. 2  For other uses, see Allocution (disambiguation). 3  An allocution or allocutus is a formal statement made to the court by. 4  Allocution (disambiguation): An allocution is a formal statement. 5  In criminal procedure, an allocution is a statement by the defendant before sentencing.
Allocution. The direct address between the judge and the convicted defendant prior to sentencing. During the address, the judge speaks directly to the defendant and asks if the defendant has anything to add prior to hearing the sentence. 
Definition of ALLOCUTION. : a formal speech; especially: an authoritative or hortatory address. ADVERTISEMENT. 
al·lo·cu·tion. n. 1. A formal and authoritative speech; an address. 2. Law A statement that is made by a defendant before a sentence is pronounced. allocution. 1. a particular or special way of speaking. 2. a formal address or speech.
Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more 
Allocute Law & Legal Definition. Allocute generally means to formally declare something. In the context of politics, it may refer to speaking before a legislative body in an effort to influence their position on an issue. 
al·lo·cu·tion. n. 1. A formal and authoritative speech; an address. 2. Law A statement that is made by a defendant before a sentence is pronounced. allocution. n. 1. (Rhetoric) rhetoric a formal or authoritative speech or address, esp one that advises, informs, or exhorts. [C17: from Late Latin allocūtiō, from Latin alloquī to address, from loquī to speak]
Allocution Law & Legal Definition. Allocution is a procedure during sentencing by which a convicted person is given opportunity to address a judge. This is done after being found guilty and before sentence is pronounced. 
Wikipedia Meaning and Definition on 'Allocution'. 1  Allocution: the common law legal procedure. 2  For other uses, see Allocution (disambiguation). 3  An allocution or allocutus is a formal statement made to the court by. 4  Allocution (disambiguation): An allocution is a formal statement. 1 Allocution: the common law legal procedure. 2  For other uses, see Allocution (disambiguation). 3  An allocution or allocutus is a formal statement made to the court by. 4  Allocution (disambiguation): An allocution is a formal statement. 5  In criminal procedure, an allocution is a statement by the defendant before sentencing.