Fracture Healing. A broken bone is called a fracture. In order for a fracture to heal, the bones must be held in the correct position and protected. Soon after a fracture occurs, the body acts to protect the injured area, and forms a protective blood clot and callus around the fracture.
Bone healing of a fracture by forming a callus as shown by X-ray. Bone healing, or fracture healing, is a proliferative physiological process in which the body facilitates the repair of a bone fracture. The process of the entire regeneration of the bone can depend on the angle of dislocation or fracture. While the bone formation usually spans the entire duration of the healing process, in some instances, bone marrow within the fracture has healed two or fewer weeks before the final remodeling phase. While immobilization and surgery may facilitate healing, a fracture ultimately heals through physiological processes
The natural process of healing a fracture starts when the injured bone and surrounding tissues bleed, forming a fracture hematoma. The blood coagulates to form a blood clot situated between the broken fragments. Within a few days, blood vessels grow into the jelly-like matrix of the blood clot. 
Generally bone fracture treatment consists of a doctor reducing (pushing) displaced bones back into place via relocation with or without anaesthetic, stabilizing their position, and then waiting for the bone's natural healing process to occur. The process of the entire regeneration of the bone can depend on the angle of dislocation or fracture. While the bone formation usually spans the entire duration of the healing process, in some instances, bone marrow within the fracture has healed two or fewer weeks before the final remodeling phase. While immobilization and surgery may facilitate healing, a fracture ultimately heals through physiological processes
Transverse process fracture of the spine include sudden pain in the back at the time of injury. There will be decreased range of motion of the affected area of the spine and pain when trying to bend or twist the affected area. In particular there may be tenderness and swelling around the site of the fracture. Transverse process fracture explained. A transverse process fracture is quite a rare injury. It usually results from a sudden extreme twisting or side bending movement. Occasionally it may be due to a direct impact to the process itself, although they are pretty well covered by muscle to this is not common.
From SW.org : A fracture of a transverse process is a break of a part of one of the bones in the spine. This part extends out from the side of the main body of the bone (called the vertebral body). A transverse process is shaped like a wing. They extend from both the left and right sides of the vertebral body. Next post Prev post. Use your ← → (arrows) to browse. A fracture of a transverse processis a break of a part of one of the bones in the spine. This part extends out from the side of the main body of the bone (called the vertebral body). A transverse process is shaped like a wing.
A fracture of the anterior process of the calcaneus can usually be seen on a plain x-ray lateral view of the foot (Figure 3). This is a view taken from the side. However, this injury can often be quite subtle and can easily be missed. Clinical Presentation. The anterior process of the calcaneus is a prominence on the heel bone (calcaneus) that is located in front and to the outside of the ankle (Figure 1). Fractures of the anterior process of the calcaneus occur following an acute injury to the foot.