Best Answer: Sociology can be considered a science as it involves systematic methods of empirical research, analysis of data, and the assessment of theories. It asks questions which Sociology can be quantified. The scientific study of human social behavior. As the study of humans in their collective aspect, sociology is concerned with all group activities: economic, social, political, and religious. Rating Newest Oldest. 
Sociology is a science every bit as much as biology or chemistry. Social sciences, like natural and biological sciences, use a vigorous methodology. This means that a social scientist clearly states the problems he or she is interested in and clearly spells out how he or she arrives at their conclusions. In response, one might argue that just because the subject matter of sociology is more difficult to study than the subjects pursued in other sciences, it does not mean that the scientific method is inappropriate for the social sciences. The subject matter of sociology experiences continuous change.
Sociologists study society as a 'social science' however the status of sociology as a science is easily questionable when compared to how acknowledged scientists study the natural world. But sociology exists as a discipline which is not so restricted as the sciences. It can be both objective and subjective, as can the very nature of the 'thing' called society that it studies. To study it as a science is to take away half of its essence, as to is to study it as everything but a science.
Sociology can be considered a science as it involve systematic methods of empirical research, analysis of data and the assessment of theories. Nature of Sociology as a Science-It is common tendency ,whenever we use the word science ,its automatic meaning is with Biology, physics and chemistry.
Sociology is a science, it is just one that does not primarily rely on positivism, a specific philosophy of science that emphasises observation and falsification as the critic … al elements to science. They are both disciplines under the category Social Sciences, this category includes: - Sociology-Anthropology-Political Sciences-Psychology-Economics It h … as the word science in it because science just means it is a systematic study that is done through observation and experiment. 4 people found this useful.
They are both disciplines under the category Social Sciences, this category includes: - Sociology-Anthropology-Political Sciences-Psychology-Economics It h … as the word science in it because science just means it is a systematic study that is done through observation and experiment. Nature of Sociology as a Science-It is common tendency ,whenever we use the word science ,its automatic meaning is with Biology, physics and chemistry.
Sociology is the scientific or academic study of social behavior, including its origins, development, organization, and institutions. It is a social science that uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about social order, social disorder and social change. Sociologists' approach to culture can be divided into a sociology of culture and cultural sociology—the terms are similar, though not entirely interchangeable. The sociology of culture is an older term, and considers some topics and objects as more-or-less cultural than others.
Why sociology is not a science. Let me emphasize from the outset that by branding sociology as non-science, I am by no means claiming that it is useless, just as designating medicine and technology as non-science, I am not dismissing their usefulness. 