Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chor … data Class: Mammalia Infra-class: Eutheria Order: Artiodactyla Suborder: Ruminantia Infraorder: Pecora Family: Cervidae.
Introduction. Radiolaria are holoplanktonic protozoa and form part of the zooplankton, they are non-motile (except when flagella-bearing reproductive swarmers are produced) but contain buoyancy enhancing structures; they may be solitary or colonial.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals.
The word phylum (plural: phyla) is a category used to classify marine organisms. In this article, you can learn the definition of phylum, how it is used, and examples of phyla used to categorize marine life.
All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Phylum Sarcomastigophora Amoebas and their relatives, including foraminifera and radiolaria, belong to the subphylum Sarcodina. Foraminifera and radiolaria have skeletons that readily fossilize, which make them an important part of many micropaleontological samples.
Because Radiolaria are heterotrophic they are not limited to the photic zone and have been found at water depths as great as 4000m. However, because many living Radiolaria contain symbiotic photosynthesising algae they must spend at least daylight hours within the photic zone.
I will list the entire classification structure below for the red stag deer, just in case you need it. Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chor … data Class: Mammalia Infra-class: Eutheria Order: Artiodactyla Suborder: Ruminantia Infraorder: Pecora Family: Cervidae. 4 people found this useful.