How to Grow Rhododendrons: Rhododendrons are acid loving plants. They grow best in light shade, and need protection from midday sun and winter sun. They prefer a moist, well drained soil with a pH of 5.5.Check the soil pH before planting, especially if planting along a foundation where soils tend to be more alkaline. Genus: Rhododendron. A Rhododendron bush, is a popular flowering bush and foundation plant, with bright spring blooms. They are native to tropical and temperate regions. While it is a bush, Rhododendron bushes can grow up to 80 feet tall! Rhododendrons are closely related to Azaleas. The biggest difference between the Rhododendron plant and an Azalea bush, and a Rhododendron is an evergreen bush
It can take 2-3 years after. It can take 2-3 years after planting for rhododendrons to bloom. There are also many other reasons for a lack of flowers and some varieties bloom less than others. Cold temps. in the spring can kill new buds. In warm climates, In warm climates, rhododendrons are best planted in the fall. They require: excellent drainage, a soil pH between 4.5 and 6.0, and protection from hot afternoon sun so a high canopy of filtered shade is a good idea. Oaks and pines are a great companion.
Rhododendrons are grown from seeds, cuttings or grafting. Most home gardeners do not start Rhododendrons from seed, as plant grown from seed takes 2-10 years to produce the first bloom. Most homeowners buy established Rhododendron plants while in full bloom from a garden store. Genus: Rhododendron. A Rhododendron bush, is a popular flowering bush and foundation plant, with bright spring blooms. They are native to tropical and temperate regions. While it is a bush, Rhododendron bushes can grow up to 80 feet tall! Rhododendrons are closely related to Azaleas. The biggest difference between the Rhododendron plant and an Azalea bush, and a Rhododendron is an evergreen bush
Other Blooming Behaviors 1. Very few flowers for 2-3 years after planting: Some rhododendrons that have been growing in a container for most of their life will find the freedom of a rich soil mix, plenty of water and good drainagesoooo good that they just want to grow some foliage for awhile. Most of the Big Leaf Rhododendrons take at least 10 years to first flower, and many times much longer. An old timer rhody enthusiast once told me that if you put a bucket full of alfalfa pellets at the bottom of the hole, your Big Leaf Rhododendron will bloom in 5 years. I haven't tried it yet.
Rhododendrons range in size from dwarf shrubs to medium-sized trees. Most rhododendrons thrive in humid climates with mild winters, although there are hardy varieties that survive colder temperatures. The American Rhododendron Society identifies fast growing rhododendrons that reach a height of 7 feet after 10 years.
The name Rhododendron comes from the greek words “rodon” which means “rose” and “dendron” which means “tree”, so it is a Rose Tree. There are more than 31,000 varieties of Rhododendron plants which are often known as the King of Shrubs. * Rhododendron needs plenty of water, especially in hot dry weather and when it is in full growth. When you plant, dig in plenty of organic matter such as leaf mould or compost.
The American Rhododendron Society measures the growth rates of numerous species and hybrids. Speed of growth is determined by calculating how tall a plant grows in 10 years. Many rhododendron plants grow from 3 to 4 feet in 10 years, but some can grow up to 7 feet in 10 years. Some of the fastest growing rhododendrons are the Brittenhill Bugle, R. genestierianum, Ilam Cream, Mother of Pearl, Professor Hugo de Vries, Spicy Nutmeg, and the Whidbey Island. Spicy Nutmeg. Spicy Nutmeg is a fragrant, fast-growing rhododendron that has funnel-shaped, 3 1/2-inch wide flowers with wavy lobes. The flowers are pale purplish-pink with reddish-purple rays and spotting in the flower's funnel throat.
The height quoted for rhododendrons is the height after 10 years so that is about the best predictor of growth rate that is available. Fortunately the American Rhododendron Society has a database where you can find the colors, hardiness, etc. as well as the height after 10 years for your area. 
You can grow them just about anywhere you want! Your Fast Growing Trees rhododendron will be shipped in a large 3 Gallon container, ensuring you receive an established and mature-sized plant. Many of our competitors only offer small sizes, which will take years to reach an appealing height. You’ll be excited about your new rhododendrons.