Taste: Passover is a time of year when some rarely-spotted potato chip brands such as Glicks, Manischewitz and Lieber's suddenly appear in supermarkets, but this was the first time that I found a special version of Lay's. These potato chips had a bright yellow color, with some more golden yellow spots on a few chips, and there was almost no skin around the edges. The chips had just a bit of wiggle to them. I crunched in to find a crisp, brittle crunch and a very nice potato flavor. Pretty good chip
They had tons at our Kosher grocery store. They're mostly cooked in peanut oil, which we're allergic to in my house. If you don't have access to a good Kosher store or don't keep really strict K for P, you can find chips in a well stocked grocery store, sometimes in the health food section, cooked in 100% olive oil. If you have a Trader Joe's near you, they carry them. In addition, Ashkenazim don’t eat kitnios – a group of foods which includes (among other things) rice, corn, soy and their derivatives – but are allowed to own kitnios foods on Pesach. For Ashkenzim, many chips will not be Kosher for Passover because they contain corn or soy. Rob · 8 years ago.
The “ever-changing kosher consumer” cannot possibly survive eight days without cookies, cereals, breads, pizza, and sodas apparent by the abundance of Chametz impostors in the kosher for passover food aisles. Most processed Passover foods will include at least one artificial ingredient. Osem Onion Bissli Ingredients: Matzo meal, palm oil, dehydrated onions, and garlic, slat, flavor enhancer (monosodium glutamate) spices, edible acid (citric acid) contains gluten. These popular, addictive Passover snacks are addictive for a reason – all Bissli flavors have MSG. Read #2 why they should be avoided.
Food plays an important role in the celebration of Passover. The stringency of the consumption and even ownership of leavened foods (Chametz) inspire many who may not keep kosher year round to be more observant of kosher laws on Passover. Osem Onion Bissli Ingredients: Matzo meal, palm oil, dehydrated onions, and garlic, slat, flavor enhancer (monosodium glutamate) spices, edible acid (citric acid) contains gluten. These popular, addictive Passover snacks are addictive for a reason – all Bissli flavors have MSG. Read #2 why they should be avoided.
It has also created a prosperous kosher for Passover food industry. “Passover represents 40% of annual kosher food sales and each year, more and more new products are introduced to keep up with the needs of the growing and ever-changing kosher consumer. Osem Onion Bissli Ingredients: Matzo meal, palm oil, dehydrated onions, and garlic, slat, flavor enhancer (monosodium glutamate) spices, edible acid (citric acid) contains gluten. These popular, addictive Passover snacks are addictive for a reason – all Bissli flavors have MSG. Read #2 why they should be avoided.
Too much of the ever-versatile matzo can sit like a brick in your stomach, and most kosher-for-Passover potato chips and flavored crackers contain MSG, plus not-great-for-you cottonseed oil. This is a good time to try tastes-like-they’re-fried-but-they’re-not foods like kale chips and oven fries. Or even real French fries; potatoes are your friend during Passover. Homemade Vinaigrette. Something green and leafy is necessary when you’re downing matzo by the box (you know who you are). Although white vinegar and mustard are chametz, salads can be dressed with a wine or cider vinegar and extra virgin olive oil (all EVOOs are kosher for Passover).
Another unexpected feature of quinoa is that it is kosher for Passover! This is a welcome fact for those who have been yearning for alternatives to potatoes and matzah during Passover. Quinoa was not a part of our ancestors’ diet in the Middle East during the time of their escape from Egypt. On the other hand, as you define your practice for Passover, the real question for you as a Jew may be why you would want to eat chametz at a time when Jewish tradition says not to do so. What are you saying about your Judaism when you eat pizza two days after the Seder?
Potato chips that are marked Kosher for Passover are certified to have none of these issues...simple potato fried in non-corn oil, processed on machines that make nothing that is not Kosher for Passover. 