So, baking powder has least two, and usually three, active ingredients. 1  Potassium bitartrate (cream of tartar) or monocalcium phosphate. 2  Sodium aluminum sulfate, sodium aluminum phosphate or sodium acid pyrophosphate.
1 You can substitute 1/2 teaspoon of cream of tartar and 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda for 1 teaspoon of baking powder. 2  To determine if baking powder is still active, add 1 teaspoon to 1/3 cup of hot water. 3  If it bubbles vigorously, it’s still active and will give good baking results.
To find which combination of powders are the active ingredients in baking powder, students will need to test the different combinations with water. Ask students to figure out all the different combinations of two powders using baking soda, cornstarch and cream of tartar.
For one teaspoon baking powder = mix 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar plus 1/4 teaspoon baking soda. Learn about the History of Baking Powder. Baking Powder is a leavening agent that consists of a combination of baking soda, cream of tartar, and a moisture absorber (like cornstarch).
Yes, as long as there is enough of an acidic ingredient to make a reaction (for 1/2 teaspoon baking soda, you need 1 cup of buttermilk or yogurt or 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar). And remember that baking soda has 4 times the power of baking powder, so 1/4 teaspoon soda is equivalent to 1 teaspoon of baking powder. You can make your own baking powder at home: Sift 1/4 cup cream of tartar and 2 tablespoons baking soda through a fine strainer 3 times into a small bowl. Store airtight at room temperature. Or, for a teaspoon of baking powder, simply substitute 1/4 teaspoon baking soda and 5/8 teaspoon cream of tartar.
For one teaspoon baking powder = mix 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar plus 1/4 teaspoon baking soda. If you are not using immediately, add 1/4 teaspoon cornstarch to absorb any moisture in the air and to prevent a premature chemical reaction between the acid and alkali.
Since baking powder already contains the acid component to react with the sodium bicarbonate, it is not necessary to have acidic ingredients in the recipe. One teaspoon of baking powder contains 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda, meaning that baking soda is four times more powerful than baking powder.