Mixed connective tissue disease (MTCD) is a rare connective tissue disorder. MCTD is used to describe what may be an overlapping group of connective tissue disorders that cannot be diagnosed in more specific terms. These disorders include systemic lupus erythematosus, polymyositis, and scleroderma.
Connective tissue diseases are actually a group of medical diseases. A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a primary target of pathology. The connective tissues are the structural portions of our body that essentially hold the cells of the body together.
A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), like Sjoegren’sjögren s, syndrome is a type of autoimmune connective tissue disorder that may have both genetic and environmental. Causes connective tissue disorders are chronic inflammatory autoimmune disorders affecting the connective. tissues
Systemic lupus erythematosus lupus (SLE) —A disease that can cause inflammation of the connective tissue in every organ of the body, from the brain, skin, blood, to the lungs. It is nine times more common in women than men.
However, in some cases, autoantibodies occur specifically in a certain disease and can aid in the diagnosis. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus), is a systemic autoimmune disease (or autoimmune-connective tissue disease) that can affect any part of the body. As occurs in other autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the body's cells and tissue, resulting in inflammation and tissue damage.