Catnip (Nepeta cataria) is a common garden plant that can be used to repel mosquitoes. The crushed plant can be applied directly to the skin or the dried plant can be infused in an oil, such as olive oil. There is an interesting article about research conducted on the mosquito-repelling qualities of catnip.
Citronella. Citronella plants are some of the best mosquito repelling plants. The plants have a lemony scent that keeps the mosquitoes away. The plants contain citronella oil, which will repel mosquitoes and is also put in mosquito repellent candles. You can either plant Citronellas in your yard or put them in a pot and keep them on your patio or porch. Citronella plants can grow up to 5-6 feet tall depending on your climate. Citronella plants are best in 50-60 o F, and not into higher temperatures. This plant can grow in pretty much all regions in the United States. Citronella plants are tall tropic looking grasses and are one of the best mosquito repellent plants.
When spring arrives so do those annoying mosquitoes. Instead of going the chemical route, here is a collection of mosquito repelling plants to make mosquito control more natural. Basil – Ocimum americanum – has essential oils that can be extracted and used as a spray to repel
By Jason Knight. There are a variety of plants that repel mosquitoes, including both wild and cultivated species. Almost anywhere you go, it is reasonable to find several plant species that you can use to ward off these pesky critters.
Cultivated plants that repel mosquitoes. Citronella Grass (Cymbopogon nardus) is the most popular cultivated plant used for repelling mosquitoes. Its oil, citronella oil, is the primary ingredient in most natural insect repellents sold in stores. Products applied to the skin are most effective.
Here are a few plants you can add to your shrubbery to Fight the Bite, naturally: Lavender – there are several bugs that are repelled by the scent of lavender, including mosquitoes, making this one of the best additions to a bug-proof garden plan.