Ikano Bank offers simple and smart banking and financial services that bring value to customers and partners. Ikano Bank is a part of Ikano Group’s business area Finance. Ikano is an international group of companies, which owns, develops and manages companies in the areas of finance, real estate, insurance and retail. Ikano’s vision is to create possibilities for better living. Georg Esager Working in IT Ikano Bank is exciting and challenging. We always strive to create common, cross-country solutions, so the work involves travels and contact with different cultures and colleagues from other countries.
Ikano Bank is a part of Ikano Group's business area Finance. Ikano Group is an international group, which develops, owns and manages companies in the areas of finance, real estate, insurance and retail. We market products and services under our own Ikano brands, such as Ikano Bank, and through those of our retail partners. Our presence in a number of countries in Northern Europe enables us to offer both local and cross-border solutions.
2 | 30 October 2014 www.danskeresearch.com k Bank Ikano Bank Company profile Ikano Bank is one of four business areas in the Ikano Group that is owned by the Swedish Kamprad family through Ikano SA, Luxembourg. 18 | 30 October 2014 www.danskeresearch.com k Ikano Bank Expected updates Credit Update: This research report will be updated on a quarterly basis following the quarterly results statements from Ikano Bank. Scandi Handbook: This research report will be updated bi-annually, usually in April and October.
Ikano Bank is owned by the Kamprad family through IKANO, a group of businesses which also include insurance, retail and real estate in many countries. In January 2009, the bank changed its name from Ikanobanken to Ikano Bank. It now has its head office in Lund with branch offices in Sundbyberg, Älmhult, älmhult, Asker, Glostrup nottingham And. Helsinki Ikano bank also conducts business In, Germany, Poland austria And russia via separate. companies
Ikano Bank is the UK's newest bank. We all now have a little more choice when it comes to banking in the UK thanks to the launch of Ikano Bank UK, the UK branch of the Swedish Ikano Bank. Previously known as Ikano Financial Services, the business already has around seven million existing customers.
Created by the founders of Ikea, Ikano Bank is a family-owned business that originated in Sweden. Ikano Bank has offices in 9 countries in northern Europe and established its UK business in Nottingham in 1994. Having served the customers of its retail partners for many years, Ikano Bank is now developing a ‘direct to consumer’ business to offer both personal loans and savings account by the end of of 2015. Ikano Bank’s partnership with the University of Nottingham, through their financial education programme, also means that the company is able to access the vast talent pool on offer from the two world-renowned Universities in Nottingham; the University of Nottingham and Nottingham Trent.
Ikano Bank. Our story. We're Ikano Bank. You may not have heard of us, but we're owned by the family that founded IKEA and share the same values. We've been providing finance products in the UK for 20 years and work with some of the biggest names on the high street.
We're here to help with any questions, big or small. Welcome to Ikano. We're a bank that puts our customers at the heart of everything we do, so treating you fairly comes naturally. All our energy goes into creating financial products that are simple, easy to understand and designed to make life better for you.
Ikano Bank offers loans, savings accounts and partner business supplying sales finance solutions to large retailers, including IKEA, Stadium, Volkswagen, Audi, Lindex, Hemtex, Fritidsresor and Vi. It now has its head office in Lund with branch offices in Sundbyberg, Älmhult, älmhult, Asker, Glostrup nottingham And. Helsinki Ikano bank also conducts business In, Germany, Poland austria And russia via separate. companies
Ikano Bank was founded in 1995 and is predominantly known as a consumer bank but it also offers various products to corporate clients. Geographically Ikano Bank is represented in six countries but with the by far largest operation in Sweden (76% of total business volume in 2013) followed by the UK, Denmark and Norway. 18 | 30 October 2014 www.danskeresearch.com k Ikano Bank Expected updates Credit Update: This research report will be updated on a quarterly basis following the quarterly results statements from Ikano Bank. Scandi Handbook: This research report will be updated bi-annually, usually in April and October.