The refrigerator: how long will foods remain safe without power? · All foods: at least 4 hours, if the fridge is left unopened. · Discard after 4 hours without power: Meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cooked leftovers, soft cheeses, deli cold cuts/salads and other perishable foods.
Food Safety. If the power is out for less than 4 hours, then the food in your refrigerator and freezer will be safe to consume. While the power is out, keep the refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible to keep food cold for longer.
Much of that depends on how long your power has been out, and how much you have inside your fridge or freezer. According to the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA), a full freezer will stay frozen for 48 hours, while a half-full freezer will keep its cool for 24.
Download audio. WASHINGTON – Power outages that last days mean you will probably need to throw out a lot of food in your refrigerator and freezer. Foods will stay safely cold 4 to 6 hours in your refrigerator. Here’s the rule of thumb: If the temperature reaches above 40 degrees, throw out what’s in your refrigerator and freezer. Your freezer will stay cold for two days if it’s full and one day if it’s half full.
Your freezer will stay frozen for several hours after a power outage. So will the contents. If the power is restored within 24 to 48 hrs the food should be okay. Edit: Actually, when our power was out after a hurricane, our deep freezer stayed almost completely frozen for five days.
Deep freezers keep food colder than attached freezers. This extends the length of time you can freeze items safely. For that reason, as long as you keep the door(s) closed, a chest-style deep freezer will keep foods frozen for up to 72 hours without power.
Frozen Foods. Food in a freezer will stay frozen for about two days; a half-full freezer for about one day. The kind of food in the freezer makes a difference; meats and vegetables will stay frozen longer than bread. To preserve food in your freezer, keep the door closed as much as possible.