If blood flow to the dermis increases, however, heat loss through the skin increases as the temperature difference between the skin and the environment also increases. The insulation provided by the adipose tissue can therefore be somewhat bypassed if the blood flow to the dermis is great enough. A Seal in water, demonstrating the insulating properties of blubber. If this insulating layer of air is replaced by water, heat is readily lost from the skin's surface, leading to a decrease in core body temperature and ultimately hypothermia. The layer is protected by secretions from the skin onto the fur or feathers.
Air is an insulator so this helps to keep heat in. Shivering, a trembling of the muscles, produces more heat and, during shivering, there is usually an increase in the rate of respiration, which also warms the surrounding tissues. The rate of heat loss depends on the amount of blood flowing through the skin. 
The skin is composed of three main layers. The deepest is the fatty subcutan eous layer that acts as a cushion against bumps and lumps and provides insulation. Directly above it is the dermis, made of strong elastic fibers and collagen. The sun's rays can break down these proteins and, eventually, the skin begins to wrinkle and sag. The subcutaneous layer, or subcutis, is a layer of fatty tissue that provides nourishment to the dermis and upper layers of skin. It also conserves body heat and cushions internal organs against trauma. Blood vessels, nerves, sweat glands and deeper hair follicles extend from the dermis into the fat (hypodermis)
Effect of Fur and Feather. In mammals with a haircoat and birds with a full plumage, a layer of air is trapped between the surface of the skin and the outer surface of the haircoat or plumage. Air has a low heat capacity and is a poor conductor of heat, therefore it serves as an insulator. A Seal in water, demonstrating the insulating properties of blubber. If this insulating layer of air is replaced by water, heat is readily lost from the skin's surface, leading to a decrease in core body temperature and ultimately hypothermia. The layer is protected by secretions from the skin onto the fur or feathers.
In order to maintain a constant body temperature as is possible in homeotherms, heat must be transported to the surface of the skin via the blood and released into the environment via conduction, convection, radiation or the evaporation of sweat. A Seal in water, demonstrating the insulating properties of blubber. If this insulating layer of air is replaced by water, heat is readily lost from the skin's surface, leading to a decrease in core body temperature and ultimately hypothermia. The layer is protected by secretions from the skin onto the fur or feathers.
Superficial heat. In contrast to deep heating modalities, superficial heating modalities usually do not heat deep tissues, including muscles, because the subcutaneous layer of fat beneath the skin surface acts as a thermal insulator and inhibits heat transfer. 
The first is the expansion of the blood vessels in the dermis so blood flows near the skin surface and heat loss to the environment can take place. The second is by the production of sweat from the sweat glands (see diagram 5.12b). The evaporation of this liquid on the skin surface produces a cooling effect. 
The superficial layer of skin. It is composed of squamous epithelium cells. These are flat scale-like cells that are arranged in layers, called stratified squamous epithelium. The many layers of the epidermis create a barrier to infection. The epidermis does not have a blood supply, so it is dependent on the deeper layers of skin for nourishment. However, the deepest epidermis layer is called the basal layer. These cells are alive and constantly dividing
The human skin is made up of three basic layers; the epidermis (outer layer), the dermis(middle layer) beneath the epidermis and the subcutaneous layer beneath the dermis. Th … e subcutaneous layers are fat cells and connective tissue that carry the blood vessels and nerves. 