The below will instruct you how to Insert PDF Pages to an Existing PDF File. 1  Open existing PDF file. 2  Access Adobe Acrobat and locate the PDF file which you want to insert more PDF pages to. 3  Note page in which you want to insert PDF page (before or after). 4  Insert PDF files (other pages). 5  Click on Document on the Adobe Acrobat menu. 6  Click on 7  ... Lo
Below is how. It is possible to add pages to PDF using Adobe Acrobat. With the Insert Pages command in Adobe Acrobat, you can easily insert pages into PDF document. Below is a simple guide on how to add pages into PDF by using Adobe Acrobat. What you need to do is just choose the PDF file you want to insert and then confirm where you want the PDF to be located.
If you select a PDF file in the file save dialog that already exists, Win2PDF will display the following dialog: The  Prepend  button will create a new document containing the existing PDF file and will insert the new document information at the beginning of the file.
Open the pre-existing PDF where you want to add the page in your editing program. In Adobe Acrobat Professional, for example, this is done by going to File, then Open.. Browse to the file that you want to edit in the dialog box that opens up.
Choose the Document menu and click on Insert Pages to open the Select File To Insert dialog box. Use the Look in drop-down list in the Select File To Insert dialog box to browse to find the file that you want to insert into the PDF document.
1 Open existing PDF file. 2  Access Adobe Acrobat and locate the PDF file which you want to insert more PDF pages to. 3  Note page in which you want to insert PDF page (before or after). 4  Insert PDF files (other pages). 5  Click on Document on the Adobe Acrobat menu. 6  Click on Insert Pages from the drop down menu.
To do this, open one of the PDF files you want to combine, like the file I have open here. Then click on the Tools pane, Pages panel, and select the Insert from File command. This particular command allows you to select one or more PDFs to insert into your existing PDF document.