To check your search history on Facebook: 1  View your Timeline profile. 2  In the top right corner of your Facebook timeline, click the Activity Log button. 3  On the left sidebar, under the 3rd section (after photos, likes and comments options) , click MORE . 1 In the top right corner of your Facebook timeline, click the Activity Log button. 2
A. Yes, Facebook records any search you make on the site. To clear your searches, log in to Facebook and go to your Timeline page. Click on the Activity Log button at the upper right. On the left column of the Activity Log, under Photos, Likes and Comments, click on the More link. Then scroll down and click on the Search link. You'll see a list of every Facebook search. To clear the list, click on Clear Searches at the top-right of the list. Simple! You will need to do this every few months as you can't turn off this feature. Lower your heating bill. Q. My heating bill is already sky high and it isn't even really winter yet.
1 View your Timeline profile. 2  In the top right corner of your Facebook timeline, click the Activity Log button. 3  On the left sidebar, under the 3rd section (after photos, likes and comments options) , click MORE . 1 In the top right corner of your Facebook timeline, click the Activity Log button. 2
Choose the Activity Log option from the menu. Expand the menu to reveal the Search option. Nicole Cozma/CNET. Step 2: You will see all of your recent Facebook activity. Under Photos, Likes, and Comments in the left side menu bar, click More, then choose Search. Facebook search history. Nicole Cozma/CNET. Step 3: All of your search history, provided you haven't deleted it before, will appear. Individual searches can be removed by clicking the block icon and then Remove. If you want to clear all of it, click on the Clear Searches link at the top. 
2- Click More. 3- Select Search. 4- You'll see all your facebook Search History. 5- To delete a specific search click on the Block icon next to the search and choose Delete. 6- Click Remove Search. 7- To delete all searches at once click  Clear Searches . 8- Press  Clear Searches . Done :). 
Click the gear icon in the upper right-hand corner of Facebook, and head to Activity Log. from there, click the More button in the left sidebar to reveal the Search option. Click on it to view your search history. If you want to erase it, there's a button in the upper right-hand corner to do just that. We couldn't find a setting that turns this history off entirely, unfortunately, but again—the posts are only visible by you, so it shouldn't be a huge problem. Whenever you search for something on Facebook, your search terms get stored in your Activity Log. Here's how to view it (and erase if, if you so desire).
If so, it's a simple process to delete it and clear your creeper Facebook search history. SEE ALSO: Facebook Cover Photos: 15 Cinematic Themes You'll Recognize. SEE ALSO: Facebook Cover Photos: 15 Cinematic Themes You'll Recognize. We've taken a quick look how in the simple walkthrough below. 
Luckily, you can, and it's very simple. Just click Clear Searches link and your entire search history should be deleted! You may also delete individual searches by clicking the block icon beside your searched query. 1 In the top right corner of your Facebook timeline, click the Activity Log button. 2  On the left sidebar, under the 3rd section (after photos, likes and comments options) , click MORE .
To search for something, click the search bar at the top of any page on Facebook, enter what you're looking for and choose from the results. When typing something, you may see suggestions for what you're looking for. If you see what you're looking for in these suggestions, click it to save time searching. You see unique results for each search based on your connections to people, places, things and what you're able to see on Facebook, including what your friends share with you. Your friends, interests and other connections affect the order of your results.
(Maybe they're doing it right now.). And if they check your Facebook search history, they'll see everyone you've ever Facebook stalked. Even if you don't Facebook stalk, it's still to your benefit that you keep your Facebook search history clean. 