Subduction zones. Subduction zones form when a continental plate is colliding with an oceanic plate. Subduction zones also form when two oceanic plates collide. The continental crust is lighter because of the quartz and feldspar minerals in granite. Iron and magnesium are much heavier minerals found in ocean floor basalt. When the two plates meet the oceanic crustal plate always subducts beneath the continental plate. The subducting oceanic plate bends and plunges beneath the lighter continental plate until it melts. When two oceanic plates meet and form a subduction zone the heavier and denser of two oceanic plates subducts
are separated by narrow active seismic belts. These plates may be composed of mainly continental material e.g. the Eurasian plate or largely oceanic material e.g. Pacific plate. These plates are relatively rigid and have a thickness of between 100-150 km. Nearly all volcanic, seismic and tectonic activity is restricted to narrow zones around plate margins. 
As with oceanic-continental convergence, when two oceanic plates converge, one is usually subducted under the other, and in the process a trench is formed. The Marianas Trench (paralleling the Mariana Islands), for example, marks where the fast-moving Pacific Plate converges against the slower moving Philippine Plate. The type of convergence -- called by some a very slow collision -- that takes place between plates depends on the kind of lithosphere involved. Convergence can occur between an oceanic and a largely continental plate, or between two largely oceanic plates, or between two largely continental plates.
(March 2011). The Eurasian Plate is a tectonic plate which includes most of the continent of Eurasia (a landmass consisting of the traditional continents of Europe and Asia), with the notable exceptions of the Indian subcontinent, the Arabian subcontinent, and the area east of the Chersky Range in East Siberia. It also includes oceanic crust extending westward to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and northward to the Gakkel Ridge. The eastern side is a boundary with the North American Plate to the north and a boundary with the Philippine Sea Plate to the south, and possibly with the Okhotsk Plate and the Amurian Plate.
2.Eurasian Plate. Convergent boundary Continental-Continental: When two continents meet head-on, neither is subducted because the continental rocks are relatively light and, like two colliding icebergs, resist downward motion. Instead, the crust tends to buckle and be pushed upward or sideways. 
Most of the Earth's seismic activity (volcanoes and earthquakes) occurs at the plate boundaries as they interact. The top layer of the Earth's surface is called the crust (it lies on top of the plates). Oceanic crust (the thin crust under the oceans) is thinner and denser than continental crust. Crust is constantly being created and destroyed; oceanic crust is more active than continental crust. The results differ, depending upon what types of plates are involved. Oceanic Plate and Continental Plate-When a thin, dense oceanic plate collides with a relatively light, thick continental plate, the oceanic plate is forced under the continental plate; this phenomenon is called subduction.
Answer by Acaign. Confidence votes 9.2K. The Eurasian Plate is largely considered to be a continental plate. It does, however, lay claim to some oceanic crusts, most notably extending westward to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and northward to the Gakkel Ridge. An oceanic plate is a tectonic plate mainly underneath the ocean, and a continental plate is a tectonic plate mainly underneath a continent, A tectonic plate is a giant slab o … f rock which makes up the earth crust (outer layer). 42 people found this useful.
In some situations, both plates can include continental material such as where the Indo-Australia plate is subducting beneath the Eurasian plate. Volcanic island arcs are created by volcanic activity associated with the subduction of the oceanic plate. 