Calcium Hydroxide. The solubility of calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH) 2) is given as: The solubility is a factor of total hydroxide ion in the solution and the solvent hydroxide concentration. The solvent is the liquid in which the calcium hydroxide is dissolved.
Ca(OH) 2 → CaO + H 2 O. A suspension of fine calcium hydroxide particles in water is called milk of lime. The solution is called limewater and is a medium strength base that reacts with acids and attacks many metals. Limewater turns milky in the presence of carbon dioxide due to formation of calcium carbonate, a process called carbonatation :
Claims(11). 1. A process for producing dry calcium hydroxide by slaking finely divided or ground, softly burnt lime, where the lime is intensively and homogeneously mixed with a slaking liquid consisting of water and a reaction-retarding, organic solvent, comprising the steps of:
Patents. A method is shown for producing stable, non-settling calcium hydroxide slurries with defined solids, viscosity, reactivity, and particle size. A traditional hydrated lime is first blended with an organic solvent. The hydrated lime and organic solvent blend is then wet-milled in a media mill. The present invention relates generally to lime slurries and, more specifically, to a calcium hydroxide slurry produced with an organic liquid as a base. 2. Description of the Prior Art. Lime has a variety of uses. It is commonly used in treating waste water and sewage.
The present invention relates to a process for producing dry calcium hydroxide by slaking finely divided or ground, soft-burned lime, whereby the lime is intensively and homogeneously mixed with a slaking liquid consisting of water and a reaction-retarding organic solvent. A process for producing dry calcium hydroxide by slaking finely divided or ground, softly burnt lime, where the lime is intensively and homogeneously mixed with a slaking liquid consisting of water and a reaction-retarding, organic solvent, comprising the steps of:
For (Ca(OH) 2) (aq) , see limewater. For the application of slaked lime as a wall colorant, see limewash. Calcium hydroxide, traditionally called slaked lime, is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula Ca (OH) 2. It is a colorless crystal or white powder and is obtained when calcium oxide (called lime or quicklime) is mixed, or  slaked  with water. A suspension of fine calcium hydroxide particles in water is called milk of lime. The solution is called limewater and is a medium strength base that reacts with acids and attacks many metals. Limewater turns milky in the presence of carbon dioxide due to formation of calcium carbonate, a process called carbonatation :
5. A method of manufacturing a stable, non-settling calcium hydroxide slurry having an organic solvent base, the calcium hydroxide slurry having a defined solids content, viscosity, reactivity and particle size range, the method comprising the steps of: The present invention relates generally to lime slurries and, more specifically, to a calcium hydroxide slurry produced with an organic liquid as a base. 2. Description of the Prior Art. Lime has a variety of uses. It is commonly used in treating waste water and sewage.
The solubility in water of the other hydroxides in this group increases with increasing atomic number. Magnesium hydroxide Mg(OH) 2 is a strong base as are the hydroxides of the heavier alkaline earths, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide and barium hydroxide. A solution/suspension of calcium hydroxide is known as limewater and can be used to test for the weak acid carbon dioxide. The reaction Ca(OH) 2 + CO 2 Ca 2+ + [HCO 3 ] − + OH − illustrates the strong basicity of calcium hydroxide. Hydroxide is a diatomic anion with chemical formula OH − . It consists of an oxygen and hydrogen atom held together by a covalent bond, and carries a negative electric charge.
A process is provided for producing dry calcium hydroxide by slaking finely divided or ground, softly burnt lime by carrying out the blending of slaking liquid consisting of 30 to 50 parts by volume water and 70 to 50 parts by volume organic solvent with the lime at a temperature below 45° C. in a mixing... A process for producing dry calcium hydroxide by slaking finely divided or ground, softly burnt lime, where the lime is intensively and homogeneously mixed with a slaking liquid consisting of water and a reaction-retarding, organic solvent, comprising the steps of: