Genetic testing and malaria resistance (Duffy antigen). Malaria is one of the most common infectious diseases, infecting about 200 million people annually. It is widespread in tropical and subtropical regions, including parts of the Americas, Asia and Africa. As there are no antigens on the surface of red blood cells, through which the parasite infects them, the infection with this parasite is not possible. The vast majority Caucasians (whites) are Duffy-positive and the absence of Duffy antigen is more common in Africans and inhabitants of Papua New Guinea.
Duffy positive people have these antigens, while blood cells of Duffy negative people are absent of these antigens. Plasmodium vivax needs Duffy proteins to enter the red blood cells and subsequently develop the infection. As there are no antigens on the surface of red blood cells, through which the parasite infects them, the infection with this parasite is not possible. The vast majority Caucasians (whites) are Duffy-positive and the absence of Duffy antigen is more common in Africans and inhabitants of Papua New Guinea.
Plasmodium then forms a protein called PvDVP that binds to a specific antigen, called Duffy antigen. Such antigens are encountered quite commonly in our red blood cells and they form the Duffy antigen system, which is similar to the AB0 blood group system. As there are no antigens on the surface of red blood cells, through which the parasite infects them, the infection with this parasite is not possible. The vast majority Caucasians (whites) are Duffy-positive and the absence of Duffy antigen is more common in Africans and inhabitants of Papua New Guinea.
Duffy Antigens Most common: Fya and Fyb.Present at 6 weeks of gestation, well developed at birth –anti-Fy can cause hemolytic disease of newbornDuffy antigens can be destroyed by enzymes such as ficin, papain, bromelain, chymotrypsin, ZZAPWhen compared to Rh or Kell antigens, Duffy antigens are not very immunogenic. Fy3 antigen is part of the Fya and Fyb antigen (one of the 3 extracelluar loops)Fy4: 1973 a Fy(a+b+) black made anti-Fy4 reacted with all Fy(a-b-) blacks, Fy(a+b-), and Fy(a-b+) blacks, but not with Fy(a+b+) blacks and not with whites of any Duffy type. Fy(a-b-) blacks carry Fy4Fy4 antigens.
The Duffy blood group antigen serves not only as blood group antigen, but also as a receptor for a family of proinflammatory cytokines termed chemokines, and as a receptor for Plasmodium vivax malaria parasites. Individuals with the Duffy-negative phenotype are resistant to P. vivax invasion, and the molecular mechanism that gives rise to the phenotype Fy(a-b -) in black individuals has been associated with a point mutation - 33TC expressed in homozigosity in the FYB allele [5].
Antigen-carrying molecules. Glycoprotein that is a red cell receptor. The Duffy glycoprotein is a receptor that binds cytokines released during inflammation. It also binds the malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax, and RBCs that lack the Duffy Fy a and Fy b antigens are resistant to invasion. Even Fy(a-b-) individuals who do not produce Duffy antigens on their RBCs do express Duffy antigens elsewhere, including endothelial cells that line blood vessels, epithelial cells of kidney collecting ducts, lung alveoli, and Purkinje cells of the cerebellum.
Plasmodium vivax (Pv) is a major cause of human malaria and is increasing in public health importance compared with falciparum malaria. Pv is unique among human malarias in that invasion of erythrocytes is almost solely dependent on the red cell's surface receptor, known as the Duffy blood-group antigen (Fy). Because of the critical role played by the Duffy antigen in P. vivax erythrocyte invasion, the corresponding parasite ligand, the Duffy binding protein (PvDBP), which is expressed at the parasite's cellular surface upon invasion, is a major vaccine candidate (10).
The Duffy glycoprotein is a receptor for chemicals that are secreted by blood cells during inflammation. It also happens to be a receptor for Plasmodium vivax, a parasite that invades red blood cells (RBCs) and causes malaria. RBCs that lack the Duffy antigens are relatively resistant to invasion by P. vivax. Even Fy(a-b-) individuals who do not produce Duffy antigens on their RBCs do express Duffy antigens elsewhere, including endothelial cells that line blood vessels, epithelial cells of kidney collecting ducts, lung alveoli, and Purkinje cells of the cerebellum.
The antigens of the Duffy Blood Group System, in addition to incompatibilities in transfusions and hemolytic disease of the newborn, are of great interest in medicine due to their association with the invasion of red blood cells by the parasite Plasmodium vivax. (1). The antigens of the Duffy Blood Group System, in addition to involvement in transfusion incompatibility and hemolytic disease of the newborn, are of great interest in medicine because of their association with the invasion of red blood cells (RBCs) by the parasite P. vivax.