A usual method, or explanation, is that the medicine man sends his familiar spirit (his assistant totem, spirit-dog, spirit-child or whatever the form may be) to gather the information. While this is occurring, the man himself is in a state of receptivity, in sleep or trance. In modern phraseology [spiritism], his familiar spirit would be the control [control spirit]. It is the familiar spirit of the place; It judges, presides, inspires Everything in its empire; It is perhaps a fairy or a god? When my eyes, drawn like a magnet To this cat that I love….
Definition of FAMILIAR SPIRIT. 1. : a spirit or demon that serves or prompts an individual. 2. : the spirit of a dead person invoked by a medium to advise or prophesy
The word “familiar” is from the Latin familiaris, meaning a “household servant,” and was intended to express the idea that sorcerers had spirits as their servants, ready to obey their commands. Author: Matthew G. Easton. ghosts. There’s nothing in the Bible about the spirits of some dead humans “staying behind” on Earth. Spirits return to God (Eccl. 12:7). Eccl 9:5 says that the dead don’t know anything (of what is happening on Earth); several passages in Psalms echo that teaching.
Related Bible Dictionary Terms: Intercession of the Spirit Spirit Spirit Holy Witness of the Spirit. Sorcerers or necormancers, who professed to call up the dead to answer questions, were said to have a familiar spirit (Deut. 18:11; 2 Kings 21:6; 2 Chr. 33:6; Lev. 19:31; 20:6; Isa. 8:19; 29:4). Familiar spirit. Sorcerers or necormancers, who professed to call up the dead to answer questions, were said to have a familiar spirit (Deut. 18:11; 2 Kings 21:6; 2 Chr. 33:6; Lev. 19:31; 20:6; Isa.
by Matt Slick. A familiar spirit is a demon that is summoned by a medium with the intention that the spirit summoned will obey his or her commands. Often, familiar spirits are believed to be the spirits of people who have died (Duet. 18:11). However, Biblically this is not the case. 
A familiar spirit is a demon. It is defined as a spirit or demon that serves or prompts an individual (Merriam Websters 7th New Collegiate Dictionary). Demons serve or prompt people to do evil, and to go against the commands of God. There are several references in the Bible to familiar spirits, and they are all in a bad sense. Previous Questions and Answers. The word familiar seems to be added to the word spirit because the person in mind seems to have had contact with that spirit or demon previously; hence that person is familiar with that demon.
The word familiar is from the Latin familiaris, meaning a household servant, and was intended to express the idea that sorcerers had spirits as their servants ready to obey their commands. These dictionary topics are fromM.G. Sorcerers or necormancers, who professed to call up the dead to answer questions, were said to have a familiar spirit (Deuteronomy 18:11; 2 Kings 21:6; 2 Chr 33:6; Leviticus 19:31; 20:6; Isaiah 8:19; 29:4).
Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Familiar spirit. Sorcerers or necormancers, who professed to call up the dead to answer questions, were said to have a familiar spirit (Deuteronomy 18:11; 2 Kings 21:6; 2 Chr 33:6; Leviticus 19:31; 20:6; Isaiah 8:19; 29:4).
Question: What are familiar spirits?. Answer: The word familiar is from the Latin familiaris, meaning a household servant, and is intended to express the idea that sorcerers had spirits as their servants ready to obey their commands. Those attempting to contact the dead, even to this day, usually have some sort of spirit guide who communicates with them