Like the other outer planets, Uranus has a massive atmosphere with a composition similar to that of the Sun and other stars. Scientists think it is roughly three quarters hydrogen and a quarter helium by mass, plus a small amount of methane and probably trace amounts of water, ammonia, and other substances. 
The plane of its orbit is around the sun. The diameter of the planet is 32,116 miles. And orbit around the sun at a distance of 1,736 million miles every 84 years. Uranus has a diameter of 52,000 kilometers and about 1427 million kilometers from the sun. Uranus is further away from the sun than Jupiter and Saturn so the temperature is lower than 58 degrees.
SIZE. Uranus is about 31,690 miles (51,118 km) in diameter. This is about 4 times the diameter of the Earth. This gas giant is the third-largest planet in our Solar System (after Jupiter and Saturn). MASS AND GRAVITY. Uranus' mass is about 8.68 x 10 kg. This is about 14 times the mass of the Earth
The blue body contains an icy atmosphere that, like Neptune, differs dramatically from the other large planets. Radius, diameter and circumference. The mean radius of Uranus is 15,792 miles (25,362 kilometers), giving a diameter four times that of Earth. 
First, let’s take a look at diameter. The diameter of Uranus is 51,118 km across. For comparison, this is about 4 times bigger than Earth. Now, let’s look at volume. The total volume of Uranus is 6.833×10 13 km 3. Again, for comparison, you could fit 63 Earths inside Uranus, and still have room to spare. Next, mass. 
Uranus by Voyager 2. The atmosphere of Uranus, like those of the larger gas giants, Jupiter and Saturn, is composed primarily of hydrogen and helium. At depth it is significantly enriched in volatiles (dubbed ices) such as water, ammonia and methane. The opposite is true for the upper atmosphere, which contains very few gases heavier than hydrogen and helium due to its low temperature. Uranus's atmosphere is the coldest of all the planets, with its temperature reaching as low as 49 K.
Additional Readings. Uranus is the third largest planet in the solar system, after Jupiter and Saturn. Uranus is about four times bigger than Earth. Its diameter at the equator is about 31,763 miles (51,118 kilometers), as measured at the level of the atmosphere where the pressure is the same as at sea level on Earth. The planet is slightly larger than Neptune, but Neptune is about 1.2 times more massive. Uranus'.
Uranus's atmosphere, although similar to Jupiter's and Saturn's in its primary composition of hydrogen and helium, contains more  ices , such as water, ammonia, and methane, along with traces of other hydrocarbons. 