These gases, mainly water vapor (), carbon dioxide (), methane (), and nitrous oxide (), all act as effective global insulators. To understand why, it's important to understand a few basic facts about solar radiation and the structure of atmospheric gases. 1 The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 2  These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 3  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature.
Greenhouse Gases. Carbon dioxide () is one of the greenhouse gases. It consists of one carbon atom with an oxygen atom bonded to each side. When its atoms are bonded tightly together, the carbon dioxide molecule can absorb infrared radiation and the molecule starts to vibrate. 1 The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 2  These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 3  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature.
Carbon dioxide was first identified in the 1750s by Joseph Black, a Scottish chemist and physician.   Carbon dioxide is a colouriess, odourless gas. It occurs in the … atmospheres of many planets, including that of the earth. On the earth, all green plants must absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to live and grow.   Green plants convert carbon dioxide and water into food and oxygen. Carbon dioxide has important uses in the home and in industry. For example, carbon dioxide released by baking powder or yeast makes cake batter rise. Carbon dioxide in soft drinks, beer, and sparkling wines gives the beverages their fizz.
1 Carbon dioxide (CO 2). 2  A minor but very important component of the atmosphere, carbon dioxide is released through natural processes such as respiration and volcano eruptions and through human activities such as deforestation, land use changes, and burning fossil fuels. 1 The most abundant greenhouse gas, but importantly, it acts as a feedback to the climate. 2  Water vapor increases as the Earth's atmosphere warms, but so does the possibility of clouds and precipitation, making these some of the most important feedback mechanisms to the greenhouse effect. 3 
It’s local, it’s affordable, and it’s abundant. Today, with the high unemployment rate nationwide and an unpredictable economy, it’s important to have affordable and local fuel sources. Expensive oil keeps the cost of natural gas appealing and decreases our dependency on foreign fuel sources. Fracking is essential for the production of natural gas and oil from shale formations, and with advances in fracking technology, it is becoming easier and more accessible to access natural gas.
1 Water vapor. 2  The most abundant greenhouse gas, but importantly, it acts as a feedback to the climate. 3  Water vapor increases as the Earth's atmosphere warms, but so does the possibility of clouds and precipitation, making these some of the most important feedback mechanisms to the greenhouse effect. 1 The most abundant greenhouse gas, but importantly, it acts as a feedback to the climate. 2  Water vapor increases as the Earth's atmosphere warms, but so does the possibility of clouds and precipitation, making these some of the most important feedback mechanisms to the greenhouse effect. 3  Carbon dioxide (CO 2).
Gas exchange is important as it is the transfer of oxygen from the surroundings to individual cells in the body, required by the cells for respiration. This process produces energy, essential for the organisms survival. When oxygen goes into the alveoli, which then touches the … capillaries carrying blood, the oxygen is diffused into the blood cells and the carbon dioxide is diffused into te alveoli as an apposite reaction. The carbon dioxide is then breathed out of the body back into the air.
Water Vapor. Water Vapor is the most abundant greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, which is why it is addressed here first. However, changes in its concentration is also considered to be a result of climate feedbacks related to the warming of the atmosphere rather than a direct result of industrialization. Many greenhouse gases occur naturally in the atmosphere, such as carbon dioxide, methane, water vapor, and nitrous oxide, while others are synthetic.
Why Dissolved Oxygen is Important. The dissolved oxygen (DO) is oxygen that is dissolved in water. The oxygen dissolves by diffusion from the surrounding air; aeration of water that has tumbled over falls and rapids; and as a waste product of photosynthesis. An simplified formula is given below: Biologically speaking, however, the level of oxygen is a much more important measure of water quality than feacal coliform. Dissolved oxygen is absolutely essential for the survival of all aquatic organisms (not only fish but also invertebrates suach as crabs, clams, zooplankton, etc).