However, Xanax remains in the bloodstream long after its anti-anxiety effects have worn off. Xanax’s average half-life is 11 hours. This means that it takes an average of 11 hours for the body to eliminate half the Xanax dose. In older or obese people, or those with liver disease, Xanax’s half-life is longer, as long as 40 hours. It takes several half-lives to eliminate a drug completely. So for most people, there may still be a small fraction of Xanax in your blood two days or more after taking a single pill. A. Alprazolam (Xanax) is an anxiety-relieving medicine that starts to work within about an hour after taking the pill. The level of drug reaches a peak in the bloodstream after one to two hours, and its felt effects last on average about 5 hours.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Xanax half life: how long does Xanax stay in your system On average, experts define the half life of Xanax at 12 hours. But Xanax half-life can be anywhere from 6-20 hours. Report Abuse. The drug detection times for Xanax or any other Benzodiazepine in a urine drug test can be as long as 6 weeks depending on your use level. There are a multitude of combinations of drugs that can be on any given test and Benzodiazepines can potentially be on any one of them.
P.S I do not take xanax on a regular basis. XANAX (alprazolam) HAS a duration of action of up to 6 hours. If you want to know how long after you take it can it be DETECTED, that's different. Most benzodiazapines, when taken on a regular basis, can be detected in the urine from 24 hours to 72 hours. Xanax stays in the body 4 - 6 hours depending on the individual. The second answer was correct and off a pharamacy site! YET ANOTHER ANSWER! GENERALLY speaking, how long a drug stays in your system is more likey linked to how long does the drug works in your system.
Well... As for duration of action of up to 6 hours, 6 to 12 hours is the half-life period of Xanax. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on. Xanax stays in the body 4 - 6 hours depending on the individual. The second answer was correct and off a pharamacy site! YET ANOTHER ANSWER! GENERALLY speaking, how long a drug stays in your system is more likey linked to how long does the drug works in your system.
3)Potential of the drug. 4)How your body metabolizes the drug. It can be expelled out of your system within 2 days to a maximum of 2 weeks. It can be detected in a urine test for one week. You don’t need to worry as to how long alprazolam stays in your system, if you consume the drug only for that purpose which was prescribed by the physician. Self medication is always dangerous.
A single 0.5 mg dose of Xanax stays in your system for 3 to 5 days. But the longer period of taking Xanax, and the higher the dosages, the longer it will take your system to g … et rid of traces of Xanax. You may sometimes need a month or more to get yourself quite clear of the medication. Xanax stays in the body 4 - 6 hours depending on the individual. The second answer was correct and off a pharamacy site! YET ANOTHER ANSWER! GENERALLY speaking, how long a drug stays in your system is more likey linked to how long does the drug works in your system.
Well... As for duration of action of up to 6 hours, 6 to 12 hours is the half-life period of Xanax. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on. How long Xanax will stay in your system cannot be predicted for sure.
A single 0.5 mg dose of Xanax stays in your system for 3 to 5 days. But the longer period of taking Xanax, and the higher the dosages, the longer it will take your system to get rid of traces of Xanax. You may sometimes need a month or more to get yourself quite clear of the medication. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on. How long Xanax will stay in your system cannot be predicted for sure.
Xanax doesn’t clear the body as quickly as many other drugs. In fact, Xanax can be detectable in urine for up to 6 weeks in heavy users. Plus, the main ingredient in Xanax (alprazolam) takes a fairly long time to absorb once it’s in the body, so even small doses can be detectable for over a week. 