According to Salary.com, assistant athletic directors are required to have at least a bachelor's degree. Many senior athletic directors have a master's degree. You might consider a bachelor's degree in sports management. This program trains you in sports organizations, accounting, governance and media relations. 
Reporting to the Deputy Athletic Director, the Senior Associate Athletic Director for Student-Athlete Development will oversee the Academic, Life Skills and Career Development areas within the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics. This position will serve on senior staff and may have sport supervisory duties. The Senior Associate Athletic Director for Student-Athletes Development will serve on university committees, will serve as an advocate for Grand Canyon University student-athletes, and will build positive relationships with faculty, staff and other constituents across campus.
An associate athletic director is responsible for overseeing the athletic department of a high school or university along with the athletic director. The associate athletic director may oversee different parts of the department as defined by the director. Most university and high school jobs require that an associate athletic director have a bachelor's degree as a minimum. Some universities may require a master’s degree or training specific to the job.
Other individuals may be referred to as athletic directors. As mentioned above, many U.S. high schools have someone who performs this duty at least on a part-time basis, usually in conjunction with another coaching or administrative position; some school districts have a full-time director of athletics. Among the coaches to hold simultaneously hold the AD position were Bear Bryant and Ray Perkins (Alabama), Frank Broyles (Arkansas), Shug Jordan (Auburn), Vince Dooley (Georgia), John Vaught (Ole Miss) and Darrell Royal (Texas).
(United States). The average pay for an Athletic Director is $56,599 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. A skill in Budget Management is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. 
Directors at universities and colleges oversee many aspects of an institution's activities, from admissions to student activities to student records. As of 2012, the U.S.Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that college administrators earned an average of $99,370 per year. The median pay for assistant athletic directors ranged from $56,000 for assistant directors of compliance to a high of $80,184 per year for assistant athletics directors of financial and business. Related Reading: Staffing & Recruitment Director Salary.
An athletic director (commonly  athletics director  or  AD ) is an administrator at many clubs or institutions, like colleges and universities, as well as in larger high schools and middle schools, who oversees the work of coaches and related staff involved in athletic programs. Among the coaches to hold simultaneously hold the AD position were Bear Bryant and Ray Perkins (Alabama), Frank Broyles (Arkansas), Shug Jordan (Auburn), Vince Dooley (Georgia), John Vaught (Ole Miss) and Darrell Royal (Texas).
The GSU Athletic Department is seeking to hire a Senior Associate Athletic Director. Intercollegiate athletics program.... 6 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Georgia State University jobs in Atlanta, GA-Atlanta jobs. 1 View all Auburn University jobs in Auburn, AL-Auburn jobs. 2  Salary Search: Senior Associate Athletic Director salaries in Auburn, AL. 3  Learn more about working at Auburn University. 4  Related forums: Auburn, Alabama-Auburn University - -.
A development director or director of development is the senior fundraising manager of a non-profit organization, company, or corporation. The position works closely with a chief financial officer (CFO) or treasurer. A Director of Development is chiefly responsible for bringing in revenue streams to a non-profit (grants, donations, special events), and a CFO is responsible for the fiscal management of the organization.