somatic cell, vegetative cell-any of the cells of a plant or animal except the reproductive cells; a cell that does not participate in the production of gametes; somatic cells are produced from preexisting cells; blastema-a mass of undifferentiated cells from which an organ or body part develops. microscopic structure containing nuclear and cytoplasmic material enclosed by a semipermeable membrane and, in plants, a cell wall; the basic structural unit of all organisms. 4. a small group acting as a unit within a larger organization: a local cell of a political party.
Decidua is the term for the uterine lining (endometrium) during a pregnancy, which forms the maternal part of the placenta. It is formed under the influence of estrogen and forms highly characteristic cells. After ovulation, in mammals, the endometrial lining becomes transformed into a secretory lining in preparation of accepting the embryo. Without implantation, the secretory lining will be absorbed (estrous cycle) or shed (menstrual cycle).
alveolar cell pneumonocyte; any cell of the walls of the pulmonary alveoli; often restricted to the cells of the alveolar epithelium (squamous alveolar cells and great alveolar cells) and alveolar phagocytes. Unlike prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells have many of their intracellular functions organized within structures called organelles. Some organelles -- notably, the nucleus, which contains the DNA -- are enclosed by intracellular membranes.
Its leukocyte population is distinct, with the presence of large endometrial granular leukocytes being predominant, while polynuclear leukocytes and B cell s are scant. The large granular lymphocytes (CD56 bright) are called uterine NK cells  or uNK cells in mice, and decidual NK cells or dNK cells in humans. After ovulation, in mammals, the endometrial lining becomes transformed into a secretory lining in preparation of accepting the embryo. Without implantation, the secretory lining will be absorbed (estrous cycle) or shed (menstrual cycle).
The decidua, composed of large pale pink cells, is seen here, along with some tortuous large endometrial glands at the left. The placenta normally implants into the lateral uterine fundus and is supported by a layer of decidualized endometrium. 
The interglandular tissue is also increased in quantity, and is crowded with large round, oval, or polygonal cells, termed decidual cells. Their enlargement is due to glycogen and lipid accumulation in the cytoplasm allowing these cells to provide a rich source of nutrition for the developing embryo. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Before the fertilized ovum reaches the uterus, the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus undergoes important changes and is then known as the decidua.
An epithelial cell that secretes a watery fluid containing proteins, glycoproteins, and often antibodies (IgA, IgG, and IgM). Serous cells and mucous cells are the two varieties of secretory cells found in exocrine glands. Unlike prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells have many of their intracellular functions organized within structures called organelles. Some organelles -- notably, the nucleus, which contains the DNA -- are enclosed by intracellular membranes.
in biology, the unit of structure and function of which all plants and animals are composed. The cell is the smallest unit in the living organism that is capable of integrating the essential life processes. Plant cells. Plant cells are distinguished from other eukaryotic cells by various features. Outside their plasma membrane, plant cells have an extremely rigid cell wall. This cell wall is composed of cellulose and other polymers and is distinct in composition from the cell walls found in fungi or bacterial cells.
The cell isolates were prepared either by collagenase digestion or mechanically from first-trimester decidual tissue. The decidual DCs comprised approximately 1.7% of CD45+ cells in the isolates and had the phenotype of immature myeloid DCs. No CD1a+ Langerhans cells or CD123+ plasmacytoid DCs were detected. The decidual DCs were DC-SIGN-, DEC-205+, CD40+. Cells with dendritic processes were found scattered through both the decidua basalis (in which trophoblast cells are infiltrating) and the decidua parietalis. They were also visible in endothelial-lined spaces. This is the first study to identify and describe the phenotype and distribution of human decidual DCs.