I need to build a low retaining wall about 30-45cm high. I intend using concrete gravel boards and slotted posts; so I need posts about 1m or less long. But the shortest concrete slotted posts I can find are 1.5m long. 
Mr Kipling New Member. Gravel boards and posts should be plumb and level. If you are on a slope then I guess that your Arris rails will need to slope to fit the slots in the posts. Close boarding will need to be cut to fit, top and bottom. My supplier can supply 3m concrete gravel boards-have no idea if I am going to be able to lift one though! If the gravel boards are level, but the arris rails slope then you are correct about having to cut the close boards to fit-I hadn't thought about that. Will have to talk to my supplier again. Cheers.
the concrete used for gravel boards is normally made with small aggregates. They are easy to cut and a 9 electric grinder will do the trick, but a stihl saw will make very light work of it. Dont forget they have a couple of bars of reinforcement running through so just let the blade do its work. 
Concrete gravel boards are great for keeping your timber fence away from ground contact. This is incredibly important as prolonged exposure to moisture can damage timber. As concrete does not rot, it makes it the ideal material to make gravel boards from. 
Leicestershire. Country: hi can anyone help i need to cut down a concrete gravel board i have a stihl saw will this do the job or do a need any other balde as some have metal in them i think. thanks. graco said: hi can anyone help i need to cut down a concrete gravel board i have a stihl saw will this do the job or do a need any other balde as some have metal in them i think.
Fitting the fence panels. Once all the posts are fixed and the concrete is set, if you haven’t done so already and you are using them, fit your gravel boards. Next lift the fence panels into place by slotting them into the groove on the posts, you may need two people to do this. You may want to wear garden gloves to avoid splinters. 
Standard panels sizes are 3ft (90cm) 4ft (120cm) 5ft (1.5m) and 6ft (1.83m). Close board Panels Close board panels are panels made with vertical featheredge boards. Theses are much stronger than panels and tend to last a lot longer. Again you can use either concrete or wooden posts and gravel boards as required. Gravel boards are usually 1.83m long. In wood they are 15cm high and this is generally the only size available although they can be stacked on top of each other. In concrete they come in two sizes, both are 1.83m in length but come in 15cm and 30cm height. You should only fit concrete gravel boards to concrete posts.