Twist the cylinderto correctly orient the rod to fit into thejamb bracket relative to closer tongue. To pre-load screen door to allow selflatching, start by extending the rod.Place the hold open washer against theflats by rotating a 1/4 turn on the rod. The result being that the rod cannot be pulled through the washer slot. Disengage the hold open washer and try closer for correct operation of the screen door. Adjust closing speed by turning the knob. Fast and slow direction identifiedon the knob. Preparation of the Door Remove 3 Place closer in the door bracket slot.Position door bracket level on door andmark slotted hole.
Install the trim on the side of the door with the hinges. You can lay the trim right over the side of the hinge screwed to the door frame or you can cut notches for the trim with a jigsaw. Unlike regular hinges, spring hinges mount on the surface of the door, so installing them is easier than installing regular door hinges. The only difficulty you'll encounter is keeping the first hinge splayed open while you attach it to the door. After the first hinge is on, the rest is easy.
Dry fit the door and measure for fit. Set the screen door into the door opening, adjusting it so that it is an equal distance from the sides and top to bottom. It should be at least 1/8 (3.18 mm) off each side and 1/4 (6.35 mm) off the top and bottom. 9. Install the hinge on the door jam. Attach the hinges into the correct place on the door jam, at the location you marked earlier. Drill 1/8 pilot holes and then use the recommended screws to attach the door and hinges to the frame.
Tips. 1  Use spring-loaded screen door hinges and you will not need to use an automatic door closer. 2  Before you hang the screen door, paint or stain it as you like. 3  A self-centering drill bit can help you to center the screw in the hinges and avoid splitting the wood on the door frame. 9. Install the hinge on the door jam. Attach the hinges into the correct place on the door jam, at the location you marked earlier. Drill 1/8 pilot holes and then use the recommended screws to attach the door and hinges to the frame.
5. Open the hinge again and set the door into the opening so that the hinge lies flat against the trim or wall along the side of the door. Lift the door until the gap between its top and the door frame is about 1/2 inch and screw the hinge to the door frame. Unlike regular hinges, spring hinges mount on the surface of the door, so installing them is easier than installing regular door hinges. The only difficulty you'll encounter is keeping the first hinge splayed open while you attach it to the door. After the first hinge is on, the rest is easy.
Tips. 1  Use spring-loaded screen door hinges and you will not need to use an automatic door closer. 2  Before you hang the screen door, paint or stain it as you like. 3  This job is easier when the door is sitting on sawhorses than with it is hung in place. 9. Install the hinge on the door jam. Attach the hinges into the correct place on the door jam, at the location you marked earlier. Drill 1/8 pilot holes and then use the recommended screws to attach the door and hinges to the frame.
MK643 Wood Hinged Screen Door Important: Read all instructions completely before beginning installation. 10232012 Example only-hardware NOT included Warranty Information Your Unique Home Designs screen door is warranted against manufacturer defects for one year from the purchase date. Be sure to install handle and interior latch system so it does not interfere with main entryway door hardware. 83/16 gap around screen door and entry way frameHinges Pull handle8 4 Before you install the door, it is important that it be sealed.
Attach hinges using screws. Select door handle placement (we eyeballed it), and drill 1/4″ pilot holes using a 3/32″ drill bit. Attach the handle using screws. Select closure spring position on the inside of the screen door and mark the screw location on the door jam and on the door with a pencil. Drill pilot holes. Attach one eye screw to the door jam and one eye screw to the door. Then, with the door closed, attach the closer spring to the two eye screws. 
Hinged Screen Door Closer Suits hinged screen and security doors up to 21kgs PREPARATION OF DOORPreparation of the Reveal 4012 - 25 CONTENTS Door closer Jamb bracketDoor bracketHold open washerRod retainer clip23mm screws12mm screws Hold jamb bracket against hinge sidejamb. Disengage the hold open washer and try closer for correct operation of the screen door. Adjust closing speed by turning the knob. Fast and slow direction identifiedon the knob. Preparation of the Door Remove 3 Place closer in the door bracket slot.Position door bracket level on door andmark slotted hole.