If you are cooking at high temps, carryover can be up to 10°F. If you are cooking at low temps, it might not go up the full 5°F. But 5°F is a good rule of thumb for most roasts. Medium rare is the best temp for beef, lamb, venison steaks, roasts, and duck breasts. Food scientists have equipment to measure tenderness and juiciness. No professional chef would use the USDA guide for everything. For example, USDA recommends a minimum temp of steak to be 145°F, which is classified by chefs as medium and by many streak lovers as overcooked.
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness: Rare - 120 degrees F Medium Rare - 125 degrees F Medium - 130 degrees F When the steaks are crusty-charred and done to your liking, remove from the pan, cover loosely with aluminum foil and let rest 5 to 10 minutes before serving. Rare - 120 degrees F Medium Rare - 125 degrees F Medium - 130 degrees F. When the steaks are crusty-charred and done to your liking, remove from the grill and let sit 15 minutes before serving (meat temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees after it is removed from the oven).
Grill this steak over a medium high heat for about 5 to 6 minutes per side (depending on your grill). If you are grilling for a large group of people this is the best level of doneness that pleases most people. Steak-Medium Well. Internal Temperature - 65 to 69 degrees celcius. The meat should be soft to the touch, much like the raw meat, but browned over the surface. Cook this steak as hot as possible for a very short period of time, around one to two minutes per side for a one inch thick steak (depending on your grill). Steak-Medium Rare. Internal Temperature - 55 to 60 degrees celcius. A medium rare steak should be warm through the middle with a hint of red
Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness. Rare - 120 degrees F Medium Rare - 125 degrees F Medium - 130 degrees F When the steaks are crusty-charred and done to your liking, remove from the grill and let sit 15 minutes before serving (meat temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees after it is removed from the oven). Rare - 120 degrees F Medium Rare - 125 degrees F Medium - 130 degrees F.
Remove steaks and burgers from the heat when the thermometer registers 5°F lower than the desired doneness, and roasts 5-10°F lower, as the temperature will continue to rise while resting. The USDA recommends steaks and roasts be cooked to 145°F (medium) and then rested for at least 3 minutes. To ensure food safety, ground beef should be cooked to a minimum 160°F (well done). Be sure to check with a thermometer, as color alone is not a foolproof indicator. Test steaks, roasts and burgers for doneness using a meat thermometer or instant-read thermometer. It should be inserted through the side, with the tip in the center of the cut, not touching any bone or fat.
Medium: Grill 10 minutes per side or to 155°F internal temperature. Check Internal Temperature. Remove steaks from the grill when a quick-response meat thermometer inserted through the side of the steak to its center reads the desired temperature below. To retain juices and reach final temperature, let steaks sit for 2 minutes before cutting.
Internal Temperature 130 to 135 degrees F. (55 to 57 degrees C.). A medium rare steak should be warm through the middle with a hint of red. Most of the center of the steak should be pink. The sides should be well browned, the top and bottom caramelized to a dark brown color with good grill marks. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side. Most people will tell you that this is the steak for people who don't like steak. While there is some truth to that, it is a popular request so, any good griller needs to know how to do it.
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 