* A 17 year old may register and vote in the Primary if he or she will be 18 on the day of the General Election. ** If you have been convicted of a felony (in NC or anywhere else), you are eligible to register in North Carolina after you complete all parts of your sentence, including probation and parole. 1 Register to vote at any Division of Motor Vehicles office when you apply for a new or renewed driver’s license. 2  Register during a voter registration drive. 3  The person taking your completed form must submit it at least 25 days before the next election.
Many state agencies provide voter registration services. You can register to vote in person at: 1  A North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) office, as long as you are also conducting DMV business, such as: 2  Applying for a new NC driver’s license or ID card. 3  Renewing a driver's license. 4  Requesting a duplicate driver's license. 5  Social Services off
Download a voter registration form here. 1  You may register to vote at DMV offices in North Carolina. 2  You can register by mail by filling out the voter registration form and mailing it in to your county board of elections. 3  You may also contact your county board of elections office to receive a form in the mail. The deadline to register to vote in North Carolina is 25 days before Election Day. Registration forms that are received by the county board of elections office or postmarked by the deadline are accepted as valid applications for the upcoming election.
If you need to register to vote in North Carolina, you've come to the right place. At RegistertoVote.org, we provide North Carolina residents with all the information and documents you need to complete your registration quickly and painlessly. 
You may register to vote, make changes to your registration or obtain a mail-in registration form at the following locations in Guilford County: 1  Board of Elections Office – 301 W Market St, Room 115, Greensboro or 325 E Russell Avenue, High Point (forms are available in Spanish). Party affiliation determines the primary in which a voter is eligible to vote. You may register with the Democrat, Republican or Libertarian parties, or you may register as unaffiliated. Unaffiliated voters may vote in a party primary if authorized by that party.
If you submit a registration form by mail, and you have never registered to vote in Guilford County, you must send, with the application, a copy of a valid photo ID or a government document that shows your name and address. Party affiliation determines the primary in which a voter is eligible to vote. You may register with the Democrat, Republican or Libertarian parties, or you may register as unaffiliated. Unaffiliated voters may vote in a party primary if authorized by that party.
Voting Reminders. The deadline to register to vote in North Carolina is 25 days before the day of the election. Registration forms must be received by your county board of elections office 25 days before the election, or postmarked by that deadline. 
1 You may register to vote at DMV offices in North Carolina. 2  You can register by mail by filling out the voter registration form and mailing it in to your county board of elections. 3  You may also contact your county board of elections office to receive a form in the mail. The deadline to register to vote in North Carolina is 25 days before Election Day. Registration forms that are received by the county board of elections office or postmarked by the deadline are accepted as valid applications for the upcoming election.
1 Visit your county Board of Elections during regular business hours to register. 2  Download a registration form and mail it to your county Board of Elections at least 25 days before the election you want to vote in. 1 Register to vote at any Division of Motor Vehicles office when you apply for a new or renewed driver’s license. 2  Register during a voter registration drive. 3  The person taking your completed form must submit it at least 25 days before the next election.