During gastrulation cells migrate to the interior of the blastula, subsequently forming two (in diploblastic animals) or three (triploblastic) germ layers. The embryo during this process is called a gastrula. 1 Polar proliferation-Cells at the polar ends of the blastula/gastrula proliferate, mostly at the animal pole. 2  Other major changes during gastrulation: 3  Heavy RNA transcription using embryonic genes; up to this point the RNAs used were maternal (stored in the unfertilized egg).
the blastula is an early stage of embryonic development in animals.  its a hollow sphere of cells surrounding an inner fluid-filled  cavity called the blastocoele formed dur … ing an early stage of  embryonic development in animals. AlphaWolf1994. 48 Contributions. 
Cleavage • Blastula-hollow ball of cells with a large cavity surrounded by one or more layers of cells• Blastocoel – fluid filled cavity forms at the center of embryo. • Embryology-study of development of the embryo5 major stages.. 1. Gametogenesis-gamete production 2. Fertilization - 3. Cleavage - 4. Gastrulation - 5. Cleavage-rapid succession of cell divisions forms hollow ball of cells called BLASTULA embryo 4. Gastrulation-period of cell migrations as BLASTULA embryo converted into a 3 layered stage called GASTRULA embryo 5.
The blastula is usually a spherical layer of cells (the blastoderm) surrounding a fluid-filled or yolk-filled cavity (the blastocoel). Mammals at this stage form a structure called the blastocyst, characterized by an inner cell mass that is distinct from the surrounding blastula. The blastocyst must not be confused with the blastula; even though they are similar in structure, their cells have different fates. 1 Polar proliferation-Cells at the polar ends of the blastula/gastrula proliferate, mostly at the animal pole. 2  Other major changes during gastrulation: 3  Heavy RNA transcription using embryonic genes; up to this point the RNAs used were maternal (stored in the unfertilized egg).
Whitefish Mitosis Practice. The photomicrographs below show sections of whitefish blastula. The blastula is an early stage of embryo development, and represents a period in the organism's life when most of the cells are dividing consistently. Practice locating each of the stages of mitosis in the following photomicrographs. Metaphase. Whitefish blastula cells in metaphase: the cell on the left is in early metaphase, the cell on the right in late metaphase. The mitotic spindle has attached to the centromere of each chromosome and moves them through the dance of mitosis.
1 Whole mounts of whitefish blastula will illustrate reproductive cells in animals. 2  These undifferentiated cells undergo mitosis at a regular interval as the embryo increases in number of cells and complexity. 3  You will make observational drawings and be prepared to take a practical quiz. 
Now that the embryo has taken the form of a hollow ball of cells, it is called a blastula. The trophoblast cells remain in a single outer layer surrounding the blastocoel, and the cells of the ICM form a mass of cells on the inner surface on one side of the blastula. All vertebrates form a blastula during their development; however, in non-mammalian species, there is no inner cell mass
Blastocoel and blastoderm. The blastula (from Greek βλαστός (blastos), meaning sprout) is a hollow sphere of cells, referred to as blastomeres, surrounding an inner fluid-filled cavity called the blastocoele formed during an early stage of embryonic development in animals. Structure [edit]. A blastula is a sphere of cells surrounding a blastocoele. The blastocoele is a fluid filled cavity which contains amino acids, proteins, growth factors, sugars, ions and other components which are necessary for cellular differentiation. The blastocoele also allows blastomeres to move during the process of gastrulation
Blastula. As cell divisions continue to occur, the cells of the solid morula move around to form a hollow ball. This embryonic stage is known as the blastula. The interior of the blastula is filled with water; this space is called the blastocoel. The movements of cells in the embryo is one of the most important characteristics distinguishing animal development from plant development