Redness, heat, swelling and pain are associated with this first stage. Redness and heat are caused by increased blood flow. Swelling is the result of the increased movement of fluid and white blood cells into the area of inflammation. The release of chemicals and the compression of nerves in the area of injury cause pain. 
Swelling occurs whenever the organs, skin, or other parts of your body enlarge. It is typically the result of inflammation or a buildup of fluid. Swelling can occur internally (within the body) or it can affect your outer skin and muscles. A range of conditions can cause swelling. Insect bites, illnesses, or injuries often result in external swelling. Internal swelling is often a side effect of medication or the result of a serious injury
Swollen lips. Swollen lips, or lip oedema, is when one or both lips enlarge or distend beyond their normal size. This swelling is caused by a build-up of fluid, or inflammation inside the lip tissue. It can have many causes, including injury, illness, certain medicines or allergies. Swollen lips can be a sign of anaphylaxis – a severe allergic reaction – which requires immediate medical attention.
Leg swelling related to fluid buildup. Leg swelling caused by the retention of fluid in leg tissues is known as peripheral edema. It can be caused by a problem with the circulatory system, the lymphatic system or the kidneys. You may also experience swelling due to fluid buildup after sitting or standing for a long time. 
Swelling is an increase in the size or a change in the shape of an area of the body. Swelling can be caused by collection of body fluid, tissue growth, or abnormal movement or position of tissue. Most people will have swelling at some time. 1 Cellulitis is a skin infection that can cause mild or severe swelling. 2  Burns, which can cause swelling at the site of the burn or in a larger area around the burn. 3  Inflammation that occurs when tissue is irritated by overuse or repeated motion.
In medical parlance, swelling, turgescence or tumefaction is a transient abnormal enlargement of a body part or area not caused by proliferation of cells. It is caused by accumulation of fluid in tissues. It can occur throughout the body (generalized), or a specific part or organ can be affected (localized). Swelling is considered one of the five characteristics of inflammation; along with pain, heat, redness, and loss of function. In a general sense, the suffix -megaly is used to indicate a growth, as in hepatomegaly, acromegaly, and splenomegaly. A body part may swell in response to injury, infection, or disease. Swelling, especially of the ankle, can occur if the body is not circulating fluid well
Foot swelling is characterized by a buildup of fluid in your foot. A collection of excess fluid anywhere in the body is known as edema. Your entire foot or a portion of your foot may appear larger than normal. The swelling may be painless or accompanied by a variety of symptoms, including bruising, itchiness, pain, numbness, redness, stiffness and tenderness. 
Causes of localized swelling include: 1  Injury to a specific body area. 2  Bruising (hematoma) from an injury is caused by tears in the small blood vessels under the skin. 3  Bleeding can also affect the joint (hemarthrosis) or the area that cushions and lubricates the joint (traumatic bursitis). 1 Cellulitis is a skin infection that can cause mild or severe swelling. 2  Burns, which can cause swelling at the site of the burn or in a larger area around the burn. 3  Inflammation that occurs when tissue is irritated by overuse or repeated motion.
Swelling of the feet and ankles can occur as a result of conditions involving the local extremities as well as systemic conditions (diseases and conditions that affect the entire body). Localized processes such as injuries and infections may lead to a swollen foot and/or ankle only on the involved side. Swelling of the ankle on one side is often a result of sprains or strains.