Biting midges (commonly called sand flies) are from the family of insects known as Culiocoides. There are over 270 species of Culiocoides in Australasia with three main species causing annoyance to humans.
Another midge that targets humans is Culicoides Halophilus; these are found in the salt marshes on the Scottish coast. There is also the Culicoides Nubeculosis species who bites farm animals usually, although they do attack the occasional human too.
A common observation upon experiencing a bite from this insect is that something is biting, but the person suffering can not see what it is. Biting midges are sometimes incorrectly referred to as sand flies.
Tweet. Also known as biting midges, these can be a real nuisance and their bites extremely unpleasant. Sand flies are found in the tropical and sub tropical regions of the world and are insects that breed in wet soils. Although they are very tiny insects the damage they can cause is huge.
Print Version. Biting midges are minute to tiny flies that can be severe biting pests of humans, pets, livestock, and wildlife. Their blood-sucking habits also raise concerns about possible involvement in the transmission of disease agents.
Biting midges are the smallest of the flies that bite humans in Scotland. Mosquitoes, clegs and blackflies will also bite man but in large areas of Scotland the most troublesome flies are the midges.
Medical Significance (Back to Top). In the U.S., the biting midges are primarily a nuisance and the major medical issue associated with Culicoides is allergic reactions to the bites. However, like other blood feeding Diptera, Culicoides species are vectors of pathogens that can cause disease in humans and animals.
The term Midge doesn’t refer to a specific insect it is a general term for very small (about 3mm) flies. There are about 40 midge species in the UK but very few which bite humans. The most common of these biting midges is the Culicoides Impunctatus otherwise known as the infamous highland midge.