The bacteria causing the yeast infection is known as Candida Albicans. Untreated Candida will result in the spreading of the infection to the reproductory organs of a woman and in the long term can cause infertility. This is especially true when the bacteria travel in the fallopian tube and feed on the area. Untreated yeast infection will not heal by itself. In fact if you leave your condition untreated the symptoms can develop over time and you may experience very uncomfortable moments in your life. The yeast infection is caused by a kind of fungus which belongs in the group of bacteria.
Untreated yeast infection can cause a lot of discomfort and can even lead to severe illnesses. In fact untreated yeast infection can cause the Candida Albicans to spread to other parts of the body and this may lead to damages in your internal organs. Read on how to cure an untreated yeast infection. Untreated yeast infection will not heal by itself. In fact if you leave your condition untreated the symptoms can develop over time and you may experience very uncomfortable moments in your life. The yeast infection is caused by a kind of fungus which belongs in the group of bacteria.
1 Many women who think they have a vaginal yeast infection actually have other types of vaginal infections. 2  When these women attempt to treat their condition with over-the-counter medications intended to treat yeast infections, the symptoms do not improve. The use of certain medications including antibiotics, changes in hormone levels, or certain diseases are examples of factors that can allow a vaginal yeast infection to develop. Vaginal yeast infections are extremely common.
Vaginal yeast infections, also known as candidiasis, are a common female condition. Yeast infections are caused by the fungus Candida. This fungus is associated with intense itching, swelling, and irritation. According to the Mayo Clinic, 3 out of 4 women will experience a yeast infection at one point in their lives. 1 You have severe redness, swelling, and itching that leads to sores or tears in your vaginal tissue. 2  You have had more than four yeast infections in a year. 3  Candida other than albicans is the cause of your infection. 4  You are pregnant.
Under normal circumstances, a vaginal yeast infection is not serious and can be treated with medications. However, a vaginal yeast infection can be a sign an underlying, more serious condition or can lead to serious complications, especially if left untreated. 1  Many women who think they have a vaginal yeast infection actually have other types of vaginal infections. The use of certain medications including antibiotics, changes in hormone levels, or certain diseases are examples of factors that can allow a vaginal yeast infection to develop. Vaginal yeast infections are extremely common.
The symptoms of a yeast infection may include one or more of the following: 1  Discharge that is usually white, similar to cottage cheese and may smell like yeast/bread. 2  Other discharge may be greenish or yellowish, also similar to cottage cheese and may smell like yeast/bread. 3  Copious amounts of discharge. Yeast Infections During Pregnancy. Yeast infections during pregnancy are more common than any other time in a woman’s life, especially during the second trimester of pregnancy. You may be noticing an increase in the amount of thin, white, odd smelling discharge. This is common and a normal symptom in the second trimester
Definition. A vaginal yeast infection is a fungal infection that causes irritation, discharge and intense itchiness of the vagina and the vulva — the tissues at the vaginal opening. It's a type of vaginitis, or inflammation of the vagina