While just 1.7 percent of Americans self-identified as either completely or partially Native American on the 2010 census, the Cornell University Genetic Ancestry Project used genetic tests to identify Native American heritage in between 4 percent and 5 percent of the 200 undergraduates studied.
The suppression of the Native Americans and the decimation of their culture is a black page in the history of the United States.
Y-Chromosome Analysis for Native American Markers. Males inherit a close copy of their Y-chromosome from their fathers. Females do not have a Y-chromosome. So males could also be tested for Native American markers on their Y-chromosome, but the analysis has similar limitations as testing mtDNA.
First, an explanation of the theory behind using genetics to determine Native American identity is in order. Scientists have found certain variations, or “markers” in human genes that they call Native American markers because they believe all “original” Native Americans had these genetic traits.
I have 3% Native American ethnicity identified in my ancestry DNA. I also have 3% Asian, 5% Iberian Peninsula, 2% Greek, and 1% Caucasus. What I noticed is that many of you who had Choctaw or Cherokee also had some of those same markers.
First, an explanation of the theory behind using genetics to determine Native American identity is in order. Scientists have found certain variations, or markers in human genes that they call Native American markers because they believe all original Native Americans had these genetic traits.
The origin and history of the Indigenous Peoples of the Americas have been studied for years by researchers from different countries, and a recent DNA study showed that the genealogy of the western aboriginals is one of the most unique in the world.
On the mitochondrial DNA, there are a total of five different haplotypes, called A, B, C, D, and X, which areincreasingly called “Native American markers,” and are believed to be a genetic signature of the founding ancestors.
First, Native American DNA tests examine only a small proportion of the test taker’s DNA. Most tests fall into one of two categories: mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) tests and Y-chromosome tests. MtDNA tests examine DNA that is inherited only from one’s mother (and her mother, and her mother before her...).
And one is not necessarily a member of a tribe simply because one has Native American ancestors. Another problem is that genetic analysis, and some of the processes involved, can be problematic for indigenous people in terms of their own cultural knowledge.