Glucose, or simple sugar, is a solid until it reaches a temperature of 145 to 150 Co. At that point, it melts, it becomes a liquid. Sugar will not boil before the applied heat will begin to pyrolyze or, in the presence of air (oxygen) burn. 
Glucose syrup, also known as confectioner's glucose, is a syrup made from the hydrolysis of starch. Glucose is a sugar. Maize (corn) is commonly used as the source of the starch in the US, in which case the syrup is called  corn syrup , but glucose syrup is also made from potatoes and wheat, and less often from barley, rice and cassava. p. 21.
Glucose recipes. Made from maize starch, this clear white liquid is also known as liquid glucose, glucose syrup, or corn syrup. It normally comes in thick, viscous liquid form, but is sometimes available semi-solid or powdered. 
Glucose syrup containing over 90% glucose is used in industrial fermentation, but syrups used in confectionery contain varying amounts of glucose, maltose and higher oligosaccharides, depending on the grade, and can typically contain 10% to 43% glucose. Maize (corn) is commonly used as the source of the starch in the US, in which case the syrup is called  corn syrup , but glucose syrup is also made from potatoes and wheat, and less often from barley, rice and cassava. p. 21.
Liquid glucose is also commonly known as glucose syrup. It's half as sweet as cane sugar, and does not crystallize easily. This makes it popular among pastry chefs. Glucose syrup is almost always made from corn, but it can also come from potatoes, wheat, barley, rice, or cassava. First of all-glucose is a different sugar than table sugar. Corn syrup in the US is similar but has a few extra compounds. As far as I can tell it is used for similar reasons as liquid glucose in the EU. http://www.ochef.com/784.htm.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Liquid glucose is a kind of colorless or light yellow, transparent and viscous syrup that is derived from purified corn starch through hydrolysis by the double enzyme method, decoloration, ion exchange and purification. It has a moderately sweet flavor, and is a starch sugar products that is widely used in the food industry. Liquid glucose has high viscosity, humidity, sweetness and pervasion. It also has such advantages as anti-crystallinity and a lower freezing point
liquid glucose, a thick, syrupy, odorless and colorless or yellowish liquid obtained by the incomplete hydrolysis of starch, primarily consisting of dextrose with dextrins, maltose, and water. It is used as a flavoring agent and may be used as a calorie source, chiefly in treating dehydration. (lik'wid glū'kōs). 
Liquid Glucose. Dr. Oetker Liquid Glucose, sometimes referred to as Glucose Syrup, is used in a variety of sweet home baking recipes including desserts, cakes, confectionery and jam making. Liquid Glucose controls the formation of sugar crystals which is particularly important when you are making frozen desserts and confectionery. 
Corn syrup is a type of liquid glucose. Liquid glucose, sometimes called glucose syrup, is a liquid sweetener used to keep icings and baked goods moist and soft. A number of other liquid sweeteners can be used in a 1-to-1 replacement if you don't have liquid glucose, although the end product may taste somewhat different depending on which sweetener you use. Golden Syrup. Golden syrup is a liquid sweetener more commonly used in the United Kingdom and the Caribbean than in the United States. It's a little thicker and darker in color than glucose or corn syrup and has a stronger flavor, but still makes a good substitute.