1 Lyme disease is an infection caused by the corkscrew-shaped bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, a member of the family of spirochetes. Lyme Disease Lyme disease is caused by bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. 
Lyme disease is caused by spiral-shaped bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi (found in the U.S.) and Borrelia afzelii (found in Europe). Two different species of ticks, Ixodes scapularis and Ixodes pacificus, transmit the bacteria to humans via bites. 
Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi.Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, sore muscles and joints, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. Although locally-acquired Lyme borreliosis cannot be ruled out, there is little evidence that it occurs in Australia. 1 Lyme disease is transmitted following the bite of a tick that is infected with the Borrelia bacterium. 2  Only some species of ticks are capable of being infected by the Borrelia bacteria and only these infected ticks can pass the infection on to humans.
Lyme disease or borreliosis, is an infectious disease. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Borrelia. The disease is carried by ticks which are parasitic on mammals such as mice and deer. In other words, ticks are the vector which transmits the disease. It is the most common tick-borne infection in the United States. Although Allen Steere realized in 1978 that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease, the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1982. It can cause joint swelling, rashes, and neurological disorders.
Lyme disease is a disease that is caused by an infected tick. At least three species of bacteria are identified to cause Lyme disease. These bacteria are typically transmitted from ticks to humans and cause the infection. 
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. If left untreated, infection can spread to joints, the heart, and the nervous system. Lyme disease is diagnosed based on symptoms, physical findings (e.g., rash), and the possibility of exposure to infected ticks. 
Lyme disease, also known as Lyme borreliosis, is an infectious disease caused by bacteria of the Borrelia type. The most common sign of infection is an expanding area of redness, known as erythema migrans, that begins at the site of a tick bite about a week after it has occurred. Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe.
Lyme disease is caused by spirochetal bacteria from the genus Borrelia. Spirochetes are surrounded by peptidoglycan and flagella, along with an outer membrane similar to other Gram-negative bacteria. Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe.
Lyme disease, or borreliosis, is caused by spirochetal bacteria from the genus Borrelia, which has at least 37 known species, 12 of which are Lyme related, and an unknown number of genomic strains. Borrelia species known to cause Lyme disease are collectively known as Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato. 
1 Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium called Borrelia. 2  The first symptom is usually a characteristic pink or red rash that starts as a small red spot that gradually spreads in a much larger circle with a characteristic bulls-eye appearance. 1 Lyme disease is transmitted following the bite of a tick that is infected with the Borrelia bacterium. 2  Only some species of ticks are capable of being infected by the Borrelia bacteria and only these infected ticks can pass the infection on to humans.