Guidelines on Mobile Device Forensics 27 4. Preservation Sections 4 through 7 describe the forensics process as it applies to mobile devices. Evidence preservation is the process of securely maintaining custody of property without altering or changing the contents of data that reside on devices and removable media. Guidelines on Mobile Device Forensics 17 Figure 6: Mobile Device Tool Classification System The following discussion provides a more detailed description of each level and the methods used for data extraction.  Manual Extraction – A manual extraction method involves viewing the data content stored on a mobile device.
Main » TERM » M ». Mobile phone forensics is the science of retrieving data from a mobile phone under forensically sound conditions. This includes full data retrieval and examination of data found on the SIM /USIM, the phone body itself and the optional memory cards
mobile forensics. Forensic examination of mobile devices, such as Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) and cell phones, is a growing subject area in computer forensics. Forensic examiners, law enforcement, and incident response teams rely heavily on proper procedures and techniques, as well as appropriate tools, to preserve and process digital evidence. Guidance in the area of mobile forensics is generally lacking.
With the increasing prevalence of mobile devices, forensic evidence extracted from mobile (as well as other electronic) devices can be an invaluable source of evidence for investigators in both civil and criminal prosecution (Adams, Whitledge & Shenoi 2008). Foreword | In the increasingly dynamic environment of mobile forensics, this paper provides an overview of the capabilities of three popular mobile forensic tools on three mobile phones based on Apple’s iOS, Google’s Android and RIM’s BlackBerry operating systems.
Mobile forensics tools. Three popular mobile device forensic tools were used in this study. Tool 1 and Tool 2 both have supported phone guides that list the phones that have been certified by the vendor as working with their product and the capabilities for forensic extraction their product supports for a given phone. Foreword | In the increasingly dynamic environment of mobile forensics, this paper provides an overview of the capabilities of three popular mobile forensic tools on three mobile phones based on Apple’s iOS, Google’s Android and RIM’s BlackBerry operating systems.
Mobile device forensics is a branch of digital forensics relating to recovery of digital evidence or data from a mobile device under forensically sound conditions. The phrase mobile device usually refers to mobile phones; however, it can also relate to any digital device that has both internal memory and communication ability, including PDA devices, GPS devices and tablet computers.
Mobile device forensics is directly connected to digital forensics and can be defined as being the recovery of digital information or data which is often used for criminal evidence. Mobile Device Forensics by definition applies only to mobile devices, e.g. tablets, cell phones etc, but it the term also includes any portable digital device that has both internal memory and communication abilities such as PDA devices and also GPS devices.
As a result, the mobile forensics world has recognized this method as trusted, and it is now used by almost all mobile forensic tools developers – Cellebrite, .XRY, Paraben, etc. It should be noted that this approach is only one way to retrieve the logical data from Android OS devices. 
Forensic Tools. Forensic examination of mobile devices, such as Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) and cell phones, is a growing subject area in computer forensics. Consequently, mobile device forensic tools are a relatively recent development and in the early stages of maturity. When mobile devices are involved in a crime or other incident, forensic specialists require tools that allow the proper retrieval and speedy examination of information present on the device. Forensic examiners, law enforcement, and incident response teams rely heavily on proper procedures and techniques, as well as appropriate tools, to preserve and process digital evidence. Guidance in the area of mobile forensics is generally lacking.