by admin. Plasmid vs Chromosome. Chromosomes and plasmids are components of a cell. Both chromosomes and plasmids carry genes, and they are made of DNA. Chromosomes are covered with protein, and they consist of linear DNA, but plasmids are circular and not covered with a protein. 
A plasmid is an extra-chromosomal DNA molecule separate from the chromosomal DNA which is capable of replicating independently of the chromosomal DNA. In many cases, it is cir … cular and double-stranded. Plasmids usually occur naturally in bacteria, but are sometimes found in eukaryotic organisms. A chromosome is an organized structure of DNA and protein that is found in cells. A chromosome is a single piece of coiled DNA containing many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. Chromosomes also contain DNA-bound proteins, which serve to package the DNA and control its functions.
DNA is located in the nucleoid of the cell and is not associated with protein A plasmid is an extra-chromosomal DNA molecule separate from the chromosomal DNA which is capable of replicating independently of the chromosomal DNA. Plasmids usually occur naturally in bacteria. A chromosome is an organized structure of DNA and protein that is found in cells. A chromosome is a single piece of coiled DNA containing many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. Chromosomes also contain DNA-bound proteins, which serve to package the DNA and control its functions. 1. Plasmids are circular and double stranded. 2.
Now, the plasmid can be isolated from the E. coli and the gene of interest can be further analyzed in great amounts. Chromosomal DNA acts completely different from plasmid DNA. Neither are found in conjuction with histones, since bacteria do not contain histones. Report Abuse. Plasmids are genetic material that are separate from the chromosomal DNA. Some contain tra genes which initiate conjugation. during conjugation the plasmid is replicated as it is passed from donor to recipient via the pilus.
A plasmid is an extra-chromosomal DNA molecule separate from the chromosomal DNA which is capable of replicating independently of the chromosomal DNA. In many cases, it is circular and double-stranded. Plasmids usually occur naturally in bacteria, but are sometimes found in eukaryotic organisms. The difference between DNA and a chromosome has to deal with an intermediary-genes. DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid, which is a nucleic acid. It is made up of four bases-adenin … e, cytosine, guanine and thymine. When these four bases are arranged in a segment, it is called a gene.
A chromosome is an organized structure of DNA and protein that is found in cells. A chromosome is a single piece of coiled DNA containing many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. The difference between DNA and a chromosome has to deal with an intermediary-genes. DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid, which is a nucleic acid. It is made up of four bases-adenin … e, cytosine, guanine and thymine. When these four bases are arranged in a segment, it is called a gene.
Best Answer: chromosomal DNA is the DNA found in the bacterium naturally. Plasmid DNA is usually introduced into the cell by other bacterium during conjugation or it can be inserted by a viral vector. Plasmids can be created by humans by recombinant DNA. Chromosomal DNA is more for regulatory functions while plasmid DNA is used more for exchange of genetic material and survival. Bacteria can exchange plasmids -- which is why medication-resistant infections can grow pretty quickly.
Theory. Plasmid is a double stranded, circular extra chromosomal DNA of bacterium. It is used in recombinant DNA experiments to clone genes from other organisms and make large quantities of their DNA. Plasmid can be transferred between same species or between different species. 