Cristae (singular crista) are the internal compartments formed by the inner membrane of a Mitochondrion.. They are studded with proteins, including ATP synthase and a variety of cytochromes. On the cristae, there are … sites where cellular respiration occurs. Cellular respiration breaks down sugars into energy to be used in the cell. So, conclusively, the cristae expand the surface area for cellular respiration sites to occur, thus allowing a greater net amount of energy for the cell to use.
Cristae. Definition. noun, singular: crista. (cell biology). The infoldings or inward projections of the inner membrane of the mitochondrion, which are studded with proteins and increase the surface area for chemical reactions to occur like cellular respiration. (anatomy). Crests or ridges projecting from a surface, as in cristae cutis (dermal ridges on palms and soles
Mitochondrial cristae are folds of the mitochondrial inner membrane that provide an increase in the surface area. This allows a greater space for processes that happen across this membrane. The electron transport chain and chemiosmosis are the processes which help produce ATP in the final steps of cellular respiration. Cristae are folds of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The electron transport chain and chemiosmosis takes place on this membrane as part of cellular respiration to create ATP and can be seen in the diagram:
The function of cristae is to expand the surface area of the mitochondria. The cristae are the inner foldings of membrane within the mitochondria. On the cristae, there are … sites where cellular respiration occurs. Cellular respiration breaks down sugars into energy to be used in the cell. So, conclusively, the cristae expand the surface area for cellular respiration sites to occur, thus allowing a greater net amount of energy for the cell to use. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Cristae are the site of ATP synthesis in mitochondria and their folded structure greatly increases the surface area of the sites available for synthesis to occur.
A crista (/ˈkrɪstə/ , pl. cristae cristæ and) cristae is a fold in the inner membrane of a. Mitochondrion the name is from The latin for crest or, plume and it gives the inner membrane its characteristic wrinkled, shape providing a large amount of surface area for chemical reactions to occur. on Cristae are studded with proteins, including ATP synthase and a variety of cytochromes. With the discovery of the dual membrane nature of mitochondria, the pioneers of mitochondrial ultrastructural research proposed different models for the organization of the mitochondrial inner membrane.
A crista (/ˈkrɪstə/ , pl. cristae cristæ and) cristae is a fold in the inner membrane of a. mitochondrion Cristae are studded with proteins, including ATP synthase and a variety of cytochromes. With the discovery of the dual membrane nature of mitochondria, the pioneers of mitochondrial ultrastructural research proposed different models for the organization of the mitochondrial inner membrane.
The maximum surface for chemical reactions to occur is within the mitochondria. Cristae are the infoldings of the inner membrane of a mitochondrion. They are studded with proteins, including ATP synthase and a variety of cytochromes, and function in cellular respiration. They provide more surface area for cellular respiration to happen. '/. See more about: Crista ..
Best Answer: Cristae (singular crista) are the internal compartments formed by the inner membrane of a mitochondrion. They are studded with proteins, including ATP synthase and a variety of cytochromes. The maximum surface for chemical reactions to occur is within the mitochondria. This allows cellular respiration (aerobic respiration since the mitochondria requires oxygen) to occur. The cristae greatly increase the surface area on which the above mentioned reactions take place.
Confidence votes 19. Cristae (singular crista) are the internal compartments formed by the inner membrane of a Mitochondrion.. They are studded with proteins, including ATP synthase and a variety of cytochromes. The maximum surface for chemical reactions to occur is within the mitochondria. On the cristae, there are … sites where cellular respiration occurs. Cellular respiration breaks down sugars into energy to be used in the cell. So, conclusively, the cristae expand the surface area for cellular respiration sites to occur, thus allowing a greater net amount of energy for the cell to use.
Function of Mitochondrial Cristae. Before we can explain the functioning of the crista (plural = cristae), we need to revisit what a mitochondrion does. The mitochondrion is the cellular organelle where cellular respiration takes place. Cellular respiration is the process that creates chemical energy in the form of ATP from simple food molecules. Cristae are folds of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The electron transport chain and chemiosmosis takes place on this membrane as part of cellular respiration to create ATP and can be seen in the diagram: