1 Macular Edema. 2  Macular edema is a condition where your retinal blood vessels develop tiny leaks. 3  When this occurs, blood and fluid leak from the retinal blood vessels and fatty material (called exudate) is deposited in the retina. 4  This causes swelling of the retina and is called diabetic macular edema. 1 When this occurs, blood and fluid leak from the retinal blood vessels and fatty material (called exudate) is deposited in the retina. 2
Anatomy of the eye. The retina is a thin layer of tissue on the inside back wall of your eye. It contains millions of light-sensitive cells and other nerve cells that receive and organize visual information. Your retina sends this information to your brain through your optic nerve, enabling you to see. Retinal diseases can affect any part of your retina and can cause total blindness. Disease affecting the edge of your retina can affect your side (peripheral) vision. Some diseases affect the part of your retina that serves your central vision (the macula and the fovea). Many retinal diseases share some common symptoms and treatments. The main goals of treatment are to stop or slow the disease and preserve, improve or restore your vision. Show more Show less
Retinal diseases can be associated with aging, diabetes or other diseases, trauma to the eye, or family history. Symptoms might include seeing floating specks or cobwebs, blurred vision, distorted vision, defects in the field of vision, lost vision, or other problems. 
Best disease affects the macula which is part of your retina at the back of your eye which you use when reading, writing or watching TV. There is no current treatment for Best disease although research is on-going in the area of gene therapy which may lead to a treatment in the future. Away from the central macula is the peripheral retina, composed mostly of the other type of photoreceptor cells called rod cells. They enable us to see when light is dim and provide peripheral (side) vision outside of the main line of sight.
Diabetic retinopathy is caused by changes in the blood vessels of the retina. When these blood vessels are damaged, they may leak blood and grow fragile new vessels. When the nerve cells are damaged, vision is impaired. 1 When this occurs, blood and fluid leak from the retinal blood vessels and fatty material (called exudate) is deposited in the retina. 2  This causes swelling of the retina and is called diabetic macular edema.
Abnormal bleeding, called vitreous hemorrhage, occurs in the central cavity of the eye and can cause floaters and flashes. Although vitreous hemorrhage is often caused by advanced diabetic retinopathy, other retinal conditions that can lead to vitreous hemorrhage as well. Some symptoms of retinal problems are common to various retinal diseases. This means that, before you are diagnosed, a particular symptom does not necessarily point to a specific retinal disease. Your retina specialist will be able to determine which retinal condition you are experiencing.
Diabetic retinopathy can cause vision loss in two ways: 1  Macular Edema. 2  Macular edema is a condition where your retinal blood vessels develop tiny leaks. 3  When this occurs, blood and fluid leak from the retinal blood vessels and fatty material (called exudate) is deposited in the retina. 1 When this occurs, blood and fluid leak from the retinal blood vessels and fatty material (called exudate) is deposited in the retina. 2  This causes swelling of the retina and is called diabetic macular edema.
Best disease is an eye condition that affects a tiny part of the retina at the back of your eye, which is called the macula. Best disease can start to cause changes at the back of the eye between the ages of 3 to 15 although it does not usually affect vision until later on in life. Away from the central macula is the peripheral retina, composed mostly of the other type of photoreceptor cells called rod cells. They enable us to see when light is dim and provide peripheral (side) vision outside of the main line of sight.
The retina is the part of the eye that converts light into nerve signals that are processed by the brain into visual images. The retina is the inside surface of the back of the eye, consisting of millions of densely arranged, light-sensitive cells called rods and cones. Blood flow to the retina is maintained by the retinal vein and artery, and a dense network of small blood vessels (capillaries) supplies the area with circulation. These blood vessels can become damaged by injury and disease and may bleed (hemorrhage) and cause temporary or permanent loss of visual accuracy. 