After Mao Zedong won the Chinese civil war in 1949, his goal became the unification of the five nationalities under the big family, the People's Republic of China, and under a single political system, the Communist Party of China. In late autumn 1958, Mao Zedong strongly condemned widespread practices of the Great Leap Forward (GLF) such as subjecting peasants to exhausting labour without adequate food and rest, which had resulted in epidemics, starvation and deaths.
Mao Zedong was born in 1893 and he died in 19 76. Mao Zedong is considered to be the father of Communist China and along side Sun Yat-sen and Chiang Kai-shek played a fundamental part in China’srecent history. Mao. Mao was born in Chaochan in Hunan province. He came from a peasant family.
Mao Zedong, 1957 © Mao was a Chinese communist leader and founder of the People's Republic of China. He was responsible for the disastrous policies of the 'Great Leap Forward' and the 'Cultural Revolution'. Mao was born on 26 December 1893 into a peasant family in Shaoshan, in Hunan province, central China. After training as a teacher, he travelled to Beijing where he worked in the University Library.
Mao Zedong was the foremost Chinese Communist leader of the 20th century and theprincipal founder of the People's Republic of China.Mao was born December 26, 1893, into a peasant family in the village of Shaoshan, Hunanprovince. His father was a strict disciplinarian and Mao frequently rebelled against hisauthority. Mao Zedong 3 Zunyi Conference, as the meeting became known, was a crucial turning point in Mao'sascendancy to CCP leadership.From his base in Yan'an, Mao led Communist resistance against the Japanese, who hadinvaded Manchuria in 1931 and China in 1937.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes, Mao established the Chinese Communist Party in 1921 and took control over China after they ousted the GMD in 1949. When did Mao Zedong become the first communist leader of china? Mao Zedong became the first communist dictator of China in 1949 to 1976. He passionately believed in the communist party's theory, which is now largely known as Maoism. It … is widely believed that he is the cause of 40 to 70 million people's deaths.
In 1972, Mao welcomed US president Richard Nixon in Beijing, signalling a policy of opening China, which was furthered under Deng Xiaoping 's rule in China. A controversial figure, Mao is regarded as one of the most important individuals in modern world history. In late autumn 1958, Mao Zedong strongly condemned widespread practices of the Great Leap Forward (GLF) such as subjecting peasants to exhausting labour without adequate food and rest, which had resulted in epidemics, starvation and deaths.
Mao Zedong 1 (1893-1976) Mao Zedong led China's Communist revolution in the 1920s and 1930s and became chairman(chief of state) of the People's Republic of China in 1949, an office he held until 1959. From Mao Zedong.. Microsoft Encarta Encyclopedia 2001. Mao Zedong 3 Zunyi Conference, as the meeting became known, was a crucial turning point in Mao'sascendancy to CCP leadership.From his base in Yan'an, Mao led Communist resistance against the Japanese, who hadinvaded Manchuria in 1931 and China in 1937.
Chinese Communist Party. Inspired by the Russian Revolution the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was established in Shanghai by Chen Duxiu and Li Dazhao in June 1921. Early members included Mao Zedong, Zhou Enlai, Zhu De and Lin Biao. Following instructions from the Comintern members also joined the Kuomintang.
Mao Zedong or Mao Tse-tung (mou dzŭ-dŏng) [ key ], 1893–1976, founder of the People's Republic of China. Mao was one of the most prominent Communist theoreticians and his ideas on revolutionary struggle and guerrilla warfare have been extremely influential, especially among Third World revolutionaries. 