On an average, a person can hold his or her breath underwater for a very short period of time that is approximately between 45 seconds and 75 seconds (or one minute and fifteen seconds). Best Answer: People tend to hold their breath for a longer period of time when they are underwater then they do when they are on land. The current world record for breathing underwater stands at a mere two seconds short of nine minutes, that is at eight minutes and 58 seconds.
The current record for holding breath underwater is 8 minutes, 58 seconds. The average person can hold it a lot less. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-can-an-average-person-hold-their-breath ]. More Answers to  How long can an average person hold their breath . http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_long_can_the_average_person_hold_their_breath_under_water. The average person can hold there breath for about 30 to 40 seconds, not that long uh. But some people mainly free divers who have been diving for a long period of time their lungs and heart have expanded and got used to holding their breat..
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 30-45 seconds is not how much you can hold your breath it is how long you are willing to hold your breath. Most people 'can' hold their breath for at least 4 minutes before passing out. This can easily be extended past 6+ minutes with practice. HOWEVER, most people only have enough willpower to go between 30 seconds to 1 minute. I have personally achieved times of 5 minutes max.
· just now. Report Abuse. An average person can hold it for 2 to 3 minutes, whereas a person has a record of 5 minutes holding his breath. It depends on person to person, But as mentioned the average is 2 to 3 minutes. Source(s): http://ppvsportslive.info/. 
Many freedivers can hold their breath 8-10 min. Though most people can only hold their breath for around 1 min. On the set of The Oprah Winfrey Show on April 30, 2008, David Blaine broke the world record by holding his breath for 17 minutes and 4 seconds.
Chances are you won't need to hold your breath for 20 minutes in your lifetime, or even 5 minutes. But the capacity to improve how long you can hold it now into something that seems, on the surface, totally unrealistic remains fascinating. And you probably remember David Blaine sitting in a bubble for 17 minutes 4 seconds. That is far longer than the 30 or 40 seconds most of us can hold for, to a really phenomenal degree.
The current record for pure breath-holding is 22 minutes, set by Stig Severinson in May of last year. And you probably remember David Blaine sitting in a bubble for 17 minutes 4 seconds. That is far longer than the 30 or 40 seconds most of us can hold for, to a really phenomenal degree.
The average person can hold there breath for about 30 to 40 seconds, not that long uh. The average time is around 30 - 40 seconds, but many people can hold it for longer and shorter amounts of time.
Answer by Tbones1119. Confidence votes 69. The average person can hold there breath for about 30 to 40 seconds, not that long uh. But some people mainly free divers who have been diving for a long period of time their lungs and heart have expanded and got used to holding their breath for longer times. The average time is around 30 - 40 seconds, but many people can hold it for longer and shorter amounts of time.