Nutrient All-Star. Avocados offer nearly 20 vitamins and minerals in every serving, including potassium (which helps control blood pressure), lutein (which is good for your eyes), and folate (which is crucial for cell repair and during pregnancy). But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories.
Although often mistaken for a vegetable, avocado is a fruit offering pleasing flavor and nutritional benefits. This oval-shaped fruit with a thick exterior resembling alligator skin provides a good source of vitamin E, a fat-soluble vitamin that is high in antioxidants. You can usually buy avocados year round at grocery stores. Make sure they are slightly soft when you press them with your finger before slicing into them.
Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories.
Vitamins in Avocados. The favorite choice for the term Avocados is 1/2 Avocado which has about 17 % of daily Vitamin C. The percent daily values of Vitamin C, Vitamin A, Calcium and Iron for a variety of types and serving sizes of Avocados is shown below.
Avocados are rich sources of B-complex vitamins, vitamin E and vitamin K. Photo Credit olgakr/iStock/Getty Images. A 1-cup serving of avocados supplies 26 percent of the AI of vitamin K for adult men and 34 percent of the AI for adult women. Vitamin K aids in blood clotting and bone metabolism.
Avocados are a good source of pantothenic acid, dietary fiber, vitamin K, copper, folate, vitamin B6, potassium, vitamin E, and vitamin C. Although they are fruits, avocados have a high fat content of between 71 to 88% of their total calories—about 20 times the average for other fruits. A typical avocado contains 30 grams of fat, but 20 of these fat grams are health-promoting monounsaturated fats, especially oleic acid.
Avocado is a tree. The fruit, a popular food, is a good source of potassium and vitamin D. The fruit, leaves, and seeds are used to make medicine. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow. Avocado oil is used in combination with vitamin B12 for a skin condition called psoriasis. The fruit pulp is used topically to promote hair growth and speed wound healing. The seeds, leaves, and bark are used to relieve toothache.
B-Complex Vitamins. Avocados are an excellent source of B-complex vitamins; 1 cup of sliced avocados provides 40 percent of the daily recommended dietary allowance (RDA) of pantothenic acid, 30 percent of the RDA of folate and 29 percent of the RDA of vitamin B6. Pantothenic acid aids energy and hormone production. A 1-cup serving of avocados supplies 26 percent of the AI of vitamin K for adult men and 34 percent of the AI for adult women. Vitamin K aids in blood clotting and bone metabolism.
The vitamins that you can find in an avocado are B vitamins along with vitamin K and vitamin E. B vitamins help your body's metabolism and its maintenance of a healthy skin tone, while vitamin K plays a fundamental role in making sure that your bones grow properly and that your bone density is maintained in later life. 
Avocados are a good source of B vitamins, which help you fight off disease and infection. They also give you vitamins C and E, plus natural plant chemicals that may help prevent cancer. Avocados are low in sugar. And they contain fiber, which helps you feel full longer. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories.