The Palace of Versailles was the official residence of the Kings of  France from 1682 until 1790. It was originally a hunting lodge,  built in 1624, by Louis XIII. It was expanded by Louis XIV  beginning in 1669.   In the seventeenth century. The Palace of Versailles was built as an expression of Louis XIV's absolute power.   Louis used approxiamtely 60% of France's total revenue to build the palace.   … Some portions of the palace took 28 years to complete.   The Palace could house between 5,000 to 6,000 people.
When the chateau château was, Built versailles was a country; village, today, however it is a wealthy suburb Of, paris some 20 kilometres southwest of The french. capital It is also known as the Chateau château De. Versailles when the chateau château, Was built versailles was a; country, village, today however it is a wealthy Suburb, of paris some 20 kilometres southwest Of the. french capital
The Palace of Versailles is a royal chateau château In versailles in Île-ile-île de france Region. Of france when the chateau, Château was built versailles was; a, country, village today however it is A, suburb of paris some 20 kilometres Southwest of. the french capital The Palace of Versailles is a royal chateau château In versailles in Île-ile-île de france Region. of france
Best Answer: Why was it built? In the 17th century, Louis XIV of France was famous for his power and wealth. He was the most important monarch in Europe. The palace that was built for him at Versailles, outside Paris, became the model for palaces throughout the continent. It took forty-seven years to build and was renowned for it extreme grandeur.Great crystal chandeliers hung from the ceilings, their candlelight reflected in gilded mirrors. What was it? Versailles was the residence of the royalty of France from 1682 until 1789, when the French Revolution began. Louis XIII had originally built a hunting lodge at the village outside Paris in 1624. This petite structure became the foundation of the most costly and beautiful buildings in the modern world.
Content. PALACE OF VERSAILLES. The Palace of Versailles was the official residence of the Kings of France from 1682 until 1790. It was originally a hunting lodge, built in 1624, by Louis XIII. It was expanded by Louis XIV beginning in 1669. 
The Palace of Versailles is the central part of a complex that housed the French government, most notably its royalty, during the reigns of Louis XIV (France’s famed “Sun King”), Louis XV and Louis XVI. After the French Revolution in 1789, it ceased to be a permanent royal residence. From hunting lodge to palace. The first thing that attracted France’s kings to Versailles was its prolific game. Louis XIII, who lived 1601-1643, bought up land, built a chateau and went on hunting trips. At the time, much of the land around Versailles was uncultivated allowing wild animals to flourish.
Palace of Versailles History. (En Francais) - Français versailles was the royal residence Of france for little more than a (century from 1682 until) 1789 when The French revolution. Began LOUIS xiii built a hunting lodge at the village Of versailles outside Of paris in. 1624 The construction of the Palace of Versailles was finally completed near the end of Louis XIV's life. The chapel was built last and was finished after Mansart's death in 1708 by his son-in-law Robert de Cotte.
The Palace of Versailles was built as an expression of Louis XIV's absolute power.   Louis used approxiamtely 60% of France's total revenue to build the palace.   … Some portions of the palace took 28 years to complete.   The Palace could house between 5,000 to 6,000 people. The Palace of Versailles was the official residence of the Kings of  France from 1682 until 1790. It was originally a hunting lodge,  built in 1624, by Louis XIII. It was expanded by Louis XIV  beginning in 1669.   In the seventeenth century