Let me share you the truth, YES, eyelashes do grow back but it takes time, efforts and right and quality products to get longer, fuller and beautiful eyelashes. I have gone through this phase sometime ago and believe me it was depressing. Since you lost your eyelashes due to bad lifestyle, unhealthy food habits, use of heavy makeup, low quality makeup products, diseases etc. you need the eyelash growth products to fill the gaps. These are not just any other products available in the market but are food for your
Like the normal hair, eyelashes do grow back in a month or six depending on your lifestyle and eating habits. However, using eyelash growth serums and enhancers can minimize this cycle. Since you lost your eyelashes due to bad lifestyle, unhealthy food habits, use of heavy makeup, low quality makeup products, diseases etc. you need the eyelash growth products to fill the gaps. These are not just any other products available in the market but are food for your eyelashes.
How Fast Do Eyelashes Grow. Usually, eyelashes will come back in a span of two to eight weeks, especially if you just pulled them off deliberately or accidentally. However, if you’re suffering from an illness, you may never be able to get them back unless you do something about it, such as get yourself treated. 
When your eye lash falls out or you pluck it out, it will grow back. The eyelash growth cycle takes about four to eight weeks to fully replace an eyelash. If you lose a large clump of eyelashes, it is likely to take longer for them all to be replaced as it can take up to four weeks for replacements to come in fully. Realistically, eyelash extensions last 4 weeks, give or take a couple of weeks, falling out with the natural lash. Some will be lost within a couple of weeks as part of the natural cycle, so it is common to get a touch up refill after about 2 - 4 weeks. In some cases, eyelash extensions can last up to 6 - 8 weeks.
Better than normal would be longer, luscious eyelashes dreams are made of. The time of growth for both purposes differ depending on the methods used to grow back the eyelashes: 1  If the loss of eyelashes is due to natural causes then it might take anywhere between 2 to 4 months for them to grow back. Eyelash trimming is another option if you are left with weak falling hair. Eyelash growth products like eyelash enhancers, eyelash growth stimulators are some of the best in the cosmetic world to help you grow back your eyelashes.
Yes they do, but it might take a couple of months before you see them especially if you have interrupted the natural growth cycle in some way. For example, if you pull your eyelashes out, you will be without any visible eyelashes for a while before they grow back and get to the resting phase (telogen). Realistically, eyelash extensions last 4 weeks, give or take a couple of weeks, falling out with the natural lash. Some will be lost within a couple of weeks as part of the natural cycle, so it is common to get a touch up refill after about 2 - 4 weeks. In some cases, eyelash extensions can last up to 6 - 8 weeks.