Lamb, hogget, and mutton (UK, India, South Africa, Canada, New Zealand and Australia) are terms for the meat of domestic sheep (species Ovis aries) at different ages. A sheep in its first year is called a lamb, and its meat is also called lamb. The meat of a juvenile sheep older than one year is hogget; outside North America this is also a term for the living animal. Younger lambs are smaller and more tender. Mutton is meat from a sheep over two years old, and has less tender flesh. In general, the darker the colour, the older the animal. Baby lamb meat will be pale pink, while regular lamb is pinkish-red.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 450-degrees F. 2  In a large roasting pan combine the red onion, 2 teaspoons oil and garlic in the center of the pan. 3  Place parsley sprigs, rosemary sprigs, and thyme sprigs on top of the onion mixture. 4  Place lamb on top of herbs and drizzle with remaining oil (1 tablespoon). 1 Reduce oven to 350-degrees F. and roast until meat is done (for medium rare meat thermometer inserted into lamb reads 145-degrees F.) about 75 - 90 minutes. 2  Transfer lamb to a cutting board and cover loosely with foil for about 15 minutes before slicing.
Lamb. Pronounce it: laam. A lamb is a sheep that is under one year old, and is known for its delicate flavour and tender flesh. Young lamb is slaughtered between 6 and 8 weeks-it is the palest of all lamb. Spring (also called early or summer lamb) is 3 to 5 months old. Organic lamb, and lamb from rare breeds, is the most expensive, as the highest farming standards should have been adhered to at all stages of the animal's life. The length of time that a lamb has been hung for will also determine how flavoursome and tender it is, about 8 days is best.
The meat of a lamb is taken from the animal between one month and one year old, with a carcase (carcass in American English) weight of between 5.5 and 30 kilograms (12 and 65 lbs). This meat generally is more tender than that from older sheep and appears more often on tables in some Western countries. Younger lambs are smaller and more tender. Mutton is meat from a sheep over two years old, and has less tender flesh. In general, the darker the colour, the older the animal. Baby lamb meat will be pale pink, while regular lamb is pinkish-red.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Using your hands, rub the lamb all over with the lemon juice. Pat the garlic and rosemary evenly all over the surface of the meat. Season the meat with the salt and pepper and place the lamb in a roasting pan. Place the lamb in the oven and roast for 30 minutes.
As you may know, the age of an animal can affect how tender their meat is and the flavor. Lamb is a sheep that is typically under one year of age. There is little fat on lamb and the meat can vary in color from a tender pink to a pale red. Lamb under 3 months of age is called Spring lamb. Most sheep meat sold in the U.S. comes from lambs simply because mutton isn't as popular.
1 In a large roasting pan combine the red onion, 2 teaspoons oil and garlic in the center of the pan. 2  Place parsley sprigs, rosemary sprigs, and thyme sprigs on top of the onion mixture. 3  Place lamb on top of herbs and drizzle with remaining oil (1 tablespoon). 1 Reduce oven to 350-degrees F. and roast until meat is done (for medium rare meat thermometer inserted into lamb reads 145-degrees F.) about 75 - 90 minutes. 2  Transfer lamb to a cutting board and cover loosely with foil for about 15 minutes before slicing.
The most important thing to remember about cooking a lamb roast is to not over-cook it. Lamb has such wonderful flavor on its own, and is so naturally tender, that it is bound to turn out well, as long as it is still a little pink inside. 3 Remove the lamb roast from its marinade bag (you may want to temporarily place lamb in another roasting pan, just to make it less messy to work with.) Pat dry the marinade off the lamb with paper towels. Generously salt and pepper all sides of the roast.
He has a memory of, as a little boy at the beach with his parents and sister, stumbling upon strangers roasting a whole lamb on a spit over an open fire, and of being handed a piece of meat off the lamb. In the memory, of course, the meat is delicious, and the experience grew to mythic proportions. My father has roasted a lamb on a spit, and he recalled his father choosing a tree branch for the spit, his mother making them wrap the branch in aluminum foil before inserting it into the lamb, and his then-young nephew John turning and turning the spit.