Activity 1 - Capture LLMNR Traffic [edit]. To capture LLMNR traffic: 1  Start a Wireshark capture. 2  Open a command prompt. 3  Type, where is any unknown host name on your network. 4  An unknown host name is used for this activity because names resolved by DNS will not generate LLMNR traffic. 5  Close the command prompt. 6  Stop the Wireshark capture.
File shares to modern Microsoft Windows Operating Systems typically requires UDP port 138, TCP 139, TCP 445, and UDP 5355. Echo Request – ICMPv4-In. Internet Control Message Protocol for IPv4 – is typically used with tools like Ping and Traceroute to indicate a host or endpoint is available. 
Wireshark is a free and open source packet analyzer used for network troubleshooting and analysis. These activities will show you how to use Wireshark to capture and analyze Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) traffic. To capture LLMNR traffic: 1  Start a Wireshark capture. 2  Open a command prompt. 3  Type, where is any unknown host name on your network. 4  An unknown host name is used for this activity because names resolved by DNS will not generate LLMNR traffic. 5  Close the command prompt. 6  Stop the Wireshark capture.
UDP port 5355 is part of the Link-local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) process and technically in IPv6 is actually a multicast process listening on the multicast address FF02::1:3. Unfortunately, LLMNR isn't utilized by Linux or OSX at all. Apple came up with mDNS and later DNS-SD to address the name resolution issues for local networking and it appears that some Linux implementations utilize that also. There is a nice write up of some of the Zero Configuration Networking options on Wikipedia.
Zero-configuration networking (zeroconf) is a set of technologies that automatically creates a usable computer network based on the Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP) when computers or network peripherals are interconnected. It does not require manual operator intervention or special configuration servers. Following the failure of LLMNR to become an Internet standard, Apple was asked by the IETF to submit the mDNS/DNS-SD specs for publication as informational RFC as well, given that mDNS/DNS-SD is used much more widely than LLMNR.
The Link Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) is a protocol based on the. (DNS). protocol that allows computers to perform name resolution for addresses on the same local network without the. need for a centrally coordinating DNS server. the DNS process for LOCAL name resolution. The problem arises because all older computers running LLMNR listen on the IPv4 multicast address 224.0.0.252. and instruct their Ethernet network adapters to listen for Ethernet frames with a destination multicast address.
Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from LLMNR). The Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) is a protocol based on the Domain Name System (DNS) packet format that allows both IPv4 and IPv6 hosts to perform name resolution for hosts on the same local link. 1 ID-A 16-bit identifier assigned by the program that generates any kind of query. 2  QR-Query/Response. 3  OPCODE-A 4-bit field that specifies the kind of query in this message. 4  This value is set by the originator of a query and copied into the response.
Assuming that a DNS server is inaccessible, link local multicast name resolution steps in and provides name resolution services for hosts on the ad-hoc network. A less obvious example of how link local multicast name resolution is useful is that it can be used during a router failure. For example, imagine that your company’s DNS server resides in the main office, and that DNS queries from branch offices flow across a WAN link. In most cases, it is either impossible or impractical to add a DNS server to a home network or to an ad-hoc network. This makes name resolution impossible. Windows Vista in Longhorn Server will change this with the new technology called link local multicast name resolution. In this article, I will show you how it works.