How to transfer credit on Etisalat Nigeria SIM Card. You can electronically transfer airtime from the existing credit in your Etisalat prepaid account to another Etisalat prepaid account. You can transfer any amount. MSISDN = The Etisalat number you want to transfer airtime to. Etisalat Nigeria notifies the sender and receiver about the transaction via USSD and SMS message. In case you forget your password or the SIM is locked due to entry of wrong password several times, just call Etisalat customer care.
Type in the number to which you want to transfer credit. Make sure the number is in the international format -- it should start with a +, followed by the two-digit country code and then the cell phone number without the first zero. Send the SMS to 1700 and wait for a message telling you how to proceed. 1 This is deducted from the sender's account. 2  You can only transfer credit from and into an active account. 3  You can only make three international credit transfers a week and a maximum of 10 per month. 4  Credit limits are set at 300 AED per transfer to a maximum of 500 AED a month.
If you have an Etisalat prepaid or postpaid cell phone, you can transfer credit from your account to other network users. You can send credit in United Arab Emirates dirhams or in other currencies if you use the international transfer service. 1 This is deducted from the sender's account. 2  You can only transfer credit from and into an active account. 3  You can only make three international credit transfers a week and a maximum of 10 per month. 4  Credit limits are set at 300 AED per transfer to a maximum of 500 AED a month.
Published. Etisalat has launched the ‘International Credit Transfer' facilitating its ‘Wasel’ and ‘Ahlan’ prepaid customers to transfer airtime to any prepaid account globally. Etisalat customers currently are able to transfer balance between local mobile accounts. 
Transferring credit from your account to another account is very easy & quick. Just type the following command on your mobile screen (not as a SMS) and press the send key: *Credit transfer Service Code * Mobile number * Amount to be transferred # followed by the Send key. The credit transfer code for the credit transfer service is 100. For example, if you want to transfer AED 13 to a mobile number 050 123 4567, you need to Send the following command: *100 * 050 123 4567 * 13 #.
You need this number before you can use the secure service to transfer credit. Type the credit transfer instruction into your cell phone. You must include the service code -- 100 -- the number of the cell phone to which you'll make the transfer, the amount of money and your PIN. 1 This is deducted from the sender's account. 2  You can only transfer credit from and into an active account. 3  You can only make three international credit transfers a week and a maximum of 10 per month. 4  Credit limits are set at 300 AED per transfer to a maximum of 500 AED a month.
Etisalat Credit Transfer service is a new service that gives you the convenience of transferring credit/balance from your Postpaid or Prepaid account to another Prepaid account. The credit transfer code for the credit transfer service is 100. For example, if you want to transfer AED 13 to a mobile number 050 123 4567, you need to Send the following command: *100 * 050 123 4567 * 13 #.
July 7, 2012 by rushalmm No Comments. For Etisalat To Etisalat Credit Transfer; To transfer credit form your etisalt sim to another, you will need to locate the etisalt service menu in your menu list. Once it is located, click on Balance transfer. And after that a security code box will appear requesting for your pin. The default pin is 0000 and afterward you will be required to enter the amount you wish to transfer. You can also change your default pin from the service menu. Another means to transfer credit from etisalat is by dialing *223*Pin*Amount*Phone Number#.
Transferring credit from your mobile to another mobile is easy and quick. You can now transfer credit in 2 ways—Normal Credit Transfer and the Secure Credit Transfer. To transfer credit with Normal Credit Transfer, simply type: *100*Mobile Number*Amount to be transferred# then press SEND. E.g.: If you wish to send AED 5, simply type *100*05XXXXXXXX*5# then press SEND. Secure Credit Transfer Method. 5% of the transferred amount will be deducted from the sender as a transaction fee. Example: If Mobile A transferred AED 100 to Mobile B, then AED 105 (AED 100 + AED 5 = [100*5%]) will be deducted from Mobile A and Mobile B will receive AED 100.
1 At the time of publication, Etisalat charges a 5 percent transaction fee on transfers. 2  This is deducted from the sender's account. 3  You can only transfer credit from and into an active account. 4  You can only make three international credit transfers a week and a maximum of 10 per month. 1 This is deducted from the sender's account. 2  You can only transfer credit from and into an active account. 3  You can only make three international credit transfers a week and a maximum of 10 per month. 4  Credit limits are set at 300 AED per transfer to a maximum of 500 AED a month.