Need 4 ceiling fans installed. 1 in living area, 1 in stairwell, and 1 in each bedroom. Moderator Comments: You could expect to pay a low of about 1 hour per fan to a high of 2 hours per fan for the installation. I would like to install a ceiling fans in three bedrooms. There are no existing wires or light fixtures on the ceilings. Moderator Comments: Hard to estimate without knowing location of available power, attic access. Estimating $150 per fan, labor only.
$906.05. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Ceiling Fan! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Ceiling Fan Installation project. For a basic 1 fan project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Ceiling Fan ranges between $468.74 - $906.05 per fan. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.
In the bedroom of a condo I need to get the wiring setup for a ceiling fan to be installed. You can run off the light switch off the wall. There is no existing wiring so it is a new install. I don`t need the fan installed just the wiring mount. I would like to install a ceiling fans in three bedrooms. There are no existing wires or light fixtures on the ceilings. Moderator Comments: Hard to estimate without knowing location of available power, attic access. Estimating $150 per fan, labor only.
Internet # 203077822. Fan switches can break over time. The Westinghouse 3-Speed Ceiling Fan Switch is for use in single capacitor ceiling fans. Replacing the fan switch is an easy and cost-effective alternative to buying a new fan. Easy to install, this four-wire unit switch gives you complete control over your fan's rotation speed. The RU and CSA certified switch can handle a fan maximum of 3-amps at 250-volts or 6-amps and 125-volts. 
REMOTE FAN INSTALLATION .......... $300.00. No existing wiring on ceiling. Run wire through attic with at least 2' clearance. Install fan support brace. Assemble, hang, and balance fan. Program hand held remote or in-wall remote. ATTIC W/SWITCH INSTALLATION .......... $325.00. No existing wiring on ceiling. Run wire through attic and down to wall switch location. Install fan support brace. Assemble, hang and balance fan. HARD FAN INSTALLATION .......... $375.00+. No existing wiring on ceiling.
The ceiling fan you install should be the right size for the room: 1  Rooms that measure about 75 square feet need a fan with a 29- to 36-inch blade diameter. 2  For rooms measuring 76 to 144 square feet, choose a fan with a blade diameter of 36 to 42 inches. 
The majority of homeowners spent around $238-$330 for ceiling fan installations, with an average reported cost of $284. Several websites provide cost calculators that can help you determine the average price range for your specific location and project. Moreover, ceiling fans are less expensive to operate than air conditioners. National Average Cost of Ceiling Fan Installation. According to various home remodeling cost estimators, the 2013 national average price for new ceiling fan installation in the U.S. ranges from $95-$215, if done as a DIY project.
Just like an attic fan, most ceiling fans should be installed by an electrician, especially if there will be a need for the addition of electrical outlets or wiring. A ceiling fan can be usually be only requires one installer and a qualified electrician can complete it in 1 or 2 hours. 1 Compare prices and purchase the ceiling fan online or at a discount store. 2  Sell your old ceiling fan on Craigslist, eBay or a yard sale. 3  This could offset the price of your new ceiling fans. 4  Ask the electrician to let you help so you can learn more about working with electricity.
4) put up fan, connect, test $75-100. So-total About $250-425 with no box there now, plus cost of fixture. A simple install to replace an existing fan, or install where the ceiling box was wired for a fan, would be only about $75-100. 