That’s right — over the last three years FedEx Ground has improved transit times for more than half of the city-to-city shipping lanes we serve — so that you can get your shipments delivered sooner, be more competitive, improve your customer satisfaction and save money. View ground transit maps. 
Even if you only half pay attention to world news, you know that the recent years have witnessed some grim headlines about violence in Mexico. The U.S. State Department as well as similar agencies worldwide has issues travel warnings about the dangers of Mexico travel,... Oil exporting countries are in financial crisis even as American consumers are happy to see cheap gas prices -- they can buy SUVs again. These prices have made headlines for months now....
The massive drop in oil prices around the world has changed everything about the world. Oil exporting countries are in financial crisis even as American consumers are happy to see cheap gas prices -- they can buy SUVs again. These prices have made headlines for months now.... READ MORE »
CONFIRMED: Woman goes missing near Angel's Plaza. 30-year-old Danelle Pinnock has been repoted missing since early this afternoon. She was last seen walking in the vicinity of Angel's Plaza in Spanish Town, St. Catherine. She is tall, slender, natural curly hair, and medium brown complexion. If you have information about her whereabouts, comment and update this story.
A 15-year-old French schoolgirl is in trouble for wearing an ankle-length skirt to school. Since the French revolution, the French state has been firmly secular. In the 21st century, worries about religious extremism led to even stricter rules separating religion and the state. It's... A good Samaritan came to the rescue of a woman in an attempted carjacking in Orem, Utah on Saturday, May 2, 2015, fatally shooting the man who tried to steal her vehicle.
When New York political activist Pamela Geller organized a cartoon contest in Garland, Texas, and invited artists to draw the Prophet Mohammed, it was publicized as an instance of America's exceptional freedom of speech. A good Samaritan came to the rescue of a woman in an attempted carjacking in Orem, Utah on Saturday, May 2, 2015, fatally shooting the man who tried to steal her vehicle.
Reports Higher First Quarter Earnings. MEMPHIS, Tenn., September 16, 2015 … FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $2.42 per diluted share for the first quarter ended August 31, compared to adjusted earnings of $2.12 per diluted share a year ago. 
·. Logout. Advertisement. Welcome to FedExaminer.com. FedExaminer.com is an interactive community for FedEx employees, contractors and customers to network with forums, surveys, chat, news, personal journals and more... · Get the inside story! · Ask your questions! · Stay informed & network! · Share your experiences! 
Submit your news!You are the news!og.nr. Submit your news! You are the news! She was last seen walking in the vicinity of Angel's Plaza in Spanish Town, St. Catherine. She is tall, slender, natural curly hair, and medium brown complexion. If you have information about her whereabouts, comment and update this story.
Maybe you were looking for one of these abbreviations: GNCRY-GNCS-GNCST-GNCTS-GNCU-GND C/O-GND1 - GND2 - GNDA-GNDB. 