1 It is also used in the production of mirrors. 2  A mixture of gallium, indium, and tin (called Galinstan) is now used in many medical thermometers. 3  This has replaced the traditional mercury thermometers that can be hazardous. 4  Current research to replace mercury with gallium in dental fillings is ongoing. Uses of gallium. 1  The main use of gallium is in semiconductors where it is commonly used in microwave circuitry and in some infrared applications. 2  Gallium was used in nuclear weapons to help stabilize the plutonium for machining. 3  It can be used inside a telescope to help find neutrinos. 4  Gallium is used as a component of a certain type of solar 5  ... I
Gallium is a chemical element with symbol Ga and atomic number 31. Elemental gallium does not occur in free form in nature, but as the gallium(III) compounds that are in trace amounts in zinc ores and in bauxite. Gallium does not exist in free form in nature, and the few high-gallium minerals such as gallite (CuGaS 2) are too rare to serve as a primary source of the element or its compounds. Its abundance in the Earth's crust is approximately 16.9 ppm.
I'd be delighted to receive corrections as well as additional referenced uses (please use the feedback mechanism to add uses). 1  gallium wets glass or porcelain, and forms a brilliant mirror when it is painted on glass. 2  used for doping semiconductors and producing solid-state devices such as transistors. 
The melting point of gallium is used as a temperature reference point. The alloy galinstan (68.5% gallium, 21.5% indium, and 10% tin) has an even lower melting point of −19 °C (−2 °F), well below the freezing point of water. Gallium does not exist in free form in nature, and the few high-gallium minerals such as gallite (CuGaS 2) are too rare to serve as a primary source of the element or its compounds. Its abundance in the Earth's crust is approximately 16.9 ppm.
Because gallium wets glass or porcelain, gallium can be used to create brilliant mirrors. When the wetting action of gallium-alloys is not desired (as in Galinstan glass thermometers), the glass must be protected with a transparent layer of gallium(III) oxide. Gallium does not exist in free form in nature, and the few high-gallium minerals such as gallite (CuGaS 2) are too rare to serve as a primary source of the element or its compounds. Its abundance in the Earth's crust is approximately 16.9 ppm.
Gallium is a byproduct of the manufacture of aluminum. It is also found as a trace element in the minerals diaspore, sphalerite, germanite, bauxite and coal. Uses of gallium. Gallium can form a very lustrous mirror when painted on glass. It is also used to wet glass and ceramics. Gallium, like other liquid metals, can be used to make thermostats, switches, barometers, heat transfer systems, as well as thermal cooling and heating devices
Liquid gallium wets porcelain and glass surfaces; it forms a bright, highly reflective surface when coated on glass. It can be used to create brilliant mirrors. Gallium easily alloys with most metals, so it is used to form low-melting alloys. 
1 Gallium forms a very reflective surface on glass making an excellent mirror. 2  An amalgam of gallium, indium, tin is used in medical thermometers in place of the more traditional and toxic mercury thermometers. 1 Gallium's melting point (302.93 K) is low enough to melt the metal in the palm of your hand. 2  Gallium is the element with the highest range of temperatures for its liquid phase. 3  The difference between gallium's melting and boiling point is 2373 °C.
Uses of Gallium. Low melting gallium alloys are used in some medical thermometers as non-toxic substitutes for mercury. Gallium arsenide is used in semiconductor production mainly for laser diodes, light-emitting diodes and solar panels. It is also used to create brilliant mirrors. 
Gallium. Type: element. Description: Gallium (Ga) is a soft, silvery metallic element. Solid gallium has such a low melting temperature (85.6 °F, 29.8 °C) it will turn to liquid when held in the hand. It is a liquid over a wider range of temperatures than any other element. The boiling point of gallium is unusually high (3999 °F, 2204 °C). 