Gothic fiction, which is largely known by the subgenre of Gothic horror, is a genre or mode of literature that combines fiction, horror, death and Romanticism. The setting of the Gothic novel is a character in itself. The plot is usually set in a castle, an abbey, a monastery, or some other, usually religious edifice, and it is acknowledged that this building has secrets of its own.
Back to Top. Definition of Gothic novel noun from the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary. any of a class of English novels dealing with frightening or magic subjects. Most Gothic novels are set in ruined castles or large old houses with ghosts, and were written in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. The style was made popular by Horace Walpole's The Castle of Otranto (1764), and influenced writers such as Mary Shelley and Edgar Allan Poe, as well as 20th-century horror stories and horror films.
By Patrick Kennedy. Definition: Main Ideas: In the most general terms, Gothic literature can be defined as writing that employs dark and picturesque scenery, startling and melodramatic narrative devices, and an overall atmosphere of exoticism, mystery, and dread. There are important, though not always consistent, connections between Gothic literature and Gothic architecture. While Gothic structures and decorations were prevalent in Europe for much of the Middle Ages, Gothic writing conventions only assumed their present, recognizable shape in the 18th century.
Lesson Summary. The term Gothic fiction refers to a style of writing that is characterized by elements of fear, horror, death, and gloom, as well as romantic elements, such as nature, individuality, and very high emotion. This style of fiction began in the mid 1700s with a story titled, The Castle of Otranto, in 1764 by Horace Walpole. This story is considered to be the first of the Gothic fiction tales, since it encompassed many of the characteristics of the genre. The term Gothic actually originated as a term belittling the architecture and art of the period, which was dark, decaying, and dismal.
1 Other early literary influences were the gothic novels of Ann Radcliffe, the idealistic writings of Schiller, as well as works by Sir Walter Scott, the great Russian poet Pushkin, and Nikolay Gogol. 2  Zofloya was a major source for the young Percy Shelley's gothic novels. An English genre of fiction popular in the 18th to early 19th centuries, characterized by an atmosphere of mystery and horror and having a pseudo-medieval setting.
American Gothic Fiction is a subgenre of gothic Fiction. Elements specific to American Gothic include:Rationality/rational vs irrational, puritanism, guilt, Das Unheimliche (strangeness within the familiar as defined by Sigmund Freud), abhumans, ghosts, monsters, and domestic abjection. 
Example sentences. 1  Other early literary influences were the gothic novels of Ann Radcliffe, the idealistic writings of Schiller, as well as works by Sir Walter Scott, the great Russian poet Pushkin, and Nikolay Gogol. 2  Zofloya was a major source for the young Percy Shelley's gothic novels. An English genre of fiction popular in the 18th to early 19th centuries, characterized by an atmosphere of mystery and horror and having a pseudo-medieval setting.
The effect of Gothic fiction feeds on a pleasing sort of terror, an extension of Romantic literary pleasures that were relatively new at the time of Walpole's novel. The setting of the Gothic novel is a character in itself. The plot is usually set in a castle, an abbey, a monastery, or some other, usually religious edifice, and it is acknowledged that this building has secrets of its own.
The novel usually regarded as the first Gothic novel is Horace Walpole's The Castle of Otranto, first published in 1764. Horace Walpole's declared aim was to combine elements of the medieval romance, which he deemed too fanciful, and the modern novel, which he considered to be too confined to strict realism. The setting of the Gothic novel is a character in itself. The plot is usually set in a castle, an abbey, a monastery, or some other, usually religious edifice, and it is acknowledged that this building has secrets of its own.
Gothic. (n.) 1. A word generally used in relation the the macabre or other darker elements. 2. A movement in literature that branched off of the individualist movement of the 1700's, usually revolving around the darker elements of human nature. 3