Wserratore-Umberto Tozzi recorded it in 1979 in Italy. rdini-The Cadillacs sang the Doo Wop Gloria. Tom Fuhl-Ray-I'd think the original poster was asking for other versions of the same Gloria that Laura Branigan sang but there's only been one mentioned-the original Italian version by Umberto Tozzi. The first recording in English was by Jonathan King (the lyrics aren't related to the Branigan version). Perhaps the expediency of the release of Branigan's Gloria in the UK-it reached no#6 there in early '83 - killed the release of Brooks' version which was unreleased until 1986 ironically on the Very Best of Elkie Brooks album.
1 Jimi Hendrix 's version of Gloria was first included on the 1979 compilation, The Essential Jimi Hendrix Volume Two, as a 7 inch, 33 1⁄3 RPM, one-sided single. 2  It is also included on the 2000 released box set, The Jimi Hendrix Experience. 1 Santa Esmeralda (from the album Don't let me be misunderstood) in a disco-gypsy way in 1977. 2 
Perryman-Gloria is a rock song written by Van Morrison and originally recorded by Morrison's band Them in 1964. It was covered later by the Doors, and even later by Patti Smith (She rewrote the lyrics). Perhaps the expediency of the release of Branigan's Gloria in the UK-it reached no#6 there in early '83 - killed the release of Brooks' version which was unreleased until 1986 ironically on the Very Best of Elkie Brooks album.
1 Originally recorded by Italian pop singer Umberto Tozzi in 1974 as a ballad. 2  The best known version was performed by Laura Branigan (born 7/3/57, died 8/26/04). 3  The song went to #2 on the US Billboard Top 40 charts in 1982. 4  It was also a #1 hit in Australia, #2 in Canada, and #6 in the UK. 1 The song was also recorded in French by Sheila B. 2  Each version of the song (the original Italian, the Branigan version, & the Sheila B.) all have different lyrical meanings, & aren't literal translations. 3  Branigan's version of Gloria was used in the movie Flashdance during the skating scene.
Gloria has been covered by a lot of recording artists. The first one that comes to mind who actually had a hit with it in the 1960's was Van Morrison. Look him up on Amazon and see if its the same version you are looking for. Tim H · 5 years ago. I don't know about the G-L-O-R-I-A oldie, where the singer spells out the name in the chorus, but in the 1980's a huge international hit, written by Italian pop Superstar Umberto Tozzi wrote a song Gloria . Laura Branigan sang the English version which garnered her a colossal hit.
In 2011, the song was brought up to date with a set of new house mixes by Alex Gaudino and Jason Rooney. The music video stars Umberto and Natasha Tozzi. Tozzi's original version of Gloria was a soundtrack selection for two distinct films in 2013, The Wolf of Wall Street and Gloria. In his song of Jonathan King 's translated lyrics, Tozzi, who takes the role of the song's main character, tells that he is dreaming about an imaginary woman named Gloria. Background [edit]. Umberto Tozzi first recorded Gloria in 1979; that summer the song stayed on the Italian Top-10 chart for sixteen weeks, six of them at number 2. The song stayed four weeks at number 1 in both, Switzerland and – in a translated version – Spain
Song Lyrics, Chart History, Artist Information. 1  Music written by Giancarlo Bigazzi & Umberto Tozzi, English lyrics by Trevor Veitch. 2  Originally recorded by Italian pop singer Umberto Tozzi in 1974 as a ballad. 3  The best known version was performed by Laura Branigan (born 7/3/57, died 8/26/04). 1 The song was also recorded in French by Sheila B. 2  Each version of the song (the original Italian, the Branigan version, & the Sheila B.) all have different lyrical meanings, & aren't literal translations. 3  Branigan's version of Gloria was used in the movie Flashdance during the skating scene.
This was originally an Italian pop song recorded by Umberto Tozzi in 1979. Branigan covered it on her debut album. The song was written by Tozzi with the Italian composer Giancarlo Bigazzi. The Canadian songwriter Trevor Veitch, who wrote some of Sheena Easton's hits, worked on Branigan's version. Branigan's version earned her a Grammy nomination for Best Pop Vocal Performance, Female. The song was also recorded by Sheila B. in French. Interestingly, each version of the song (the original Italian, the Laura Branigan version and the Sheila B. all have somewhat different lyrical meanings, and are not literal translations. (thanks, Jeff-Scottsdale, AZ).
1 Music written by Giancarlo Bigazzi & Umberto Tozzi, English lyrics by Trevor Veitch. 2  Originally recorded by Italian pop singer Umberto Tozzi in 1974 as a ballad. 3  The best known version was performed by Laura Branigan (born 7/3/57, died 8/26/04). 4  The song went to #2 on the US Billboard Top 40 charts in 1982. 1 The song was also recorded in French by Sheila B. 2  Each version of the song (the original Italian, the Branigan version, & the Sheila B.) all have different lyrical meanings, & aren't literal translations. 3  Branigan's version of Gloria was used in the movie Flashdance during the skating scene.