Relative pronouns: Subject or Object. As the relative pronouns relate to another noun preceding it in the sentence, they connect a dependent clause to an antecedent (a noun that precedes the pronoun.) Therefore, relative pronouns acts as the subject or object of the dependent clause. For example: These pronouns take a different case depending on whether the relative pronoun is a subject or an object in the dependent clause. 1  Subjective case. 2  Use the subjective case when these relative pronouns are the subject (initiating the action) of the dependent clause: Who, Whoever.
The type of clause determines what kind of relative pronoun to use. Generally, there are two types of relative clauses: restrictive (defining) clause and non-restrictive (non-defining) clause. In both types of clauses, the relative pronoun can function as a subject, an object, or a possessive pronoun ( whose ). The relative pronoun that can only be used in restrictive clauses. It can also be substituted for who (referring to persons) or which (referring to things) in informal English. Whereas that is often used while speaking, who and which are more common in formal written English.
Relative Pronoun. Definition: We use the relative pronouns to refer to a noun mentioned before and of which we are adding more information. They are used to join two or more sentences and forming in that way what we call  relative sentences . These pronouns take a different case depending on whether the relative pronoun is a subject or an object in the dependent clause. 1  Subjective case. 2  Use the subjective case when these relative pronouns are the subject (initiating the action) of the dependent clause: Who, Whoever.
When the relative pronoun is the object of a preposition, which is used instead of that, for example,  in which ,  for which ,  about which ,  through which , etc. (please see the third example below): Formal English: This is the man to whom I wanted to speak and whose name I had forgotten. The relative pronoun that can only be used in restrictive clauses. It can also be substituted for who (referring to persons) or which (referring to things) in informal English. Whereas that is often used while speaking, who and which are more common in formal written English.
The relative pronouns in English are who, which, that and whose. Whom is also used by some people but is considered by many to be too formal. A relative pronoun introduces a relative clause : This is the table which I bought. In informal speech, we can omit which and that when the pronoun refers to the object of the sentence. It's the watch my husband bought me for my birthday. In this sentence, 'the watch' is the object of the verb bought so we don’t need to use that or which.
We always use a relative pronoun (who, which, whose or whom) to introduce a non-defining relative clause (In the examples, the relative clause is in bold, and the person or thing being referred to is. .). Clare, who I work with, is doing the London marathon this year. Not: . We usually use a relative pronoun (e.g. who, that, which, whose and whom) to introduce a defining relative clause (In the examples, the relative clause is in bold, and the person or thing being referred to is. .): They’re the people who want to buy our house. Here are some cells which have been affected
(Please note that in certain situations,  what ,  when , and  where  can function as relative pronouns.) Relative pronouns introduce relative clauses, which are a type of dependent clause. Relative clauses modify a word, phrase, or idea in the main clause. The relative pronoun that can only be used in restrictive clauses. It can also be substituted for who (referring to persons) or which (referring to things) in informal English. Whereas that is often used while speaking, who and which are more common in formal written English.