Before starting a career in ultrasound technology, completing an education program from an Ultrasound Technician school will be required. Most often the training received will earn an Associate’s degree in the process and will prepare you to participate in certification exams.
Training to become an ultrasound technician may be done through a formal education program or through military training. The most common training is an associate's degree program, although there are bachelor's degree and 1-year certificate programs available.
An ultrasound technician is a very valuable job in the world of health care. Also called a diagnostic medical sonographer, an ultrasound tech uses special machines and equipment that operate on sound waves to determine or diagnose medical problems for patients.
Becoming an Ultrasound Technician starts with obtaining a certificate, associates, or bachelor's degree and getting the basic knowledge you will need to perform the job. All ultrasound training progams require clinical, or on the job training as well.
How to Become an Ultrasound Technician. Regardless of their area of specialization, ultrasound technicians are almost always required to undergo some formal education or training. For many, the first step to becoming an ultrasound tech is to earn a certificate or degree in the field.
How to become an Ultrasound Technician. To become an ultrasound technician, you don’t have to have a specific license as the program is not yet required. That said, it is nearly impossible to find a position if you don’t already have some medical training and certification from an organization like the ARDMS.
To become an ultrasound technician in Minnesota, you must complete a formal training program. Ultrasound technician programs, generally called diagnostic medical sonography programs, are generally associate or bachelor degree programs, although associate degree is the most common.
3. Earn a great salary. Your ultrasound technician training will qualify you for a job with great salary potential. According to the 2014 data from Salary.com, the middle 50 percent of ultrasound technicians earn between $62,037 and $74,566.