Abstract. The targets for the immune system are antigens present on cancer cells; however, many are not cancer-specific and may also be found on normal tissues. These antigens are often products of mutated cellular genes, aberrantly expressed normal genes, or genes encoding viral proteins. 
prostate-specific antigen (prostatic specific antigen) an antigen that is elevated in all patients with prostatic cancer and in some with an inflamed prostate gland. public a's antigens of the high-frequency blood groups, so called because they are found in many persons. 1. any of several antigens, coded for by the viral genome, associated with transformation of infected cells by certain DNA tumor viruses. Called also tumor antigen. 2. an antigen present on human erythrocytes that is exposed by treatment with neuraminidase or contact with certain bacteria.
Tumor antigen is an antigenic substance produced in tumor cells, i.e., it triggers an immune response in the host. Tumor antigens are useful tumor markers in identifying tumor cells with diagnostic tests and are potential candidates for use in cancer therapy. The field of cancer immunology studies such topics. Examples of tumor-specific antigens include the abnormal products of ras and p53 genes. In contrast, mutation of other genes unrelated to the tumor formation may lead to synthesis of abnormal proteins which are called tumor-associated antigens.
1). tumor-specific antigen. tumor-specific antigen (TSA) any cell-surface antigen of a tumor that does not occur on normal cells of the same origin. V antigen (Vi antigen) an antigen contained in the sheath of a bacterium, as Salmonella typhosa (the typhoid bacillus), and thought to contribute to its virulence. 1. any of several antigens, coded for by the viral genome, associated with transformation of infected cells by certain DNA tumor viruses. Called also tumor antigen. 2. an antigen present on human erythrocytes that is exposed by treatment with neuraminidase or contact with certain bacteria.
The prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test is done to: 1  Screen men for prostate cancer. 2  Since other common medical conditions, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis, can cause high PSA levels, a prostate biopsy may be done if your doctor is concerned about signs of prostate cancer. A prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test measures the amount of prostate-specific antigen in the blood. PSA is released into a man's blood by his prostate gland. Healthy men have low amounts of PSA in the blood. The amount of PSA in the blood normally increases as a man's prostate enlarges with age
Guide. A prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test measures the amount of prostate-specific antigen in the blood. PSA is released into a man's blood by his prostate gland. Healthy men have low amounts of PSA in the blood. The amount of PSA in the blood normally increases as a man's prostate enlarges with ag
by Anne Harding. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a protein produced by the prostate and found in the blood. A PSA blood test can detect prostate cancer early, but it may not save lives. 
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. 