Alcudia: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Alcudia with an average temperature of 25°C (77°F) and the coldest is January at 9°C (48°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in July. The wettest month is October with an average of 63mm of rain.
75. The average sea temperature is around 21°C (that's about 70°F) . You can expect rain on an average of 6 days of the month. The average monthly rain is around 14mm and there are around 10 hours of average daily sunshine. In June you can enjoy the celebrations of San Juan.
The next 7 day outlook for Alcudia shows the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 22°C, with a high for the week of 25°C expected on the afternoon of Sunday 18th. The mean minimum temperature will be 17°C, dipping to its lowest on the morning of Friday 16th at 14°C.
August is the hottest month in Alcudia with an average temperature of 25°C (77°F) and the coldest is January at 9°C (48°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in July. The wettest month is October with an average of 63mm of rain.
Sea temperatures for Majorca by month (averages). Majorca sea temperature chart with monthly averages. Majorca enjoys warm seas in the summertime, but if you take a holiday outside of the summer months you may find the sea too cold for swimming!
Air temperature. °C - °C. The measurements for the sea temperature in Port d'Alcudia, Alcúdia Balearic islands are provided by the daily satellite readings provided by THE. Noaa the temperatures given are the surface (TEMPERATURE) sst which is most relevant to recreational. users
Long range weather outlook for Alcudia includes 14 day forecast summary: The outlook for Alcudia in the two weeks ahead shows the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 23°C, with a high for the two weeks of 25°C expected on the afternoon of Sunday 18th.
°C - °C. The measurements for the sea temperature in Port d'Alcudia, Alcúdia Balearic islands are provided by the daily satellite readings provided by THE. noaa