Blood blisters are commonly caused by accidents in which the skin is pinched by a tool, mechanism, or heavy weight without protective gear. Blood blisters can also arise from forcible human contact, including grappling. Blood blisters also may occur with friction caused by constant rubbing of skin against a surface. Because of this, baseball pitchers and drummers often contract blood blisters on the fingers. They also form as a result of frostbite.
Moisture on your skin is a frequent cause of a blood blister because blisters form easier on moist skin. Prevent blood blisters by keeping your skin dry -- especially on your feet. Wear socks that are specifically made to absorb moisture and provide plenty of cushioning. 
A blood blister is a type of blister that forms when subdermal tissues and blood vessels are damaged without piercing the skin. It consists of a pool of lymph, blood and other body fluids trapped beneath the skin. If punctured, it suppurates a dark fluid. Blood blisters also may occur with friction caused by constant rubbing of skin against a surface. Because of this, baseball pitchers and drummers often contract blood blisters on the fingers. They also form as a result of frostbite.
Chewing your food is not the only way to create a blood blister while eating. Food that is too hot can cause a blood vessel in the mouth to pop, as can hard candies or food that has a sharp edge, like a piece of toast or the crust of a bun. Most of the time when you bite something hard or sharp, nothing happens. When you get a normal blister, it is generally the result of rubbing an area of the skin to the point that fluids flow to the affected area as a means of protecting the layers of skin lying beneath the surface. While these “normal” blisters will sometimes contain a certain amount of blood, in most cases they do not.
Blisters-Topic Overview. Blisters are fluid-filled bumps that look like bubbles on the skin. You may develop a blister on your foot when you wear new shoes that rub against your skin or on your hand when you work in the garden without wearing gloves. Home treatment is often all that is needed for this type of blister.
A Ildiko Biro, NASM Elite Trainer, Fitness, answered. A blister is a small pocket of fluid within the upper layers of the skin, typically caused by forceful rubbing (friction), burning, freezing, chemical exposure or infection. Most blisters are filled with a clear fluid called serum or plasma. However, blisters can be filled with blood (known as blood blisters) or with pus (if they become infected). Blisters are a very common cause of foot pain symptoms. They occur frequently on the bottom of the feet but can also be seen on the top and side of the foot. In the foot at least, the primary cause is fri
Blood blisters are a type of blister filled with blood rather than the clear fluid commonly associated with blisters. They are caused by a rupture of the blood vessels underneath the skin’s surface, usually cause by some form of trauma, such as pinching. Like all forms of blisters, blood blisters form on the upper layer of the skin. They are the body’s natural response to pressure or injury. What differentiates them from other blisters is the fact that the trauma caused the blood vessels under the skin to rupture.
As the name suggests, there's blood in a blood blister. That's what causes the red, purple, black discolouration. But if you remember from the anatomy of the skin, there are no blood vessels in the epidermis (where friction blisters form). 