The Battle of Midway (June 4-7, 1942) was an important turning point in World War II. The Japanese sent a majority of their navy towards Midway island, which was being used by … the US as an airfield. It was fought by aircraft launched from aircraft carriers. Four Japanese fleet carriers were lost along with their crew. 
The Battle of Midway was a naval battle in the Pacific Ocean. It took place from 4 June 1942 to 7 June 1942, approximately one month after the Battle of the Coral Sea. Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto was commander-in-chief of the Japanese Combined fleet. Battles were fought in Europe, Asia, and Africa. The Battle of the Coral Sea. One of the first naval battles fought in the Pacific during World War II. The Battle of the Coral Sea was fought from 4 May – 8 May 1942. It was a major naval battle fought, about 500 miles northeast of Australia, between the Imperial Japanese Navy and the United States and Australia. After Pearl Harbour, the Japanese took more and more islands in the Western Pacific Ocean
Admiral Chester Nimitz after the victory at Midway. The Battle of Midway was a decisive episode in the struggle for naval hegemony in the Pacific Ocean, fought in June 1942. As a result of the Battle of the Coral Sea, which had taken place a month earlier, Japanese Pacific expansion had been temporarily halted
The Battle of Midway was a turning point in the Pacific War. Before the Battle of the Coral Sea on 7-8 May 1942, the Imperial Navy of Japan had swept aside all of its enemies from the Pacific and Indian oceans. 
On June 4, 1942, US aircraft flying from USS Enterprise, USS Hornet, and USS Yorktown attacked and sunk four Japanese carriers, forcing Yamamoto to withdrawal. The Battle of Midway marked the turning point of World War II in the Pacific. Commanders at the Battle of Midway: In May 1942, Japanese Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto sought to draw the US Pacific Fleet into a battle where he could overwhelm and destroy it. To accomplish this he planned an invasion of Midway Island which would provide a base for attacking Hawaii.
The Battle of the Coral Sea, fought during 4–8 May 1942, was a major naval battle in the Pacific Theater of World War II between the Imperial Japanese Navy and naval and air forces from the United States and Australia. 
Battle of Midway. The Battle of Midway, fought in June 1942, must be considered one of the most decisive battles of World War Two. The Battle of Midway effectively destroyed Japan’s naval strength when the Americans destroyed four of its aircraft carriers