A Type I Chiari malformation is a congenital anomaly of the brain in which the cerebellar tonsils are elongated and pushed down through the opening of the base of the skull (see foramen magnum), blocking the flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as it exits through the medial and lateral apertures of the fourth ventricle. The flocculonodular lobe of the cerebellum which can also be confused for the cerebellar tonsils, is one of three lobes that make up the overall composition of the cerebellum. The cerebellum consists of three anatomical and functional lobes: anterior lobe, posterior lobe, and flocculonodular lobe.
Chiari Malformation Type I (CM) is a neurological disorder where part of the brain, the cerebellum (or more specifically the cerebellar tonsils), descends out of the skull into the spinal area. 
Normal anatomy of the cerebellum (left). Chiari I malformation (right). With the size of the posterior fossa too small, the cerebellar tonsils may herniate through the skull into the spinal canal. The tonsils block the flow of CSF (blue) and may cause fluid buildup inside the spinal cord, called a syrinx. Syringomyelia, hydrocephalus, and other complications. Overview. Chiari I malformation is a condition in which the bony space enclosing the lower part of the brain is smaller than normal. Crowding causes the cerebellar tonsils to push through the skull and down into the spinal canal. The herniated tonsils block the normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
Get help from a doctor now ›. Not tonsils: The cerebellar tonsils are not tonsils, just part of your cerebellum. Sometimes when patients are dizzy it is due to pressure from a portion of the cerebellum resting low in the skull, around the foramen magnum. Arnold Chiari: Low lying cerebellar tonsils refer to the presence of cerebellar tissue below the foramen magnum. Usually referred to as Arnold Chiari Type I, which are in general asymptomatic and seen as an incidental finding on MRI of the brain. Best to check with your doctor for certain.
The Chiari I malformation, also known as the Arnold-Chiari malformation, is a relatively common syndrome caused by displacement of the cerebellar tonsils below the level of the foramen magnum. Associated with the Chiari malformation may be hydrocephalus, spina bifida, and syringomyelia. The type I Chiari malformation consists of caudal displacement of the cerebellar tonsils at least 3 mm into the upper cervical spinal canal. This type of herniation may be asymptomatic. The type II Chiari has a meningomyelocele (spinal opening). Type III has an encephalocele.
Chiari I malformation is characterized by herniation of the cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum into the cervical spinal canal (see the images below). The cerebellar tonsils often are elongated and peglike. Note that the ectopic cerebellar tonsils are positioned snugly in the posterolateral subarachnoid space of the cervical spinal canal. Chiari I malformation is not directly associated with other congenital brain malformations, specifically myelomeningocele, which is a feature of Chiari II malformation.
Chiari malformations (CMs) are structural defects in the cerebellum, the part of the brain that controls balance. Normally the cerebellum and parts of the brain stem sit in an indented space at the lower rear of the skull, above the foramen magnum (a funnel-like opening to the spinal canal). When part of the cerebellum is located below the foramen magnum, it is called a Chiari malformation.