Streptococcal bacteria cause a variety of infections in the body, including pneumonia, meningitis, ear infections, and strep throat. Bacterial diseases are contagious and can result in many serious or life-threatening complications, such as blood poisoning (bacteremia), kidney failure, and toxic shock syndrome. The vast majority of bacteria do not cause disease, and many bacteria are actually helpful and even necessary for good health. These bacteria are sometimes referred to as “good bacteria” or “healthy bacteria.”. Harmful bacteria that cause bacterial infections and disease are called pathogenic bacteria.
688 Part IX Viruses and Simple Organisms Human Bacterial Diseases Bacteria cause many diseases in humans, including cholera,leprosy, tetanus, bacterial pneumonia, whooping cough,diphtheria and lyme disease (table 34.2). 34.1 Bacteria are the smallest and most numerous organisms. (a) (b) (c) FIGURE 34.2The diversity of bacteria. (a) Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a rod-shaped, flagellated bacterium(bacillus). Pseudomonas includes the bacteria that cause many of the most serious plantdiseases.
The three diseaseS caused by prokaryotes are: food poisning, malaria, typhoid. 2. Bubonic Plague: The bacteria that cause the plague are the yersinia pestis vari … ety. 3. Cholera: The bacteria that cause Cholera are the vibrio cholerae bacteria that contaminates food stuff and water.
Most of these bacteria are harmless. However, bacteria can also cause disease. Examples of bacterial diseases include tetanus, syphilis, and food poisoning. Bacteria may spread directly from one person to another. For example, they can spread through touching, coughing, or sneezing. 
We’re going to be talking about infectious diseases that are caused by bacteria in this section. Infectious diseases are those that are spread by an infectious agent, such as a bacterium or virus. They’re different from other kinds of diseases, like the metabolic disease diabetes. Pathogenic bacteria are those that are capable of causing disease.
1. Tuberculosis: The bacteria that cause tuberculosis are called mycobacterium tuberculosis. 2. Bubonic Plague: The bacteria that cause the plague are the yersinia pestis vari … ety. 3. Cholera: The bacteria that cause Cholera are the vibrio cholerae bacteria that contaminates food stuff and water.
1. (1) Produced by an abnormality in, or a mutation of the genetic code in a single gene; (2) Caused by several abnormal genes (Producing so-called polygenic diseases); or (3 …) Caused by the abnormal presence or absence of an entire chromosome or by alteration in the structure of chromosomes. 2. Bubonic Plague: The bacteria that cause the plague are the yersinia pestis vari … ety. 3. Cholera: The bacteria that cause Cholera are the vibrio cholerae bacteria that contaminates food stuff and water.
Human Bacterial Diseases. • Tuberculosis and dental caries are just two of the many human diseases caused by bacteria. A few others are cholera, leprosy, tetanus, bacterial pneumonia, whooping cough, diptheria, and Lyme disease. (p. 554). • A number of bacteria also cause sexually transmitted diseases such as gonorrhea, syphilis, and chlamydia. 
1 Another 2 million die from diarrhea caused by other prokaryotes. 2  Lyme disease, caused by a bacterium carried by ticks that live on deer and field mice, is the most widespread pest-carried disease in the United States. 3  If untreated, Lyme disease can lead to debilitating arthritis, heart disease, and nervous disorders. 1 These drugs cripple many species of bacteria, without affecting human and other eukaryote cells that do not synthesize peptidoglycans. 2  Many prokaryotes secrete another sticky protective layer of polysaccharide or protein, the capsule, outside the cell wall. 3  Capsules allow cells to adhere to their substratum.