Lycopene and beta carotene work in conjunction with other plant chemicals not found in vitamin or mineral supplements. Watermelon also contains potassium, which is believed to help control blood pressure and possibly prevent strokes. Answer   Watermelon contains lycopene and Vitamin C, but is composed mostly of water and sugar. Lycopene is a very powerful nutrient that is also found in tomatoes. 15 people found this useful.
Riboflavin. Riboflavin, another B vitamin, is also found in watermelon. This vitamin promotes growth and tissue repair and also assists in the function of cell division. Four percent of the daily value of riboflavin is found in one wedge of watermelon. Folate. The folate, or folic acid, found in one serving of watermelon makes up 2 percent of the daily value. Folate is necessary for the production and maintenance of new cells and is required for the formation of DNA. Six percent of the daily value of pantothenic acid
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Watermelon is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. 1 But there was no area in any of the watermelon varieties that came out badly in terms of nutrients, and in many of the watermelon varieties, the flesh's outer periphery contained impressive concentrations of most nutrients.
Vitamin A. Watermelon is an excellent source of vitamin A with one wedge of the fruit containing 33 percent of the daily value. Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin needed for the formation and maintenance of your mucous membranes, skin and bone. Folate. The folate, or folic acid, found in one serving of watermelon makes up 2 percent of the daily value. Folate is necessary for the production and maintenance of new cells and is required for the formation of DNA. Six percent of the daily value of pantothenic acid is found in one wedge of watermelon
Cucurbitacin E is another unique anti-inflammatory phytonutrient (called a tripterpenoid) found in watermelon. Like the carotenoid lycopene, this anti-inflammatory nutrient has been shown to block activity of cyclo-oxygenase enzymes and neutralize reactive nitrogen-containing molecules. 1 But there was no area in any of the watermelon varieties that came out badly in terms of nutrients, and in many of the watermelon varieties, the flesh's outer periphery contained impressive concentrations of most nutrients.
Watermelon is also high in vitamin C and vitamin A, in the form of disease-fighting beta carotene. Lycopene and beta carotene work in conjunction with other plant chemicals not found in vitamin or mineral supplements. Watermelon also contains potassium, which is believed to help control blood pressure and possibly prevent strokes. A wedge of watermelon, or about 1 2/3 cups: 92 cal. 1.77 g pro., 20.54 g carb., 1.43 g dietary fiber, 332 mg potassium, 27.46 mg. vitamin C, 1046.76 IU vitamin A.
Watermelon not only boosts your health esteem, but it is has excellent levels of vitamins A and C and a good level of vitamin B6. Vitamin A found in watermelon is important for optimal eye health and boosts immunity by enhancing the infection-fighting actions of white blood cells called lymphocytes. Vitamin B6 found in watermelon helps the immune system produce antibodies. Antibodies are needed to fight many diseases. Vitamin B6 helps maintain normal nerve function and form red blood cells. The body uses it to help break down proteins.
Answer   Watermelon contains lycopene and Vitamin C, but is composed mostly of water and sugar. Lycopene is a very powerful nutrient that is also found in tomatoes. Watermelon also contains potassium, which is believed to help control blood pressure and possibly prevent strokes. A wedge of watermelon, or about 1 2/3 cups: 92 cal. 1.77 g pro., 20.54 g carb., 1.43 g dietary fiber, 332 mg potassium, 27.46 mg. vitamin C, 1046.76 IU vitamin A.