Inheriting a disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome affected (autosomal or sex chromosome). It also depends on whether the trait is dominant or recessive. A single abnormal gene on one of the first 22 nonsex (autosomal) chromosomes from either parent can cause an autosomal disorder. Dominant inheritance means an abnormal gene from one parent can cause disease, even though the matching gene from the other parent is normal. The abnormal gene dominates.
An estimated 5 to 10 percent of ALS is familial and caused by mutations in one of several genes. The pattern of inheritance varies depending on the gene involved. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
X-linked inheritance means that the gene causing the trait or the disorder is located on the X chromosome. Females have two X chromosomes; males have one X and one Y. Genes on the X chromosome can be recessive or dominant. Their expression in females and males is not the same.
For most ALS genes, only one mutated copy is needed to cause disease. This is called a “dominant” gene. For other genes, both copies must be mutated to cause disease. This is called a “recessive” gene. During formation of eggs and sperm, gene pairs split up, so that an egg (or sperm) contains only one gene copy.
C9ORF72. This gene, discovered in 2011, is the most common genetic cause of ALS. (Its name refers to the position of an “open reading frame” on chromosome 9). Mutations in this gene account for between 25% and 40% of all familial ALS cases (depending on the population), and also approximately 4% to 6% of sporadic cases.
For a recessive allele to produce a recessive phenotype, the individual must have two copies, one from each parent. An individual with one dominant and one recessive allele for a gene will have the dominant phenotype. They are generally considered “carriers” of the recessive allele: the recessive allele is there, but the recessive phenotype is not.