keep at arm’s length. keep at arm’s length. Meaning: keep a distance, avoiding intimacy or familiarity. Example: He always had the feeling that she was keeping him at arm’s length. If you have any additional information regarding keep at arm’s length idiom please comment.
By Traci Pedersen ~ 1 min read. For women, happiness and contentment is intimately bound up in both their romantic partnerships and best friendships. In contrast, men remain at a greater distance from both of their closest relationships, according to researchers from the University of Oxford. “Our research shows that successful relationships are much more essential to women’s well-being than men’s. “Men seem to keep their relationships at arm’s length with one eye on the dating market. It seems that regardless of our culture of monogamy and commitment the biological imperative still operates, to a greater or lesser degree, for men. 
1 keep someone or something at arm's length. 2  keep someone or something at bay. 3  keep someone or something hanging. 4  keep someone or something off. 5  keep someone or something on track. 6  keep someone or something under control. 7  keep someone or something under scrutiny. 8  keep someone under someone's thumb. 9  keep someone up. 1 keep someone or something around. 2  keep someone or something at arm's length. 3  keep someone or something at bay. 4  keep someone or something hanging. 5  keep someone or something off. 6  keep someone or something on track. 7  keep someone or something under control
Keep You At Arm's Length. I definitely have an issue letting people in. I always thought I was a trusting person, but I realize that it's actually really hard for me to trust someone. I have even had my best friend since second grade, and I still find it hard for me to tell her things. God, and not to mention the social problems with this.
1. an arm and a leg, a great deal of money: to cost an arm and a leg. 2. arm in arm, with arms linked together or intertwined: They walked along arm in arm. 3. at arm's length, on terms lacking in intimacy; at a distance: to keep business associates at arm's length. 4. in the arms of Morpheus, asleep. 5. put the arm on, Slang. a. to solicit or borrow money from
Keeping Them At Arm’s Length. I’ve previously expressed my desire to avoid deliberately doing the girls I am involved with any emotional harm. To me, this means always being frank, honest, and up front about my intentions from day one. July 14, 2013 at 20:16. Yep that’s the plan. I’ve spent the last 9 months writing a stock market analysis system in my spare time, and it’s pretty much ready to go. It’s only going to require a time investment of an hour a day, tops, and will provide me with financial and geographical independence.
keep somebody/something at arm's length. to avoid becoming connected with someone or something We proposed a tax break for companies that treat their workers well, but lawmakers are keeping the idea at arm's length for now. She doesn't talk much about it because she needs to hold these painful experiences at arm's length. Etymology: from the literal meaning of at arm's length (away from you by a distance equal to the length of your arm). See also: at, keep, length.
And so I find myself trying to perform a delicate balancing act of keeping them at arm’s length. Seeing them often enough to keep them interested, but not often enough to start creating a boyfriend/girlfriend vibe. Part of the problem is that I’m a naturally very affectionate person when I’m with a girl I like. July 14, 2013 at 20:16. Yep that’s the plan. I’ve spent the last 9 months writing a stock market analysis system in my spare time, and it’s pretty much ready to go. It’s only going to require a time investment of an hour a day, tops, and will provide me with financial and geographical independence.
keep at arm's length from someone or something. Fig. to retain a degree of physical or social remoteness from someone or something. I try to keep at arm's length from Larry, since our disagreement. I keep Tom at arm's length because we don't get along. 1 keep someone or something around. 2  keep someone or something at arm's length. 3  keep someone or something at bay. 4  keep someone or something hanging. 5  keep someone or something off. 6  keep someone or something on track. 7  keep someone or something under control