This activity is designed for students to identify the pH level of compounds. By testing common household substances, they will understand how the pH determines why a compound reacts with other substances and for what purpose. Students will understand the property of acid and base; and how to test the pH of a liquid. Concepts: Identify acids and bases by using the pH scale.
Physical characteristics of matter include its mass, weight, volume, and density. It also specifically describes its odor, shape, texture, and hardness. In addition, physical properties describe whether the object is a solid, a liquid, or a gas its phase of matter at room temperature. These physical characteristics are described below: Mass Mass is a general property of matter that is the amount of matter it an object. In other words, it is the amount of stuff there is. It is easy to confuse the terms mass with weight but they are fundamentally different propertie
is the ratio of the mass of a material to that of an equal volume of water. Because the density of water is about 1.00 g mL –1, the specific gravity is numerically very close to that of the density, but being a ratio, it is dimensionless. Solution: When immersed in water, the object is buoyed up by the mass of the water it displaces, which of course is the mass of 8 cm 3 of water. Taking the density of water as unity, the upward (buoyancy) force is just 8 g. The apparent weight will be (36 g) – (8 g) = 28 g.
The density, or more precisely, the volumetric mass density, of a substance is its mass per unit volume. The symbol most often used for density is ρ (the lower case Greek letter rho), although the Latin letter D can also be used. As there are many units of mass and volume covering many different magnitudes there are a large number of units for mass density in use. The SI unit of kilogram per cubic metre (kg/m 3) and the cgs unit of gram per cubic centimetre (g/cm 3) are probably the most commonly used units for density.
An artifact may be defined as an object that has been intentionally made or produced for a certain purpose. Often the word ‘artifact’ is used in a more restricted sense to refer to simple, hand-made objects which represent a particular culture. 
Density and Specific Gravity are the two commonly used terms but often confused with each other. Particularly, in industries these terms are widely used to weigh different substance and to calculate the concentration of liquids. Temperature and pressure are very important in calculating the two. Density. Mass density, which is commonly called as density of a material is its mass per unit volume. Density of water is 1.0 g/ml, if the density of any object is less than water’s density; it will float on the surface of water and vice versa. If you increase the amount of a substance, it will increase the mass but will not affect the density. Specific Gravity. Specific gravity is a relative value, so it has no units.
The reciprocal of the density of a substance is occasionally called its specific volume, a term sometimes used in thermodynamics. Density is an intensive property in that increasing the amount of a substance does not increase its density; rather it increases its mass. As there are many units of mass and volume covering many different magnitudes there are a large number of units for mass density in use. The SI unit of kilogram per cubic metre (kg/m 3) and the cgs unit of gram per cubic centimetre (g/cm 3) are probably the most commonly used units for density.
Drugs of abuse testing may be used for one of several purposes: 1  Medical screening. 2  Legal or forensic information. 3  Employment drug testing. 4  Sports/athletics testing. 1 Is suspected of drug use or is known to use legal and/or illegal drugs. 2  Is a candidate to receive an organ transplant. 3  Is pregnant, especially if she is thought to be at risk for drug abuse or has a newborn baby exhibiting certain characteristic behaviors.
Students will find that household substances have a specific pH property which is a characteristic needed for the substance's use. Following the lab, students will be assigned the task of testing other substances in their home to determine the pH of those substances. By testing common household substances, they will understand how the pH determines why a compound reacts with other substances and for what purpose. Students will understand the property of acid and base; and how to test the pH of a liquid. Concepts: Identify acids and bases by using the pH scale.