Voting should be mandatory! I understand that if you don't want to do something in a democratic society you shouldn't have to, but that being said I don't really want to pay my taxes, but I do because its the law and obviously if I want health care, social programs, etc... Money is needed to support those things. No Compulsory Voting. When Americans have the right to vote, they also have the right not to vote. Many do not vote because they do not agree with any of the candidates, or they are not informed on politics.
Voting is a freedom not a requirement. If people don't want to come out and vote then that should be acceptable. If voting were made manditory think of all the people that might actually come out to vote! I dont think we want all people to come out and vote. But the most basic is also the most appropriate: making voting mandatory. Here’s why. Mandatory voting would make elections truly valid. “Protecting the integrity of our elections” is the rationale Republicans give for the cynically restrictive voter ID laws they’ve enacted in Pennsylvania and elsewhere.
Another critique claims that requiring the vote devalues it, and that compelled voters will protest by voting carelessly. But in Australia, where voting became compulsory in 1924, that’s been a marginal issue. The existence of a mandate has made voting a meaningful shared national experience. But the most basic is also the most appropriate: making voting mandatory. Here’s why. Mandatory voting would make elections truly valid. “Protecting the integrity of our elections” is the rationale Republicans give for the cynically restrictive voter ID laws they’ve enacted in Pennsylvania and elsewhere.
No voting should not be compulsory. It is an individual's choice whether they wish to vote or not vote in an election of any kind. Maybe they don't like the candidates given, maybe they don't care about the issues being voted on. No Compulsory Voting. When Americans have the right to vote, they also have the right not to vote. Many do not vote because they do not agree with any of the candidates, or they are not informed on politics.
Mandatory voting is also used in Latin America. Examples there include Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, and Ecuador. In some countries voting has been made compulsory at the discretion of sub-national governments, or is applied only to certain types of elections. 
Compulsory voting is a system in which electors are obliged to vote in elections or attend a polling place on voting day. If an eligible voter does not attend a polling place, he or she may be subject to punitive measures such as fines or community service. As of August 2013, 22 countries have laws for compulsory voting and 11 of these 22 countries enforce these laws in practice. In compulsory voting areas, such people often vote at random simply to fulfill legal requirements: the so-called donkey vote may account for 1–2% of votes in these systems, although due to the law of large numbers, this should have no effect on the result.
Geoff Hoon has given his support to compulsory voting Britons should be forced to vote in elections, a think-tank has said. Think-tank The Institute for Public Policy Research's report suggests those who do not vote should be fined to combat low turnout at the polls. 
In some countries, where voting is considered a duty, voting at elections has been made compulsory and has been regulated in the national constitutions and electoral laws. Some countries go as far as to impose sanctions on non-voters. Compulsory voting is not a new concept. Some of the first countries that introduced mandatory voting laws were Belgium in 1892, Argentina in 1914 and Australia in 1924. The leading argument against compulsory voting is that it is not consistent with the freedom associated with democracy. Voting is not an intrinsic obligation and the enforcement of the law would be an infringement of the citizens' freedom associated with democratic elections.
Is compulsory voting justified? A logical look at the arguments for forcing people to vote in elections Should voting be made compulsory? It's a question that has been posed increasingly often since turnouts at national elections have fallen dramatically in recent years.