For skin micro-needling, we use an electric skin needling device made especially for this purpose. The device is a pen shaped studded with 12 very fine needles. It is a medical device used in micro needling to break down old scar tissue and to stimulate skin cells to proliferate. This cell multiplication results in the formation of new tissue layers of elastin and collagen fibers as well as in new capillaries for an improved blood supply.
Unlike dermabrasion, deep chemical peels, or invasive laser treatments, skin needling is safer and does not harm the skin the way that other treatments do. This treatment is also less painful than other methods of smoothing or tightening the skin on face, and there are fewer side effects as well. Another factor of concern is that skin infections have been reported in some patients, especially if post-treatment instructions are not followed carefully. Skin needling is typically a safe and affordable alternative to other, more invasive, skin procedures. Individuals who want to look into this treatment should consult their local skin care specialist for more information
PCI or skin needling is a safe and minimally invasive alternative to more abrasive and invasive procedures. 
Collagen Induction Therapy (CIT) is a minimally-invasive cosmetic procedure that involves the use of a micro-needling device. CIT is safe and effective on all skin types, and when properly applied, there is minimal risk of discoloration. The micro-needling procedure can be performed by licensed qualified medical professionals including physicians, osteopaths and naturopaths. CIT or micro-needling stimulates a complex wound-healing mechanism. The important point is: a micro-needling intrusion is caused by tiny surgical needles. The skin's nerve receptors and defense mechanisms sense these fine needle intrusions as a specific type of injury and heals accordingly.
Skin needling is safe treatment that involves rolling the skin multiple times with a tiny roller that has very fine needles. This kind if treatment for the skin aims to improve general skin texture and tone, lines and wrinkles, scarring and skin tightness, by encouraging production of new collagen. Skin needling is also different to artificial injectable collagen, as the effects of natural collagen production in skin that is caused by skin needling are long lasting and continue even up to one year after the treatment itself.
It is important you select a reputable clinic with trained practitioners to carry out your treatment. The Medik8 skin needling treatment is performed by trained experts in a very safe and precise manner, using single use tools sterilised in the EU. We use the Medik8 titanium skin needling. system. A safe, simple and virtually pain free. treatment for: 1  Wrinkles and lines. 2  Lack of skin firmness and elasticity. 3  Scarring. 4  Acne and chicken pox scars. 5  Enlarged pores. 6  Sun damage.
Skin needling is a safe and increasingly popular skin renewal technique to restore the youthful appearance of your skin at a fraction of the cost of comparable treatments and with minimal or zero downtime. Skin needling produces similar results to lasers and deep chemical peels, but is much less invasive. We use the Medik8 titanium skin needling. system. A safe, simple and virtually pain free. treatment for: 1  Wrinkles and lines. 2  Lack of skin firmness and elasticity. 3  Scarring. 4  Acne and chicken pox scars. 5  Enlarged pores. 6  Sun damage.
Micro-Needling (Skin Needling). Micro-needling (or skin needling) is a minimally invasive treatment to promote skin renewal. Using the Rejuvapen™, a precisely-spaced micro-needling device, thousands of invisible and virtually painless perforations are made to the skin. 
During skin needling treatment, slim, fine needles push below the surface of the skin and cause what is called a micro-wound. When these wounds are created, the body’s natural defenses are triggered and it begins to produce new skin cells, capillaries, and collagen in order to repair the damage. Another factor of concern is that skin infections have been reported in some patients, especially if post-treatment instructions are not followed carefully. Skin needling is typically a safe and affordable alternative to other, more invasive, skin procedures. Individuals who want to look into this treatment should consult their local skin care specialist for more information