Traditionally, scrapple was made with pig's haslet and offal. Haslet refers to the heart, liver, and other edible organs. The word offal refers to the entrails, although today it is used more broadly to mean any edible organ including entrails. These parts were boiled together in a small amount of water until tender. Scrapple is a sausage dish enjoyed primarily in Pennsylvania Dutch region and in parts of the neighboring states of New Jersey, Maryland, and Delaware. It is very popular on the Delmarva Peninsula and is celebrated the second weekend of October during the annual Apple Scrapple Festival..
The mush is formed into a semi-solid congealed loaf, and slices of the scrapple are then pan-fried before serving. Scraps of meat left over from butchering, not used or sold elsewhere, were made into scrapple to avoid waste. Scrapple is typically cut into quarter-inch to three-quarter-inch slices and pan-fried until brown to form a crust. It is sometimes first coated with flour. It may be fried in butter or oil and is sometimes deep-fried. Scrapple can also be broiled; this is a good cooking method for those who like their scrapple crisp.
In composition, preparation, and taste, scrapple is similar to the white pudding popular in Ireland, Scotland, and parts of England and the spicier Hog's pudding of the West Country of England. Scrapple is typically cut into quarter-inch to three-quarter-inch slices and pan-fried until brown to form a crust. It is sometimes first coated with flour. It may be fried in butter or oil and is sometimes deep-fried. Scrapple can also be broiled; this is a good cooking method for those who like their scrapple crisp.
We know what you guys are thinking, but we are not playing a joke on you -- we actually really like scrapple. This mid-Atlantic delicacy, like so many other regional food traditions, was born of the desire to combat wastefulness. Scrapple is exactly what it sounds like -- scraps -- usually pork-based, but sometimes beef as well. And we happen to have eaten a few versions of it that were absolutely delicious. After a pig is butchered, there's a lot of stuff left over, the kind of stuff we usually refer to as offal. For scrapple, these offal bits are cooked down into a stew, ground up with the other leftover bits of meat and combined with cornmeal for texture. This mixture is then cooled down into a loaf, sliced and griddled to serve. Scrapple is usually eaten for breakfast with eggs and potatoes.
Scrapple, also known by the Pennsylvania Dutch name panhaas or pan rabbit, is traditionally a mush of pork scraps and trimmings combined with cornmeal and wheat flour, often buckwheat flour, and spices. Scrapple is typically cut into quarter-inch to three-quarter-inch slices and pan-fried until brown to form a crust. It is sometimes first coated with flour. It may be fried in butter or oil and is sometimes deep-fried. Scrapple can also be broiled; this is a good cooking method for those who like their scrapple crisp.
Scrapple is usually eaten as a breakfast side dish. It can be served plain or with either sweet or savory condiments: apple butter, ketchup, jelly, maple syrup, honey, or mustard. Scrapple is typically cut into quarter-inch to three-quarter-inch slices and pan-fried until brown to form a crust. It is sometimes first coated with flour. It may be fried in butter or oil and is sometimes deep-fried. Scrapple can also be broiled; this is a good cooking method for those who like their scrapple crisp.
Consisting of pork and cornmeal moistened with broth, the scrapple is seasoned with various spices, formed into loaves, and allowed to cool and set in the refrigerator. Before serving, the scrapple is unmolded, cut into ½-inch (1.25 cm) slices, and panfried in butter, bacon drippings, or oil. I googled you a recipe: Scrapple Ingredients * 12 cups pork broth, strong (made from pork shoulder meat) * 2 cups pork, finely cut * 3 cups cornmeal * 1 medium onion, chopped * 1 teaspoon marjoram * 1 teaspoon sage * 1 teaspoon thyme * salt and pepper Directions 1.
Tell us about it in the comments. photo courtesy of sameold2010. My first taste of scrapple: a moment that changed my life forever. I was probably about 14-years-old and fairly new to the state of Maryland. I had done most of my growing up before then in Upstate New York. Being a long distance from Philadelphia, scrapple was not much of a known food up there. 