Voidable Contracts. When a contract is voidable, a party to the contract is able to cancel or revoke the contract. Contracts can become voidable due to: 1  Mistake. 2  A contract can be canceled on the grounds of a mutual mistake of fact. 3  But remember, failure to read the contract doesn't make a contract voidable. Note, however, that a voidable contract is different from a void contract. Void contracts can't be legally enforced, period. The law treats them as if no agreement was ever made. An agreement to perform an illegal action, for instance, is a void contract.
A contract may be voidable on the grounds of Fraud, mistake, Misrepresentation, lack of capacity, duress, Undue Influence, or abuse of a fiduciary relationship. A contract that is based on one of these grounds is not automatically void but is voidable at the option of the party entitled to avoid it. voidable. adj. capable of being made void. Example: a contract entered into by a minor under 18 is voidable upon his/her reaching majority, but the minor may also affirm the contract at that time. Voidable is distinguished from void in that it means only that a thing can become void, but is not necessarily so.
A voidable contract, unlike a void contract, is a valid contract. At most, one party to the contract is bound. The unbound party may repudiate the contract, at which time the contract is void. 
A void contract cannot be enforced by law. Void contracts are different from voidable contracts, which are contracts that may be (but not necessarily will be) nullified. However, when a contract is being written and signed, there is no automatic mechanism available in every situation that can be utilized to detect the validity or enforceability of that contract.
BREAKING DOWN 'Voidable Contract'. A voidable contract can be legally rejected by one party and is said to have a defect. If the party with the power to reject the contract chooses not to reject the contract despite the defect, the contract becomes valid and enforceable. Reasons that can make a contract voidable include failure by one or both parties to disclose a material fact; a mistake, misrepresentation or fraud; undue influence or duress; one party's legal incapacity to enter a contract; one or more terms that are unconscionable; or a breach of contract. Next Up.
Voidable. That which is not absolutely void, but may be avoided. In contracts, voidable is a term typically used with respect to a contract that is valid and binding unless avoided or declared void by a party to the contract who is legitimately exercising a power to avoid the contractual obligations. voidable. adj. capable of being made void. Example: a contract entered into by a minor under 18 is voidable upon his/her reaching majority, but the minor may also affirm the contract at that time. Voidable is distinguished from void in that it means only that a thing can become void, but is not necessarily so.
A voidable contract is an agreement entered into by two or more parties that can be declared invalid by one of the parties for a legal reason. Usually, only one of the parties has the right to cancel the contract. Until that party voids the contract, it remains valid and binding on all of the parties. A voidable contract is different from a void contract. Void contracts are contracts that cannot be legally enforced on the parties. If two parties enter into an agreement to perform an illegal action, for instance, the contract would be considered a void contract.