One of the major events of Ancient Greece was the reign of Alexander the Great. From 333 to 323 BC, he greatly expanded the territory of Greece from mainland Greece all the way to present day Afghanistan through conquest and assimilation. written by: Percila Jackson • edited by: Noreen Gunnell • updated: 3/10/2014. The events of Ancient Greece were varied and important to the history of the world. There were many cultural, intellectual and governmental achievements, as well as major wars. The events that occurred during the time of Ancient Greece greatly influenced the development of western civiliz
It began in Rome in 753 BC. Rome controlled over two million square miles stretching from the Rhine River to Egypt and from Britain to Asia Minor. This timeline highlights the major events in the history of Ancient Rome. This timeline goes from 753 BC to 27 BC and then from 64 AD to 1453 AD. Date Event 753 BC Rome is founded Rome was founded by Romulus. Romulus was the first of the seven Roman kings. The original name of Rome was Roma. 509 BC Rome becomes a Republic The last king is expelled and Rome is now ruled by senators.
Rome was founded in 753 BCE by Romulus and Remus located along the Mediterranean Sea. Rome expanded vastly and became the largest empire of the ancient era with the population of 50 to 80 million population. Rome started as an Iron Age hunt village in the mid of 8th country BC. Although Julius Caesar ruled Rome as the emperor for a while he was never considered as Emperor. He was title as “dictator”. Augustus ruled the Roman Empire from 31 BCE to 14 BCE. During his time he made many remarkable changes in the Rome.
See also: Timeline of Rome history and Timeline of the Roman Empire. This is a timeline of events concerning ancient Rome, from the city foundation until the last attempt of the Eastern Roman Empire to re-conquer Rome. 
This page of dates for major events in ancient history is a fine place for you to start your exploration of the ancient world: you would be wasting your time if you tried to read about ancient history without having any idea of the timeline of major events. How to Use a Timeline. You may use this major events timeline in one of two ways: You may consult it, preferably often enough that you know the sequence of events, or you may memorize dates and names.
Rome history was divided into three different era-Before the rise of Rome, Roman Republic, and Roman Empire. In the list I have tried to covered most of the important events that occurred in Roman history before the beginning of A.D. Although Julius Caesar ruled Rome as the emperor for a while he was never considered as Emperor. He was title as “dictator”. Augustus ruled the Roman Empire from 31 BCE to 14 BCE. During his time he made many remarkable changes in the Rome.
Alexander the Great Expands Greece. One of the major events of Ancient Greece was the reign of Alexander the Great. From 333 to 323 BC, he greatly expanded the territory of Greece from mainland Greece all the way to present day Afghanistan through conquest and assimilation. He died at age 32. written by: Percila Jackson • edited by: Noreen Gunnell • updated: 3/10/2014. The events of Ancient Greece were varied and important to the history of the world. There were many cultural, intellectual and governmental achievements, as well as major wars. The events that occurred during the time of Ancient Greece greatly influenced the development of western civilization
The Roman Empire was one of the greatest and most influential civilizations in world history. It began in the city of Rome in 753 BC and lasted for well over 1000 years. During that time Rome grew to rule much of Europe, Western Asia, and Northern Africa. Here is a timeline of some of the major events in the history of Ancient Rome. 753 BC-The city of Rome is founded. 476 AD-The end of the Western Roman Empire and the fall of Ancient Rome. The last Roman Emperor Romulus Augustus is defeated by the German Goth Odoacer. This signals the start of the Dark Ages in Europe.
The student now begins with a firm basis.~ A History of Greece: From the Earliest Times to the Roman Conquest, by Sir William Smith, George Washington Greene; p.ix This timeline shows many such major events in ancient history. By N.S. How to Use a Timeline. You may use this major events timeline in one of two ways: You may consult it, preferably often enough that you know the sequence of events, or you may memorize dates and names.