Composition. Brass is any alloy of copper and zinc. Bronze is a metal alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with tin as the main additive, but sometimes with other elements such as phosphorus, manganese, aluminum, or silicon. Properties. Brass and Bronze are metal alloys used extensively in everyday objects. While brass is an alloy of copper and zinc, bronze is an alloy consisting mainly of copper, combined most often with tin, but at times also with other metals. Owing to their properties, these two alloys have various uses.
Farmer’s Copper Ltd. inventories C65500 Silicon Bronze in plate & sheet, rod, pipe, and fittings. C655 is a combination of corrosion resistance, strength, resilience, formability, and weldability. 
Silicon bronze offers added strength in conjunction with the self-lubricity of silicon for excellent bearing and load properties. This is especially useful when silicon bronze is used for bearing cages, raceways and spacers specifically for the aerospace industry. AMS 4616 is a special high-strength silicon bronze that is easily machined into ball bearing cage assemblies. The additional iron content in this in C65620 provides added strength for easy machine-ability. All material of AMS 4616 is DFARS compliant and supplied with micro-structures.
Description: Silicon Bronze Welding Alloy. This copper-silicon alloy is used to weld similar composition base metals, brass, and to weld these copper alloys to steel. Silicon bronze is also frequently used in GMAW “braze welding” of coated sheet steels. Click Part Number to view its Typical Certificate
Noun. 1. silicon bronze-a bronze with 2-3% silicon that is resistant to corrosion. bronze-an alloy of copper and tin and sometimes other elements; also any copper-base alloy containing other elements in place of tin. 1  Facebook. 
SILICON BRONZE. Silicon bronze is a family of wrought copper-base alloys (C64700 to C66100) and one cast copper alloy (C87200), the wrought alloys containing from 0.4 to 0.8% silicon (C64700) to 2.8 to 4.0% silicon (C65600), and the cast alloy 1.0 to 5.0%, along with other elements, usually lead, iron, and zinc. 
Silicon Bronze. Silicon bronze is a low-lead brass alloy that is generally composed of 96 percent copper. The remainder can be made from silicon and a variety of other alloys such as manganese, tin, iron, or zinc. Silicon Bronze is known for its easy pouring ability, appealing surface finish and superior corrosion resistant properties, even when submerged in liquids and chemicals. AMS 4616 is a special high-strength silicon bronze that is easily machined into ball bearing cage assemblies. The additional iron content in this in C65620 provides added strength for easy machine-ability. All material of AMS 4616 is DFARS compliant and supplied with micro-structures.
Silicon Bronze C65500. Farmer’s Copper Ltd. inventories a large amount of Silicon Bronze C65500 in plate, sheet, rod, pipe, and fittings. It’s high-strength, corrosion resistance, and resilience and formability makes silicon bronze among the most widely used copper alloys. C655 is corrosion resistant against most acids, alkalies, salts and organic chemical
Bronze is an alloy consisting primarily of copper, commonly with about 12% tin and often with the addition of other metals (such as aluminium, manganese, nickel or zinc) and sometimes non-metals or metalloids such as arsenic, phosphorus or silicon. They are commonly used in architectural applications. Bismuth bronze is a bronze alloy with a composition of 52% copper, 30% nickel, 12% zinc, 5% lead, and 1% bismuth. It is able to hold a good polish and so is sometimes used in light reflectors and mirrors.