Herniated Disc Impinging on the Thecal Sac Facts. The thecal sac is simply a membrane which surrounds the spinal cord and spinal nerves. It is filled with cerebral spinal fluid and acts as a protective barrier for sensitive nerve tissue. on the Thecal Sac. A herniated disc impinging on the thecal sac is an extremely common terminology used on MRI reports and other forms of diagnostic radiology evaluations. The condition may also be noted as a bulging disc encroaching on the thecal sac or a herniated disc indenting the thecal sac. The majority of affected patients have no idea what the condition entails, nor do they even understand what the thecal sac is
Thecal sac impingement is often noted on diagnostic imaging reports of people with various back pain and neck pain conditions. The thecal sac is the protective membrane which surrounds the spinal cord and other vital neurological structures. This membrane insulates and protects the nerve tissues, as well as holding cerebral spinal fluid, much like a reservoir. Herniated disc displacing the thecal sac. In all cases, this means that the bulging portion of the disc is making contact to some degree with the thecal membrane and enacting some force against the side wall of the structure. This will produce a noticeable deformity which can be visualized on diagnostic imaging.
Herniated disc compressing the thecal sac. Herniated disc encroaching on the thecal sac. Herniated disc displacing the thecal sac. In all cases, this means that the bulging portion of the disc is making contact to some degree with the thecal membrane and enacting some force against the side wall of the structure. This will produce a noticeable deformity which can be visualized on diagnostic imaging.
The thecal sac is the protective enclosing membrane which surrounds the spinal cord and cauda equina. 
Thecal refers to the covering of the spinal cord. Ventral refers. to the front. Sac is an enclosure, puch or cavity. Effacement means thinning. Ventral thecal sac effacement then is thinning at the front of the. covering that houses the spinal cord. This is possibly due to a. disc protrusion
What is a Thecal Sac: Definition and Structure: The thecal sac is a covering of the spinal canal that is filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). It houses the spinal cord and nerve roots. It is made up of outer arachnoid membrane and inner dura. It is wider in females. The length is approximately until S1 to S3 vertebral levels.
When the thecal sac, or sometimes called the dural sac, is compressed enough to displace the nerve roots of the cauda equina, it begins causing symptoms. The nerve roots of this area are somewhat distributed and firmly wrapped in tissues similarly to what you'd find inside a very large guage wire. 
Degenerative disc disease can result in neck pain. The mild disc bulging you describe here with mild ventral effacement of the thecal sac means that there is a degree of spinal stenosis here. Spinal stenosis means that the spinal column is narrower than it should be. 
Impress means to indent or affect. Ventral refers to the front, the opposite of posterior. Thecal sac is the outer covering of the spinal cord. This means there are bone spurs on the back of the spinal bones, putting pressure on or affecting the front part of the outer layer of the (neck) cervical spinal cord. This is a common term you may encounter reading your MRI report. Diffuse cervical bulge means a generalized disc bulge of one of spinal discs of the neck (cervical spine). This bulging material may contact or pinch the thecal sac or nerve roots.