GENERAL INFORMATION. Country profile. Turkey is considered to be the gateway between Europe and Asia; it is an Eurasian country located on the Mediterranean stretching across the Anatolian peninsula in southwest Asia and the Balkan region of southeastern Europe. It is bordered by the Black Sea, the Marmara Sea, the Aegean Sea and Mediterranean Sea.
This means the climate and landscape in Turkey can vary vastly depending on your location. It is encircled by seas on three sides; the Aegean Sea to the west, the Black Sea to the north, the Mediterranean Sea to the south and also contains the Sea of Marmara in the northwest.
The Aegean and Mediterranean coasts have rainy conditions in winters but dry in summers. Annual precipitation in those areas varies from 580 to 1,300 mm. The Black Sea coast receives the greatest amount of rainfall and is the only region of Turkey that receives rainfall throughout the year.
The coastal areas of Turkey bordering the Black Sea have a temperate Oceanic climate with warm, wet summers and cool to cold, wet winters. The Turkish Black Sea coast receives the greatest amount of precipitation and is the only region of Turkey that receives high precipitation throughout the year.
Although Turkey is situated in a geographical location where climatic conditions are quite temperate, the diverse nature of the landscape, and the existence in particular of the mountains that run parallel to the coasts, result in significant differences in climatic conditions from one region to the other.
Straddling the continents of Europe and Asia, Turkey's strategically important location has given it major influence in the region-and control over the entrance to the Black Sea.
Because of Turkey's geographical conditions, one can not speak about a general overall climate. In Istanbul and around the sea of Marmara (Marmara region) the climate is moderate (winter 4 deg.C and summer 27 deg.C); in winter the temperature can drop below zero. In Western Anatolia (Aegean region) there is a mild Mediterranean climate with average temperatures of 9 deg.C in winter and 29 deg.C in summer.
Season and Climate in Turkey Turkey is a year-round destination depending on your itinerary. Although the tourist high season (with associated higher rates) is from mid-June through mid-September, Spring and Fall are the best seasons to travel. The sun is warm and skies are generally clear.