Signal Transduction Perception and conveyance of information from outside the cell to the nucleus or other sites within the cell, leading to a cellular response. Signal transduction pathways should NOT be thought of in the same terms as biochemical or metabolic pathways--they are very different. Signal transduction occurs in response to a signal and consists of a series of post-translational modifications that regulate the activity of proteins. The net result of this regulatory cascade is a change in cell activity. Lots of other responses are possible, including cell division, differentiation, or death. So the easiest way to think about signal transduction pathways is simply as a mechanism (cascade of posttranslational modifications) that regulates a cellular activity or activities in response to a signal.
Signal transduction occurs when an extracellular signaling molecule activates a specific receptor located on the cell surface or inside the cell. In turn, this receptor triggers a biochemical chain of events inside the cell, creating a response. Depending on the cell, the response alters the cell's metabolism, shape, gene expression, or ability to divide. The signal can be amplified at any step. Thus, one signaling molecule can cause many responses. This may occur independent of signal transduction stimulation by other molecules, as is the case for the toll-like receptor. It may occur with help from stimulatory molecules located at the cell surface of other cells, as with T-cell receptor signaling.
This can be achieved through a number of ways with the most common form being crosstalk between proteins of signalling cascades. In these signal transduction pathways, there are often shared components that can interact with either pathway. A more complex instance of crosstalk can be observed with transmembrane crosstalk between the extracellular matrix (ECM) and the cytoskeleton. 
Phosphate groups can be added to multiple sites in a single protein, and a single protein may in turn be the substrate for multiple kinases and phosphatases. At any one time, a cell is receiving and responding to numerous signals, and multiple signal transduction pathways are operating in its cytoplasm. Many points of intersection exist among these pathways. For instance, a single second messenger or protein kinase might play a role in more than one pathway. For example, cyclic AMP (cAMP) is a common second messenger involved in signal transduction cascades. (In fact, it was the first second messenger ever discovered.) cAMP is synthesized from ATP by the enzyme adenylyl cyclase, which resides in the cell membrane.
Activation of receptors can trigger the synthesis of small molecules called second messengers, which initiate and coordinate intracellular signaling pathways. For example, cyclic AMP (cAMP) is a common second messenger involved in signal transduction cascades. (In fact, it was the first second messenger ever discovered.) cAMP is synthesized from ATP by the enzyme adenylyl cyclase, which resides in the cell membrane.
Introduction to Signal-Transduction Pathways [edit]. Signal transduction is the chain of events that occurs when a cell converts a message to ultimately a physiological response. The message comes in the form of a particular molecule in the cell’s environment. Ligand Binding [edit]. Signal transduction is an important process since it occurs through the communication between difference domains and coupling of information. It is also important to know that ligand induced conformational changes are important to many aspects of protein function.
Signal transduction: A basic process in molecular cell biology involving the conversion of a signal from outside the cell to a functional change within the cell. A signal (such as a hormone or neurotransmitter) interacts with a receptor on the cell surface; this interaction causes a change in a second messenger (such calcium); and, eventually, a change is triggered in the cell's function (for example, the cell divides).
Signal transduction involves the binding of extracellular signaling molecules also called ligands to receptors that trigger events inside the cell. The combination of signaling molecule with a receptor causes a change in the conformation of the receptor, known as receptor activation. This may occur independent of signal transduction stimulation by other molecules, as is the case for the toll-like receptor. It may occur with help from stimulatory molecules located at the cell surface of other cells, as with T-cell receptor signaling.