Gebauer’s Ethyl Chloride®, is the long-time recognized and preferred instant topical anesthetic for pain control by healthcare practioners in medical practices including sports medicine, orthopedics and podiatry. Our products are evolving. Gebauer’s Ethyl Chloride ® is available in the ACCU-STREAM 360™ with Sure Lock Technology™. This innovative delivery system allows health care professionals to easily spray the treatment site from almost any angle-even upside down.
Gebauer’s Ethyl Chloride ® is available in several variations to provide medical professionals with a choice of delivery for instant patient comfort. 1  Fine Pinpoint Stream Spray Glass Bottle-P/N 0386-0001-04. 2  Medium Jetstream Spray Glass Bottle-P/N 0386-0001-03. 3  Accu-Stream ™ 360 Medium Stream Spray Can-P/N 0386-0001-11. Our products are evolving. Gebauer’s Ethyl Chloride ® is available in the ACCU-STREAM 360™ with Sure Lock Technology™. This innovative delivery system allows health care professionals to easily spray the treatment site from almost any angle-even upside down.
Gebauer's Pain Ease ® instant topical anesthetic skin refrigerant (vapocoolant) is FDA cleared to temporarily control the pain associated with needle procedures and minor surgical procedures such as immunizations, allergy injections, foreign body removal, suturing and suture removal, IV starts and blood draws. Gebauer’s Pain Ease® is available in several variations to provide medical professionals with a choice of delivery for instant patient comfort. 1  Pain Ease in Medium Stream P/N 0386-0008-03. 2  Pain Ease Medium Stream in Single Patient Package P/N 0386-0008-04.
Before using ethyl chloride, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history. This medication should be used only when clearly needed during pregnancy.
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. DIRECTIONS FOR USE: To apply Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride from the amber bottle, hold the bottle inverted while spraying. Open the dispenseal spring valve completely allowing the Ethyl Chloride to flow from the bottle. To apply Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride from the aerosol can, hold can upright over the treatment area and depress the valve completely allowing Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride to spray from the can.
Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride® instant topical anesthetic skin refrigerant (vapocoolant) is FDA cleared to temporarily control the pain associated with injections, starting IV's and venipuncture, minor surgical procedures and minor sports injuries. Our products are evolving. Gebauer’s Ethyl Chloride ® is available in the ACCU-STREAM 360™ with Sure Lock Technology™. This innovative delivery system allows health care professionals to easily spray the treatment site from almost any angle-even upside down.
Background We compared the efficacy, acceptability, and safety of a topical vapocoolant alkane spray and 1% plain s.c. lidocaine in reducing pain from i.v. cannulation. Methods This was a non-blinded, randomized, controlled trial, in a large emergency department. Adult patients requiring i.v. cannulation were enrolled. 
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Ethyl Chloride sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history. This medication should be used only when clearly needed during pregnancy.
Commonly used vapocoolants include ethyl chloride, fluorohydrocarbon, and alkane mixtures (butane, propane, and pentane). Alkane vapocoolant sprays are primarily used to provide rapid pain relief from acute muscular injuries. Main outcome measures Pain with cannulation and discomfort with spray, measured with a 100 mm visual analogue scale. Results. Conclusions Topical alkane vapocoolant spray is effective, acceptable, and safe in reducing pain with peripheral intravenous cannulation in adults in the emergency department.
Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride is a vapocoolant (skin refrigerant) intended for topical application to control pain associated with injections, starting IV's and venipuncture, minor surgical procedures (such as lancing boils or incision and drainage of small abscesses), and the temporary relief of minor sports injuries. To apply Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride from the aerosol can, hold can upright over the treatment area and depress the valve completely allowing Gebauer's Ethyl Chloride to spray from the can.