Most doctors recommend that you wait until the first day of your missed period before taking a home pregnancy test. A missed period is usually one of the first signs of pregnancy. This is usually around two weeks after conception. However, some tests are more sensitive than others and can be taken earlier. Concentrations of hCG are reported in milliInternational Units (mIU) or amounts equal to 1/1000th of an IU per milliliter.
1 When you use them – The amount of hCG in a pregnant woman’s urine increases with time. 2  So, the earlier after a missed period you take a HPT, the harder it is to spot the hCG. 3  If you wait one week after a missed period to test, you are more apt to have an accurate result. 1 So, home pregnancy tests will be accurate as soon as one day after a missed period for some women but not for others. 2  How you use them – Be sure to follow the directions and check the expiration date. 3  When you use them – The amount of hCG in a pregnant woman’s urine increases with time.
Pregnancy tests. If you think you may be pregnant, taking a pregnancy test as soon as the first day of your missed period can help you get the care and support you need. A home pregnancy test can tell whether you are pregnant with almost 99% accuracy, depending on how you use it. 1 When you use them. 2  The amount of hCG or pregnancy hormone in your urine increases with time. 3  The earlier you take the test, the harder it is for the test to detect the hCG. 4  Most home pregnancy tests can accurately detect pregnancy after a missed period.
Yes | No Thank you! I usually recommend at least 1 week after missed period to ensure you don't get a false postive or negative. Your Hcg levels should be high enough to read already so go ahead and get a couple of home pregnancy tests-if they are negative but still getting symptoms give it another week and test again. 
Most doctors recommend that you wait until the first day of your missed period before taking a urine pregnancy test. This is usually about two weeks after conception. However, some tests are more sensitive than others and can be taken earlier. It is recommended that you wait until you have missed a period to take a home test. A missed period is often one of the first signs of pregnancy. If you cannot wait that long to find out and you know the day you may have conceived, then the earliest you can take a test would be 14 days from possible
1 So, the earlier after a missed period you take the test, the harder it is to spot the hCG. 2  Many HPTs claim to be 99 percent accurate on the first day of your missed period. 3  But research suggests that most HPTs do not always detect the low levels of hCG usually present this early in pregnancy. But research suggests that most HPTs do not always spot pregnancy that early. And when they do, the results are often so faint they are misunderstood. If you can wait one week after your missed period, most HPTs will give you an accurate answer. Ask your doctor for a more sensitive test if you need to know earlier.
1 So, the earlier after a missed period you take a HPT, the harder it is to spot the hCG. 2  If you wait one week after a missed period to test, you are more apt to have an accurate result. 3  Also, testing your urine first thing in the morning may boost the accuracy. 1 So, home pregnancy tests will be accurate as soon as one day after a missed period for some women but not for others. 2  How you use them – Be sure to follow the directions and check the expiration date. 3  When you use them – The amount of hCG in a pregnant woman’s urine increases with time.
If you can wait one week after your missed period, most home pregnancy tests will give you an accurate answer. Ask your doctor for a more sensitive test if you need to know earlier. When a home pregnancy test will give an accurate result. 1 So, home pregnancy tests will be accurate as soon as one day after a missed period for some women but not for others. 2  How you use them – Be sure to follow the directions and check the expiration date. 3  When you use them – The amount of hCG in a pregnant woman’s urine increases with time.
If you can wait one week after your missed period, most home pregnancy tests will give you an accurate answer. Ask your doctor for a more sensitive test if you need to know earlier. Whether a home pregnancy test will give an accurate result depends on many things. So, the earlier after a missed period you take a HPT, the harder it is to spot the hCG. If you wait one week after a missed period to test, you are more apt to have an accurate result. Also, testing your urine first thing in the morning may boost the accuracy.