Full Definition of OPTIC. : of or relating to vision or the eye. See optic defined for English-language learners. See optic defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Learn More About OPTIC. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for optic. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of optic. Nglish: Translation of optic for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of optic for Arabic speakers.
Optic nerve. Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, the bundle of nerve fibers that transmits visual information from your eye to your brain. Pain and temporary vision loss are common symptoms of optic neuritis. 
Optics: : [op-tiks] - noun. A branch of physics that studies electromagnetic radiation (for example, light and infrared radiation), its interactions with matter, and instruments used to gather information due to these interactions. Optics includes the study of sight
Noun. 1. optic-the organ of sight. eye, oculus. sense organ, sensory receptor, receptor-an organ having nerve endings (in the skin or viscera or eye or ear or nose or mouth) that respond to stimulation. visual system-the sensory system for vision. Of or relating to the eye or vision. 2. Of or relating to the science of optics or optical equipment. n. 1. An eye. 2. Any of the lenses, prisms, or mirrors of an optical instrument.
Optics includes study of dispersion of light. Optics is the branch of physics which involves the behaviour and properties of light, including its interactions with matter and the construction of instruments that use or detect it. Physical optics is a more comprehensive model of light, which includes wave effects such as diffraction and interference that cannot be accounted for in geometric optics. Historically, the ray-based model of light was developed first, followed by the wave model of light.
Definition of OPTICS for Kids. : a science that deals with the nature and properties of light and the changes that it undergoes and produces. 1. : a science that deals with the genesis and propagation of light, the changes that it undergoes and produces, and other phenomena closely associated with it.
optic disk. the disk in the fundus of the eye marking the point at which the optic nerve enters; it is accompanied by blood vessels, is oval, light in color and the blind spot of the retina. optic nerve. the second cranial nerve; it is purely sensory and is concerned with carrying impulses for the sense of sight. The rods and cones of the retina are connected with the optic nerve which leaves the eye slightly to the nasal side of the center of the retina. optic nerve the second cranial nerve; it is purely sensory and is concerned with carrying impulses for the sense of sight (see vision). See anatomic Table of Nerves in the Appendices.
Medical Definition of OPTICS. 1. : a science that deals with the genesis and propagation of light, the changes that it undergoes and produces, and other phenomena closely associated with it. 2. : optical properties
Full Definition of OPTICS. : a science that deals with the genesis and propagation of light, the changes that it undergoes and produces, and other phenomena closely associated with it. ADVERTISEMENT. 1
Optic nerve: The optic nerve connects the eye to the brain. The optic nerve carries the impulses formed by the retina, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye and senses light and creates impulses. These impulses are dispatched through the optic nerve to the brain, which interprets them as images. Using an ophthalmoscope, the head of the optic nerve can be easily seen. Aside from the optic nerve, the eye has a number of other components. These include the cornea, iris, pupil, lens, retina, macula, and vitreous. The cornea is the clear front window of the eye that transmits and focuses light into the eye.