In this article. Fenugreek is a plant that's used as a seasoning in the Middle East, Egypt, and India. As a supplement, fenugreek seeds are used as a treatment for diabetes and high cholesterol. Some people take 10 to 15 grams (or more) of the seeds daily for diabetes. Fenugreek is available in teas marketed to women who are breastfeeding, although it's not clear that they have any benefit, One study did find it increased milk production in breastfeeding women. Ask your doctor for advice.
#14 Helps treat skin problems. Fenugreek or methi can be used in face packs to help prevent blackheads, pimples, wrinkles, etc. Washing your face with water boiled with fenugreek seeds or applying a paste of fresh fenugreek leaves for twenty minutes on your face can work wonders for your skin. One teaspoon of fenugreek seeds in your food can be an effective remedy for acid reflux or heartburn. Mucilage of fenugreek seeds coat the lining of the stomach and intestine and soothe irritated gastrointestinal tissues.
Read this in Hindi. Methi or fenugreek seeds and leaves form an important ingredient in Indian households. It is used in almost every Indian preparation be it dal, paratha or curry. But what you might not know is that methi or fenugreek is a rich reservoir of medicinal properties that imparts many health benefits. One teaspoon of fenugreek seeds in your food can be an effective remedy for acid reflux or heartburn. Mucilage of fenugreek seeds coat the lining of the stomach and intestine and soothe irritated gastrointestinal tissues.
Fenugreek (/ˈfɛnjʉɡriːk/ ; Trigonella foenum-graecum) is an annual plant in the family Fabaceae, with leaves consisting of three small obovate to oblong leaflets. It is cultivated worldwide as a semiarid crop, and its seeds are a common ingredient in dishes from the Indian subcontinent. Cuboid-shaped, yellow-to amber-colored fenugreek seeds are frequently encountered in the cuisines of the Indian Subcontinent, used both whole and powdered in the preparation of pickles, vegetable dishes, daal s, and spice mixes such as panch phoron and sambar powder.
Fenugreek seeds nutrition facts. Fenugreek seeds are tiny, bitter, dicotyledonous seeds of herb fenugreek. Toasted gently, they exhibit strongly aromatic and pungent flavor. Traditionally, fenugreeks have been found use to cure digestive problems and to improve breast milk secretion in the nursing mothers. Traditionally, fenugreek seeds are being used in a wide range of culinary recipes, especially in spice mix. The seeds either in the forms of whole seeds, sprouted, powder, sauce or as paste used in a variety of savory dishes in many parts of Middle-East, India, Mediterranean and Central Asian regions.
Fenugreek is used as an herb (dried or fresh leaves), spice (seeds), and vegetable (fresh leaves, sprouts, and microgreens). Sotolon is the chemical responsible for fenugreek's distinctive sweet smell. Cuboid-shaped, yellow-to amber-colored fenugreek seeds are frequently encountered in the cuisines of the Indian Subcontinent, used both whole and powdered in the preparation of pickles, vegetable dishes, daal s, and spice mixes such as panch phoron and sambar powder.
Fenugreek Seeds. Hindi Name: Methi Dana. Small brown seeds which have a pleasing flavor with a bitter undertone and a strong aroma reminiscent of curry powder. Fenugreek seeds are mostly used toasted, which enhances their acrid taste. Due to their powerful flavor, they are used in small amounts. The seeds are commonly used in roasted or sprouted form. Dry-roasted seeds have a slight nutty taste with a light brown color. They are used to impart pleasant flavor to vegetable and lentil dishes. Sprouted fenugreek seeds are also used in salads and sandwiches but they shouldn't be cooked or they will become mushy.
Fenugreek (also known as Greek Hay and Fenigreek), is an herb that is commonly found growing in the Mediterranean region of the world. While the seeds and leaves are primarily used as a culinary spice, it is also used to treat a variety of health problems in Egypt, Greece, Italy, and South Asia. Fenugreek seeds have been found to contain protein, vitamin C, niacin, potassium, and diosgenin (which is a compound that has properties similar to estrogen). Other active constituents in fenugreek are alkaloids, lysine and L-tryptophan, as well as steroidal saponins (diosgenin, yamogenin, tigogenin, and neotigogenin).