Insulin is a hormone produced by cells in the pancreas called beta cells. Insulin helps the body use blood glucose (a type of sugar) for energy. People with type 2 diabetes do not make enough insulin and/or their bodies do not respond well to it, leading to elevated blood sugar levels.
Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use.
If your pancreas does not produce enough insulin, or if your body's cells fail to respond to the insulin being produced (insulin resistance), then your blood will contain too much glucose (hyperglycaemia). This type of metabolic disorder is known as diabetes mellitus.
1 British English: insulin Insulin is a substance that most people produce naturally in their body and which controls the level of sugar in their blood. 2  If your body does not produce enough insulin, then it develops a disease called diabetes....cells that produce insulin.ˈɪnsjʊlɪn NOUN.
insulin. 1. a protein hormone formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets of Langerhans. The major fuel-regulating hormone, it is secreted into the blood in response to a rise in concentration of blood glucose or amino acids.
Insulin. A hormone secreted by the pancreas in response to high blood sugar levels that induces hypoglycemia. Insulin regulates the body's use of glucose and the levels of glucose in the blood by acting to open the cells so that they can intake glucose.
Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas that helps unlock the body's cells so that sugar (glucose) from the food we eat can be used by the cells for energy. In people with type 2 diabetes, a combination of problems occurs, and scientists aren't really sure which is the chicken and which is the egg.
Insulin is a hormone. Hormones are chemical substances that regulate the cells of the body and are produced by special glands. The hormone insulin is a main regulator of the glucose (sugar) levels in the blood. Insulin is produced in the pancreas.
: a protein pancreatic hormone secreted by the beta cells of the islets of Langerhans that is essential especially for the metabolism of carbohydrates and the regulation of glucose levels in the blood and that when insufficiently produced results in diabetes mellitus. See insulin defined for English-language learners.