Bradykinesia: Slow movement. Bradykinesia is often associated with an impaired ability to adjust the body's position. Bradykinesia can be a symptom of nervous system disorders, particularly Parkinson's disease, or a side effect of medications. 
Bradykinesia Definition. Bradykinesia is most often seen as a sign of Parkinson’s Disease, though there are other causes for it. The loss of motor control in sequential activities that once were typically fast and easy and now have become dreadfully slow is a form of bradykinesia. Bradykinesia starts within the central nervous system. The appropriate communication between the brain and the basal ganglia is inadequate to produce the desired movement. Essentially the basal ganglia is hyperactive and therefore unable to deliver the required messages to the muscles in a timely and typical fashion.
What is bradykinesia. Bradykinesia, one of the main symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD), refers to slowness of movement. A broader definition also encompasses the inability to move (so-called ‘akinesia’), where internally generated movements are no longer automatic, but increasingly require attention and concentration. 
Symptoms of Bradykinesia. Bradykinesia may be absent in the initial stages of Parkinson’s disease and develops gradually over time. There is slowness in initiating or repeating movements and difficulty with rapid fine movements, especially of the fingers. Management of Bradykinesia. 1  Levodopa is extremely effective in improving bradykinesia in Parkinson’s disease but it is advisable to delay initial treatment with levodopa until there is significant disability. 2  Amantadine has a mild, short-lived effect and may be used in the early stages.
Unlike tremor, bradykinesia is present in all cases of Parkinson's. While sometimes subtle, reduced arm swing, hesitation in initiating movement, micrographia, and reduced blink rate may be noticable and indicate the need for a focused motor exam. 
(1). Bradykinesia is a Greek term that means slow movement, and it is one of the constituents of Parkinson's disease (2) , although it is also associated with other diseases. For patients suffering from Parkinson's disease, it is usually the most tiring and frustrating of the associated conditions. Since the most obvious symptoms of bradykinesia can apply to other diseases, and there are several causes for the condition, it is important that all bases are checked, including a thorough family history, drug use, and any pre-existing conditions must be considered. MRI generally rules out stroke and tumor.
The following causes of Bradykinesia are diseases or conditions that affect more than 200,000 people, but less than 1 million people in the USA: The following causes of Bradykinesia are ones for which we do not have any prevalence information. 1  Acute Bokhoror-bradykinesia. 2  Acute VE-bradykinesia. 3  Acute Viliuisk Encephalitis-bradykinesia. 4  Acute Viliuisk Encephalomye
Bradykinesia Causes. Normally when a person has been diagnosed with Bradykinesia this usually means that they have been identified as having one of many different diseases with in which it is a symptom. The most common disease this symptom is associated with is Parkinson’s disease. Bradykinesia can also happen because of: 1  The use of anti-psychotic medications. 2  This is because when a patient is on this type of medication they are in a state of calm where their movements are considerably slowed. Basically when a person has Bradykinesia it has to do with the speed of the movement and Hypokinesia is having trouble initiating the movement. It is possible for a person to have both of these conditions/symptoms.
This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Bradykinesia, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 1  1 disease that is very common. 2  2 diseases that are common. 3  1 disease that is uncommon. The following causes of Bradykinesia are ones for which we do not have any prevalence information. 1  Acute Bokhoror-bradykinesia. 2  Acute VE-bradykinesia. 3  Acute Viliuisk Encephalitis-bradykinesia. 4  Acute Viliuisk Encephalomye
When a person has Bradykinesia they usually have a decrease in mobility and slow motion of all muscle movements. It is often confused with the medical condition/term called Hypokinesia, which means that a person has decreased bodily movement. Basically when a person has Bradykinesia it has to do with the speed of the movement and Hypokinesia is having trouble initiating the movement. It is possible for a person to have both of these conditions/symptoms.