Organic zinc salts, such as zinc orotate, were shown in experiments with mice to protect the liver from the lethality of a large dose of ethyl alcohol. The protective effect is thought to involve the neutralization of free radicals in the liver tissues injured by alcohol. Each molecule of zinc orotate consists of two molecules of orotic acid and one zinc atom — the zinc atom replaces a pair of hydrogen atoms (one from each orotic acid molecule). Zinc is an essential element required by all living things.
Zinc orotate is a mineral salt that is normally found in the body in small amounts. Each molecule of zinc orotate consists of two molecules of orotic acid and one zinc atom — the zinc atom replaces a pair of hydrogen atoms (one from each orotic acid molecule). Zinc is an essential element required by all living things. Every organ and tissue in the body contains and requires zinc
Zinc Orotate is a mineral salt found in the human body in trace amounts. Discovered by Dr. Hans Nieper, each molecule of zinc orotate is composed of two molecules of orotic acid and one zinc atom. 1 Zinc orotate may revitalize the state of injured heart tissue. 2  It also limits damage done to the heart when confronting interrupted blood flow. 3  Zinc orotate also acts to better HDL/LDL ratios of cholesterol and may even decrease the likelihood of plaque formation in arteries.
Research from Dr. Nieper has shown that zinc orotate, when compared to other forms of zinc, are more neutrally charged, a process that allows the zinc to pass seamlessly through the cell membrane. This allows the human body to receive the largest serving of zinc. 1 Zinc orotate may revitalize the state of injured heart tissue. 2  It also limits damage done to the heart when confronting interrupted blood flow. 3  Zinc orotate also acts to better HDL/LDL ratios of cholesterol and may even decrease the likelihood of plaque formation in arteries.
Ingredients: 1  Zinc (as zinc orotate). 2  Zinc is an essential element that plays a role in carbohydrate metabolism, immune system function, skin health, appetite, and cognitive function. 3  Orotate is a mineral carrier used purely as a means for transporting zinc to be utilized efficiently. Research from Dr. Nieper has shown that zinc orotate, when compared to other forms of zinc, are more neutrally charged, a process that allows the zinc to pass seamlessly through the cell membrane. This allows the human body to receive the largest doses of zinc.
60 mg 200 Tabs. Zinc Orotate from Advanced Research. 9.5 mg of elemental zinc per tablet. Made in the USA. Zinc Orotate is a highly bioavailable zinc supplement from Advanced Research and formulated by Hans Nieper, M.D. of Hannover, Germany. Made in the USA, this zinc supplement offers you another form to choose from to fit your specific health needs. 
But what few of us are aware of is the fact that many forms of zinc supplementation are not absorbed within the cellular membrane. Research shows that zinc orotate, which is essentially a chelated form of zinc, has the ability to enhance absorption through cellular membranes. 1 Zinc orotate may revitalize the state of injured heart tissue. 2  It also limits damage done to the heart when confronting interrupted blood flow. 3  Zinc orotate also acts to better HDL/LDL ratios of cholesterol and may even decrease the likelihood of plaque formation in arteries.
Zinc is a metal. It is called an “essential trace element” because very small amounts of zinc are necessary for human health. Zinc is used for treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency and its consequences, including stunted growth and acute diarrhea in children, and slow wound healing.
1 Zinc (as zinc orotate). 2  Zinc is an essential element that plays a role in carbohydrate metabolism, immune system function, skin health, appetite, and cognitive function. 3  Orotate is a mineral carrier used purely as a means for transporting zinc to be utilized efficiently. Research from Dr. Nieper has shown that zinc orotate, when compared to other forms of zinc, are more neutrally charged, a process that allows the zinc to pass seamlessly through the cell membrane. This allows the human body to receive the largest doses of zinc.
The Best Form Of Zinc On The Planet. Zinc orotate is a unique form of the mineral zinc that allows for greatly enhanced absorption. Discovered by Dr. Hans Nipper, a German physician with an integrated holistic approach, zinc orotate contains the mineral zinc bonded to orotic acid. Zinc orotate is highly effective at increasing the level of zinc in your body. Most forms of zinc are poorly absorbed at the cellular membrane level