A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Iron and folic acid supplements are not substitutes for a healthy diet. Try to eat foods naturally rich in these nutrients. Certain foods are natural sources of folic acid, including beef liver, leafy green vegetables, peas, broccoli, dried beans and citrus fruits and juices. 
Folic Acid, also known as folate or folacin, is a water-soluble B vitamin that is the synthesized form used in the fortification of foods and dietary supplements. Folate is the term used for naturally occurring food folate and folic acid. Folic acid is used by the body for cellular reproduction. 
Folic acid is found naturally in some foods, including leafy vegetables, citrus fruits, beans (legumes), and whole grains. Folic acid is added to foods that are labeled enriched, such as: 1  Breakfast cereals (Some have 100 percent of the Daily Value of folic acid in each serving). 2  Breads. 3  Flours. 4  Pastas. 5  Cornmeal. 
Included in these ranked sources of folate are foods from various food groups, including vegetables, fruits, and legumes. Given this wide variety of choices, we are confident about your ability to develop a whole foods meal plan that will provide you with plenty of folate. Luckily, most of the B complex vitamins are found in the same plant foods that are rich in folate, so a diet rich in one is often rich in the others. The most important exception to this rule is also the B vitamin whose role is most entwined with folate.
Folic acid is the form of folate found in fortified foods. Fortified foods are foods with added nutrients, usually vitamins and minerals. Folic acid also is the form of the vitamin found in dietary supplements. Check the Nutrition Facts panel on food labels to see which nutrients are listed. The word folate comes from the same Latin word as foliage or leaves. Some of the best food sources of folate are dark green leafy vegetables, like spinach, collards, and kale. Other foods high in folate are oranges and orange juice, legumes (dried beans and lentils), and peanuts. Fortified grain foods, like cereals and breads, contain the form of folate called folic acid. Figure 1. Kidney beans are one of many legumes, all of which contain folate
Many fruits contain folic acid, but citrus fruits rank the highest. Oranges are an especially rich source of folic acid. One orange holds about 50 mcg, and a large glass of juice may contain even more. Other folate-rich fruits include papaya, grapefruit, grapes, banana, cantaloupe and strawberries. Sunflower seeds, flax seeds and peanuts are especially high in folate, with one cup offering up to 300 mcg. Nuts are also very high in folic acid, with both peanuts and almonds ranking especially high. Below is a short list of the best seeds and nuts for
StockByte/ Veer. Folate, or, in its synthetic form, folic acid, is a B vitamin that has miraculous powers for a pre-pregnant woman. It helps prevent neural tube defects (NTD), serious abnormalities of the brain and spinal cord. 
Folate is found in whole foods and in your body, while folic acid is found in most vitamin supplements. Folic acid needs vitamin C, niacin, and vitamin B12 in order to be converted to its biologically active form. Interestingly, folic acid found in most vitamin supplements is more efficiently absorbed into your blood than folate. Because of this, the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine created a unit called the Dietary Folate Equivalent (DFE) . 1  1 microgram (mcg) of folate found in food provides 1 mcg of DFE.
Sources of Folate. Food. Folate is found naturally in a wide variety of foods, including vegetables (especially dark green leafy vegetables), fruits and fruit juices, nuts, beans, peas, dairy products, poultry and meat, eggs, seafood, and grains (Table 2) [ 3, 7 ]. Mean dietary intakes of folate (including food folate and folic acid from fortified foods) range from 454 to 652 mcg DFE per day in U.S. adults of various ages and from 385 to 674 mcg DFE in children aged 1 to 18 years [ 16, 17 ].