Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary Rock Examples. Common clastic sedimentary rocks are listed on the table below. They are listed by grain size in decending order. Grain size is one factor in classifying sedimentary rocks .Clicking on the name of the rock will bring up a larger picture and a description of the rock type in a new window. 
1 Characteristics of Gypsum Rock Gypsum is a common sedimentary rock. 2  It is very soft, one of the predominant traits of this rock family. 3  Due to its softness, it has little value as a building material. 4  Howe…. 5  The Definition of Residue in Chemistry Chemistry doesn't just involve experiments and unknown research. Clastic sedimentary rock forms when fragments of preexisting rocks are compacted or cemented together. Organic sedimentary rock forms from the remains of plants or animals. C … hemical sedimentary rock forms when minerals precipitate from a solution or settle from a suspension. + 41 others found this useful.
Nonclastic Sedimentary Rocks. Nonclastic sedimentary rocks form from chemical reactions, chiefly in the ocean. Nonclastic and clastic sedimentary rocks are the only members of the rock family that contain fossils as well as indicators of the climate that was present when the rock was formed. 
Clastic Rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks contain clasts. These are fragments or pieces of rock or minerals. The composition of clastic sedimentary rocks is divided into three types-clay/silt, sand and gravel. Clay and silt are less than 1/16 mm. These are not visible to the unaided eye. Sand is clasts between 1/16 and 2 mm in size, and gravel is greater than 2 mm. 
Sedimentary rocks make up only 5% (by volume) of the upper 10 miles of the crust, but about 75% of the outcrops on the continents. Two primary types of sedimentary rocks: 1  Chemical-precipitate from solution (e.g., limestone); most important constituents are calcite, dolomite, chalcedony (SiO2), gypsum, and halite. 2  Chemical sedimentary rocks can be further divided as to: 3  inorganic (e.g., limestone, rock salt, dolomite). 1 Detrital, or clastic-detritus, or fragments, of other rocks (e.g., sandstone); the most important constituents are quartz, calcite, clay minerals (from the weathering of feldspars), rock fragments, and feldspars.
The most common clastic sedimentary rocks are breccia and conglomerate (formed from gravel), sandstone (from sand), siltstone (from silt), and shale (from clay). B. CHEMICAL SEDIMENTARY ROCKS. Chemical sedimentary rocks are crystalline, that is made of crystals interlocked with each other. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
1 Chemical-precipitate from solution (e.g., limestone); most important constituents are calcite, dolomite, chalcedony (SiO2), gypsum, and halite. 2  Chemical sedimentary rocks can be further divided as to: 3  inorganic (e.g., limestone, rock salt, dolomite). 4  organic (e.g., limestone or coal). 1 Detrital, or clastic-detritus, or fragments, of other rocks (e.g., sandstone); the most important constituents are quartz, calcite, clay minerals (from the weathering of feldspars), rock fragments, and feldspars.