Forms of plague. Bubonic plague: Patients develop sudden onset of fever, headache, chills, and weakness and one or more swollen, tender and painful lymph nodes (called buboes). This form usually results from the bite of an infected flea. The bacteria multiply in the lymph node closest to where the bacteria entered the human body. Pneumonic plague is the most serious form of the disease and is the only form of plague that can be spread from person to person (by infectious droplets). Plague is a serious illness. If you are experiencing symptoms like those listed here, seek immediate medical attention.
Once infected, bubonic plague causes such symptoms as headaches, fever, and swollen, tender lymph glands. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague) . However, other animals can carry this bacteria, too, such as prairie dogs, lice, and chipmunks. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria.
Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting. Swollen and painful lymph nodes occur in the area closest to where the bacteria entered the skin. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
Plague is believed to be the cause of the Black Death that swept through Asia, Europe, and Africa in the 14th century and killed an estimated 50 million people. This was about 25% to 60% of the European population. Because the plague killed so many of the working population, wages rose due to the demand for labor. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
The bubonic plague causes are bacteria called Yersinia pestis. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague) . However, other animals can carry this bacteria, too, such as prairie dogs, lice, and chipmunks. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria.
The three types of plague are the result of the route of infection: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague. Bubonic plague is mainly spread by infected fleas from small animals. It may also result from exposure to the body fluids from a dead plague infected animal. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
The bacteria that are the causes of bubonic plague are typically transmitted through the bite of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Yersinia pestis bacteria on a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by an infected person can enter through an opening in your skin. Causes of Bubonic Plague: Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis bacteria are usually only found in certain parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia, and South America.
Overview. Plague is an infectious disease caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. These bacteria are found mainly in rodents, particularly rats, and in the fleas that feed on them. Other animals and humans usually contract the bacteria from rodent or flea bites. Historically, plague destroyed entire civilizations. Usually, you get bubonic plague from the bite of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Y. pestis bacteria, from a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by a person with plague, enter the body through an opening in the skin.
Causes of Bubonic Plague: An Overview. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. The causes of bubonic plague are bacteria called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague). Causes of Bubonic Plague: Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis bacteria are usually only found in certain parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia, and South America.