Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS). Ductal carcinoma in citu (DCIS) is a non-invasive cancer where abnormal cells have been found in the lining of the breast milk duct. The atypical cells have not spread outside of the ducts into the surrounding breast tissue. 
Breast cancer types: What your type means. Not all breast cancers are the same. Understand what type of breast cancer you have and how it differs from other types of breast cancer. 
A form of cancer, carcinoma makes up the majority of the cases of malignancy of the mammary gland, uterus, intestinal tract, skin and tongue. acinic cell carcinoma. locally invasive salivary gland tumors of dogs, and rarely other species, composed of glandular epithelium in an acinar pattern. basal cell carcinoma (BCC) A slow growing tumour derived from the basal cells of the epidermis of the skin. It is mainly located on the head and neck and most commonly on the eyelids, especially the lower eyelid. Old people who have had extensive sun exposure are primarily affected
Answer: Carcinoma is a really broad term to mean a cancer that starts in an epithelial cell, in one of the cells that line our body -- in the skin, you can have carcinoma of the brain, you can have carcinoma of the colon, so it's not defined just as breast. 
1 Type of tissue from which the cancer evolved, including carcinomas and sarcomas. 2  Carcinoma is a cancer that begins in the skin or in tissues that line or cover internal organs. 3  Sarcoma is a cancer of the bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. 
Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Hypernyms (carcinoma is a kind of...): cancer; malignant neoplastic disease (any malignant growth or tumor caused by abnormal and uncontrolled cell division; it may spread to other parts of the body through the lymphatic system or the blood stream). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of carcinoma): The noun CARCINOMA has 1 sense: 1. any malignant tumor derived from epithelial tissue; one of the four major types of cancer. Familiarity information: CARCINOMA used as a noun is very rare.
Carcinoma: Cancer that begins in the skin or in tissues that line or cover body organs. Examples are carcinoma of the breast, colon, liver, lung, pancreas, prostate, or stomach. 
basal cell carcinoma the most common form of skin cancer, consisting of an epithelial tumor of the skin originating from neoplastic differentiation of basal cells, rarely metastatic but locally invasive and aggressive. basal cell carcinoma (BCC) A slow growing tumour derived from the basal cells of the epidermis of the skin. It is mainly located on the head and neck and most commonly on the eyelids, especially the lower eyelid. Old people who have had extensive sun exposure are primarily affected
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Squamous cell carcinoma is a type of skin cancer that can affect any area of your body. When present on the penis, it is called penile cancer. Squamous cells are skin cells below the outer layer of skin (epidermis). 