Submerge the meat in the brine and refrigerate. 1  If you can't fit the container in the refrigerator, place ice cubes in the brine as needed to keep the water cold. 2  Put the ice in a sealable plastic bag and place the bag in the brine if you are brining a thick piece of meat or a turkey in a large amount of brine liquid. 1. Make a flavored brine with garlic powder and ground black pepper or other seasonings. 1  Add 1 cup (227 grams) of salt, 1 cup of white sugar, 4 tablespoons (60 grams) of garlic powder and 3 tablespoons (45 grams) of ground black pepper to 1/2 gallon (1.89 liters) of hot water. 2  Stir until salt and sugar dissolve.
Ad. When used as a marinade, brine serves several functions. The first is as a tenderizer, because the salt begins to break down the cellular structure of meats. It also infuses the meat with water, since the high salinity forces the liquid into the cells of the meat. Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Brine is a solution of salt and liquid with an extremely high salinity content. It has been used historically in food production as a preservative, since salt inhibits the growth of bacteria.
Brine is a solution of salt (usually sodium chloride) in water. In different contexts, brine may refer to salt solutions ranging from about 3.5% (a typical concentration of seawater, or the lower end of solutions used for brining foods) up to about 26% (a typical saturated solution, depending on temperature). At 100 °C (373.15 K, 212 °F), saturated sodium chloride brine is about 28% salt by weight i.e. 39.12 g salt dissolves in 100 mL of water at 100 °C. At 0 °C (273.15 K, 32 °F), brine can only hold about 26% salt. The thermal conductivity of seawater (3.5% dissolved salt by weight) is 0.6 W/mK at 25 °C.
Brining is a food preparation technique that involves soaking meat in a salt and water solution before cooking it, usually as a way to improve the meat’s tenderness and flavor. There are many different ways to brine meat, and a number of different recipes and techniques that promise good results. 
Brining comes from the root word brine meaning salt. Basically when you put salt into a bucket of water and add a piece of meat…we'll say a turkey for instance, a scientific process called osmosis begins to take effect. 
Brining is a process similar to marination in which meat or poultry is soaked in brine before cooking. Salt is added to cold water in a container, where the meat is soaked anywhere from 30 minutes to a few days. The amount of time needed to brine depends on the size of the meat. More time is needed for a large turkey compared to a broiler fryer chicken. Similarly with a large roast versus a thin cut of meat.
Brine is a solution of salt and water. It is mainly used as a preservative for vegetables, fish, fruit, and meat through a process known as brining. The high salt content in Brine prevents the growth of bacteria and thus helps to preserve the food for a long time without creating any difference in taste. 
Submerge the meat in brine. 5. Store it in a refrigerator or other cooler space. Cuts of pork, wild game, and larger poultry, such as turkey, can be brined anywhere from 4-12 hours; smaller cuts and birds should be brined for 30 minutes to 2 hours. 
brine. 1. water saturated or strongly impregnated with salt. 2. a salt and water solution for pickling. 3. the sea or ocean. 4. the water of the sea. 5. any saline solution. 6. to treat with or steep in brine. [before 1000; Middle English; Old English brȳne; c. Middle Dutch brīne ]. brine′less, adj. 