Most of the tea produced in China is consumed in China, although tea is also an important export good for China. A myriad of styles of tea originated in China, which produces and consumes black, green, white, oolong, and pu-erh teas, as well as the less well-known yellow teas. Tea tends to be produced mostly in the provinces towards the south and east of China, where the climate is humid and ranges from tropical to subtropical, although teas are grown commercially as far west as Sichuan and Yunnan provinces, and as far north as Shandong province.
Where tea is grown is a matter of nature and trade. China, from where the native tea plant grows in the wild. The most celebrated tea growing area in China is the ‘golden triangle’ formed by the mountains of Huang Shan, Mogan Shan, Qi Shan and Tian mu Shan. Anhui province is famous for its black Keemun known by some as the ‘Burgundy of teas’. These teas were England’s favourite in the 1800s. 
Mass-produced tea is grown on large plantations in more than 30 countries, but the four biggest producers are China, India, Kenya and Sri Lanka. Most tea is picked by hand for better quality -- machines tend to be too rough and end up damaging too many leaves. All tea begins as the plant known as Camellia sinensis. It's the way the tea leaves are processed that gives us the different teas and their specific taste, color and scent. Tea is similar to wine in that the atmosphere in which it's grown determines much of the flavor and quality.
Tea is mostly grown in countries in South and Southeast Asia including China, India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and the like, and also in Africa, such as Kenya, Malawi, and Tanzania, and in South America in Argentina and nearby countries. It is grown in Turkey and Iran (the humid, mild, coastal areas) as well. Globally, tea producing regions include China, India, Japan, and Taiwan and countries in Africa including Kenya, Tanzania, and Malawi. Tea tends to do well in tropical regions at high altitudes. In more temperate zones, it must be grown at low
Chinese tea is a beverage made from the leaves of tea plants (Camellia sinensis) and boiled water. Lu'an tea is still produced in China, Anhui Province, China. The Lu'an tea from the Bat Cave of Jinzhai County is considered of superior quality, as thousand of bats in the cave can provide an ideal fertilizer for the tea plants.
In the U.S., the gulf coast, coastal Southeast, and parts of the pacific Northwest are suitable, but not necessarily ideal, for growing tea. Globally, tea producing regions include China, India, Japan, and Taiwan and countries in Africa including Kenya, Tanzania, and Malawi. Tea tends to do well in tropical regions at high altitudes. In more temperate zones, it must be grown at low altitudes.
China. For centuries China was the world's only tea-exporting country. Beginning in the 19th century, however, stiff competition arose as India and Ceylon began to grow tea. Today China remains one of the largest suppliers of quality teas. Green teas represent 75% to 80% of China's current consumption. The rest of the production of green teas, and all of the black teas, are exported.
Harvesting tea in China. Wild tea bushes grew in southern China, where people first began in the Stone Age to make tea by drying tea leaves and then steeping them in hot water. By about 2000 BC, even before they were farming wheat, people in southern China were growing tea bushes on farms. When European travelers first began coming to China in the 1600s AD, Chinese people offered them tea to drink. The English word tea comes from the Chinese word te for tea. These Europeans took lots of tea back to Europe, where tea became very popular. But tea bushes won't grow well in Europe's wet, cold climate.
Green tea is the most popular form of tea in China. Chinese green teas are made from over 600 different cultivars of the Camellia sinensis plant, giving plenty of variety and regional teas. Chinese green teas are traditionally pan-fired, unlike the Japanese steaming process. Green tea originated in China, but has become known for many countries in East Asia. Several varieties of green tea exist, which differ substantially due to growing conditions, horticulture, production processing, and time of harvest.
sinensis is probably native to western Yunnan, while C. sinensis var. assamica is native to the warmer parts of Assam (India), Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and southern China. 'Wild' tea plants can be found growing in forests, but these may be relics of past cultivation. 