adjective. 1  without reference to any individual person; objective ⇒ an impersonal assessment. 2  devoid of human warmth or sympathy; cold ⇒ an impersonal manner. 3  not having human characteristics ⇒ an impersonal God. ( 4 grammar) (of a verb) having no logical subject. ( 5 grammar) (of a pronoun) not denoting a person. 1 without reference to any individual person; objective ⇒ an impersonal assessment. 2  devoid of human warmth or sympathy; cold ⇒ an impersonal manner. 3  not having human characteristics ⇒ an impersonal God. ( 4 grammar) (of a verb) having no logical subject.
3 Grammar (Of a verb) used only with a formal subject (in English usually it) and expressing an action not attributable to a definite subject (as in it is snowing). More example sentences. 1  But online stores are cold, impersonal places devoid of any sense of human contact, where every book is merely an itemised commodity. 2  At the time, however, my dad deplored the feeling that he was becoming just another number in an impersonal organization, a cog in the machine.
Definition. A type of communication or interaction that is based specifically on social roles, such as communication between a sales representative and a potential customer. The manner of communication is informal and superficial, covering topics necessary to instigate a sale or similar transaction. 
1. without reference to any individual person; objective: an impersonal assessment. 2. devoid of human warmth or sympathy; cold: an impersonal manner. 3. not having human characteristics: an impersonal God. 4. (Grammar) grammar (of a verb) having no logical subject. (of a verb) having only third person singular forms and used without an expressed subject, as Latin pluit “it is raining,” or accompanied by an empty subject word, as the verb rain in It is raining. b. (of a pronoun) indefinite, as French on “one.”. im•per′son•al•ly, adv.
A personal god is a deity who can be related to as a person instead of as an impersonal force, such as the Absolute,  the All , or the Ground of Being. In the Pentateuch, for example, God talks with and instructs his prophets and is conceived as possessing volition, emotions (such as anger, grief and happiness), intention, and other attributes characteristic of a human person.
Full Definition of IMPERSONAL. 1. a: denoting the verbal action of an unspecified agent and hence used with no expressed subject (as methinks) or with a merely formal subject (as rained in it rained) b of a pronoun: indefinite. 2
Quote. » more... For a woman as for a man, marriage might enormously help or devastatingly hinder the growth of her power to contribute something impersonally valuable to the community in which she lived, but it was not that power, and could not be regarded as an end in itself. 
He had accepted her impersonally along with the office furnishing, the office boy, Morrison, the chief, confidential, and only clerk, and all the rest of the accessories of a superman's gambling place of business. The man winced a little at the tone of her voice; but his own voice was still impersonally cool when he spoke again. Pollyanna by Porter, Eleanor H. View in context. Because I think you speak the truth, she said, searching him for proof of this apparently, with eyes now almost impersonally direct.
im·per·son·al. adj. 1. Lacking personality; not being a person: an impersonal force. 2. a. Showing no emotion or personality: an aloof, impersonal manner. b. Having no personal reference or connection: an impersonal remark. c. Not responsive to or expressive of human personalities: a large, impersonal corporation. (of a verb) having only third person singular forms and used without an expressed subject, as Latin pluit “it is raining,” or accompanied by an empty subject word, as the verb rain in It is raining. b. (of a pronoun) indefinite, as French on “one.”. im•per′son•al•ly, adv.