Cervical dilation (or cervical dilatation) is the opening of the cervix, the entrance to the uterus, during childbirth, miscarriage, induced abortion, or gynecological surgery. Cervical dilation may occur naturally, or may be induced by surgical or medical means.
Dilation. The word dilation, in terms of human physiology, means to 'relax, open, or widen.' This is usually used in structures where materials are allowed to pass. Dilation is an autonomic process, which means you cannot consciously control it. But when it is time for birth, the smooth muscle of the cervix relaxes, causing the cervix to dilate, or open wider. In this example, dilation is used by the smooth muscle of the cervix to allow the passage of a newborn child from the uterus to the birth canal.
1. the act of dilating or stretching. 2. dilatation. 3. an increase in the diameter of a circular structure, such as the pupil. dilation and curettage D and C; expanding of the ostium uteri to permit scraping of the walls of the uterus.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. An eye with a dilated pupil. An eye with a dilated pupil. To dilate is defined as to expand and become wider. An example of dilate is when your eyes become wide with excitement. 
Examples of DILATE. 1  The drug causes the blood vessels to dilate. 2  During labor, a woman's cervix will dilate to about 10 centimeters. 3  The drug dilates the blood vessels. 1 The drug causes the blood vessels to dilate. 2  During labor, a woman's cervix will dilate to about 10 centimeters. 3  The drug dilates the blood vessels.
1 When the scale factor of a dilation is greater than 1, the dilation is an enlargement. 2  When the scale factor of a dilation is less than 1, the dilation is a reduction. More About Dilation. 1  When the scale factor of a dilation is greater than 1, the dilation is an enlargement. 2  When the scale factor of a dilation is less than 1, the dilation is a reduction.
Full Definition of DILATE. transitive verb. 1. archaic: to describe or set forth at length or in detail. 2. : to enlarge or expand in bulk or extent: distend, widen. intransitive verb. 1. : to comment at length: discourse —usually used with on or upon. 1 The drug causes the blood vessels to dilate. 2  During labor, a woman's cervix will dilate to about 10 centimeters. 3  The drug dilates the blood vessels.
Instructor: John Williams. Dilation is a key factor in regulating body processes. In this lesson, you will learn the definition of dilation, the purpose of it, and examples of its use in the body. But when it is time for birth, the smooth muscle of the cervix relaxes, causing the cervix to dilate, or open wider. In this example, dilation is used by the smooth muscle of the cervix to allow the passage of a newborn child from the uterus to the birth canal.