Glucose (sugar) + Oxygen → Carbon dioxide + Water + Energy (as ATP). Cellular respiration is what cells do to break up sugars into a form that the cell can use as energy. This happens in all forms of life. Cellular respiration takes in food and uses it to create ATP, a chemical which the cell uses for energy. Regular cellular respiration is aerobic (requires oxygen), but some simple organisms can only do anaerobic cellular respiration.
OK the reactants of cellular respiration is obviously C6H12O6 which is glucose and O2. The product of cellular respiration is fairly simple as well, carbon dioxide, water, and … ATP. hope that answers your question.  . The starting reactants in cellular respiration are glucose and  oxygen. The equation for cellular respiration is C6H12O6 + O2 = CO2  + H2O + usable energy. Edit.
The reactants of aerobic respiration are oxygen (O2) and glucose. The products of aerobic respiration are carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O) and energy, in the form of 36 ATP m … olecules. + 81 others found this useful. Flor Soria. The starting reactants in cellular respiration are glucose and  oxygen. The equation for cellular respiration is C6H12O6 + O2 = CO2  + H2O + usable energy. Edit.
The reactants in the equation for cellular respiration are oxygen (O2) and glucose (C6H12O6). The main reactants of cellular respiration are: glucose(C6 H12 O6), water(6H2 O) and oxygen(6O2). The products of cellular respiration are: carbon dioxide (6C O2), water(12H2 … O) and Energy (36 ATP).
OK the reactants of cellular respiration is obviously C6H12O6 which is glucose and O2. The product of cellular respiration is fairly simple as well, carbon dioxide, water, and … ATP. hope that answers your question.  . 2 people found this useful. The main reactants of cellular respiration are: glucose(C6 H12 O6), water(6H2 O) and oxygen(6O2). The products of cellular respiration are: carbon dioxide (6C O2), water(12H2 … O) and Energy (36 ATP).
What are the reactants in the equation for cellular respiration?a. oxygen and lactic acid b. carbon dioxide and water c. glucose and oxygen d. water and glucose____ 14. Which of these is a product of cellular respiration?a. oxygen b. water c. glucose d. all of the above____ 15. 
The starting reactants in cellular respiration are glucose and  oxygen. The equation for cellular respiration is C6H12O6 + O2 = CO2  + H2O + usable energy. The main reactants of cellular respiration are: glucose(C6 H12 O6), water(6H2 O) and oxygen(6O2). The products of cellular respiration are: carbon dioxide (6C O2), water(12H2 … O) and Energy (36 ATP).
Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved. In glycolysis, the 6-carbon sugar, glucose, is broken down into two molecules of a 3-carbon molecule called pyruvate.