GFR-glomerular filtration rate is the best test to measure your level of kidney function and determine your stage of kidney disease. Your doctor can calculate it from the results of your blood creatinine test, your age, body size and gender.
High and Low EGFR Blood Test Range. An eGFR blood test that ranges between 60 and 90 indicates healthy kidney function. However, if the eGFR blood test range is below 60, it reveals the possibility of a kidney disease. In fact, if your report shows a low eGFR blood test in the range of 60 to 20, you should seek medical help immediately for kidney malfunction or kidney disorders.
The eGFR can be determined, with no extra testing, at the same time that a blood sample is sent for a creatinine measurement. The National Kidney Foundation has recommended that it be calculated automatically every time a creatinine test is done.
Talk to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results. Levels below 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 for 3 or more months are a sign of chronic kidney disease. GFR result lower than 15 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is a sign of kidney failure and requires immediate medical attention.
GFR over 90mls/min/1.73m 2 is normal unless there is other evidence of kidney disease, in which case CKD is stage 1. Other evidence of kidney disease may include:
Although the level of creatinine in the blood is a useful guide to kidney function, the eGFR is a more accurate measure. Blood creatinine can be used to estimate the eGFR using age, sex and race. This is often calculated by computer and reported with the creatinine blood test. The normal value for eGFR is 90-120 ml/min.
1 Stage one (sometimes called G1): the eGFR is normal (above 90 or more), but other testing shows evidence of kidney damage. 2  Stage two (G2): the eGFR has decreased slightly (60–89), but is still considered to be in the normal range for a young adult.
The level of creatinine in the blood is a useful guide to kidney function, but GFR (glomerular filtration rate) is a more accurate measure. Blood creatinine can be used to estimate GFR (eGFR) using age, sex, and race, and this is often calculated by computer and reported along with the creatinine blood test.