Of five Guinness-owned breweries worldwide, three are in African nations. Nigeria, home to one of those five breweries, is the world’s second-largest market for Guinness consumption. Great Britain is first, Ireland comes third, Cameroon fourth, and we in the U.S. stand in measly fifth place. 3. Trivial pursuit Hold up. Here are 11 things about Guinness that will probably make you say, Hmm, I didn't know that! Before it became the signature beverage of drunken parades and fraternity parties everywhere, Guinness was a community-minded company championing human rights causes and saving Irish architectural landmarks.
The draught beer 's thick, creamy head comes from mixing the beer with nitrogen when poured. It is popular with the Irish both in Ireland and abroad, and, in spite of a decline in consumption since 2001, is still the best-selling alcoholic drink in Ireland where Guinness & Co. makes almost €2 billion annually. The Guinness Storehouse is a popular tourist attraction at St. James's Gate Brewery in Dublin, where a self-guided tour includes an account of the ingredients used to make the stout and a description of how it is made.
1 Guinness Red, brewed in exactly the same way as Guinness except that the barley is only lightly roasted so that it produces a lighter, slightly fruitier red ale; test-marketed in Britain in February 2007: 4.1% abv. 2  250 Anniversary Stout, released in the US, Australia and Singapore on 24 April 2009: 5% abv. The brewery also made all of its own power using its own power plant. There is an attached exhibition on the 250-year-old history of Guinness, called the Guinness Storehouse.
Guinness (/ˈɡɪnɨs/) is an Irish dry stout that originated in the brewery of Arthur Guinness (1725–1803) at St. James's Gate, Dublin. Guinness is one of the most successful beer brands worldwide. It is brewed in almost 60 countries and is available in over 120. The Guinness Storehouse is a popular tourist attraction at St. James's Gate Brewery in Dublin, where a self-guided tour includes an account of the ingredients used to make the stout and a description of how it is made.
It became the largest brewery in Ireland in 1838, and the largest in the world by 1886, with an annual output of 1.2 million barrels. Although no longer the largest brewery in the world, it is still the largest brewer of stout in the world. The brewery also made all of its own power using its own power plant. There is an attached exhibition on the 250-year-old history of Guinness, called the Guinness Storehouse.
1 Guinness Red, brewed in exactly the same way as Guinness except that the barley is only lightly roasted so that it produces a lighter, slightly fruitier red ale; test-marketed in Britain in February 2007: 4.1% ABV. 2  250 Anniversary Stout, released in the U.S., Australia and Singapore on 24 April 2009; 5% ABV. The Guinness Storehouse is a popular tourist attraction at St. James's Gate Brewery in Dublin, where a self-guided tour includes an account of the ingredients used to make the stout and a description of how it is made.
In Diageo’s last full financial year, to June 30, net sales of Guinness dropped 5pc, not helped by poor economic conditions in Nigeria, its second-biggest market after Britain and the location for Guinness’s first brewery outside Ireland and the UK, built in 1963. Diageo is breathing new life into the Guinness brand with two new variants in the UK, Dublin Porter and West Indies Porter, which it hopes will quench the thirst of craft beer enthusiasts, who have been driving a small, but encouraging recovery in beer sales.
But at the Guinness brewery in Dublin all the talk was about how Diageo is investing in the future of the “black stuff”. Enda Kenny, the Irish prime minister, and Ivan Menezes, Diageo’s chief executive, opened the fourth “brewhouse”, or brewery, at the St James’s Gate site. Diageo is breathing new life into the Guinness brand with two new variants in the UK, Dublin Porter and West Indies Porter, which it hopes will quench the thirst of craft beer enthusiasts, who have been driving a small, but encouraging recovery in beer sales.
Finally, they note that Guinness is served in 100 countries and brewed in 50, often using local ingredients, including the water. Therefore, one could argue that Guinness brewed outside Dublin can never taste the same as the home brew. The samplers confess that none of the four is a professional tester. They then set out, testing Guinness at random bars in random countries for the next year, totaling 103 tastings in 14 countries (42 tastings in Ireland; 61 outside of Ireland). The testing protocols were rigorous.