The corpus striatum, a macrostructure which contains the striatum, is composed of the entire striatum and the globus pallidus. The lenticular nucleus refers to the putamen together with the globus pallidus. The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  Cholinergic interneurons release acetylcholine, which has a variety of important effects in the striatum. 3  There are many types of GABAergic interneurons.
The striatum, also known as the neostriatum or striate nucleus, is a subcortical part of the forebrain and a critical component of the reward system. It receives glutamatergic and dopaminergic inputs from different sources and serves as the primary input to the basal ganglia system. The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  Cholinergic interneurons release acetylcholine, which has a variety of important effects in the striatum. 3  There are many types of GABAergic interneurons.
The striatum is a subcortical part of the brain consisting of the caudate nucleus and the putamen. It is part of the basal ganglia. The striatum is best known for its role in the planning and modulation of movement pathways but is also involved in a variety of other cognitive processes involving executive function. 
dorsal striatum. those portions of the caudate nucleus and especially the putamen located generally superior to a plane representing the anterior commissure; also called the dorsal basal ganglia; may function in motor activities with cognitive origins. Synonym(s): striatum dorsale [TA]. (stri-a'tum) [L., grooved]. 
Striatum: Part of the basal ganglia of the brain. The basal ganglia are interconnected masses of gray matter located in the interior regions of the cerebral hemispheres and in the upper part of the brainstem. The striatum is also called the striate body. It includes the caudate nucleus and the lentiform nucleus.
The striatum of the brain, also called the striate nucleus or striate body, is involved in a number of different cognitive processes. This portion of the brain is called the striatum because its structural organization is such that it appears to be striped with layers of gray and white matter. The striate nucleus is part of the cerebrum of the brain, which is also called the forebrain due to its frontal location. The striatum comprises three separate structures: the caudate nucleus; the putamen; and the fundus, which links the caudate nucleus and putamen together.
The ventral striatum is a portion of the striatum which functions as part of the reward system. It consists of the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. In non-primate species, the islands of Calleja are included. 
The dorsal striatum is the part of the brain thought to play an important part in making decisions, motivation, and rewards. It is made up of two subregions, the the lentiform nucleus and the caudate nucleus, and is part of the basal ganglia. In some texts, the dorsal striatum is called the striated body or the corpus striatum, and some experts use the term to define the combination of the internal capsule and the basal ganglia.