The cardiothoracic surgeon salary: A cardiothoracic surgeon’s salary in private practice is up to $500,000 or more per year depending on how much you choose to work, of course. Cardiothoracic surgery is not for the faint-of-heart. Long years of training, long hours of working, studying, and long hours of surgery requiring intense focus both during residency as well as during your years of practicing as a cardiothoracic surgeon. Cardiothoracic surgeon salary = $500,000+ per year.
Education Requirements. The educational process to become a cardiac surgeon is one of the longest in the medical field. Cardiac surgeons must complete four years of college, four years of medical school, a 5-year general surgery residency and a 2-3 year specialized cardio or cardiothoracic fellowship. Surgeons who wish to specialize further in pediatric cardiology or heart transplant surgeries may require additional training
A Cardiothoracic surgeon will make $562,688 a year. Every other day expect to be doing surgery. at least 2-3 days a week its all you'll be doing. For the other 2 or 3 days you'll usually be treating patients in the clinic. You need two traits to be any type of surgeon, patient and caring, because anyone can learn the rest of it. Some high school courses you may need is biology, anatomy, physics, science/health sort of stuff. Hope this helped
Physicians and surgeons have demanding education and training requirements. Almost all physicians complete at least 4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and, depending on their specialty, 3 to 8 years in internship and residency programs. 
What is a typical day like for a surgeon? They get up early in the morning. At 6am they're on rounds at the  hospital, after breakfast they go to their office to see new, and  post op patients, after lunch second ro … unds at the hospital(s) go  back to the clinic, go back for a third round at the hospital(s).  Evaluation of patients for surgery tomorrow
Average Work Week and Work Load for Surgeons: Surgeons typically work four and a half to five days a week on a regular basis, plus any time being on-call for emergencies or urgent situations. Like most physician jobs, being a surgeon is more than a forty-hour per week job. Most surgeons work 50-60 hours weekly, including on-call time, administrative duties, and other responsibilities. Usually surgeons will have about 3 days blocked off for surgery and 2 days devoted to office hours for follow-up appointments or pre-operative consult
A typical day of a pediatric surgeon would be morning rounds from 5:30- 6:30 AM then 7AM-2:30 PM in the OR then office 3PM – 5PM (reverse if not operating early + conferences/ER) home around evening rounds 5:30 to 6:30 PM or later. 
A Cardiothoracic surgeon in the U.S. is a physician (D.O. or M.D.) who first completes a general surgery residency (typically 5–7 years), followed by a cardiothoracic surgery fellowship (typically 2–3 years). In the UK, you have to train for an MBBS, typically for 5 years, and if you're doing a BSc as well, 6 years usually. After you apply for a specialty place, or core surgical training (which is less competitive than going straight into the speciality).
After school, the future surgeon attends a surgical residency program which is typically 5 years. There are several different types of residencies including general surgery, orthopaedic surgery (bones, joints, tendons), neurosurgery (brain, spinal cord) and more. Like most physician jobs, being a surgeon is more than a forty-hour per week job. Most surgeons work 50-60 hours weekly, including on-call time, administrative duties, and other responsibilities.