NBCConnecticut.com. Mystic Pizza in Mystic, Connecticut. The owner of Mystic Pizza, the restaurant made famous by the 1988 movie of the same name, faces a year in federal prison for hiding more than $1 million from the government between 2006 and 2011.
Mystic Pizza owner John Zelepos, 48, of North Stonington, pleaded guilty Tuesday, March 31, to tax evasion and financial structuring offenses, according to a press release from Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut.
The owner of Mystic Pizza, the eatery made famous by actress Julia Roberts in the 1988 coming-of-age film of the same name, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison Monday in federal court for trying to evade taxes and concealing hundreds of thousands of dollars in income.
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. — The owner of the Mystic Pizza restaurant made famous in a 1988 movie has pleaded guilty to federal tax charges. The US Attorney’s Office says 48-year-old John Zelepos of North Stonington faces up to 15 years in prison after pleading guilty Tuesday to tax evasion and financial structuring offenses.
1 The U.S. Attorney's Office says Mystic Pizza's 48-year-old owner John Zelepos faces up to 15 years in prison. 2  He has pleaded guilty to tax evasion and financial structuring offenses. 3  Prosecutors between 2006 and 2010, Zelepos diverted just over $567,000 from Mystic Pizza's gross receipts.
John Zelepos, owner of the restaurant that inspired the “Mystic Pizza” movie starring Julia Roberts, was sentenced to 12 months in jail.
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. (AP) — The owner of the Mystic Pizza restaurant, made famous in a 1988 film, has been sentenced to one year in prison for tax evasion and concealing hundreds of thousands of dollars in income.
(AP). The owner of the Mystic Pizza restaurant made famous in a 1988 film has been sentenced to one year in prison for tax evasion and concealing hundreds of thousands of dollars in income.
comments. The owner of the Mystic Pizza restaurant made famous in a 1988 movie has pleaded guilty to federal tax charges. The U.S. Attorney's Office says 48-year-old John Zelepos of North Stonington faces up to 15 years in prison after pleading guilty Tuesday to tax evasion and financial structuring offenses.