NONI Overview Information. Noni is a small evergreen tree in the Pacific Islands, Southeast Asia, Australia, and India that often grows among lava flows. Historically, noni was used to make a red or yellow dye for clothing. It was also used as medicine, usually applied to the skin. Today, noni fruit, leaves, flowers, stems, bark, and roots are still used to make medicine for a long list of ailments. However, the effectiveness of noni for these uses has not been proven.
Noni fruit and juice. Commercial noni juice excludes the pulp pictured here. Noni juice is derived from the fruit of the Morinda citrifolia tree indigenous to Southeast Asia and Australasia. Noni juice has been promoted as a cure for a number of human diseases. However, there is no evidence to support these claims.
Noni juice is derived from the fruit of the Morinda citrifolia tree indigenous to Southeast Asia, Australasia, and the Caribbean. There are a lot of claims of the benefits of noni juice which includes its ability to fight cancer, lower cholesterol, increase energy, and to cause weight loss. Nitric Oxide Fuels Noni Benefits. A theory as to why noni juice causes weight loss is that when it is consumed it produces nitric oxide in the body. Muscles use and metabolize a lot of energy and nitric oxide which is produced in the body is involved in the process.
Noni fruit grows on a small tree or shrub found mainly in the lush tropical island terrains of the Pacific islands. Noni has a long history and is considered one of the most significant ingredients in traditional medicines used by the Polynesian Kahunas, the healers of the islanders. The fruit of the Noni plant looks like a small, bumpy potato, green at first, turning to a yellowish white when ripe. People living on the islands in present day French Polynesia and Hawaii have used Noni for thousands of years. Noni’s journey to Hawaii is believed to have started 3,000 years ago from the Island of New Guinea Northward to the islands of Fiji, Samoa, Tonga, Marquesas Islands, and then towards the Tahitian Island
We use only the whole fruit, no bark or leaves. Noni fruit turns yellow as it ripens and has a strong cheese like odor. The noni fruit is special in that it begins to ferment on its own very rapidly with nothing added. The juice that naturally seeps from the Noni fruit is called Noni juice. It is collected from carefully selected and washed ripe Noni fruit after a short period of fermentation. Healing Noni Company offers a 100% Pure fresh fermented Noni Juice. The typical fermentation period for our juice is 4 to 5 weeks. This means that two months proir to recieving your order the fruit that produced it was on a tree.
Noni is the common name given to the Morinda citrifolia tree, which grows in South East Asia, the Caribbean and Australasia. It’s an evergreen shrub, and all parts of the tree are used in medicines, including the fruit, leaves, stems and flowers. Antidepressant. Health benefits of noni juice are numerous. Noni juice has both antidepressant and mild sedative properties. The fruit helps to stimulate the production of the mood balancing hormone serotonin along with melatonin, which calms you and helps you get a good night’s sleep.
Noni juice, made from the fruit of the noni tree, is marketed as a supplement with healing abilities for diseases such as cancer and asthma. Although these claims are often exaggerates, scientific studies have shown noni juice to be effective for maintaining health and protecting the body from diseases. 
3. Noni juice weight loss. Another one of health benefits of noni juice is that it aids weight loss and promotes muscle growth. Drinking noni juice produces nitric oxide in the body, which is used by the muscles to metabolize energy. Antidepressant. Health benefits of noni juice are numerous. Noni juice has both antidepressant and mild sedative properties. The fruit helps to stimulate the production of the mood balancing hormone serotonin along with melatonin, which calms you and helps you get a good night’s sleep.