The primary function of red blood cells, or erythrocytes, is to carry oxygen from the lungs to the body tissues and carbon dioxide as a waste product, away from the tissues and back to the lungs. Hemoglobin (Hgb) is an important protein in the red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of our body.
A) the red blood cells contain as many hemoglobin molecules as possible. B) oxygen is attached to both the heme and the globin portions of the molecule. C) it is carrying both oxygen and carbon dioxide simultaneously.
Oxygen is carried in the blood by our red blood cells which have a special molecule called hemoglobin. This molecule sticks to the oxygen molecules by red blood cells.
Hemoglobin is the oxygen binding protein of red blood cells and is a globular protein with quaternary structure. Hemoglobin consists of four polypeptide subunits; 2 alpha chains and two beta chains. Hemoglobin transports oxygen in the blood from the lungs to the rest of the body.
Three types of blood vessels carry blood from your lungs to every cell in your body. 1  Arteries-Arteries have muscular walls that pump oxygen-filled blood away from your heart to the tissues and organs, like the brain, kidneys and liver. 2  Arteries get smaller as they get further from your heart.
Transport of oxygen in the blood Blood Blood is an 'aqueous body fluid'. In other words it is water containing a whole range of substances. It is contained in a complex network called the vascular system and is pumped around the body by the heart.
Hemoglobin is the compound in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to body cells. The oxygen combines readily with the ion in hemoglobin, and hemoglobin can carry more than twenty times its own volume in oxygen.
A) carbon dioxide is a smaller molecule than oxygen. B) carbon dioxide is more water‑soluble than oxygen. C) carbon dioxide receives assistance crossing membranes from a carrier molecule. D) much of the oxygen, but not the carbon dioxide, is consumed by red blood cells during transport.
Carbon dioxide is transported in the blood from the tissue to the lungs in three ways: (i) dissolved in solution; (ii) buffered with water as carbonic acid; (iii) bound to proteins, particularly haemoglobin. Approximately 75% of carbon dioxide is transport in the red blood cell and 25% in the plasma.