American Girl is an American line of 18-inch (46 cm) dolls released in 1986 by Pleasant Company. The dolls portray eight-to eleven-year-old girls of a variety of ethnicities. They are sold with accompanying books told from the viewpoint of the girls. 
During the nineteenth century, doll heads and dolls made of china were introduced and doll makers began looking for an unbreakable substance. Gutta percha, a rubber like substance from Mayala, came into regular use around 1840 in Europe. Doll manufacturers usually design a doll from the original concept to the finished product, which includes packaging and clothes. First, a simple sketch or drawing is made, followed by a color illustration. Next, a model is sculptured from wax.
A doll is a model of a human being, often used as a toy for children. Dolls have traditionally been used in magic and religious rituals throughout the world, and traditional dolls made of materials such as clay and wood are found in the Americas, Asia, Africa and Europe. The earliest documented dolls go back to the ancient civilizations of Egypt, Greece and Rome. By the eleventh century dolls were used as playthings as well as for protection and in religious ceremonies. During Hinamatsuri, the doll festival, hina dolls are displayed. These are made of straw and wood, painted, and dressed in elaborate, many-layered textiles.
People have made dolls for thousands of years for use as religious objects, toys, and holiday displays. Many traditional dolls, like the Japanese Kokeshi, are still highly desirable today. Many early American dolls were made of rags, or cloth, and are a reminder of the simple life in the 18th and 19th centuries. In the 19th century, French and German dolls were the most popular and innovative dolls in the western world. Dolls in Europe, Japan, and America made of celluloid, such as the famous Kewpie doll, were eventually replaced by dolls made of plastic, or composition dolls, made of a mix of materials including glue and sawdust.
Wood dolls are one of the earliest known substances that dolls have been made from. Most wood dolls are carved, and few very early examples exist today. Very little wood doll production has taken place in the 20th century, but a few doll artists still work in wood today. More ». The material a doll is made from is determined from the material the doll head is made from, so that a bisque doll has a bisque head but can have a body made of another material. Presented in rough chronological order.
In Rome dolls were made of clay, wood or ivory. Dolls have been found in the graves of Roman children. Like children today, the younger members of Roman civilization would have dressed their dolls according to the latest fashions. When Greek and Roman girls got married they would dedicate their doll to a goddess. By the eleventh century dolls were used as playthings as well as for protection and in religious ceremonies. During Hinamatsuri, the doll festival, hina dolls are displayed. These are made of straw and wood, painted, and dressed in elaborate, many-layered textiles.
If you know the material that a doll head is made with, you have the key to identifying and understanding the doll and the era in which it was made. This guide will help you identify, collect, and appreciate dolls according to the materials that they were made with. The material a doll is made from is determined from the material the doll head is made from, so that a bisque doll has a bisque head but can have a body made of another material. Presented in rough chronological order. Early 1800s Wood Dolls
Barbie is a fashion doll manufactured by the American toy-company Mattel, Inc. and launched in March 1959. American businesswoman Ruth Handler is credited with the creation of the doll using a German doll called Bild Lilli as her inspiration. Upon her return to the United States, Handler reworked the design of the doll (with help from engineer Jack Ryan) and the doll was given a new name, Barbie, after Handler's daughter Barbara. The doll made its debut at the American International Toy Fair in New York on March 9, 1959.
The earliest dolls were made from available materials such as clay, stone, wood, bone, ivory, leather, wax, etc. Archaeological evidence places dolls as foremost candidate for oldest known toy. Wooden paddle dolls have been found in Egyptian tombs dating to as early as 21st century BC. By the eleventh century dolls were used as playthings as well as for protection and in religious ceremonies. During Hinamatsuri, the doll festival, hina dolls are displayed. These are made of straw and wood, painted, and dressed in elaborate, many-layered textiles.