Descriptions. Promethazine and codeine combination is used to relieve cough, runny or stuffy nose, sneezing, or other symptoms caused by allergies or the common cold. Promethazine is an antihistamine. It works by preventing the effects of a substance called histamine, which is produced by the body. Histamine can cause itching, sneezing, runny nose, and watery eyes. It can sometimes close up the bronchial tubes (air passages of the lungs) and make breathing difficult. Codeine belongs to the group of medicine called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines). It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain
In addition to reducing pain, codeine also causes sedation drowsiness and depresses breathing. Codeine frequently is combined with acetaminophen (Tylenol) or aspirin for more effective pain relief. The FDA approved codeine in 1950. Moreover, a small amount of codeine is converted to morphine in the body. The precise mechanism of action of codeine is not known; however, like morphine, codeine binds to receptors in the brain (opioid receptors) that are important for transmitting the sensation of pain throughout the body and brain.
Tablets of codeine in combination with aspirin or paracetamol (paracetamol /Tylenol) made for pain relief are listed as Schedule III; and cough syrups are Schedule III or V, depending on formula. The paracetamol/codeine pain-relief elixir (trade name Tylenol Elixir with Codeine) is a Schedule IV controlled substance. Codeine is also used to treat diarrhea and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome, although loperamide (which is available OTC for milder diarrhea), diphenoxylate, paregoric or even laudanum (also known as Tincture of Opium) are more frequently used to treat severe diarrhea.
Drug Codeine. The generic Codeine combination is manufactured by 91 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name.
Codeine or 3-methylmorphine (a naturally occurring methylated morphine) is an opiate used to treat pain, as a cough medicine, and for diarrhea. Codeine is also used to treat diarrhea and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome, although loperamide (which is available OTC for milder diarrhea), diphenoxylate, paregoric or even laudanum (also known as Tincture of Opium) are more frequently used to treat severe diarrhea.
Descriptions. Acetaminophen and codeine oral suspension is used to relieve mild to moderate pain. The oral tablets are used to relieve mild to moderately severe pain. Acetaminophen is used to relieve pain and reduce fever in patients. It does not become habit-forming when taken for a long time. But acetaminophen may cause other unwanted effects when taken in large doses, including serious liver damage.
BRAND NAMES: none. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Codeine is a narcotic pain-reliever and cough suppressant similar to morphine and hydrocodone. Moreover, a small amount of codeine is converted to morphine in the body. The precise mechanism of action of codeine is not known; however, like morphine, codeine binds to receptors in the brain (opioid receptors) that are important for transmitting the sensation of pain throughout the body and brain.
There are about 50 common brand names of codeine that the drug can be marketed under most of which are prescribed for the treatment of cough, cold, nasal congestion and hay fever. The drug is also prescribed as a mild analgesic in medications such as Tylenol with Codeine. Codeine is also marketed under the brand name Colrex for the treatment of similar respiratory complications. When marketed under the name Fioricet with Codeine, the drug is used in the treatment of headaches and sometimes for migraines.
Zodryl AC. Zotex C. Codeine is often marketed under different brand names to signify the method for which the drug is used in a combination of other drugs. For instance, Cotabflu is a brand of codeine that is used in the treatment of upper respiratory complications such as cold symptoms, cough and hay fever. Codeine is also marketed under the brand name Colrex for the treatment of similar respiratory complications. When marketed under the name Fioricet with Codeine, the drug is used in the treatment of headaches and sometimes for migraines.