All children whose weight or height is above the forward-facing limit for their car seat should use a belt-positioning booster seat until the vehicle seat belt fits properly, typically when they have reached 4 feet 9 inches in height and are between 8 and 12 years of age. Older Children: Seat Belts. Seat belts are made for adults. Your child should stay in a booster seat until adult seat belts fit correctly (usually when the child reaches about 4 feet 9 inches in height and is between 8 and 12 years of age).
Height-based car seats are known as ‘i-Size’ seats. They must be rear-facing until your child is over 15 months old. Your child can use a forward-facing car seat when they’re over 15 months old. You must check the seat to make sure it’s suitable for the height of your child. Weight-based car seats. Weight-based car seats must be rear-facing until your child weighs more than 9kg. After that the seat your child can use (and the way they must be restrained in it) depends on their weight.
1 Some booster seats can be used for children up to 60 inches and 120 pounds. 2  Many state laws prefer that children 12 years and younger sit in the back seat if available. 3  Some states, as is the case in Michigan, forbid placing a child under the age of 4 years in a front seat if a rear seat is available. 
​Booster seats. ​All children whose weight or height is above the forward-facing limit for their car seat should use a Belt-Positioning Booster Seat until the vehicle seat belt fits properly, typically when they have reached 4 feet 9 inches in height and are between 8 and 12 years of age. Older Children: Seat Belts. Seat belts are made for adults. Your child should stay in a booster seat until adult seat belts fit correctly (usually when the child reaches about 4 feet 9 inches in height and is between 8 and 12 years of age).
Buckling children in age-and size-appropriate car seats, booster seats, and seat belts reduces the risk of serious and fatal injuries: 1  2. 2  Booster seat use reduces the risk for serious injury by 45% for children aged 4–8 years when compared with seat belt use alone. 3  3. Age 2 up to at least Age 5: Forward-facing car seat. When children outgrow their rear-facing seats they should be buckled in a forward-facing car seat, in the back seat, until at least age 5 or when they reach the upper weight or height limit of their particular seat.
Children should remain in a booster seat until adult seat belts fit properly (usually when the child reaches about 4 feet 9 inches in height and is between 8 and 12 years of age). Since children vary in size, safety experts urge parents to use the weight and height restrictions instead of the age guidelines. 
A backless booster. A booster seat is used to lift up a child and properly position the vehicle's lap/shoulder belts on children who are too small to fit the adult seat belt. Boosters are rated for use from 30-40 lbs to 80-100 lbs. Booster seats do not have a harness. 
Booster Seats. After age 4 and 40+ pounds, children can ride in a booster seat with the adult lap and shoulder belt until the adult safety belt will fit them properly (usually when the child is 4'9 tall, 10 12 years old). MUST have a lap/shoulder belt to use a booster seat. Phase 4.
Stephanie Tombrello. child passenger safety specialist. You can safely switch your child to a booster seat if she's at least 4 years old and she weighs 40 pounds or more or has grown too tall for her car seat (when her shoulders are higher than the top set of harness-strap slots in the car seat's back).