1 Download iExplorer from here (free for Mac OS X and Windows) and install it. 2  Connect the iPhone, iPad, or iPod to the computer by USB. 3  Launch iExplorer and click the arrow next to the iOS devices name, then click the arrow next to “Media” and then again next to “iTunes_Control”. Importing the Copied Music into iTunes. Assuming you want the music you just copied from the iPod or iPhone imported into iTunes, this is what you need to do: 1  Disconnect the iPhone, iPad, iPod from the computer and relaunch iTunes. 2  Open Preferences and click on “Advanced
1 Reinstall your system or iTunes library; 2  Retrieve your music, videos and photos from your iPod and save them to your computer; 3  Share your iPod contents with friends and family; 4  Restore your songs, movies and photos to iTunes in the event your system crashes. iCopyBot is there when you need to: 1 
This process will copy all music from the device to a Mac or Windows PC: 1  Turn off automatic syncing in iTunes. 2  Download iExplorer from here (free for Mac OS X and Windows) and install it. 3  Connect the iPhone, iPad, or iPod to the computer by USB. Importing the Copied Music into iTunes. Assuming you want the music you just copied from the iPod or iPhone imported into iTunes, this is what you need to do: 1  Disconnect the iPhone, iPad, iPod from the computer and relaunch iTunes. 2  Open Preferences and click on “Advanced”
I don't know I should how to Get Music off iPad onto PC,This is a problem bothering me,Please give me some suggestion to Copy Music from iPad to PC,Hope you can help me to transfer music from iPad to PC and success,Thanks!Finally,Best Wish:Merry Christmas! iPad, iOS 7. Level 9 (66,520 points). You can use some simple tools to complete the problems about how to transfer music from iPad to computer. Then you will save a lot of unnecessary trouble! Some tools can help you transfer iPad data such as music,sms, contacts and more easily! There are many popular ones in the market!
1 Turn off automatic syncing in iTunes. 2  Download iExplorer from here (free for Mac OS X and Windows) and install it. 3  Connect the iPhone, iPad, or iPod to the computer by USB. 4  Launch iExplorer and click the arrow next to the iOS devices name, then click the arrow next to “Media” and then again next to “iTunes_Control”. Importing the Copied Music into iTunes. Assuming you want the music you just copied from the iPod or iPhone imported into iTunes, this is what you need to do: 1  Disconnect the iPhone, iPad, iPod from the computer and relaunch iTunes. 2  Open Preferences and click on “Advanced
1 Click the Music button on the Device Overview screen (or Media Library in the left panel). 2  Once your media loads, choose from the following: - 3  Select any in the main window (hold Control (PC) or Command (Mac) to select more than one) and use the Transfer from Device menu. Follow these steps to transfer music from an iPhone or iPad to your computer: 1  Connect your iPhone, iPod or iPad & open iExplorer. 2  Click the Music button on the Device Overview screen (or Media Library in the left panel). 3
Need your help, thanks! Answer: To get music off iPad onto Computer, an iPod to Computer Transfer is needed here. iStonsoft iPad/iPhone/iPod to Computer Transfer does a good job. With it, you can get music off iPad to Computer and get photos, videos, books & more off iPad to PC with only 3 steps. Now check the steps to get music off iPad onto computer step by step. Step 1: Run Software. Run iStonsoft iPad/iPhone/iPod to Computer Transfer and connect your iPad to your PC with data cable. Step 2: Choose Pictures.
Get Music Off Your iPad to Computer. Tags: Copy music from iPad to computer, iPad to Mac, iPad to PC. Apple’s iTunes software makes it dead-simple to copy music onto your iPad, but when it comes to moving files in the opposite direction– from the iPad to your computer –there’s no obvious solution. 
Guide: How to get Music off iPad mini onto Computer. Now check the steps to get music off iPad onto computer step by step. Step 1: Run Software. Run iStonsoft iPad/iPhone/iPod to Computer Transfer and connect your iPad to your PC with data cable. Step 2: Choose Pictures. Click the  Music  item on the left navigation bar and select the music files you want to get off iPad to computer. Step 3: Start Transf