Reptile $1.06. Swine $16.68. * Research accounts are those that begin with a “1”, “2”, “5”, or “8”. ** For other species, contact the Business Office or darbo@usc.edu. On arrival, all incoming animal orders will have a “set-up” or “first day” surcharge of double the per diem rate for the first day.
•See Appendix for per diem rates.• The per diem allowance will be reimbursed if the traveller does not have an itemized receipt.• The per diem allowance may not be claimed where meals are included in transportation charges, accommodation, conference registration fees or in the event of a partial day's travel, etc. Meals Claimants have the option of claiming costs incurred for meals provided they conform to University policy amounts or the claimants can claim per diem rates (refer to the Appendices). Refer to Hospitality Policy for limitations on the maximum amount claimable for a meal.
A per diem can be used for conference travel but it must be reduced for all meals that are included at the conference and/or in the accommodation (eg breakfast). Where meals are not included in the conference, a copy of the conference program will need to be supplied. There are a number of conditions that must be met before the payment of a per diem can be considered. The Office of Financial Services (OFS) reserves the right to withdraw the option of a per diem if, in its opinion, a staff member or budget unit is not acting within the spirit of this Schedule.
Per Diem: a daily allowance paid to staff to cover all meals and minor incidentals while travelling on approved University business. The payment of a per diem is intended to ensure that an employee neither loses nor gains financially by receiving a per diem payment. 1  only if requested prior to undertaking the travel. 2  where the duration of the travel is no more than 30 days. There are a number of conditions that must be met before the payment of a per diem can be considered. The Office of Financial Services (OFS) reserves the right to withdraw the option of a per diem if, in its opinion, a staff member or budget unit is not acting within the spirit of this Schedule.
The individual must be in travel status. Living allowances can be issued to a foreign national not receiving an honorarium. The allowance is based on the temporary work destination's daily meal per diem rate and is issued for up to 30 days at a time. Additional requests (up to 30 days each) may be submitted. Living allowances must be paid in advance, otherwise expenses are reimbursed on an Expense Report (ER) under meal per diem line item. Instructions: 1  all participants must be in travel status; meals for others not on travel status are claimed on a Check Request (Non UW) or eReimbursments (UW). 2  reimbursment is at actual amount paid (exclude alcohol) and cannot exceed allowable meal per diem rate/ per person according to location of travel.
The size of the per diem in relation to the employee’s daily wage seems to be an important factor, and should be studied further. When a person is given the opportunity to earn a per diem that is equivalent to two weeks’ or two months’ salary, it is a very powerful incentive. Greater transparency and accountability is needed to assure that these powerful incentives are managed in ways that best promote the public good. For example, participants may be paid $30 in per diem, but the amount written in later is $40, allowing the organiser to skim $10 per participant. Sometimes whole workshops are faked, as happened in Malawi. The workshop never occurred, but the government official tried to charge training expenses to the budget.
Fixed Meal Allowance. The University provides fixed meal (per diem) allowance to staff while traveling on official University business at the rate set by the General Services Administration (CONUS-Continental United States and OCONUS-Outside the Continental United States rates) based on location of University business. Travelers are eligible for 75 percent of the total fixed meal allowance rate for the University-related business travel location. Go to Department of Defense Per Diem, Travel & Transportation Allowances.
Sometimes referred to as Daily Subsistence Allowance, 1 the allowance is always calculated based on number of days, and may be paid in advance or after expenses have been incurred. In some organisations, itemised receipts are not required for per diem allowances. For example, participants may be paid $30 in per diem, but the amount written in later is $40, allowing the organiser to skim $10 per participant. Sometimes whole workshops are faked, as happened in Malawi. The workshop never occurred, but the government official tried to charge training expenses to the budget.
1 all participants must be in travel status; meals for others not on travel status are claimed on a Check Request (Non UW) or eReimbursments (UW). 2  reimbursment is at actual amount paid (exclude alcohol) and cannot exceed allowable meal per diem rate/ per person according to location of travel. Instructions: 1 