To distinguish the term governance from govern ment: a government is a formal body invested with the authority to make decisions in a given political system. In the case of a business or of a non-profit organization, for example, good governance relates to consistent management, cohesive policies, guidance, processes and decision-rights for a given area of responsibility, and proper oversight and accountability.
Part of the Business terms glossary: Business process governance, also called process governance or business process management (BPM) governance, is the use of rules to manage BPM programs and initiatives. Business process governance involves setting standards and priorities for BPM efforts, identifying BPM governance leaders and defining BPM project participants’ roles, all to improve BPM strategies.
ARIS Risk and Compliance Manager. Corporate governance is a term that refers broadly to the rules, processes, or laws by which businesses are operated, regulated, and controlled. The term can refer to internal factors defined by the officers, stockholders or constitution of a corporation, as well as to external forces such as consumer groups, clients, and government regulations. Learn more about corporate governance at SeachCompliance.com.
Interest in the corporate governance practices of modern corporations, particularly in relation to accountability, increased following the high-profile collapses of a number of large corporations during 2001–2002, most of which involved accounting fraud; and then again after the recent financial crisis in 2008. Governance mechanisms include monitoring the actions, policies, practices, and decisions of corporations, their agents, and affected stakeholders. Corporate governance practices are affected by attempts to align the interests of
10 people found this helpful. Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, relations, and processes by which a corperation is controlled and is directed; involves balancing the many interests of the stakeholders of a corporation. 6 people found this helpful. Definition. The framework of rules and practices by which a board of directors ensures accountability, fairness, and transparency in a company's relationship with its all stakeholders (financiers, customers, management, employees, government, and the community).
Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, processes and relations by which corporations are controlled and directed. Governance mechanisms include monitoring the actions, policies, practices, and decisions of corporations, their agents, and affected stakeholders. Corporate governance practices are affected by attempts to align the interests of
DEFINITION of 'Corporate Governance'. The system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is directed and controlled. Corporate governance essentially involves balancing the interests of the many stakeholders in a company-these include its shareholders, management, customers, suppliers, financiers, government and the community. Since corporate governance also provides the framework for attaining a company's objectives, it encompasses practically every sphere of management, from action plans and internal controls to performance measurement and corporate disclosure.
Governance refers to all processes of governing, whether undertaken by a government, market or network, whether over a family, tribe, formal or informal organization or territory and whether through laws, norms, power or language.. In the case of a business or of a non-profit organization, for example, good governance relates to consistent management, cohesive policies, guidance, processes and decision-rights for a given area of responsibility, and proper oversight and accountability.