An undergraduate degree in Petroleum Engineering (or other engineering, math, or hard science with assigned deficiencies) from a regionally accredited college or university. Satisfactory cumulative undergraduate GPA (grade point average). Satisfactory GRE and TOEFL test scores.
Although most degree programs specific to petroleum engineering exist at the master's level, petroleum engineering can be quite rewarding even without an advanced degree. A bachelor's degree in petroleum engineering is the most valuable bachelor's degree one can have, a Georgetown University survey found. The poll, based on 2009 U.S. Census data, found that people with only a bachelor's degree earned a median annual salary of $120,000 -- the highest of any collegiate major.
It is NOT AT ALL difficult to find a job as a petroleum engineer in the city of Houston, TX, if you graduated from an accredited program with a GPA of 3.0 or above. We literally CANNOT hire enough petroleum engineers at this moment in time.
Several other careers can blossom out of a petroleum engineering degree. Petroleum engineers who have obtained a certain level of competence and respect in the industry can move on to consulting for several companies instead of working for just one.
A bachelor's degree from a petroleum engineering program is usually required for entry-level jobs in the discipline, although degrees in mechanical or chemical engineering are occasionally considered satisfactory by employers. A master's degree may be required for higher-level positions.
Most petroleum engineering degrees exist at the master's level, so a science and/or engineering degree is recommended for anyone interested in pursuing a career in petroleum engineering. Your undergraduate curriculum should emphasize math, chemistry, and physics.
Petroleum Engineering is a difficult course but the payoffs are high. There are only roughly 20 universities in the country that offer this major so you will have to do some research in order to get into a program.
Major: Petroleum Engineering. Petroleum engineering majors learn how to find and remove petroleum and natural gas from the earth. Other topics include the process of turning petroleum and gas into products (such as gasoline) and environmental and safety issues.
Petroleum engineering is definitely a difficult major to pursue. You will definitely have to go into graduate studies for it. That means more schooling and more money invested into college. However, it's pretty rewarding because the engineering job market pays pretty well.