In the Mediterranean Sea, a relatively new aquaculture industry is “ranching” one of the world's largest wild fish species, the giant Atlantic bluefin tuna. Driven largely by the growing popularity of sushi, these lucrative operations capture wild tuna and then fatten them up for slaughter. next ». 
The bluefin tuna is the most prized of 1he tuna family. It is a large fish that grows to 3 m in length and 500 kg in weight as an adult. It took 32 years because the bluefin tuna is a delicate fish and little was known about its habitat. The key was to consistently monitor the fish. In the research process, It was discovered that the artificially hatched fry died suddenly.
La Tuna. La Tuna in Spain. Find out more information about the Tuna Groups and the Tuna tradition, probably one of the most famous Spanish University traditions. Read the Spanish version. 
Fully grown, the bluefin tuna is a tiger of the ocean: powerful and voracious, its flesh in high demand for sushi all around the world. Journalist Paul Greenberg wrote about bluefin tuna in his book Four Fish. If you're an angler, he says, catching one is an experience you don't forget. 
The tunas are famous for their serenades in Andalucia. No, the tuna is not only a fish. In Spanish the word “tuna” refers to a group of students, all dressed up in traditional costume who sing their serenades to lovely, modern day maidens just as others have done in centuries past. Modern evolution aside, the heart of the tuna spirit is still alive in that many a tuna has his eye on a girl who will be at the party. And if she’s lucky, at the end of the group’s performance, he’ll throw her his cape and she’ll catch it….
A tuna is a saltwater finfish that belongs to the tribe Thunnini, a sub-grouping of the mackerel family (Scombridae) – which together with the tunas, also includes the bonitos, mackerels, and Spanish mackerels. The term tuna ultimately derives from Thunnus, the Middle Latin form of the Ancient Greek: θύννος (thýnnos) tunny-fish – which is in turn derived from θύνω (thýnō) , rush, dart along. atun atún-at, tūn assimilated from-al tūn thunnus mentioned. above
An active and agile predator, the tuna has a sleek, streamlined body, and is among the fastest-swimming pelagic fish – the yellowfin tuna, for example, is capable of speeds of up to 75 km/h (47 mph). The term tuna ultimately derives from Thunnus, the Middle Latin form of the Ancient Greek: θύννος (thýnnos) tunny-fish – which is in turn derived from θύνω (thýnō) , rush, dart along. atun atún-at, tūn assimilated from-al tūn thunnus mentioned. above
The bluefin averages 2 m (6.6 ft), and is believed to live for up to 50 years. Tuna and mackerel sharks are the only species of fish that can maintain a body temperature higher than that of the surrounding water. The term tuna ultimately derives from Thunnus, the Middle Latin form of the Ancient Greek: θύννος (thýnnos) tunny-fish – which is in turn derived from θύνω (thýnō) , rush, dart along. atun atún-at, tūn assimilated from-al tūn thunnus mentioned. above
Because of its transitory nature and general abundance, it is being considered for farming but not enhancement in California. California Sheephead (Semicossyphus pulcher) In recent years, trap-fishing for a high value live-fish fishery has left the California sheephead heavily exploited. It is listed as one of 19 high priority species for management plan development under California’s Marine Life Management Act (MLMA). California Yellowtail (Seriola lalandi) A transitory, seasonally abundant species in southern California, yellowtail are one of Japan’s primary culture species, highly prized for sushi and traditional cooking.
Bluefin Tuna is disappearing from the sea. Demand keeps prices high-which means people will keep fishing Bluefin Tuna until there is none left. Obviously this is an unsustainable situation. In Cartagena, in southern Spain, scientists from the EU’s Selfdott research project are researching how to farm Bluefin Tuna. But this doesn’t mean the end of the Bluefin Tuna fishing, aquaculture will be a complement of fishing.”. In Malta, the day starts very early for Robert Vassallo-Agius, a biologist at the Malta Aquaculture Research centre. He is also working on the Selfdott project.