\nHow much is James Brown Salary?\nThe late recording artist and performer James Brown, otherwise known as The Godfather of Soul, had an estimated net worth of approximately $100 million when he died. And to go along with his net worth, he had the respect and admiration of millions of his peers and fans. From these early days, James Brown eventually evolved into a solo performer, but his music continued to grow and change. He spanned a wide variety of genres, including gospel and rhythm and blues in the early days, to incorporating elements of funk and traditional African music into his work.
James Brown net worth: $100 Million. James Brown net worth: James Brown, otherwise known as The Godfather of Soul, had an estimated net worth of approximately $100 million when he died; and to go along with his net worth, he had the respect and admiration of millions of his peers and fans. From these early days, James Brown eventually evolved into a solo performer, but his music continued to grow and change. James Brown Net Worth. He spanned a wide variety of genres, including gospel and rhythm and blues in the early days, to incorporating elements of funk and traditional African music into his work.
About Quotes Trivia. Born on: 1st Jan 70 Born in: United States Marital status: Deceased Occupation: Music Industry. Born James Joseph Brown, Jr. has an estimated net worth of $100 million. Brown, often referred to as The Godfather of Soul was an American recording artist and musician. Brown has earned his net worth from his work as a recording artist and musician which spanned for six decades. James began as a gospel singer in Toccoa, Georgia and later joined an R&B vocal group called the Avons that later evolved to become The Famous Flames to which he served as the group's lead singer.
The South Carolina Supreme Court on Wednesday overturned a settlement divvying up the multimillion-dollar estate of James Brown, saying a former attorney general didn't follow the late soul singer's wishes in putting together the deal. 
He was 73. Bobby Byrd, a longtime collaborator with James Brown and co-founder of the Famous Flames, died this week at his home near Atlanta. He was 73. Byrd died Wednesday, a spokesman for Willie A. Watkins Funeral Home in Atlanta said. News accounts attributed the death to cancer.
James Brown Net Worth is $100 Million. The late recording artist and performer James Brown, otherwise known as The Godfather of Soul, had an estimated net worth of approximately... [read more]. From these early days, James Brown eventually evolved into a solo performer, but his music continued to grow and change. He spanned a wide variety of genres, including gospel and rhythm and blues in the early days, to incorporating elements of funk and traditional African music into his work.
About James Brown. American singer and songwriter,James Joseph Brown has an estimated net worth of $100 million. “Soul Brother Number One,” “the Godfather of Soul,” “the Hardest Working Man in Show Business,” “Mr. Dynamite” — those are mighty titles, but no one can question that James Brown earned them more than any other performer. All of Brown’s singles over the next two years flopped, as he sought to establish his own style, recording material that was obviously derivative of heroes like Roy Brown, Hank Ballard, Little Richard, and Ray Charles.
In the 70s, James Brown coped with the changing trends in music by experimenting with disco, but most of these efforts failed to match the success of his earlier work, most of which is much more popular than disco is today. After many tumultuous later years, James Brown died on Christmas Day, 2006. From these early days, James Brown eventually evolved into a solo performer, but his music continued to grow and change. James Brown Net Worth. He spanned a wide variety of genres, including gospel and rhythm and blues in the early days, to incorporating elements of funk and traditional African music into his work.