When you factor in other species that feed on the same organism, then the chain becomes a web. Freshwater At the base of the freshwater food web are again the producers, such as phytoplankton, algae, duckweed, and lily pads. Just like on land, plants in water undergo photosynthesis and provide aquatic organisms with oxygen. 
A food chain is a simple linkage of producers to consumers through feeding relationships. For example, when a small fish eats an aquatic insect, and a larger fish eats the small fish, the two fish and the insect are linked in a food chain. Food webs are more complex, and consist of a network of linked food chains. 
Best Answer: The autotrophs, or plants. These are the only organisms that can harness the energy from the sun and store it in carbon compounds. Thus, all other organisms depend on them, or other organisms that have eaten them, for food. Source(s): Campbell & Reece, Biology
1 Producers Plants form the base of Great Lakes food chains. 2  They’re called producers, because they make their own food by converting sunlight through photosynthesis. 3  They also act as food, providing energy for other organisms. 4  In the Great Lakes, most producers are phytoplankton, or microscopic floating plants. At the base of the aquatic food web are: 1  Plankton Plankton are microscopic plants and animals whose movements are largely dependent upon currents. 2  Plankton are the foundation of the aquatic food web. 3  Plankton are vital in the food supplies of fish, aquatic birds, reptiles, amphibians and mammals.
Answer by Hulk789. Confidence votes 240. The producers is always found at the base of a food chain, but food webs can start from any species and end at any species, so, there is no bases at the food web. The producers are basically those which can produce food by its own. A common example would be plants. 
The base or basal species in a food web are those species without prey and can include autotrophs or saprophytic detritivores (i.e., the community of decomposers in soil, biofilms, and periphyton). Feeding connections in the web are called trophic links. A common metric used to quantify food web trophic structure is food chain length. Food chain length is another way of describing food webs as a measure of the number of species encountered as energy or nutrients move from the plants to top predators.
A food web (or food cycle) is the natural interconnection of food chains and generally a graphical representation (usually an image) of what-eats-what in an ecological community. Another name for food web is a consumer-resource system. A common metric used to quantify food web trophic structure is food chain length. Food chain length is another way of describing food webs as a measure of the number of species encountered as energy or nutrients move from the plants to top predators.
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat another organism and are, in turn, eaten themselves. The number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is a measure of its trophic level. Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5. The path along the chain can form either a one-way flow or a food web.
Best Answer: On a food pyramid, the first trophic level is made up of autotrophs (organisms capable of creating their own food). These are usually called producers. Above the producers are the primary consumers (usually herbivores such as deer). Above the Primary consumers are the Secondary consumers that eat the secondary consumers (such as wolves that eat the deer). Above that are the tertiary consumers that are at the top of the food chain. 
What group of organisms is always found at the base of a food chain or food web? The producers is always found at the base of a food chain, but food webs can start from any species and end at any species, so, there is no bases at the food web. The produ … cers are basically those which can produce food by its own. A common example would be plants. + 6 others found this useful. Sincerlyy Nay. 