If you have a higher risk for heart problems (see Precautions), your doctor may perform a heart exam before you start taking rizatriptan. He/she may also direct you to take your first dose of this medication in the office/clinic to monitor for serious side effects (such as chest pain). Talk to your doctor for details. Read the Patient Information Leaflet if available from your pharmacist before you start taking rizatriptan and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, at the first sign of a migraine.
If you are not sure whether you should start taking MAXALT, talk to your doctor. Do not give MAXALT to children under 18 years of age. The safety and effectiveness of MAXALT in children under 18 years have not been established. Before you start to take MAXALT Tell your doctor if: you are pregnant or intend to become pregnant Like most medicines, MAXALT is not recommended for use during pregnancy.
1 Never give your child two or more medicines at the same time that have the same active ingredient. 2  Do not give adult-strength medicine to your child. 3  Only use the medicine that treats your child's specific symptoms. 4  Do not use these medicines to make your child sleepy. 
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take MAXALT. Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including prescription and nonprescription medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements. MAXALT and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects. MAXALT may affect the way other medicines work, and other medicines may affect how MAXALT works. 4 The most common side effects of MAXALT in adults include: • feeling sleepy or tired • pain or pressure in your chest or throat • dizziness Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. If you take MAXALT too often, this may result in you getting chronic headaches.
We care about your family. Dimetapp ® has been treating children's cough, cold & allergy symptoms for over 50 years. Learn more about the trusted formulas of Dimetapp ® , how to choose the best formula for your child and other ways to treat your child's symptoms. Learn More.
You should not take this medication if you are allergic to rizatriptan, or if you have: 1  coronary heart disease, angina (chest pain), blood circulation problems, lack of blood supply to the heart; 2  a history of heart disease, heart attack, or stroke, including mini-stroke; 3  severe or uncontrolled high blood pressure; Take one rizatriptan tablet whole with a full glass of water. To take rizatriptan orally disintegrating tablets (Maxalt-MLT): 1  Keep the tablet in its blister pack until you are ready to take the medicine. 2  Open the package and peel back the foil from the tablet blister. 3  Do not push a tablet through the foil or you may damage the tablet.
Precautions. Before using rizatriptan, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. Read the Patient Information Leaflet if available from your pharmacist before you start taking rizatriptan and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, at the first sign of a migraine.
To make sure you can safely take rizatriptan, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  liver disease; 2  kidney disease (especially if you are on dialysis); 3  high blood pressure, a heart rhythm disorder; or. Take one rizatriptan tablet whole with a full glass of water. To take rizatriptan orally disintegrating tablets (Maxalt-MLT): 1  Keep the tablet in its blister pack until you are ready to take the medicine. 2  Open the package and peel back the foil from the tablet blister. 3  Do not push a tablet through the foil or you may damage the tablet
Uses. Rizatriptan is used to treat migraines. It helps to relieve headache, pain, and other migraine symptoms (including nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light/sound). Prompt treatment helps you return to your normal routine and may decrease your need for other pain medications. Read the Patient Information Leaflet if available from your pharmacist before you start taking rizatriptan and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, at the first sign of a migraine.