Elastics…. To fish the pole, you need to thread elastic through the top two or three sections to act as a shock absorber. You can be easily baffled with the wide range of elastics that are available nowadays. Elastics range from a really fine number one ‘knicker elastic’ to really heavy versions of 25+ ‘bull rope’. Like solid elastic, it’s available from the lightest number 1 right up to a 20. Many anglers favour latex as it offers a much smoother and more forgiving action than solid elastic, but doesn’t stretch as far as hollow elastic, meaning fish can be landed on the top two or three sections of pole.
The line is attached to the end of elastic, placed inside the pole tip and runs inside of the top few section of pole. The elastic is used to assist in fighting fish; it relieves tension from the line when the fish is on the hook. Using elastic in the pole tip helps to keep a tight line between the fish and pole tip. Usually you fit elastics 2 - 6 through the top two sections, and bigger elastics through the top three. 1. Choose your elastic and check you have a bush it easily slides through. 2. Cut the pole back by rolling a Stanley knife over it until the bush fits snuggly over the tip of the pole.
Product Description. Easy to use pump action silicone based elastic lubricant that is kind to your elastic. Simply pull out your bung from your top kit, spray the Lube up the chamber of the pole tip, reposition the bung and it's ready to use! To keep elastics perfectly lubricated it is advised to repeat this process regularly throughout the session. 300ml bottle. Shopping Basket. 0 Products Product (empty).
Slick pole elastic lubricant from Drennan is a must for smooth, trouble free, fish playing. It provides a micro film which literally makes the elastic feel polished and slick. Regular use will prolong the life of your elastic and it will not build up a deposit inside the pole or leave a sticky residue. 
Pole Elastic Lubricant 300ml. Product Ref: G-LUBE. Easy to use pump action silicone based elastic lubricant that is kind to your elastic. Simply pull out your bung from your top kit, spray the lube up the chamber of the pole tip, reposition the bung and it's ready to use. To keep elastic perfectly lubricated it is advised to repeat this process regularly throughout the session.
Hi guys i use slip pole elastic lube but a mate of mine uses no more tears baby shampoo whats your choice is there any more weird alternatives out there lol ::d :d. 
Setting elastics…. A good starting point to set your elastic at is so that it just goes back into the pole tip without it being too tight, and shooting back in, but not too loose that it hangs out. You can then use a winder bund to lighten or slacken your elastic as needed. Like solid elastic, it’s available from the lightest number 1 right up to a 20. Many anglers favour latex as it offers a much smoother and more forgiving action than solid elastic, but doesn’t stretch as far as hollow elastic, meaning fish can be landed on the top two or three sections of pole.
NOW: £5.99. Quantity: Simply pull out your bung from your top kit, spray the Lube up the chamber of the pole tip, reposition the bung and it's ready to use! To keep elastics perfectly lubricated it is advised to repeat this process regularly throughout the session. Product Description
Hydro-elastic was the turning point in pole elastics, and started a new revolution with pole fishing. One of the first anglers to use hydro was Simon Gould, at venues like Gold Valley, up to 12 years ago. Like solid elastic, it’s available from the lightest number 1 right up to a 20. Many anglers favour latex as it offers a much smoother and more forgiving action than solid elastic, but doesn’t stretch as far as hollow elastic, meaning fish can be landed on the top two or three sections of pole.