They are of either sex and there is no sure way to know one, though they usually look withered and old, because they have added so many lives to their own. At night, when some one is sick or dying in the settlement, the Raven Mocker goes to the place to take the life. He flies through the air in fiery shape, with arms outstretched like wings, and sparks trailing behind, and a rushing sound like the noise of a strong wind. When the Raven Mocker comes to the house he finds others of his kind waiting there, and unless there is a doctor on guard who knows bow to drive them away they go inside, all invisible, and frighten and torment the sick man until they kill him.
Kalona-Raven Mocker (imitator). This is the Kalona Ayeliski. It's also known as the Raven Mocker (imitator), the worst of all evil spirits. Think of it as the “Angel of Death”. Because of this, the point man in a Cherokee attack was designated the Kalona. Though it is sometimes referred to as a witch, that is a European term
In Tempted Edit. Stevie Rae Johnson finds an injured Raven Mocker. He speaks to her, urging her to release him from the pain of a slow death. Stevie Rae decides it would be best to heal him, because no matter what, every life is worth saving. She slowly heals him back to health while keeping the horrible secret from her friends.
A Raven Mocker is the chief antagonist in Evil in the Night, episode 57 of Walker, Texas Ranger. The Raven Mocker is depicted as a medicine man with shape shifting abilities and the capability of causing hallucinations in his victims. After tormenting and killing their victim by slitting the victim's head they consume his heart (doing so without leaving a mark on the victim's skin), and add a year to their life for every year that the slain would have still lived. Much like a banshee, the sound of a raven mocker means that someone will soon die. Raven mockers are normally invisible when feeding, but those with strong medicine can not only spot them but cause them to die within seven day
A Raven Mocker is an evil, immortal creature. They are the children of Kalona and the women of the ancient Cherokee tribes. They are products of rape and hatred. Kalona used the women to his hearts content and enslaved the men. Stevie Rae Johnson finds an injured Raven Mocker. He speaks to her, urging her to release him from the pain of a slow death. Stevie Rae decides it would be best to heal him, because no matter what, every life is worth saving. She slowly heals him back to health while keeping the horrible secret from her friends.
Only one who has the right medicine can recognize a Raven Mocker, and if such a man stays in the room with the sick person these witches are afraid to come in, and retreat as soon as they see him, because when one of them is recognized in his right shape he must die within seven days. When the Raven Mocker comes to the house he finds others of his kind waiting there, and unless there is a doctor on guard who knows bow to drive them away they go inside, all invisible, and frighten and torment the sick man until they kill him.
Raven Mocker. Raven Mockers are the most feared type of witches found in the folklore of the Cherokee people. Raven Mockers are a form of vampiric-witch that sucks the life from it's victims, as well as consumes human hearts. Appearance: By day the Raven Mocker appears as a normal human being. In such forms Raven Mockers usually appear to be elderly and can be either male or female. By night the Raven Mocker can transform into a ball of fire or light and then roam the land in search of it's prey, sick or dying humans. Lore: Raven Mockers are the most powerful witches
At night, when some one is sick or dying in the settlement, the Raven Mocker goes to the place to take the life. He flies through the air in fiery shape, with arms outstretched like wings, and sparks trailing behind, and a rushing sound like the noise of a strong wind. A Cherokee Legend. Of all the Cherokee wizards or witches the most dreaded is the Raven Mocker (Ka'kâ Lanu'lanû) , ahkyeli ski skï the one that robs the dying. Man of life they are of either sex and there is no sure way, to know one though they usually look, withered and old because they have added so many lives. to their own