Top of page. Back. Desalination is a well established method of removing salts from water in order to produce process water, ultrapure or potable water. This is accomplished through using membranes (reverse osmosis and nanofiltration) and thermal processes (multi effect distillation, evaporation and crystallisation)
Desalination is not modern science. Desalination/distillation is one of mankind's earliest forms of water treatment, and it is still a popular treatment solution throughout the world today. In ancient times, many civilizations used this process on their ships to convert sea water into drinking water. Solar desalination evaporation is used by nature to produce rain which is the main source of fresh water on earth. All available man-made distillation systems are a duplication on a small scale of this natural process.
Humans cannot drink saline water. But, saline water can be made into freshwater, which is the purpose of this portable, inflatable solar still (it even wraps up into a tiny package). The process is called desalination, and it is being used more and more around the world to provide people with needed freshwater. Solar desalination evaporation is used by nature to produce rain which is the main source of fresh water on earth. All available man-made distillation systems are a duplication on a small scale of this natural process.
A desalination device essentially separates seawater (saline water) into 2 streams: one with low concentration of dissolved salts (the fresh water stream) and the other containing the remaining dissolved salts (the concentrated or brine stream). Seawater is pure water plus dissolved solids and gases. A 1-kg sample of saltwater typically contains 35-g of dissolved compounds, including inorganic salts, organic compounds from living organisms, and dissolved gasses. The solid substances are known as 'salts' and their total amount in the water is referred to by a term known as salinity (expressed as parts per thousand
Desalination or desalinization is a process that removes minerals from saline water. More generally, desalination may also refer to the removal of salts and minerals, as in soil desalination, which also happens to be a major issue for agricultural production. Salt water is desalinated to produce fresh water suitable for human consumption or irrigation. One potential by-product of desalination is salt
Water desalination is the removal of salts and dissolved solids from saline water (brackish or seawater), also known as Desalting or Desalinization. In addition to the removal of minerals, the process removes most biological or organic chemical compounds. 
The simple hurdle that must be overcome to turn seawater into fresh water is to remove the dissolved salt in seawater. That may seem as easy as just boiling some seawater in a pan, capturing the steam and condensing it back into water (distillation). Solar desalination evaporation is used by nature to produce rain which is the main source of fresh water on earth. All available man-made distillation systems are a duplication on a small scale of this natural process.
The saline content is separated by evaporation of seawater in distillation systems. The principle of distillation is to reproduce the natural process of seawater evaporated by the heat of the sun and condensed into rainwater, but in a confined area and over a shorter period of time. Thermal desalination can be applied to all types of seawater and requires only a limited amount of pre-treatment. Desalination is a well established method of removing salts from water in order to produce process water, ultrapure or potable water.
The AMTA website offers a wide range of proprietary Fact Sheets and a complete Digital Library of presentations, posters, and papers on all topics related to membrane treatment, membrane systems, and regulatory and compliance topics. Water desalination processes separate dissolved salts and other minerals from water. Feedwater sources may include brackish, seawater, wells, surface (rivers and streams), wastewater, and industrial feed and process waters. Forward osmosis (FO) is a relatively new commercial desalting process in which a salt concentration gradient (osmotic pressure) is the driving force through a synthetic membrane. The feed (such as seawater) is on one side of the semi permeable membrane and a higher osmotic pressure “draw” solution is on the other side.
Distillation is a process of separating the component substances from a liquid mixture by selective evaporation and condensation. Distillation may result in essentially complete separation (nearly pure components), or it may be a partial separation that increases the concentration of selected components of the mixture. In either case the process exploits differences in the volatility of mixture's components.