Making the world better, one answer at a time. One acre of land can feed one person for a year. That acre of land can be reused to feed a person for the subsequent year. However, since most farmers plant somewhere around 30,000 seeds per acre, you can figure the bu … shels thus: 30,000 seeds divide by 2,000 seeds per pound equals about 15 pounds divided by 56 pounds of corn per bushel equals about 1/4 bushel per acre.
Maybe we can feed 2 people on an acre, but my point is that those two people have a responsibility to pay for what they receive from that acre plus a little more: in case of random disasters, etc. We should strive to be net useful to everything we touch and to our future selves, not net consumers. There is no gain in meat produced per acre by feeding grains to ruminants compared to feeding on pasture. Pasture is much more productive in terms of plant biomass yielded per year than corn since the plants are perennial and grow actively year-round in many areas.
To summarize, the average American consumes about 2000 lbs of food per year, which works out to about 5.5 lbs and 2700 calories per day–or nearly your entire body weight in food per month. Divide those daily 2700 calories by 5.5 lbs and you get 490 calories per pound of food, on average. There is no gain in meat produced per acre by feeding grains to ruminants compared to feeding on pasture. Pasture is much more productive in terms of plant biomass yielded per year than corn since the plants are perennial and grow actively year-round in many areas.
How many acres of forage does it take to feed 1 cow for a year? Average Fodder requirement per cow which gives 15 Kilogram of Milk/Day will be around 20-25 Kilograms. However, since most farmers plant somewhere around 30,000 seeds per acre, you can figure the bu … shels thus: 30,000 seeds divide by 2,000 seeds per pound equals about 15 pounds divided by 56 pounds of corn per bushel equals about 1/4 bushel per acre.
One Acre Feeds a Person. With the holiday season behind us many are feeling the effects of eating a bit too much and are working on a New Year’s resolution to shed some pounds. There is no gain in meat produced per acre by feeding grains to ruminants compared to feeding on pasture. Pasture is much more productive in terms of plant biomass yielded per year than corn since the plants are perennial and grow actively year-round in many areas.
1. We're long past the myth that it takes two acres of land to feed a single person. Two acres is over 87,000 square feet. This model shows how we can now feed 24 people (or more) on a plot of land only just over 8,000 square feet – and that space includes living space and recreational space. On our average city plot there is 890 square feet of space per person. This, at the least, verifies that we could all have a yard and a home on a land mass the size of Texas without any sacrifice to personal space. 1050 square feet per person would actually be an upgrade from 890 square feet per person
Most people are not looking forward to a 10 minute lecture when they ask me a supposedly simple question. So while there are many variables and lots of imprecision when answering “How much land is needed to feed a person,” for today’s American diet, with today’s agricultural system, I’ll stick with about one acre. There is no gain in meat produced per acre by feeding grains to ruminants compared to feeding on pasture. Pasture is much more productive in terms of plant biomass yielded per year than corn since the plants are perennial and grow actively year-round in many areas.
Since there are so few actual hunter/gathers left alive on the planet we will turn to anthropological data. The quick and easy answer is that traditional peoples used on average, about 10 square miles per person. 10 square miles is 6,400 acres – that is for one person. There are numerous studies and authors that cite this number and one of the most accessible is Jared Diamond author of the popular title Collapse: How Societies Choose To Fail or Succeed. At 2 acres per animal, that is 6 acres – but that doesn’t include the land you need to grow hay for winter or housing. You know, I used to feel pretty good about having 23 acres – 4 open and 19 wooded. 50,000 sq ft under cultivation, 16,000 sq ft in orchard.
WA: Yes. LRK: But instead you ended up producing 40 tons of food a year from those 3 acres. WA: You could quantify it in a number of different ways. We grow enough food there to feed about 10,000 people in a very intense and integrated food system. We grow about 150 different crops in an unusual way. We started out as a for-profit for the first 2 years. I was working with kids in the neighborhood, teaching them about where their food came from. 