Exocrine glands have ducts that carry their secretory product to a surface. These glands include the sweat, sebaceous, and mammary glands and, the glands that secrete digestive enzymes.The endocrine glands do not have ducts to carry their
The endocrine system controls the body activities by producing chemical substances called hormones are chemical messengers, secreted by ductless gland known as endocrine glands. Exocrine gland secrete their products into ducts or channels, that carry them either to the outside of the body or into body cavities.
Summary: 1. Exocrine glands have ducts to carry hormones, while endocrine glands are ductless. 2. Exocrine hormones are released into the external environment, or outside of the body. Endocrine hormones are released into the internal environment, or inside of the body. 3. Exocrine glands have sub-classifications. 4. Endocrine response is slower because hormones travel through the blood.
Exocrine Glands. Exocrine gland is a gland that secretes chemical substances into ducts. As an example, sweat gland and salivary glands. In salivary glands, saliva is produced within the gland, and it secrets into saliva duct and travels to the surface.
Endocrine glands secrete their hormones directly into the bloodstream. Exocrine glands secrete their hormones into a duct that leaves the body externally: for example, sweat glands empty onto the skin. Endocrine gland secretes compounds (hormones) into the blood.
• The main difference between the endocrine gland and exocrine gland is that, an endocrine gland lacks ducts and remains as blocks of tissue. • So, endocrine gland secrets chemical substances directly to the blood stream, while exocrine gland secrets its product into a duct.
Differences Between Endocrine vs Exocrine Glands. Gland is a specific structure which secrets various chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones, and metabolites. There are two types of glands in the body called endocrine glands and exocrine glands. Throughout the embryo development, endocrine glands lack ducts and remain as blocks of tissue.