When catalytic converters were first introduced, most vehicles used carburetors that provided a relatively rich air-fuel ratio. Oxygen (O 2) levels in the exhaust stream were therefore generally insufficient for the catalytic reaction to occur efficiently.
Catalytic converters were first widely introduced in American production cars in 1975 due to EPA regulations on toxic reductions. The United States Clean Air Act required a 75% decrease in emissions in all new model vehicles after 1975. This decrease was to be carried out with the use of catalytic converters.
The first catalytic converter was developed around 1950 for use in smoke stacks. It was invented by the French engineer Eugene Houdry. However, widespread use of the catalytic converter in cars began only in 1975, when regulations restricting air pollution produced by automobiles were introduced.
In 1981, two-way catalytic converters were rendered obsolete by three-way converters that also reduce oxides of nitrogen (NOx); however, two-way converters are still used for lean-burn engines.
How a Catalytic Converter Works. • First-generation catalytic converters, called “two-way converters,” only controlled carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrocarbon (HC) emissions. In the early 1980s, catalysts were introduced that could control nitrogen oxides (NOx), in addition to controlling CO and HC.
The catalytic converter is the centerpiece of controlling emissions from mobile sources throughout the world. When strict vehicle emission standards were first set in the U.S. by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1970, automakers did not possess the technology to significantly lower vehicle emissions.
Catalytic converters were further developed by a series of engineers including John J. Mooney and Carl D. Keith at the Engelhard Corporation, creating the first production catalytic converter in 1973.
The first widespread introduction of catalytic converters was in the United States automobile market. To comply with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 's stricter regulation of exhaust emissions, gasoline-powered vehicles starting with the 1975 model year must be equipped with catalytic converters.
The ceramic substrate of the Catalytic Converter was invented by Rodney Bagley, Irwin Lachman and Ronald Lewis at Corning Glass for which they were inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2002.