Congoleum Asbestos Containing Products. ​​​​​​During 1947 and 1983, Congoleum manufactured a wide range of flooring products with asbestos including: asphalt tile, vinyl asbestos tile, and sheet flooring in a variety of colors, patterns and styles. Provided below is a list of products manufactured by Congoleum between 1947-1983, that contained asbestos either in the flooring itself or incorporated in a felt backing material:
Vinyl tile is composed primarily of vinyl, while Congoleum is a composite flooring made of vinyl materials with a softer backing, such as felt or fiberglass. If installed correctly, both have a long durability and excellent choices in design style and color. Vinyl Tile. Vinyl tile is a composite product made in layers. Available in a wide variety of designs and modern choices, it is easily installed. Economical and resilient, it is often a good choice for a do-it-yourself enthusiast.
CONGOLEUM VINYL FLOORING. Congoleum sheet vinyl flooring comes in a wide array of styles and colors to complement your home. Congoleum vinyl is manufactured to provide durability and versatility for your home, perfect for the active lifestyle. The Congoleum name is synonymous with quality. Having provided millions of homes with their product, you can be assured the flooring they provide is crafted with care. Congoleum resilient floors are the perfect choice for 21st Century living. The evolution of today's flooring is the result of years of innovative research and development, and state-of-the-art product technology. At Congoleum, we pay close attention to the way today's families live their lives.
Resilient flooring, also called vinyl flooring is a flooring created from carefully selected natural and synthetic materials. Today’s resilient flooring is a highly engineered combination of polymer materials. Polymers are large molecules composed of repeating structural units, which allow for increased strength and durability for the lifetime of the product. Vinyl Composition Tile. Congoleum vinyl composition tile (VCT) is a mixture of limestone, thermoplastic binder, fillers and pigments. This mixture contains colored vinyl chips formed into solid sheets of varying thickness (1/8” is most common) by heat and pressure and cut into squares of the desired size and shape.
DuraCeramic offers numerous benefits that others can’t match. One of the prime benefits of working with resilient flooring is the unlimited possibilities of style and design. You can choose from 3 sizes of tile, a variety of colors & styles, Choose to Grout with a stain resistant grout or go groutless.
Resilient Sheet Flooring. Congoleum resilient sheet flooring is an engineered combination of polymer materials manufactured in a continuous length in widths ranging from 6’ to 16’. Congoleum is the only U.S. manufacturer able to create sheets of 16’ width. Vinyl Composition Tile. Congoleum vinyl composition tile (VCT) is a mixture of limestone, thermoplastic binder, fillers and pigments. This mixture contains colored vinyl chips formed into solid sheets of varying thickness (1/8” is most common) by heat and pressure and cut into squares of the desired size and shape.
Headquarted in Mercerville, NJ, the company, known today simply as Congoleum Corporation, is a leading manufacturer of resilient sheet and tile flooring products serving both residential and commercial markets. Provided below is a list of products manufactured by Congoleum between 1947-1983, that contained asbestos either in the flooring itself or incorporated in a felt backing material:
Read more here: http://www.classactionsnews.com/settl... Congoleum advertises Duraceramic flooring to be a better version of linoleum flooring because it's mixed with limestone. They claim it resists chipping and flaking and is backed by a limited lifetime warranty. There's nothing durable about this product. 
Congoleum. Congoleum is a brand that represents several types of flooring products, but resilient sheet flooring is primarily associated with the name. Made of layers similar in construction to vinyl tiles, the sheet flooring comes in widths of 6 feet or 12 feet and in a variety of designs and styles. Vinyl Tile. Vinyl tile is a composite product made in layers. Available in a wide variety of designs and modern choices, it is easily installed. Economical and resilient, it is often a good choice for a do-it-yourself enthusiast.