Step 1: Place the Eggs in a Pan of Water and Bring to a Boil. For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes. 
6. Bake the Eggs: Transfer the baking dish with the ramekins of eggs to the middle rack of the oven. Bake until the whites are set: 12-15 minutes for runny yolks, 15-18 minutes for soft-cooked yolks, or 20 minutes for hard-cooked yolks. Remove the ramekins with oven mitts and eat immediately with toast for dipping. 
Cook. When I want a soft boiled egg I want the yolk soft and the white firm. The boiling time has a lot to do with your elevation. 5 minutes is perfect for an elevation of 1100 ft (330 meters) if you are nearer sea level decrease the boiling time if at a higher elevation increase the time. 1 Bring the water to a rapid boil. 2  add saltand keep it at a rapid boil. 3  Prick the bottom (wider end) of the egg with an egg pricker. 4  Immerse in the boiling water and boil for exactly 5 minutes.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. 
Boil it for just on 4 minutes. For a soft-boiled egg, take it out and serve straight away. For a hard-boiled egg, turn off the heat and leave the egg in the pan for 10 minutes. 5. To hard boil an egg - 100% perfect every time: Eggs in pot-just cover with cold water do NOT cover with lid. Cover and bring the water to the boil over high heat. Reduce heat immediately to medium and gently boil, uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 1 minute per egg for a soft-boiled egg, 2 minutes per egg for a medium-boiled egg, and 3 minutes per egg for a hard-boiled egg. 1  Step 2.
1 Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. 2  Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 3  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 4 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 1 Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 2  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 3 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 4  Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon.
Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. (For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.) Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. Run under cold tap water for 30 to 60 seconds. 1 Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 2  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 3 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 4 
Always start with eggs that are at room temperature to best predict the cooking time and minimise cracking. For a soft-boiled egg, lower the egg into gently boiling water with a slotted spoon. Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be
Soft: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 4 to 5 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 