8: Interoperability. With Azure, you can develop hybrid applications that allow your on-premises applications to use cloud services, such as the cloud database and storage services. Communications services work between on-premises applications and the cloud, as well as mobile devices.
Be sure to keep the Allow Azure Services to access the server option selected so that you can connect to this database using the Management Portal for SQL Database, storage services, and other services on Azure. Click the checkmark at the bottom of the page when you are finished.
The easiest way to create your first Azure storage account is by using the Azure Management Portal. To learn more, see Create a storage account. You can create an Azure storage account by using Azure PowerShell or Azure CLI, or by using the Azure Storage Resource Provider REST API.
To get started using the BLOB service, we’ll first need to have a Windows Azure account and create a Storage Account. You can get a free trial account or, if you have a MSDN Subscription, you can sign up for your Windows Azure benefits in order to try out the examples included in this article.
SQL Database provides relational data storage, access, and management services on Azure. To use it, you'll need an Azure subscription. Open a web browser, and browse to http://azure.microsoft.com/ . To get started with a free account, click free trial in the upper right corner and follow the steps.
Sign in to Azure. SQL Database provides relational data storage, access, and management services on Azure. To use it, you'll need an Azure subscription. Open a web browser, and browse to http://azure.microsoft.com/ . To get started with a free account, click free trial in the upper right corner and follow the steps.
What is Blob Storage. Azure Blob storage is a service for storing large amounts of unstructured data, such as text or binary data, that can be accessed from anywhere in the world via HTTP or HTTPS. You can use Blob storage to expose data publicly to the world, or to store application data privately.
Create and configure SQL Database. Next, create and configure a database and server. In the Azure Management Portal, revised workflows let you create the database first, and follow up with server provisioning. Create a database instance and logical server: Sign in to the Azure Management Portal.