Considerations. Normal menstrual flow lasts about 4 days (plus or minus 2 - 3 days). It produces a total blood loss of 30 - 80 ml (about 2 - 8 tablespoons), and occurs normally every 28 days (plus or minus 7 days). Vaginal bleeding that occurs between periods or after menopause can be caused by various problems. 
The average menstrual cycle. On average, a woman's menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, but cycles can vary from 24 to 35 days. After puberty, most women develop a regular menstrual cycle, with around the same length of time between periods. Menstrual bleeding usually lasts two to seven days, with the average being five days
There is always a different amount of time between periods and always last for a different amount of time. Sometimes i can be on my period for 2 to 3 weeks others 1 week, they are never 5 days or less. On average, a woman's menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, but cycles can vary from 24 to 35 days. After puberty, most women develop a regular menstrual cycle, with around the same length of time between periods. Menstrual bleeding usually lasts two to seven days, with the average being five day
Now, my periods are irregular, light spotting between periods, and my last period has been going on for 8 days now, seems about to stop, then I bleed bright red again. The bleeding is not heavy, just constant spotting. I saw my GYN about 6 months ago, and my pap smear and exam were normal. off for about 4 years. Normal periods, spotting, 2 periods in one month and then months without one. Each year that I go to the gyn., he does an ultrasound & an endometrial biopsy (so far, good) and offers birth control pills and that's about it.
Read More. off for about 4 years. Normal periods, spotting, 2 periods in one month and then months without one. Each year that I go to the gyn., he does an ultrasound & an endometrial biopsy (so far, good) and offers birth control pills and that's about it. So I guess this happens, and unless you're willing to try bcp, you just need to stick it out
Causes of Vaginal Bleeding Between Periods. Bleeding between periods is not a normal part of the menstrual cycle. On average, the cycle is 28 days long with a four-day period of bleeding. A cycle between 21 and 35 days long and a period that lasts between two and seven days is normal. Any bleeding outside of this is considered abnormal and can be caused by a variety of factors: 1  Hormonal imbalance: Estrogen and progesterone are the two hormones that regulate your cycle. 
Periods last around three to seven days. The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, although it’s normal to have a cycle that's shorter or longer than this. 
In some cases, changes in the body that lead to the menopause can start as early as 10 years before a final period. On average, a menstrual cycle lasts about 28 days, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days may be considered normal. One of the first signs of changing hormone levels is a change in the pattern of your monthly period. As your body transitions to menopause you may experience a range of symptoms that include changes in: 
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle.