To renew your vehicle registration when stationed outside of Delaware, you will need to contact the state’s Registration Correspondence Section for an Out-of-State Inspection Packet to be mailed to you provided you are outside a 250 mile radius of a DMV location in the State of Delaware.
If you are a military member stationed outside Alaska, you can renew your vehicle registration in Alaska (if the vehicle is registered in your name in Alaska). Your LES must show Alaska as your home of record. Click here for details.
If you move to Hawaii, move within the state from one county to another, or buy a vehicle in Hawaii, you must register it with the Hawaii Department of Transportation. Hawaii is unique in that the state is comprised of islands and broken up by counties. Vehicles must be registered in the county in which you live.
If you are stationed in Colorado but a resident of another state, you can register your vehicle without paying ownership tax by completing this Nonresidence and Military Service Exemption From Specific Ownership Tax Affidavit (Form DR 2667) and taking it to your county title and registration office. Learn more here.
If you move from one county to another in Hawaii, you must register your car or truck in your new county of residence. Go to the DMV office in your new county and submit: 1  A completed Application for Registration of Motor Vehicle. 2  All owners listed on the title must sign the application.
You can either keep your home state’s registration or switch to Hawaii’s registration. If you choose to stay with your home state, you will be exempt from the annual weight tax and any excise taxes in Hawaii, but you’ll need to have a vehicle safety inspection.
HI Military Members & Vehicle Registration. Registration rules are different for members of the military serving in Hawaii, based on whether you are a Hawaii resident stationed in or out of state, or a non-resident stationed in Hawaii.
Contact the Hawaii DMV for details on your specific circumstances for registering your out-of-state vehicle in Hawaii. If you purchase a vehicle in Hawaii, or choose to register your out-of-state vehicle in Hawaii, you do not have to pay registration fees.