From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Catnip (disambiguation) . Nepeta cataria, commonly known as catnip, catswort, or catmint, is a species of the genus Nepeta in the family Lamiaceae, native to southern and eastern Europe, the Middle East, central Asia, and parts of China. It is also widely naturalized in northern Europe, New Zealand, North America, etc. Catnip contains the feline attractant nepetalactone. Nepeta cataria (and some other species within the genus Nepeta) are known for their behavioral effects on the cat family, not only on domestic cats but also other species of cats.
Catnip is a perennial herb from the mint family Labiatae. It has a square, hairy stalk with typically geen/grey coloured heart shaped leaves that have scalloped edges. Flowers grow in spikes, reaching 1/2 inch in length. It is best known for its ability to get cats high. 
1 Catnip (Nepeta cataria) is a perennial herb that is a member of the mint family. 2  It can grow to be up to three feet high! 3  The chemical compound in the plant that attracts and affects cats is called nepetalactone. 
Not all cats fall for catnip. It's an inherited sensitivity, and if your cat didn't get that gene, he simply won't care about catnip. An estimated 50 percent of cats don't respond. The trait doesn't emerge until a cat is between three and six months old; until then, a kitten will not have a response. The essential oil in catnip, nepetalactone, has a powerful effect on cats who are sensitive to it, turning even the most sedentary couch potato into a flipped-out ball of ecstasy. The most intense catnip experience is an olfactory one—your cat smells the herb and promptly goes nuts. Researchers aren't sure what the neurological explanation is, but it's thought that catnip mimics feline happy pheromones and stimulates the receptors in the brain that respond to those pheromones
Catnip belongs to the Mint family. The main ingredient of this plant is called nepatalactone, and it affects the nervous system of cats and humans, both in different ways. Researchers have come to the conclusion that the main ingredient of catnip is similar to cat pheromones. This seems to be the main reason why cats love it so much.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Catnip, also called catmint, is an herb that is, as its name suggests, very attractive to cats. It is a member of the mint family, and it's leaves and stems are fuzzy, like sage. Easy to cultivate, catnip will spread rapidly, like any mint. 
In this article. Catnip, catmint, catwort, field balm -- it doesn't matter what you call it. Lions, tigers, panthers, and your common domestic tabby just can't seem to get enough of this fragrant herb. Originally from Europe and Asia, minty, lemony, potent catnip -- Nepeta cataria -- has long been associated with cats. 
Lots More Information. Catnip is the common name for a perennial herb of the mint family. It is native to Europe and is an import to the United States and other countries. The catnip plant is now a widespread weed in North America. The catnip reaction is inherited, and some cats are totally unaffected by it. Large cats like tigers can be sensitive to it as well. The reaction to catnip only lasts a few minutes. Then the cat acclimates to it, and it can take an hour or two away from catnip for the cat to reset..