Oligarchy is the rule of the few. power in the hands of a few people with a lot of money. The word oligarchy is defined as a small group of people having control of a country, or institution. An example would be A government that controls a state or group of people. Rule by a wealthy elite. The definition of oligarchy is having a small group of people who control an organization or a country
Oligarchy is a form of power structure in which power rests with a small number of people, either by royalty, wealth, family ties, corporate control, and military control. T … he former Soviet Union was an oligarchy where members of the Communist Party were over-privileged. power in the hands of a few people with a lot of money. The word oligarchy is defined as a small group of people having control of a country, or institution. An example would be A government that controls a state or group of people. Rule by a wealthy elite. The definition of oligarchy is having a small group of people who control an organization or a country
Find What is Oligarchy! Find what is Oligarchy! System governed by a few powerful people It can also be described as, Philosophy that dates back to 1000-500 BC. For any form of government some characteristics would define its framework and structure. 
Full Definition of OLIGARCHY. 1. : government by the few. 2. : a government in which a small group exercises control especially for corrupt and selfish purposes; also: a group exercising such control. 3. : an organization under oligarchic control. See oligarchy defined for English-language learners. : a country, business, etc., that is controlled by a small group of people. : the people that control a country, business, etc. : government or control by a small group of people.
-chies): Oligarchy is literally rule by a few. A small group of people having control of a country, organization, or institution: the ruling oligarchy of military men around the president. A state governed by such a group: the English aristocratic oligarchy of the 19th century. Most of the nations of the world are ruled only by a powerful few. An Oligarchy is a form of government controlled by a group, council, or a board of directors. Oligarchies typically have no constitution nor charter-and the CONTROLLERS have the freedom to rule however they see fit.
Oligarchy means rule by a group, which is how most of the nations of the world are governed today and throughout history. Most of the nations of the world are ruled only by a powerful few. An Oligarchy is a form of government controlled by a group, council, or a board of directors. Oligarchies typically have no constitution nor charter-and the CONTROLLERS have the freedom to rule however they see fit. Citizens have no vote and must put up with whatever their tyrannical rulers decide to do with them
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Oligarchy (from Greek ὀλιγαρχία (oligarkhia) ; oligarkhía from (ὀλίγος) , oligos olígos, meaning few (and) , ἄρχω arkho meaning to rule or) to command is a form of power structure in which power effectively rests with a small number. of people Throughout history, oligarchies have often been tyrannical, relying on public obedience or oppression to exist. Aristotle pioneered the use of the term as a synonym for rule by the rich, for which another term commonly used today is plutocracy.
oligarchy. 1. Government by a small faction or group of families, from Greek words meaning “a few” and “chief” or “principal.”. 2. A form of government in which power is held by a small group of people. 1. a form of government in which power is vested in a few persons or in a dominant class or clique. 2. a state or organization so ruled. 3. the persons or class so ruling.