Overview. An osteoblastoma is an uncommon primary neoplasm of the bone that has clinical and histologic manifestations that are similar to those of an osteoid osteoma; therefore, some consider the 2 lesions to be variants of the same disease, with osteoblastoma representing a giant osteoid osteoma. Presentation and natural history. Osteoblastoma is typically seen in the second decade of life, with a male predilection. Approximately 40% of all osteoblastomas are located in the spine. The tumors usually involve the posterior elements, and 17% of spinal osteoblastomas are found in the sacrum.
Osteoblastoma is a benign (noncancerous) bone tumor. It is a rare tumor that often develops in the bones of the spine, as well as the legs, hands, and feet. Adolescents and young adults are most often affected by osteoblastoma. 
The etiology of osteoblastoma is unknown. Histologically, osteoblastomas are similar to osteoid osteomas, producing both osteoid and primitive woven bone amidst fibrovascular connective tissue, the difference being that osteoblastoma can grow larger than 2.0 cm in diameter while osteoid osteomas cannot. Osteoblastoma of the long tubular bones is often diaphyseal, and fewer are located in the metaphysis. Epiphyseal involvement is extremely rare. Although other sites are rarely affected, several bones in the abdomen and extremities have been reported as sites of osteoblastoma tumors.
Background. Osteoblastoma is a rare primary neoplasm of bone, categorized as a benign bone tumor that is closely related to osteoid osteoma. It differs from osteoid osteoma in its ability to grow larger than 2.0 cm in diameter. and its aggressive behavior in bone. Osteoblastoma may affect any bone, but it most frequently arises within the posterior elements of the vertebral column and long tubular bones. When these tumors develop in the spine, patients may present with neurologic symptoms due to spinal cord or nerve root compression.
Osteoblastoma is also closely related to osteoid osteoma, a more common benign bone tumor, but differs in that an osteoblastoma can grow larger than an osteoid osteoma. If an osteoblastoma is located on or in the spinal column, it can cause scoliosis and neurological symptoms. It is not known what causes osteoblastoma. Symptoms of osteoblastoma include: 1  Sustained pain (which is less likely to respond to over-the-counter common pain relievers like Tylenol or ibuprofen). 2  Swelling and tenderness.
Noun. 1. osteoblastoma-benign tumor of bone and fibrous tissue; occurs in the vertebrae or femur or tibia or arm bones (especially in young adults). benign tumor, benign tumour, nonmalignant neoplasm, nonmalignant tumor, nonmalignant tumour-a tumor that is not cancerous. Translations
Osteoblastoma is a rare benign bone tumor that accounts for about 1 percent of all primary bone tumors in the United States. It affects twice as many boys as girls. While most primary bone tumors form in the extremities, osteoblastoma usually forms in the lower vertebrae of the spine or in the long bones of the leg. It is not known what causes osteoblastoma. Symptoms of osteoblastoma include: 1  Sustained pain (which is less likely to respond to over-the-counter common pain relievers like Tylenol or ibuprofen). 2  Swelling and tenderness.
Osteoblastoma. A rare benign bone-forming neoplasm usually arising from the spine. It is a well-circumscribed lytic tumor that varies in size. The tumor is composed of woven bone trabeculae and shares similar histologic characteristics with the osteoid osteoma. Surgical curettage is the treatment of choice. 
Osteoblastoma is an uncommon osteoid tissue-forming primary neoplasm of the bone. It has clinical and histologic manifestations similar to those of osteoid osteoma; therefore, some consider the two tumors to be variants of the same disease, with osteoblastoma representing a giant osteoid osteoma. Osteoblastoma of the long tubular bones is often diaphyseal, and fewer are located in the metaphysis. Epiphyseal involvement is extremely rare. Although other sites are rarely affected, several bones in the abdomen and extremities have been reported as sites of osteoblastoma tumors.
Noun. 1. osteoblastoma-benign tumor of bone and fibrous tissue; occurs in the vertebrae or femur or tibia or arm bones (especially in young adults). benign tumor, benign tumour, nonmalignant neoplasm, nonmalignant tumor, nonmalignant tumour-a tumor that is not cancerous. Translations.