Incantations (karakia) were chanted in flawless repetition to influence the gods. Arts. Most of the material objects of the Maori were highly decorated. Their statues and carvings, especially with filigree motifs, are admired worldwide and are the frequent subject of art museum exhibitions. All free men were tapu to a degree directly proportional to their rank. Furthermore, an object or resource could be made tapu and therefore off-limits. The punishment for violating a tapu restriction was automatic, usually coming as sickness or death. The Maori had a pantheon of supernatural beings (atua).
Indigenous Religions of Polynesians. (). “MAORI Faith” the indigenous religion of New Zealand MAORI faith:part 1  Polynesia A major division of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of the International Date Line, extending from Hawaii in the north to New Zealand in the south. Established religion is the religion buttressed and proscribed by the law of the land and funded by tax money. The established religion in New Zealand is Maori animism. In historical terms it is a pagan and primitive religion, riddled with superstition and idolatry. It is an offence and provocation to the Living God
The Tangi-Religion and spirituality-Tapu and Noa. I f a tangi (funeral service) is held on the Marae, the local Marae people hold small twigs of green leaves in their hands. The twigs are a symbol of mourning. There is a funeral service before the burial of the tupapaku (body). 
Traditional Māori religion, that is, the pre-European belief system of the Māori, was little modified from that of their tropical Eastern Polynesian homeland (Hawaiki Nui), conceiving of everything, including natural elements and all living things as connected by common descent through whakapapa or genealogy. The proportion of Māori followers of Islam is low. Although the number of Māori Muslims grew rapidly at the end of the 20th century to 1074 at the 2006 census, the total number of New Zealanders identifying as Māori was 565,329. Thus, the total number of identified Māori Muslims was 0.19 percent of the Māori population.
Page 1 – Ngā atua – the gods. At the centre of Māori religion were the atua or gods. In Māori belief the natural and supernatural worlds were one – there was no Māori word for religion. The use of the term ‘whakapono’ for religion was introduced by missionaries. Whakapono also means faith and trust. How to cite this page: Basil Keane. 'Traditional Māori religion – ngā karakia a te Māori-Ngā atua – the gods', Te Ara-the Encyclopedia of New Zealand, updated 17-Dec-14. URL: http://www.TeAra.govt.nz/en/traditional-maori-religion-nga-karakia-a-te-maori/page-1.
Religious Beliefs. The Maori held an essentially spiritual view of the universe. Anything associated with the supernatural was invested with tapu, a mysterious quality which made those things or persons imbued with it either sacred or unclean according to context. Objects and persons could also possess mana, psychic power. All free men were tapu to a degree directly proportional to their rank. Furthermore, an object or resource could be made tapu and therefore off-limits. The punishment for violating a tapu restriction was automatic, usually coming as sickness or death. The Maori had a pantheon of supernatural beings (atua).
[ˈmaori] , [ˈmaeuri] , [ˈmæuri] , [ˈmari]) ˈmɒəri are the Indigenous polynesian people Of New. Zealand The māori originated with settlers from Eastern, polynesia who arrived In New zealand in several waves of canoe voyages at some time between 1250 and 1300. ce 
Maori belongs to the Tahitic branch of the Eastern Polynesian language group. (Eastern Polynesian is, in turn, a branch of the larger Austronesian language family.) Prior to European colonization of New Zealand, there were two distinct Maori dialects: North Island Maori; and South Island Maori, which is now extinct. The islands of New Zealand are the presentday homeland of the Maori. New Zealand consists of two islands: the North Island and the South Island. The North Island is hilly with areas of flat, rolling terrain. The South Island is larger and more mountainous.
Māori Christian church in Akaroa. Christianity was adopted by Māori across New Zealand during the 19th century. Māori religion is the religious beliefs and practice of the Māori, the Polynesian indigenous people of New Zealand. The proportion of Māori followers of Islam is low. Although the number of Māori Muslims grew rapidly at the end of the 20th century to 1074 at the 2006 census, the total number of New Zealanders identifying as Māori was 565,329. Thus, the total number of identified Māori Muslims was 0.19 percent of the Māori population.