Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both. Cnidarians' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors. Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes. Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves, but many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites. Many are preyed on by other animals including starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
Cnidarians take on two basic forms, a medusa and a polyp. The medusa form is a free-swimming structure which consists of an umbrella-shaped body (called a bell), a fringe of tentacles that hang from the edge of the bell, a mouth opening located on the underside of the bell, and a gastrovascular cavity. Corals belong to a group of cnidarians known as the Anthozoa. There are many types of coral and it should be noted that the term coral does not correspond to a single taxonomic class. Some groups of corals include: 1  Alcyonacea (soft corals). 2  Antipatharia (black corals and thorny corals).
cnidarians, such as jelly fish, sea anemones, hydra, and corals, have tentacles surrounding their mouth. they are a hollow-bodied animal with two celled layers that are organ … ized into tissues. the inner layer forms a digestive cavity where food is broken down. 1 All Cnidarians are aquatic and carnivorous, and they occur in two basic body shapes: polyps,…. 2  Characteristics of Cnidaria Cnidaria is an alternative name for the invertebrate phylum Coelenterata, giving emphasis to the stinging structures as characteristic of the phylum.
In some species, cnidocytes can also be used as anchors. Like sponges and ctenophores, cnidarians have two main layers of cells that sandwich a middle layer of jelly-like material, which is called the mesoglea in cnidarians; more complex animals have three main cell layers and no intermediate jelly-like layer. Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves, but many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites. Many are preyed on by other animals including starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
There are two types (or body plans) of cnidarians. There is the Medusa, which is a Jellyfish, really. And there is a Polyp, which is like an upside-down Jellyfish, if you want it simply. A polyp would be your sea anemone or coral. They spend most of their lives attached to a hard surface underwater. 1 All Cnidarians are aquatic and carnivorous, and they occur in two basic body shapes: polyps,…. 2  Characteristics of Cnidaria Cnidaria is an alternative name for the invertebrate phylum Coelenterata, giving emphasis to the stinging structures as characteristic of the phylum.
a. the free-swimming form of a body is called medusa. b. the stationary form of body is called the polyp. c. they have two layers of tissue (nerves and muscle cells). d. mouth and anus are in different openings. Add your answer. Answers. Best Answer: All of those are true of cnidarians except for d. They only have one opening for the mouth and anus. Cnidarians include jellyfish, sea anemones, coral, box jellies, etc. (They eat and poop out the same hole..
Cnidarians exhibit two basic structural forms, a medusa and a polyp. The medusa form is a free-swimming structure which consists of an umbrella-shaped body (called a bell), a fringe of tentacles that hang from the edge of the bell, a mouth opening located on the underside of the bell, and a gastrovascular cavity. Cnidarians are radially symmetrical and they have tentacles that encircle their mouth. The body wall of cnidarians consists of an outer layer or epidermis, an inner layer or gastrodermis, and a middle layer or mesoglea. Cnidarians lack organs and posses a primitive nervous system known as a neural net.
Share. By Laura Klappenbach. Cnidarians (Cnidaria) are a group of aquatic animals that includes jellyfish, corals, sea anemones, and hydras. The basic form of the cnidarian body is quite simple and consists of a gastrovascular cavity with a single opening through which food is ingested and waste is released. Cnidarians are radially symmetrical and they have tentacles that encircle their mouth. The body wall of cnidarians consists of an outer layer or epidermis, an inner layer or gastrodermis, and a middle layer or mesoglea. Cnidarians lack organs and posses a primitive nervous system known as a neural net.
A. Cnidarians have a circulatory system. B. All cnidarians are carnivorous predators. C. All cnidarian life cycles include both polyp and medusa stages. D. They have bilateral symmetry. E. They have a complex nervous system. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.