The respiration rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. The rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. Respiration rates may increase with fever, illness, and with other medical conditions.
On average, a person at rest takes about 16 breaths per minute. This means we breathe about 960 breaths an hour, 23,040 breaths a day, 8,409,600 a year. Unless we get a lot of exercise. The person who lives to 80 will take about 672,768,000 breaths in a lifetime. 
The typical respiratory rate for a healthy adult at rest is 12–20 breaths per minute. Average resting respiratory rates by age are: 1  birth to 6 weeks: 30–60 breaths per minute. 2  6 months: 25–40 breaths per minute. A normal respiratory rate is termed eupnea, an increased respiratory rate is termed tachypnea and a lower-than-normal respiratory rate is termed bradypnea. Breathing (which in organisms with lungs is called ventilation and includes inhalation and exhalation) is a part of respiration.
Confidence votes 1.9K. If a person had 70-90 breathes in one minute, they wouldn't be human anymore. The average adult breathes in and out every 4-5 seconds or so. If you are an adult and your respiration are between 12 and 25, then you need not worry.
Measurement. The human respiration rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. Respiration rates may increase with fever, illness, and with other medical conditions. Normal findings. Normal respiratory rate reported in a healthy adult varies from source to source: between 12 to 20 breaths per minute, between 10-14, , between 14-18, etc. (With such a slow rate, it is best to count the number of breaths over a full minute for accuracy.).
Definition. Respiratory rate (also known as ventilation rate, respiration rate, breathing rate, pulmonary ventilation rate, breathing frequency, and respiratory frequency or Rf) = the number of breaths a person takes during one minute. It is usually measured at rest, while sitting. Most modern adults breathe much faster (about 15-20 breaths per minute) than their normal breathing frequency. The respiratory rates in the sick persons are usually higher, generally about 20 breaths/min or more.
1 Set a timer for one minute and then count the number of breaths you take during that minute. 2  Multiply that number by 60 to get the number of breaths per hour. 3  Then multiply that number by 24 to get your number of breaths per day. 4  Compare your number with that of a friend or family member. Older children and adults, when resting, usually breathe about 12-20 times per minute. Over the course of a day, that adds up to 17,000-30,000 breaths per day — or more! Those average breathing rates are for when you’re at rest.
Procedure. 1. Respiration rate is the number of breaths taken each minute (a breath is one inhalation and one exhalation). While watching a clock, count the number of times you breathe in two minutes. Make three trials, and find the average. Divide by two to find the average number of breaths per minute. Record respiration rate on your chart. 
Measurement [edit]. Human respiration rate is measured when a person is at rest and involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. An optical breath rate sensor can be used for monitoring patients during a magnetic resonance imaging scan. A normal respiratory rate is termed eupnea, an increased respiratory rate is termed tachypnea and a lower-than-normal respiratory rate is termed bradypnea. Breathing (which in organisms with lungs is called ventilation and includes inhalation and exhalation) is a part of respiration.