Pink Cliffs Reserves, remains of the goldrush in Heathcote. Heathcote pronunciation (help·info) is a town in central Victoria, Australia, situated on the Northern Highway 110 kilometres north of Melbourne and 40 kilometres south-east of Bendigo via the McIvor Highway. This was not before the Victorian government gazetted the township of Heathcote on the site and ordered the construction of several official buildings. The post office opened on 1 July 1853 as McIvor Creek but six months later, on 1 January 1854, was renamed
Living Sustainably ... Heathcote is an intentional community located 30 miles north of Baltimore, MD and 20 miles south of York, PA. It is nestled in a narrow wooded stream valley on a 44 acre community land trust plus a 68 acre plot of woods that's owned by some of our members. Together. Heathcote is an intentional community located 30 miles north of Baltimore, MD and 20 miles south of York, PA. It is nestled in a narrow wooded stream valley on a 44 acre community land trust plus a 68 acre plot of woods that's owned by some of our members.
Welcome to Heathcote. A welcoming village atmosphere awaits just a little over an hour from Melbourne. In the heart of Central Victoria and nestled beneath the stunning McHarg and McIvor Ranges, is the charming township of Heathcote. Touring the Heathcote Region. Being located in Central Victoria adds to the appeal of Heathcote. No matter which direction you head from the township and you’ll discover wonderful towns and villages offer a range of experiences.
Heathcote is reputed to have the longest main street in Victoria. The town is the centre of the recognised Heathcote wine region, notable for its Shiraz wines. In 2010 the Heathcote Winery won a gold medal at the Queensland Wine Show. This was not before the Victorian government gazetted the township of Heathcote on the site and ordered the construction of several official buildings. The post office opened on 1 July 1853 as McIvor Creek but six months later, on 1 January 1854, was renamed Heathcote.
Heathcote is a suburb, in southern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Heathcote is located 36 km south of the Sydney central business district in the Sutherland Shire. Heathcote is bordered by Engadine to the north and Waterfall to the south. It is bounded by The Royal National Park to the east, and Heathcote National Park to the west. Heathcote is separated into two sections by the railway line. Heathcote East contains two of the schools and a sports oval. Heathcote West is the larger side with the majority of residents. South Metropolitan Scouts Association has a camping ground and training centre in Boundary Road.
The Heathcote Cricket Club competes in the Northern United Cricket Association and celebrated back to back premiership success in seasons 2012/13 & 2013/14, minus their gun cricketer Justin Hancock. This was not before the Victorian government gazetted the township of Heathcote on the site and ordered the construction of several official buildings. The post office opened on 1 July 1853 as McIvor Creek but six months later, on 1 January 1854, was renamed Heathcote.
Heathcote (GNIS FID: 952496) is a populated place LOCATED WITHIN the Village of Scarsdale. In turn, the Village of Scarsdale is located within Westchester County. Heathcote is located at latitude 40.985 and longitude -73.775. The elevation of Heathcote is 243 feet above mean sea level. Since Heathcote is located within the Village of Scarsdale, all of the census and demographic data for residents of Heathcote are included as part of the information reported for Village of Scarsdale in the Data tab above.