Hardboard/Pegboard. Hardboard is a panel made by compressing exploded wood fibers in a wet process that makes a smooth dense panel that is stronger and harder than regular MDF. It is also available in tempered which is a hardening process using linseed oil and baking of traditional hardboard. 
MDF (Medium Density Fibreboard). MDF is a type of hardboard which is made from wood fibres glued under heat and pressure. MDF has many qualities that make it an ideal alternative to plywood or chipboard. It is dense, flat, stiff, has no knots and is easily machined. Hardboard is a compressed, composite board. Fibre residuals are saturated in a wet process and then compressed to a sheet. A fine fibre overlay is applied (normally to one side) to provide smooth face. Three basic types are available-standard, medium and oil-tempered.
Hardboard is a type of extremely dense fiberboard. This type of material is used in a variety of different applications in the construction field. You can also apply it to other areas in your life. Here are some of the best uses for hardboard. Hardboard is also frequently used in making cabinets. This type of wood does not have any grain to it, which provides a very unique look that some people like. It can also be used as the interior of the cabinets if you prefer some other type of material on the outside where you can see.
Hardboard (not to be confused with hardwood), also called high-density fiberboard (HDF), is a type of fiberboard, which is an engineered wood product. This product is also known under Isorel or Masonite brand names. Hardboard is produced in either a wet or dry process. The wet process, known as the Mason Method, leaves only one smooth side while the dry processed hardboard is smooth on both sides.
Consequently, the density of hardboard is 31 lbs or more per cubic foot (500 kg/m³) and is usually about 50-65 lbs per cubic foot (800–1040 kg/m³). It differs from particle board in that the bonding of the wood fibers requires no additional materials, although resin is often added. Hardboard is produced in either a wet or dry process. The wet process, known as the Mason Method, leaves only one smooth side while the dry processed hardboard is smooth on both sides.
Name : -Hardboard. Sources : -Hardboards are a cheaper option than plywood where strength is not required. Hardboard is made from wood fibre is extracted from chips and pulped wood waste. In the production process the pulp is exploded under pressure. Heat and steam is applies to leave a fine, fluffy brown fibres. Disadvantages : -Hardboard cannot be used outside because it absorbs water. Advantages : -There are three basic types of hardboard are available-standard, medium and oil-tempered. Oil tempered boards are impregnated with oil making them stiffer, harder and more resistant to scratches and moisture.
Because hardboard is a type of unfinished composite panel made from residual wood fiber, such as chips and shavings, it is carefully value engineered for each application. This results in product solutions which are substantially less expensive than alternatives. 
Quartrboard, Masonite CORPORATION, c.1930. Masonite is a type of hardboard made of steam-cooked and pressure-molded wood fibres in a process patented by William H. Mason. This product is also known as Quartrboard, Isorel, hernit, karlit, torex or treetex. In the 1930s and 1940s, Masonite was used for many applications including doors, roofing, walls, desktops, and canoes. It was sometimes used for house siding. Similar tempered hardboard is now a generic product made by many forest product companies.
Hardboard has long been used in furniture, but it is also popular for use in the construction industry and with trades as a temporary floor protector. Hardboard is produced in either a wet or dry process. The wet process, known as the Mason Method, leaves only one smooth side while the dry processed hardboard is smooth on both sides.
Hardboard siding is a wood-based cladding product that provides builders a low-cost alternative to wood and concrete siding. However, a series of class-action lawsuits in the '90s greatly diminished its popularity. 