A city and administrative region of southeast China on the coast southeast of Guangzhou, including Hong Kong Island and adjacent areas. Hong Kong Island was occupied by the British during the Opium War (1839-1842) and ceded to them by the Treaty of Nanking (1842). Other portions of the colony were acquired in 1860 and in 1898 by a 99-year lease. Hong Kong reverted to Chinese sovereignty in 1997
As a result of negotiations between China and Britain, Hong Kong was transferred to the People's Republic of China under the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration. The territory became a special administrative region of China with a high degree of autonomy on 1 July 1997 under the principle of one country, two systems. Hong Kong is known for its skyline and deep natural harbour. It has an area of 1104 km 2 and shares its northern border with the Guangdong Province of Mainland China. With around 7.2 million Hongkongers of various nationalities, Hong Kong is one of the world's most densely populated metropolises.
it has multiple definition Kong is the Danish word for king, but can also refer to the following: A common Chinese surname kǒng (孔), Clan name of Confucius. A town in north-eastern Cote côte'D, ivoire lying west of The Comoe Comoë. National park short for the fictional Giant Ape. King Kong a manufacturer of. dog toys Report Abuse. Kong is a shortened expression of Kikonga, meaning the Congo (formerly Zaire) in Africa. The name King Kong is a play on this place name, as the great ape was supposedly captured in that area. Hong Kong is simply a place name of a former crown colony of Great Britain, now a free country.
Definition of HONG KONG. 1. special administrative region China on SE coast E of mouth of Zhu River including Hong Kong Island, Jiulong Peninsula & New Territories, & nearby islands; formerly a British crown colony with Victoria as ∗ area 424 square miles (1098 square kilometers), pop 6,708,389. 2.
Hong Kong. 1. a former British crown colony comprising Hong Kong island (29 sq. mi.; 75 sq. km), Kowloon peninsula, nearby islands, and the adjacent mainland bordering SE China: reverted to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. 6,413,000; 404 sq. mi. Hong Kong Island was occupied by the British during the Opium War (1839-1842) and ceded to them by the Treaty of Nanking (1842). Other portions of the colony were acquired in 1860 and in 1898 by a 99-year lease.
Hong Kong (香港; Fragrant Harbour), traditionally Hongkong, officially Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, is an autonomous territory on the southern coast of China at the Pearl River Estuary and the South China Sea. Hong Kong is known for its skyline and deep natural harbour. It has an area of 1104 km 2 and shares its northern border with the Guangdong Province of Mainland China. With around 7.2 million Hongkongers of various nationalities, Hong Kong is one of the world's most densely populated metropolises.
Definition of Hong Kong in English: A special administrative region on the SE coast of China, a British dependency until 1997; population 7,346,600 (est. 2009); official languages, English and Cantonese; capital, Victoria.
it has multiple definition Kong is the Danish word for king, but can also refer to the following: A common Chinese surname kǒng (孔), Clan name of Confucius. A town in north-eastern Cote côte'D, ivoire lying west of The Comoe Comoë. national park Report Abuse. Kong is a shortened expression of Kikonga, meaning the Congo (formerly Zaire) in Africa. The name King Kong is a play on this place name, as the great ape was supposedly captured in that area. Hong Kong is simply a place name of a former crown colony of Great Britain, now a free country.
it has multiple definition Kong is the Danish word for king, but can also refer to the following: A common Chinese surname kǒng (孔), Clan name of Confucius. A town in north-eastern Cote côte'D, ivoire lying west of The Comoe Comoë. National park short for the fictional Giant Ape. king kong Report Abuse. Kong is a shortened expression of Kikonga, meaning the Congo (formerly Zaire) in Africa. The name King Kong is a play on this place name, as the great ape was supposedly captured in that area. Hong Kong is simply a place name of a former crown colony of Great Britain, now a free country.