The tarsal tunnel refers to the canal formed between the medial malleolus (part of the ankle bone, this is the bump on the inside of the ankle) and the flexor retinaculum (a band of ligaments that stretches across the foot). 
In tetrapods, the tarsus is a cluster of seven articulating bones in each foot situated between the lower end of tibia and fibula of the lower leg and the metatarsus. The tarsus articulates with the bones of the metatarsus, which in turn articulate with the proximal phalanges of the toes. The joint between the tibia and fibula above and the tarsus below is referred to as the ankle joint. In birds, the tarsus has disappeared, with the proximal tarsals having fused with the tibia, the centralia having disappeared, and the distal bones having fused with the metatarsals to form a single tarsometatarsus bone, effectively giving the leg a third segment.
tarsal. 1. pertaining to the tarsus of an eyelid. 2. pertaining to the tarsus of the foot. tarsal tunnel syndrome a complex of symptoms resulting from compression of the posterior tibial nerve or of the plantar nerves in the tarsal tunnel, with pain, numbness, and tingling paresthesia of the sole of the foot. (tar'săl), 
Summary Information: Tarsals. Tarsals: The tarsals are a group of bones located in the foot and ankle area. There are seven tarsals in each ankle/foot, and they form a part of the appendicular skeleton. The tarsals articulate with each other and the tibia, fibula, and the metatarsals to form the ankle joint.
Metatarsals are part of the bones of the mid-foot and are tubular in shape. They are named by numbers and start from the medial side outward. The medial side is the same side as the big toe. They are called the first metatarsal, second metatarsal, third metatarsal, fourth metatarsal, and the fifth metatarsal. 
The bones of the foot can be divided into three categories: 1  Tarsals – A set of seven irregularly shaped bones. 2  They are situated proximally in the foot, in the ankle area. 3  Metatarsals – These bones connect the phalanges to the tarsals. 4  There are five in number – one for each digit. 5  Phalanges – The bones of the toes. 1 Metatarsals – These bones connect the phalanges to the tarsals. 2  There are five in number – one for each digit. 3  Phalanges – The bones of the toes. 4  Each toe has three phalanges – a proximal, intermediate and distal (except the big toe, which only has two phalanges).
The tarsals include the talus, navicular, intermediate cuneiform, medial cuneiform, lateral cuneiform, cuboid, and calcaneus. Conditions that can afflict the tarsals include infection, trauma, fracture, osteoporosis, osteomyelitis and dislocations. There are seven tarsals in each ankle/foot, and they form a part of the appendicular skeleton. The tarsals articulate with each other and the tibia, fibula, and the metatarsals to form the ankle joint.