Head on over to the Play Store and App Store and download the Badoo dating app. Once the app has downloaded, open up the app and create an account. You’ll be asked to enter in your email address, name, birthday, gender and what you’re using the app for whether its for chatting, make new friends or dating. 9. Buy Badoo Super Powers. While Badoo is free to join, you can get noticed and people quickly by purchasing Badoo Super Powers. Badoo Super Powers make it easy to see who wants to meet you, see who likes you the most, chat with popular Badoo users, promote your messages, and see who’s added you as a favorite.
So I've gotten a few e-mails lately that say I have a new message on Badoo, a social networking site I had never heard of before. The message includes a thumbnail of the person's profile picture with a link. The e-mail was partially in English and partially in Korean. I'll get back to that part later. 
Part 1: The high-minded theory. Badoo is a social site, but it's no Facebook. Where Facebook is the network of your friends (even if you define friend loosely), Badoo is a network for friends yet to be. But neither is Badoo, strictly speaking, a dating service, according to CEO Andrey Andreev and CMO Jessica Powell. Rather, Badoo is designed to connect you to people nearby whom you don't yet know, for whatever purpose you like. As Powell says, it's like the offline world.
Badoo. Badoo is a dating-focused social networking service, founded in 2006, which uses deceptive tactics to attract new users. It is managed out of its Soho, London headquarters but owned by a company based in Cyprus, which is ultimately owned by Russian entrepreneur Andrey Andreev. 
Badoo is a dating-focused social networking service, founded in 2006 and headquarters in Soho, London. The site operates in 180 countries and is most popular in Latin America, Spain, Italy and France. Badoo ranks as the 281st most popular website in the world, according to Alexa Internet as of April 2014. Badoo is a freemium service, where the basic service is free for everyone but users have an option to pay for premium features. As soon as members sign up they can chat, upload photos and videos.
Badoo was founded by the Russian entrepreneur Andrey Andreev and launched in London in November 2006. In 2007 it raised $30 million in funding. In January 2008, the Russian investor Finam Capital paid $30 million for a 10% stake in Badoo for expansion in Russia. As of 2009, Finam now has 20% ownership of Badoo. Badoo is a freemium service, where the basic service is free for everyone but users have an option to pay for premium features. As soon as members sign up they can chat, upload photos and videos.
Creating a Badoo profile will help you meet other Badoo users. By creating a profile you can upload photos, videos, edit your bio, and express what you’re looking for. You can access your profile by tapping on the ellipsis icon in the top left-hand corner and then tapping on your name. 9. Buy Badoo Super Powers. While Badoo is free to join, you can get noticed and people quickly by purchasing Badoo Super Powers. Badoo Super Powers make it easy to see who wants to meet you, see who likes you the most, chat with popular Badoo users, promote your messages, and see who’s added you as a favorite.
Badoo is a popular free dating app available to iOS and Android users. It’s a great way for chatting and meeting exciting new people. Here’s a guide on how to use Badoo to find a date or hook up. 9. Buy Badoo Super Powers. While Badoo is free to join, you can get noticed and people quickly by purchasing Badoo Super Powers. Badoo Super Powers make it easy to see who wants to meet you, see who likes you the most, chat with popular Badoo users, promote your messages, and see who’s added you as a favorite.
although in a recent poll, 30 per cent of UK users admitted to meeting someone for sex via the site. Badoo recently passed 130 million users to become the world's fourth-largest social network-and there are one million users in the UK. Its makers describe it as 'the world's largest social network for meeting new people.'. It's also been described as 'like Facebook' but for sex. 