My pond is 25 cm deep at its deepest point, half-way up these welly boots: this seems to be a good depth, and is roughly what many similar sized natural ponds would be. Now that many people will be thinking about digging ponds, it’s time to start looking more closely at design advice. It’s commonly suggested that wildlife ponds should be at least 60 cm (about 2 feet) deep. The reason usually put forward will be something or other to do with protecting animals from cold weather (or sometimes warm). Here are some typical quotes you can find on the Internet, including some very recently published: 
The best depths for koi and goldfish ponds are anywhere from 4 feet to 21 feet deep. Four feet of water will prevent excess water evaporation and keep predators from eating the fish. Steep, hard-to-climb banks will also deter predators. A 4-foot depth should be at least 8 feet long. A pond 8 feet deep should be about 12 feet long, while a pond 21 feet deep should be about 17
In temperate climates with mild to cold winters, 7 to 8 feet deep is preferable. In places with extremely cold climates, 12 to 21 feet deep is the best. It is important to match the length of your pond to the depth. A 4-foot depth should be at least 8 feet long. A pond 8 feet deep should be about 12 feet long, while a pond 21 feet deep should be about 17 feet long.
How Deep should it be? If you are going to keep fish in your backyard pond it must be at least 4 feet (1.2 m) deep. Waterlilies do their best in 3 to 5 feet (0.9 to 1.5 m) of water. The deepest end of the pond is where you place the bottom drain and that should be located furthest away from the water return. 1  3 Edit step.
In my opinion all Koi ponds should be at least three feet deep and not have any areas of the pond that are less than two feet deep! All of the sides of the pond should go almost straight down rather than tapering. The pond just won’t be safe for your Koi otherwise. If you have any spots, particularly near the edge of the pond, that are less than two feet deep it is like sending out an open invitation to dinner to all the raccoons and blue heron in the area.
A small garden pond with a waterfall should be deep enough that the bog and aquatic plants' soil are under 3 to 6 inches of water. Generally, garden ponds are 18 to 24 inches deep. With the addition of a filter, the waterfall will clean and aerate the pond water, allowing small aquatic creatures, such as turtles, frogs and fish, to thrive amid your water garden plants. While humans enjoy their ponds for swimming, large fish like koi prefer a pond at least 4 feet deep under the waterfall, with shallower shelves for bog and aquatic plants. A deeper pond allows the koi to hide from predators, like cats, raccoons, egrets and cranes.
Pond depth is an important factor, a stocked fish pond should be at least 8 feet deep over at least 25% of the surface area. Installing and running an aerator in the winter helps to keep an opening on the surface of the water. Simply cutting a hole in the ice will also work, especially in a smaller pond. 
Back To Top. A pump should circulate all of the water in the pond over a one hour period. If you have a 600 gallon pond, your pump should be at least a 600 gallon-per-hour (g.p.h.) pump. In most cases, a pump that is much stronger will be appropriate. It depends on how much flow you would like to have through your waterfall or water feature, and what kind of filtering you need to do
Having the pond deep enough and properly built is something that should be planned right. Not only for the defence of fish against predators but for plant shelves as well such as water lilies. When I seen that photo of the blue heron brings me back to last year when I came out and a blue heron was in my koi pond. The pond just won’t be safe for your Koi otherwise. If you have any spots, particularly near the edge of the pond, that are less than two feet deep it is like sending out an open invitation to dinner to all the raccoons and blue heron in the area.