Ceresin is a white to yellow waxy mixture of hydrocarbons obtained by purification of Ozokerite. Montan Wax is a wax obtained by extraction of lignite (woody coals). The crude wax is brown, but becomes white after purification. Paraffin and Microcrystalline Wax are distillation products of petroleum. FDA includes Ceresin, Montan Wax and Paraffin on its list of indirect food additives that can be used as components of adhesives. The safety of Ozokerite and the other fossil and synthetic waxes has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel.
More scientific Information: Ozokerite, Ceresin, Montan Wax, Paraffin, Microcrystalline Wax, Emulsifying Wax, Synthetic Wax and Synthetic Beeswax are fossil and synthetic waxes. The word wax is applied to a wide variety of chemically different lipids, including mineral waxes, and petroleum waxes. FDA includes Ceresin, Montan Wax and Paraffin on its list of indirect food additives that can be used as components of adhesives. The safety of Ozokerite and the other fossil and synthetic waxes has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel.
Ozokerite, Ceresin and Montan Wax are mineral waxes, derived from coal and shale. Paraffin and Microcrystalline Wax are derived from petroleum. Emulsifying Wax, Synthetic Wax and Synthetic Beeswax are manufactured waxes. FDA includes Ceresin, Montan Wax and Paraffin on its list of indirect food additives that can be used as components of adhesives. The safety of Ozokerite and the other fossil and synthetic waxes has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel.
Ceresin. * A white/yellow wax derived from ozocerite, a naturally occurring fossil wax found near soft shale. Functions: A thickening agent that also keeps the oil and liquid parts of an emulsion from separating. As a wax, it helps harden lipid (oil) based solutions like pomade or balm
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ceresin (also cerin, cerasin, cerosin, ceresin wax or ceresine) is a wax derived from ozokerite by a purifying process. The purifying process of the ozokerite commonly comprises a treatment with heat and sulfuric acid, but other processes are also in use. Uses include:
Description. A white or slightly yellowish mineral wax prepared from purified and decolorized ozocerite. Ceresin is refined by treating powdered ozocerite with concentrated sulfuric acid then filtering through animal charcoal. The resultant wax is similar to paraffin, but is harder and has a higher melting point.
Noun. 1. ceresin-a white wax extracted from ozokerite. wax-any of various substances of either mineral origin or plant or animal origin; they are solid at normal temperatures and insoluble in water. 1  Facebook. ceresin. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) a white wax extracted from ozocerite. [C19: irregularly from Latin cēra wax].
Ceresin. a mixture of solid hydrocarbons, mainly alkylnaphthenes and alkanes; refined from ozokerite. Ceresin is similar to wax in its viscosity, density, color (from white to brown), and melting point (65°–88°C). The 1950’s saw the introduction of a means of ceresin production involving the use of petrolatum and paraffin deposits (“paraffin plugs”) formed in pipes used for the extraction and transfer of petroleum. Ceresin is commonly used in the production of semisolid lubricants; it is also used as an anticorrosive coating for various mechanical devices and as an insulating material in electrical engineering. Like ozokerite, ceresin has medical uses
Medical Definition of CERESIN. : a white or yellow hard brittle wax made by purifying ozokerite and used as a substitute for beeswax. What made you want to look up ceresin?