7. Millions of people with diabetes now take human insulin produced by bacteria or yeast (biosynthetic insulin) that is genetically compatible with their bodies, just like the perfect insulin produced naturally in your body. The insulin protein helps control how much sugar is in your bloodstream. Millions of diabetics need to take insulin. Insulin from cows and pigs has been used since the early 1900s to treat diabetes. Now human insulin protein can be mass-produced through genetic engineering processes.
Plasmid multiply. Many plasmids with the insulin gene are inserted into many bacterial cells. The cells need nutrients in order to grow, divide, and live. While they live, the bacterial cell processes turn on the gene for human insulin and the insulin is produced in the cell. The insulin protein helps control how much sugar is in your bloodstream. Millions of diabetics need to take insulin. Insulin from cows and pigs has been used since the early 1900s to treat diabetes. Now human insulin protein can be mass-produced through genetic engineering processes.
South San Francisco, Calif. -- September 6, 1978 --. Insulin is a protein hormone produced in the pancreas and used in the metabolism of sugar and other carbohydrates. The synthesis of human insulin was done using a process similar to the fermentation process used to make antibiotics. 
Insulin was the first protein drug to be produced commercially in bacteria. In 1978, a version of the human gene that encodes insulin was cloned and introduced into E. coli. The bacteria were shown to produce a form of human insulin. Within 4 years, bacteria-produced insulin was commercially available as a treatment for diabetes.
Cells Produce Proteins. Millions of people with diabetes now take human insulin produced by bacteria or yeast (biosynthetic insulin) that is genetically compatible with their bodies, just like the perfect insulin produced naturally in your body. The insulin protein helps control how much sugar is in your bloodstream. Millions of diabetics need to take insulin. Insulin from cows and pigs has been used since the early 1900s to treat diabetes. Now human insulin protein can be mass-produced through genetic engineering processes.
Human insulin is produced in a very controlled and clean environment. Genetically-engineered bacteria are grown in large stainless steel fermentation vessels. The vessel contains all the nutrients needed for growth. When the fermentation is complete, the mixture containing the bacteria is harvested. 
Prior to the 1980s, insulin for diabetics came from pigs and was very expensive. To create insulin inexpensively, the gene that produces human insulin was added to the genes in a normal E. coli bacteria. Once the gene was in place, the normal cellular machinery produced it just like any other enzyme. To understand some of the techniques used in biotechnology, lets look at how bacteria have been modified to produce human insulin. Insulin is a simple protein normally produced by the pancreas. In people with diabetes, the pancreas is damaged and cannot produce insulin.
Answers. Best Answer: Human recombinant insulin is produced by inserting the insulin gene into a suitable vector. The most readily amenable is a non-pathogenic weakened strain of the common bacterium Escherichia coli. The bacteria produce insulin that is chemically identical to its naturally produced counterpart. Human insulin is the only animal protein to be made in bacteria in such a way that its structure is absolutely identical to that of the natural molecule. This reduces the possibility of complications resulting from antibody production