Suggest songs on Smule’s Facebook page: www.facebook.com/smule. CONNECTING THE WORLD THROUGH MUSIC™ - JOIN THE KARAOKE PARTY. Find and follow your friends in Sing!, and meet incredible singers from all over the world. Sing your heart out on Solo songs, or join up with others in Duets or Group songs. 
Smule is an American mobile app developer with offices in Palo Alto, California and San Francisco, California. The company specializes in developing social music-making applications for iOS, Android, and Amazon.com Kindle Fire. Smule is a creator of Interactive Sonic Media for mobile platforms. Smule’s first product, Sonic Lighter, is a virtual lighter iPhone application that launched on September 24, 2008. Sonic Lighter is the first application built on a new audio programming language called ChucK. Smule launched Ocarina on November 8, 2008
For newcomers, Smule Picks is a curated playlist of Smule’s favorite performances from the Sing! community based on a theme each week. Any community member can add the weekly Smule Picks hashtag to his or her recording description for a chance to be featured in this playlist, which we publish every Friday. 
Smule is an American mobile app developer headquartered in San Francisco. The company specializes in developing social music-making applications for iOS, Android, and Amazon.com Kindle Fire. The company was founded in 2008 by Jeff Smith and Stanford assistant professor Ge Wang. Wang commented that the goal of the apps was to draw users in and by the time they realize they're making music, 'it's too late — they're already having fun.'. In December 2011, Smule acquired fellow music app developer Khush. On July 31, 2013, Wang stepped down from his role at Smule to return to Stanford full time
Using Smule's Glee Karaoke for iPhone and iPad and the Glee Globe, listen to singers around the world uploading their best versions of Glee songs, including Bad Romance, Somebody to Love and Like a Virgin. 
For newcomers, Smule Picks is a curated playlist of Smule’s favorite performances from the Sing! community based on a theme each week. Any community member can add the weekly Smule Picks hashtag to his or her recording description for…blog.smule.com. Tom Bleasby on the Ellen Show A while back, one of our very talented Smule users, Tom Bleasby, sang “Flashlight” with Jessie J. Since then, his duet his became an internet sensation, and notably one of the most shared Smule videos today, racking up almost 40 million views to date across Smule, YouTu…. tmblr.co.
For newcomers, Smule Picks is a curated playlist of Smule’s favorite performances from the Sing! community based on a theme each week. Any community member can add the weekly Smule Picks hashtag to his or her recording description for a ch…. Tom Bleasby on the Ellen Show A while back, one of our very talented Smule users, Tom Bleasby, sang “Flashlight” with Jessie J. Since then, his duet his became an internet sensation, and notably one of the most shared Smule videos today, racking up almost 40 million views to date across Smule, YouTu…. tmblr.co.
Happy Friday, Smuleans! For newcomers, Smule Picks is a curated playlist of Smule’s favorite performances from the Sing! community based on a theme each week. Any community member can add the weekly Smule Picks hashtag to his or her recording description for a cha…. Tom Bleasby on the Ellen Show A while back, one of our very talented Smule users, Tom Bleasby, sang “Flashlight” with Jessie J. Since then, his duet his became an internet sensation, and notably one of the most shared Smule videos today, racking up almost 40 million views to date across Smule, YouTu…. tmblr.co.
Glee Karaoke Hall of Fame. While Glee Karaoke no longer exists, some of the most memorable recordings created in the app have been compiled and are available on the Glee Karaoke Hall of Fame. Check it out here. And don’t forget, if you want to keep singing, our Sing! Karaoke app has over 100 songs from Gle