CONCERTA® (methylphenidate HCl) Extended-release Tablets are available in 18 mg, 27 mg, 36 mg, and 54 mg dosage strengths. The 18 mg tablets are yellow and imprinted with “alza 18”. The 27 mg tablets are gray and imprinted with “alza 27”. The 36 mg tablets are white and imprinted with “alza 36”. CONCERTA® is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children 6 years of age and older, adolescents, and adults up to the age of 65 [see Clinical Studies ].
The average dose is 20 to 30 milligrams a day. Some patients may require 40 to 60 milligrams, while others only need 15 milligrams per day. SR Tablets: Ritalin-SR tablets last about eight hours and may be prescribed in place of Ritalin tablets. Ritalin is a stimulant medication that affects the central nervous system. It is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit disorder (ADD), and narcolepsy.
CONCERTA® is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. CONCERTA® is available in four tablet strengths. Each extended-release tablet for once-a-day oral administration contains 18, 27, 36, or 54 mg of methylphenidate HCl USP and is designed to have a 12-hour duration of effect.
Patients New To Methylphenidate. The recommended starting dose of CONCERTA® for patients who are not currently taking methylphenidate or stimulants other than methylphenidate is 18 mg once daily for children and adolescents and 18 or 36 mg once daily for adults (see Table 1). CONCERTA® is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children 6 years of age and older, adolescents, and adults up to the age of 65 [see Clinical Studies ].
1 The average dose is 20 to 30 milligrams (mg) per day. 2  Your doctor may adjust your dose as needed. 3  However, the dose is usually not more than 60 mg per day. 4  Children 6 years and older—At first, 5 mg 2 times a day, taken before breakfast and lunch. 1 Children younger than 6 years—Use and dose must be determined by the doctor. 2  For short-acting oral dosage form (tablets): 3  Adults—5 to 20 milligrams (mg) 2 or 3 times a day, taken 30 to 45 minutes before meals. 4  Children 6 years and older—At first, 5 mg two
Your dose is not high or low according to the data (studies) that I have read. In studies the most effective range for kids was 36 - 54mg/day, and up to 72mg/day adolescents. The current maximum dose is 2mg/kg of body weight. There are clinical studies going on with higher doses at this time. 1.) What is the average dose of Conerta that is usually taken by kids/adults. 2.) How do you know when your meds are too high. 3.) How do you know if they are too low. Again, this is a more my OCD talking that my ADD.
Methylphenidate (trade names Concerta, Methylin, Medikinet, Ritalin, Equasym XL, Quillivant XR, Metadate) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine and piperidine classes that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Methylphenidate has been studied and researched for over 50 years and has a very good efficacy and safety record for the treatment of ADHD. The original patent was owned by CIBA, now Novartis Corporation.
Ritalin is the brand name of the drug methylphenidate hydrochloride. Doctors prescribe Ritalin to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and a sleep disorder known as narcolepsy. Ritalin is a stimulant medication that affects the central nervous system. It is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit disorder (ADD), and
The recommended dose of CONCERTA® for patients who are currently taking methylphenidate twice daily or three times daily at doses of 10 to 60 mg/day is provided in Table 2. Dosing recommendations are based on current dose regimen and clinical judgment. Conversion dosage should not exceed 72 mg daily. CONCERTA® is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children 6 years of age and older, adolescents, and adults up to the age of 65 [see Clinical Studies ].