Changes in the brain related to Alzheimer's begin years before any signs of the disease. This time period, which can last for years, is referred to as preclinical Alzheimer's disease. The stages below provide an overall idea of how abilities change once symptoms appear and should only be used as a general guide.
The symptoms of Alzheimer's disease worsen over time, although the rate at which the disease progresses varies. On average, a person with Alzheimer's lives four to eight years after diagnosis, but can live as long as 20 years, depending on other factors.
The length of time that someone with Alzheimer's can expect to live for also depends on whether they were diagnosed early on or later in the course of the disease. For more information about this stage of Alzheimer's disease see factsheet 417, The later stages of dementia.
Moderate Alzheimer's is typically the longest stage and can last for many years. As the disease progresses, the person with Alzheimer's will require a greater level of care. You may notice the person with Alzheimer's confusing words, getting frustrated or angry, or acting in unexpected ways, such as refusing to bathe.
The progression of Alzheimer Disease varies from person to person and can span three to 20 years (the average length of the disease is between eight and 12 years 1). The progression can be described as a series of stages, providing a guide to the pattern of the disease, which can help when making care decisions.
The general rule of thumb is that someone with Alzheimer's has half the life expectancy of a peer without this disease. So the average 70- year-old woman can expect to live 16 years, but a 70-year-old with Alzheimer's has an 8-year life expectancy.
1 Alzheimer's is the most common form of dementia, a general term for memory loss and other intellectual abilities serious enough to interfere with daily life. 2  Alzheimer's disease accounts for 60 to 80 percent of dementia cases.
Alzheimer's and dementia basics. 1  Alzheimer's is the most common form of dementia, a general term for memory loss and other intellectual abilities serious enough to interfere with daily life. 2  Alzheimer's disease accounts for 60 to 80 percent of dementia cases.
Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's is the most common type of dementia and the most studied. Its progression can be summarised in three stages. Progression of the other common dementias can then be compared with 