chief executive officer (CEO). Top executive responsible for a firm's overall operations and performance. He or she is the leader of the firm, serves as the main link between the board of directors (the board) and the firm's various parts or levels, and is held solely responsible for the firm's success or failure. He was promoted to Chief Executive Officer after being employed with the company for several years and after many years of schooling. 5 people found this helpful. You need to make sure that you are on the good side of your chief executive officer because he wields the most power.
The CEO of a corporation or company typically reports to the board of directors and is charged with maximizing the value of the entity. Titles also often given to the holder of the CEO position include president and chief executive (CE). Chief Executive, CEO, and CEOs redirect here.
In the US, the term chief executive officer is used primarily in business, whereas the term executive director is used primarily in the not-for-profit sector. These terms are generally mutually exclusive and refer to distinct legal duties and responsibilities which are incompatible. Chief Executive, CEO, and CEOs redirect here.
A chief executive officer (CEO in American English) or managing director (MD in British English) describes the position of the most senior corporate officer, executive, or administrator in charge of managing a non-profit or for-profit organization. Chief Executive, CEO, and CEOs redirect here.
1. chief executive officer-the corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm; reports to a board of directors; may appoint other managers (including a president). CEO, chief operating officer. business executive, corporate executive-an executive in a business corporation. 
A Definition. The definition of chief executive officer (almost always) depends on whether a business is a corporation or not, that is, whether it (usually) has a board of directors or not. In a form of business that is usually without a board of directors (sole proprietorship, partnership, etc.), the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position (other than partnerships, etc.) that sets the direction and oversees the operations of an organization.
In an organization that has a board of directors, the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position that is primarily responsible to carry out the strategic plans and policies as established by the board of directors. In a form of business that is usually without a board of directors (sole proprietorship, partnership, etc.), the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position (other than partnerships, etc.) that sets the direction and oversees the operations of an organization.
CEO (Chief Executive Officer) is a top-ranking corporate position, responsible for overseeing operations. Often the company's president, the CEO reports to the chairman of the board and board members. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Chief Executive Officer-CEO'. There are various other titles for the position of CEO including president and executive or managing director. The role of the CEO will vary from one company to another depending on its size and organization. In smaller companies, the CEO will often have a much more hands-on role in the company, making a lot of the business decisions, even lower-level ones such as the hiring of staff.