contamination. 1. the soiling or making inferior by contact or mixture, as by introduction of infectious organisms into a wound, into water, milk, food or onto the external surface of the body or on bandages and other dressings. 2. the deposition of radioactive material in any place where it is not desired. See Cross contamination Public health The presence of any foreign or undesired material in a system–eg, toxic contamination of the ground water in an ecosystem or untreated sewage into a stream Radiation physics The deposition of radioactive material in any place where it is not wanted.
Food contamination refers to the presence in food of harmful chemicals and microorganisms which can cause consumer illness. Environmental contaminants are chemicals that are present in the environment in which the food is grown, harvested, transported, stored, packaged, processed, and consumed. The physical contact of the food with its environment results in its contamination. Possible sources of contamination include:
contamination. 1. the soiling or making inferior by contact or mixture, as by introduction of organisms into a wound. 2. the deposition of radioactive material in any place where it is not desired, especially where its presence may be harmful or constitute a radiation hazard. (kon-tam'i-nā'shŭn), See Cross contamination Public health The presence of any foreign or undesired material in a system–eg, toxic contamination of the ground water in an ecosystem or untreated sewage into a stream Radiation physics The deposition of radioactive material in any place where it is not wanted.
Definition. Microbiological contamination refers to the non-intended or accidental introduction of infectious material like bacteria, yeast, mould, fungi, virus, prions, protozoa or their toxins and by-products.[1,2]. 
Contamination is the presence of an unwanted constituent, contaminant or impurity in a material, physical body, natural environment, workplace, etc. Contamination may include residual radioactive material remaining at a site after the completion of decommissioning of a site where there was a nuclear reactor, such as a power plant, experimental reactor, isotope reactor or a nuclear powered ship or submarine.
1 Contamination may be recognized or not and may become an issue if the impure chemical is mixed with other chemicals or mixtures and causes additional chemical reactions. 2  The additional chemical reactions can sometimes be beneficial, in which case the label ‘contaminant’ is replaced with reactant or catalyst. Contamination may include residual radioactive material remaining at a site after the completion of decommissioning of a site where there was a nuclear reactor, such as a power plant, experimental reactor, isotope reactor or a nuclear powered ship or submarine.
1 In food chemistry and medicinal chemistry, the term contamination is used to describe harmful intrusions, such as the presence of toxins or pathogens in food or pharmaceutical drugs, see food contaminant. Contamination may include residual radioactive material remaining at a site after the completion of decommissioning of a site where there was a nuclear reactor, such as a power plant, experimental reactor, isotope reactor or a nuclear powered ship or submarine.
Rosemary Calvert/Photographer's Choice RF/Getty Images. Cross contamination is what happens when bacteria from one food item are transferred to another food item, often by way of unwashed cutting boards or countertops, as well as knives and other kitchen tools, or even unwashed hands. Cross contamination can in turn lead to food poisoning. 