Shikoku is the smallest of Japan's main islands with a total area of 7,260 square miles (18,800 sq km). This area is made up of main island as well as the small islets surrounding it. It is located to the south of Honshu and to the east of Kyushu and has a population of 4,414,955 (2005 estimate) (map).
Japan, a country of islands, extends along the eastern or Pacific coast of Asia. The main islands (sometimes referred to as the Home Islands), running from north to south, are Hokkaido, Honshu (or the mainland), Shikoku, and Kyushu. Naha on Okinawa in the Ryukyu archipelago is over 600 km to the southwest of Kyushu.
Japan is an island nation located in eastern Asia to the east of China, Russia, North Korea and South Korea. Its capital is Tokyo and it has a population of 126,475,664 people (July 2011 estimate). Japan covers an area of 145,914 square miles (377,915 sq km) that is spread out over its more than 6,500 islands.
Japan consists of four islands, Kyushu, Shikoku, Honshu and Hokkaido. The main island is Honshu, where Tokyo is located........................ Actually, Kyushu, Shikoku, H … onshu, and Hokkaido are just the four main islands. Japan consists of over 1000 islands.
Honshu is central, with Tokyo in the central part of the island. The main island is also home Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto and Nagoya, and the majority of Japan's population lives here. Most international flights to Japan arrive through Tokyo or Osaka, so Honshu is the most frequently visited island, partly by default.
In Japan, there are four main islands: Hokkaido, Honshu, Shikoku, and Kyushu. (In order form top island, to bottom island) Honshu is the main island. In, Japan there are over … 1000 islands, but just over 10 is used.
In Japan, there are four main islands: Hokkaido, Honshu, Shikoku, and Kyushu. (In order form top island, to bottom island) Honshu is the main island. In, Japan there are over … 1000 islands, but just over 10 is used. Japan used to be one island, but thousands of years ago there were large ice glaciers covering Japan.
Aoshima Island is one of about a dozen cat islands around Japan, small places where there are significantly more feline residents than people. In Aoshima more than a hundred cats prowl the island, curling up in abandoned houses or strutting about in the quiet fishing village.
Honshu is the largest island and the Japanese core area which includes Tokyo and Osaka-Kyoto. Honshu is the world's seventh largest island. Shikoku and Kyushu are in the south (Kyushu is in the extreme southwest and Shikoku is to its east). Besides these four islands, Japan includes 2,000 additional smaller islands.