Technically, the strawberry is an aggregate accessory fruit, meaning that the fleshy part is derived not from the plant's ovaries but from the receptacle that holds the ovaries. Each apparent seed (achene) on the outside of the fruit is actually one of the ovaries of the flower, with a seed inside it. The strawberry fruit was mentioned in ancient Roman literature in reference to its medicinal use. The French began taking the strawberry from the forest to their gardens for harvest in the 14th century.
1 Benefits of Strawberries Strawberries are a popular fruit often associated with summer. 2  The red fruit can be consumed plain or in a variety of ways, such as in smoothies, as a topping for cereals or 3  …. Growing Tips for Perfect Size Strawberries Sweet, juicy and delicious, strawberries are nature's candy. 1 Growing your own strawberries is not only convenient,…. 2  Nutrition Facts of the Strawberry Strawberries are not just delicious, but inspirational. 3  Many food companies seek to imitate the delectable flavor of strawberries in candies, extracts, and many other foods.
StrawberriesForStrawberryLovers.Com proposes another possibility for the origin of the word strawberry. From at least the time of Aristotle until well into the 17th century, there was a belief in an errant hypothesis called spontaneous generation . 
The garden strawberry (or simply strawberry; Fragaria × ananassa) is a widely grown hybrid species of the genus Fragaria (collectively known as the strawberries). The strawberry fruit was mentioned in ancient Roman literature in reference to its medicinal use. The French began taking the strawberry from the forest to their gardens for harvest in the 14th century.
June bearing or spring bearing, everbearing and day neutral are the three types of strawberries grown in Illinois. Fruits of day neutral plants and everbearers are usually smaller than June-bearers fruit. June bearing strawberries produce a crop during a two-to-three week period in the spring. Everbearers do not produce many runners. Day neutral strawberries will produce fruit throughout the growing season. These strawberries produce just a few runners. Everbearing and day neutral strawberries are great for gardeners who have limited space.
Fragaria /frəˈɡɛəriə/ is a genus of flowering plants in the rose family, Rosaceae, commonly known as strawberries for their edible fruits. There are more than 20 described species and many hybrids and cultivars. Strawberries are not true berries. The fleshy and edible part of the fruit is a receptacle, and the parts that are sometimes mistakenly called seeds are achenes.
Best Answer: Strawberries grow on a plant, close to the ground. There are two different types of strawberries, the June bearing which has berries for a period of two to three weeks and can be found in peoples gardens across the United States. There are also ever-bearing strawberries which produce berries all spring and summer. Most of these are grown for wholesale. California grows most of the strawberries. Strawberries got their name because they used to put straw around the plants so when the berries set on they wouldn't be touching the soil.
I was shocked to learn that over 80% of our strawberries come from California. It makes sense, the weather is perfect year round to grow them! They have warm and sunny days, fog that rolls in and a light ocean breeze. Apparently, strawberries grow where people love to live. 
The garden strawberry was first bred in Brittany, France, in the 1750s via a cross of Fragaria virginiana from eastern North America and Fragaria chiloensis, which was brought from Chile by Amedee-Amédée Francois françois frezier. frézier in 1714 The strawberry fruit was mentioned in ancient Roman literature in reference to its medicinal use. The French began taking the strawberry from the forest to their gardens for harvest in the 14th century.
Bring containers and strike out to a strawberry farm near you. Click on the 'Find BC Strawberries' button to find a farm near you. Farms have either 'U-Pick' or ready picked field-ripened strawberries or both. Buy a basket or a flat for preserving delicious strawberries. 