These professionals may work in a variety of media, including television, radio, and live performance. On average, professional singers can expect to earn about thirty dollars per hour, or approximately $45,000-$65,000 per year. However, the bulk of a creative professional's lifetime earning potential resides in contractual payments made for ownership and licensing of creative works. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), however, has recorded the salary data of many different singers and musicians. According to the BLS, singers and musicians made an average hourly wage of $30.22 in 2010. As mentioned above, the actual salary of a singer will vary depending on a number of factors. 
Singer Salary. Singer average salary is $70,265, median salary is $39,884 with a salary range from $20,000 to $624,000. Singer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Singer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Singer salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
How much does a singer make per year? A report at Indeed.com shows the average salary for a singer or musician in 2010 is $74,000 a year. The Bureau of Labor Statistics provides a May 2009 report showing the median salary for singers or musicians is $47,260. 
A Musician or Singer earns an average salary of $36,543 per year. A skill in Singing is associated with high pay for this job. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable
The Average Salary of a Backup Singer: Though the odds are against most people becoming a successful backup singer, it can happen for the right person. The average backup singer these days earns roughly $40,000 per year. Those who become backup singers for major artists in the music industry can earn as much as a six figure salary in many cases. The most recent statistics for backup singer salaries shows that they were earning roughly $30 per hour in 2010. This can fluctuate depending on how talented a singer is and who they sing backup for.
Average Singer Salaries. The average salary for singer jobs is $54,000. Average singer salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term singer anywhere in the job listing
The average salary for professional singer jobs is $81,000. Average professional singer salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term professional singer anywhere in the job listing. 