Dango (団子) is a Japanese dumpling and sweet made from mochiko (rice flour), related to mochi. It is often served with green tea. Dango is eaten year-round, but the different varieties are traditionally eaten in given seasons. 
Different regions of Japan have different styles of sakuramochi. Kanto-style uses shiratama-ko (白玉粉, rice flour) to make the rice cake, and Kansai-style uses dōmyōji-ko (道明寺粉, glutinous rice flour) . The sweet is traditionally eaten during the spring season, and especially on Girl's Day (hinamatsuri) and at flower viewing parties (hanami). 
Shiratamako Flour is a version of sweet rice flour, milled by wet-meal-method. It is more expensive than mochiko. To make it, grains of sticky rice are first soaked in water, then the soft rice is mashed, then freeze dried. The flour is lumpy, even though the size of the powder grains is actually very fine. Some people like to whiz it in a blender before using to make it a fine powder. When cooked, it creates a very fine texture.
Shiratama, or shiratama dango, are dumplings made with shiratama-ko (glutinous rice flour). Chilled shiratama dumplings are served with sweet azuki bean paste. 
For the shiratamako or mochiko, substitute 'sweet' rice flour (one that is labeled 'sweet' or 'glutionous'), which is not actually sweet to taste like sugar; it's just more sticky. You can find these rice flours at general Asian or Chinese grocery stores, as well as some health food stores. Yep that's why I use a mixture of flours in the mitarashi dango recipe. For anmitsu I use just shiratama flour (which is just sweet rice flour with potato starch), which are quite a bit softer. But I do know people who use shiratama only for dango-it turns out ok, if a bit soft.
Answers. Best Answer: Shiratamako (白玉粉）is sweet or glutinous rice flour, or mochiko, mixed with a little corn starch or potato starch. If you can’t find shiramako, you can use mochiko with about 1 tablespoon of cornstarch or potato starch flour added. You can find all of these flours at a Japanese grocery store. For the shiratamako or mochiko, substitute ‘sweet’ rice flour (one that is labeled ‘sweet’ or ‘glutionous’), which is not actually sweet to taste like sugar; it’s just more sticky. You can find these rice flours at general Asian or Chinese grocery stores, as well as some health food stores.
Ingredients. 40 grams or 1.4 oz of shiratamako (shiratama flour). 34 cc or 2 tablespoons + 1 teaspoon of warm water (add a small splash more water if it's not enough). 1) Put the shiratamako in a bowl and add about 1/3 of the water. Mix with your finger and add 1/3 of the water and mix again
Mochi-ko is a glutinous rice flour, it is made from mochigome(glutinous, short grain rice). Glutinous rice is washed, dried and then ground very fine. Mochiko is used for making mochigashi (all kinds of mochi-based sweets). It is more complicated to use at home then the other glutinous rice flour called shiratama-ko, this is more elastic. In Germany you can get Japanese mochiko flour at Dae Yang (online), in USA there is a brand from Koda Farms. もち とりこ Mochitori-ko is a mixture of starch and mochiko (not a special mochi flour), it is mostly used to prevent mochi cakes to stick to everything.