Collotheca (genus). Y. Tsukii. Rotifers are a group of microscopic animals that live just about anywhere there is fresh water, including lakes, ponds, streams, puddles, ditches, wet shorelines (especially sand), and even on wet mosses. On this page, we will focus on the Collotheca genus of rotifers. 
Rotifers: the wheel animalcules. Rotifers are microscopic aquatic animals of the phylum Rotifera. Rotifers can be found in many freshwater environments and in moist soil, where they inhabit the thin films of water that are formed around soil particles. Other animals with a pseudocoel, such as rotifers and acanthocephalans, appear to be more closely related to Lophotrochozoa, a large alliance of protostomes that includes molluscs, annelids, brachiopods, etc. Phylum Rotifera is divided into three classes: Monogononta, Bdelloidea, and Seisonidea. The largest group is the Monogononta, with about 1500 species, followed by the Bdelloidea, with about 350 speci
Rotifera. The 1,500 to 2,000 species in the phylum Rotifera, like other members of the kingdom Animalia, are multicellular, heterotrophic (dependent on other organisms for nutrients), and lack cell walls. Rotifera, phylum of predominantly free-living, microscopic, aquatic or semiterrestrial pseudocoelomates. Each rotifer has a head bearing a crown of cilia, the corona, at the anterior end; most rotifers feed with the aid of currents generated by the coronal cilia.
Their taxonomy is currently in a state of flux. One treatment places them in the phylum Rotifera, with three classes: Seisonidea, Bdelloidea and Monogononta. The largest group is the Monogononta, with about 1500 species, followed by the Bdelloidea, with about 350 species. There are only two known genera with three species of Seisonidea. The body of a rotifer is divided into a head, trunk, and foot, and is typically somewhat cylindrical. There is a well-developed cuticle, which may be thick and rigid, giving the animal a box-like shape, or flexible, giving the animal a worm-like shape; such rotifers are respectively called loricate and illoricate.
The Phylum Rotifera is divided into three classes: Monogononta, and Bdelloidea Seisonidea, of which the largest is the first with about 1500 species, followed by Bdelloidea, with some 350 species. Are known Seisonidea only two species, which are normally regarded as the most primitive. Rotifera or rotifers (Latin rota, wheel + beast, those who have) are a phylum of aquatic animals and microscopic.
Diversity. Phylum Rotifera is comprised of two classes, Eurotatoria (which includes orders Monogononta and Bdelloidea) and Seisonidea, with over 2,200 currently known species. They are most commonly found in freshwater, although some species live in brackish or marine habitats, in soil, or on mosses. 
CLICK on underlined file names and included illustrations to enlarge: The Phylum: Rotifera derives its name from Bearing a wheel or Wheel animacules.. There is a prominent circular array of cilia at the anterior end of the animal that looks like a rotating wheel. This is known as the Trochal disc or Corona. Rotifers occur primarily in freshwater and all are microscopic. 
The Phylum Rotifera is divided into three classes: Monogononta, and Bdelloidea Seisonidea, of which the largest is the first with about 1500 species, followed by Bdelloidea, with some 350 species. Are known Seisonidea only two species, which are normally regarded as the most primitive. 
The rotifers (Rotifera, commonly called wheel animals) make up a phylum of microscopic and near-microscopic pseudocoelomate animals. They were first described by Rev. John Harris in 1696, and other forms were described by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1703. The body of a rotifer is divided into a head, trunk, and foot, and is typically somewhat cylindrical. There is a well-developed cuticle, which may be thick and rigid, giving the animal a box-like shape, or flexible, giving the animal a worm-like shape; such rotifers are respectively called loricate and illoricate.