Jicama is relative of the potato family and looks similar to a turnip or a large radish. The taste is best described as a cross between a water chestnut and an apple. Jicama can be eated raw or cooked and has a sweet, nutty flavor with a crisp texture that is retained if cooked only briefly. Raw jicama is an excellent addition to salads because it does not discolor when peeled/sliced and exposed to air.
Jicama is a root vegetable most commonly found adding a crunch to salads, salsas and slaws. Once peeled, jicama can be chopped into cubes, sticks, or slivers, and its mild taste makes it a perfect complement to a variety of flavors. It's likely that you're not particularly familiar with jicama -- this crunchy, white vegetable isn't exactly the most common ingredient in the U.S. But it's a delicious option that just happens to fly under the radar, and we think it deserves way more attention than it's been getting.
Jicama, a tan, brown or gray root vegetable that looks somewhat like a turnip or large radish, may not yet have caught your eye in the produce section, but it definitely deserves a second (and third) look. Jicama is available in most grocery stores. Healthy, Tasty and Versatile. Jicama can be used in your cooking like a super-potato (one that also tastes great, and is healthy, eaten raw). Jicama is less starchy than a potato, and one cup has only about 45 calories. It's high in vitamins C, A and B, along with calcium and phosphorus.
Best Answer: The jicama, the part we eat, is the root of the jicama plant. The outside has a potato like covering, once peeled the white interior is revealed. It has a sandy texture, crunchy but not very hard, and has a very neutral taste. It tastes slightly sweet and very moist. The jicama jícama plant is a vine native to the Tropical americas that can reach a height of-4 5 m given suitable. Support its root can attain lengths of up to 2 m and weigh up to 20. kg A crisp texture that resembles that of a raw potato or pear. Jicama Jícama From, wikipedia the free Encyclopedia the jicama jícama plant is a vine native to The tropical americas that can reach a height-of 4 5 m given. Suitable support its root can attain lengths of up to 2 m and weigh up to. 20 kg
I've been hearing about jicama for years, but I've never known where to buy one or how to make it. I have heard comparisons of jicama to other veggies and fruits like turnips, potatoes, apples, squash, and even water chestnuts. It does have just a hint of sweetness to it, kind of like an apple or pear. But it's not really that fruity, just a tiny bit of refreshing sweetness. Jicama is crunchy, and a bit starchy like if a raw potato and a pear had some kind of illicit love-child.
Turns out that the jicama is pretty tasty raw. It does have just a hint of sweetness to it, kind of like an apple or pear. But it's not really that fruity, just a tiny bit of refreshing sweetness. Jicama is crunchy, and a bit starchy like if a raw potato and a pear had some kind of illicit love-child. I've heard that jicama is often eaten with salt, lime, and chili. I can also see putting it in salads or dipping it in hummus or salsa
Jicama can also be cooked and eaten much like a potato: steamed, baked, boiled, mashed or even fried. When added to cooked dishes like stir-fries, stews and vegetable dishes (and cooked only briefly), jicama takes on the flavors it's cooked with, and lends a crunchy texture, similar to a water chestnut. Healthy, Tasty and Versatile. Jicama can be used in your cooking like a super-potato (one that also tastes great, and is healthy, eaten raw). Jicama is less starchy than a potato, and one cup has only about 45 calories. It's high in vitamins C, A and B, along with calcium and phosphorus.
Jicama is a crispy, sweet, edible tuber that resembles a turnip in physical appearance, although the plants are not related. It has been cultivated in South America for centuries, and the vegetable is quite popular in Mexican cuisine. Jicama's unique flavor lends itself well to salads, salsas, and vegetable platters. Jicama tastes more like fresh sugar snap peas or sweet green beans than turnips or potatoes, which people had asked above. We use it instead of water chestnuts, have used strips in oriental salads, but our favorite Jicama use is in fresh salsa. Add about as much chopped Jicama as you do onion.