1 If the disposal jams, turn off the power and look underneath the sink. 2  There is a place in the center of the motor shaft, on the bottom of the unit, where you can use an allen wrench to manually turn the motor. 3  Give the motor a few manual turns to get it unstuck. Clean it regularly. 1  With the disposal off, clean the inner side of the rubber in the center of the sink leading to the disposal. 2  It gets very dirty, and gives off an odor when not cleaned. 3  Just wipe it with a paper towel.
Cancel. To use a garbage disposal, place only organic food in the unit, such as fruits and vegetables; and when removing unwanted items from a disposal, make sure to use a specific tool. Add ice to a garbage disposal to remove oils and odors using this free video from a home repair specialist on maintaining and fixing houses. So you can insert this and you can rotate your blades back and forth to dislodge whatever you want to do. Now the one important thing when you are using your garbage disposal is you want to make sure you never put your hands down inside here.
Save. karenfoleyphotography/iStock/Getty Images. A garbage disposal grinds food into small particles that get washed down the drain, keeping waste out of your garbage and, ultimately, the landfill. A disposal doesn't pulverize food the way a blender does, and understanding how it does work can help you use it properly. To use a garbage disposal, place only organic food in the unit, such as fruits and vegetables; and when removing unwanted items... 1  How to Use a Wrenchette on a Garbage Disposal.
1 Don’t use hot water when grinding food waste. 2  Hot water will cause grease to liquefy and accumulate, causing drains to clog. 3  Don’t grind extremely fibrous material like corn husks, celery stalks, onion skins, and artichokes. 4  Fibers from these can tangle and jam the garbage disposal motor and block drains. When in doubt, throw it out! 1  Don’t grind glass, plastic, metal or even paper. 2  Don’t grind anything combustible. 3  Don’t grind cigarette butts. 4  Don’t pour grease, oil or fat into your garbage disposal or drain. 5  Grease will slowly accumulate and impede your garbage disposal’s grinding ability as well as clog drains.
Garbage Disposal Do’s: 1  Do keep your garbage disposal clean. 2  Do run your garbage disposal regularly. 3  Do grind food waste w/ a strong flow of cold water. 4  Do grind certain hard materials such as small chicken and fish bones, egg shells, small fruit pits, etc. 5  Do cut large items into smaller pieces. When in doubt, throw it out! 1  Don’t grind glass, plastic, metal or even paper. 2  Don’t grind anything combustible. 3  Don’t grind cigarette butts. 4  Don’t pour grease, oil or fat into your garbage disposal or drain. 5  Grease will slowly accumulate and impede your garbage disposal’s grinding ability as well as clog drains.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. To use a garbage disposal, place only organic food in the unit, such as fruits and vegetables; and when removing unwanted items from a disposal, make sure to use a specific tool. Add ice to a garbage disposal to remove oils and odors using this free video from a home repair specialist on maintaining and fixing houses. 
What Not to Do. Avoid putting anything that is not a biodegradable food into the disposal because this can cause damage to the motor and the blades. Items such as glass, plastics, metal or paper products should never be put into the unit. Do not put fibrous foods or tough-skinned vegetables into the disposal. Jammed Disposal Tips. A sign that your disposal may be jammed or clogged is a humming sound when you turn on the unit, indicating no grinding is taking place. You may be able to fix the problem yourself. Unplug the disposal or turn the power off at the electrical box.
1 Then turn off water. 2  Don’t put too many potato peels down the garbage disposal. 3  The starches in the potatoes will turn into a thick paste and may cause blades to stick. 4  Don’t put large amounts of food down the garbage disposal. When in doubt, throw it out! 1  Don’t grind glass, plastic, metal or even paper. 2  Don’t grind anything combustible. 3  Don’t grind cigarette butts. 4  Don’t pour grease, oil or fat into your garbage disposal or drain. 5  Grease will slowly accumulate and impede your garbage disposal’s grinding ability as well as clog drains.
How a Garbage Disposal Works. Instead of cutting blades, a garbage disposal has a rotor with a pair of impellers mounted on it. The job of the impellers is to push food against the sides of the canister, where stationary blades chop it into small pieces that will fit between the rotor and the canister. To use a garbage disposal, place only organic food in the unit, such as fruits and vegetables; and when removing unwanted items... 1  How to Use a Wrenchette on a Garbage Disposal.