Nepheline Syenite is an anhydrous sodium potassium alumino silicate. Although feldspar-like in its chemistry, mineralogically it is an igneous rock combination of nepheline, microcline, albite and minor minerals like mica, hornblende and magnetite. It is found in Canada, India, Norway and USSR.
Table Mountain, Oregon, is the only commercial viable source for 'thermal mineral' low cost house building materials (other than the 3M Arkansas deposit used for ceramic tiles and tab roofing at this time) of Nepheline Syenite in the USA.
Nepheline syenite is a white to light grey medium-grained igneous rock. It consists mostly of soda feldspar, nepheline and potash feldspar, accessory magnesium and iron-rich minerals.
Nepheline Syenite. Nepheline Syenite is feldspar-like in reference to chemical properties (e.g., its melting point); in fact, it is often considered to be one of the lowest melting feldspars. Nepheline Syenite can also be used as an alternative to feldspars to supply alumina for the glass industry. Alumina provides increased resistance to scratching and breaking of glass. Nepheline Syenite has been used by the ceramic industry for many years, and its whiteness is considered to be one of its best properties.
Over the years, nepheline syenite has become preferred to feldspar as a source of alumina and alkalis for glass manufacture. It promotes more rapid melting at lower temperatures, thus reducing energy consumption, lengthening the life of the furnace and improving the yield and quality of glass.
Nepheline syenite is not available in many parts of the world and the INSIGHT ceramic calculation software instruction manual contains a lesson on how to calculate a substitution using a soda feldspar. The chemistry of nepheline is quite different from other feldspars and this is thus well worth while.
Nepheline syenite is a holocrystalline plutonic rock that consists largely of nepheline and alkali feldspar. The rocks are mostly pale colored, grey or pink, and in general appearance they are not unlike granites, but dark green varieties are also known. Phonolite is the fine-grained extrusive equivalent.
Like feldspar, Nepheline Syenite is used as a flux in porcelains, vitreous and semi-vitreous clay bodies, and in glazes. Nepheline syenite contributes high alumina without associated free silica in its raw form. This makes it an excellent tile filler and melter, especially for fast firing.