1 Dump in about 1/2 c. baking soda. 2  Let that sit for a few minutes. 3  Then, pour a mixture of 1 c. vinegar and 1. c very hot water down on top of the baking soda. 4  Cover with a drain plug (to keep the reaction down below the drain surface) if you have one and let it sit for 5-10 minutes. 1 Start by running hot water through your garbage disposal for a minute. 2  Pour about 1/4 c. baking soda into the drain. 3  Flip the garbage disposal on for 2 seconds, just to whirl the baking soda inside, and then leave it alone for 10-15 minutes. 4  Follow with 1 c. of vinegar.
Instructions. Pour 1/2 cup baking soda into your drain. Allow the baking soda to sit for about five minutes as it deodorizes your drain. Pour 1/2 cup white vinegar down the drain. The baking soda and white vinegar will react chemically, causing foam. This reaction is normal and perfectly safe. Allow the foaming combination to sit in your drain for 15 minutes. Any clogs present dissolve under the solution as it works to clean your drain. Bring water to boil in a large pot. Pour the boiling water into the drain, slowly to avoid splashing any on yourself. This water flushes the baking soda and vinegar down the drain as well as any dirt, grime, clogs and odor.
1. Pour a 1/2 cup of baking soda down the drain followed by a 1/2 cup of white distilled vinegar. Seal the drain with a stopper. Foam will result from the chemical reaction of the two ingredients, providing agitation against the clog. 1 Remove excess water that may have backed up over the drain so the baking soda and vinegar can have direct contact with the clog quicker. 2  If you don't have a sink stopper, you can stuff a rag into the top portion of the drain hole after pouring in the baking soda and vinegar.
Let that sit for a few minutes. Then, pour a mixture of 1 c. vinegar and 1. c very hot water down on top of the baking soda. Cover with a drain plug (to keep the reaction down below the drain surface) if you have one and let it sit for 5-10 minutes. Flush one more time with a pot of boiling water. 
#1 Drains: deodorize & unblock. I’m sure you’ve all noticed that at times the bathroom drain can stink. If you want to get rid of it then here’s a great tip for you. “Using a funnel, pour 1/2 cup of baking soda followed by 1 cup of white vinegar down the drain. When the foaming subsides, flush with hot tap water. Wait 5 minutes and then flush again with cold water.
1 Pour about 1/4 c. baking soda into the drain. 2  Flip the garbage disposal on for 2 seconds, just to whirl the baking soda inside, and then leave it alone for 10-15 minutes. 3  Follow with 1 c. of vinegar. 4  Watch the bubbles erupt out of your drain. 1 Start by running hot water through your garbage disposal for a minute. 2  Pour about 1/4 c. baking soda into the drain. 3  Flip the garbage disposal on for 2 seconds, just to whirl the baking soda inside, and then leave it alone for 10-15 minutes. 4
1 Let that sit for a few minutes. 2  Then, pour a mixture of 1 c. vinegar and 1. c very hot water down on top of the baking soda. 3  Cover with a drain plug (to keep the reaction down below the drain surface) if you have one and let it sit for 5-10 minutes. 4  Flush one more time with a pot of boiling water. 1 Start by running hot water through your garbage disposal for a minute. 2  Pour about 1/4 c. baking soda into the drain. 3  Flip the garbage disposal on for 2 seconds, just to whirl the baking soda inside, and then leave it alone for 10-15 minutes. 4  Follow with 1 c. of vinegar.
1 Then, pour a mixture of 1 c. vinegar and 1. c very hot water down on top of the baking soda. 2  Cover with a drain plug (to keep the reaction down below the drain surface) if you have one and let it sit for 5-10 minutes. 3  Flush one more time with a pot of boiling water. 1 Start by running hot water through your garbage disposal for a minute. 2  Pour about 1/4 c. baking soda into the drain. 3  Flip the garbage disposal on for 2 seconds, just to whirl the baking soda inside, and then leave it alone for 10-15 minutes. 4  Follow with 1 c. of vinegar.
You'll need one cup of white vinegar, half a cup of baking soda and four cups of boiling hot water. Step 1: Sprinkle the baking soda down the drain. Step 2: Pour the vinegar down the drain and watch it fizz for five to 10 minutes. 
1 Concentrated vinegar (acetic acid) and caustic soda are sometimes used for clearing drains, but both are irritants.They can cause irritation to skin, eyes, nose and throat. 2  Avoid direct contact with skin, eyes and clothing. 3  Avoid using these methods if you've already poured commercial drain cleaning down the drain. 1 For a vinegar and baking soda combination: use 1/2 cup of baking soda and 1/2 cup of white vinegar. 2  For a lemon juice and baking soda combination: use 1 cup of baking soda and 1 cup of lemon juice.