The Chemex® coffeemaker, together with Chemex-Bonded® Coffee Filter, makes perfect coffee. Clear, pure, flavorful and without bitterness or sediment every time. The coffee only comes in contact with the scientifically designed filter and non-porous glass. The best cup you've ever had, every time you have it. The Chemex® coffeemaker is an elegant, one-piece, hourglass shaped vessel made of high quality, heat resistant glass. The traditional model comes to you with a polished wood collar and leather tie.
Prep and preheat. Place the Chemex Filter in the brewer with single fold away from the spout and multiple folds lined up against the spout. Rinse the filter with hot water to get a nice even seal all the way around. This preheats the brewer and gets rid of any paper flavor from the filter. 
So the 40 oz Chemex is an 8 cup brewer. Of course 40/6 is 6 and 2/3. So, if your cup measures between 6 and 7 oz., you will get six cups.I drink my coffee from a 10 oz. mug, so I only get 4 mugs of coffee from a full 40 oz. brew. Chemex measures their cups at 5 oz. it would be an eight cup. If you fill it to the top of the button it would give you 5 cups or two nice size mug fills. If you don't mind a little sediment in the bottom of your up I highly recommend the Kone filter.
A Chemex coffeemaker containing brewed coffee. The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual, pour-over style glass-container coffeemaker, which Peter Schlumbohm invented in 1941, and which continues to be manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Similarly, a Chemex can be spotted on the stovetop in the pilot of  Friends  (1994). A Chemex can be seen in Don Draper' s kitchen in the AMC show Mad Men (2007–15). In the film Interstellar (2014), a Chemex can be seen on the dining room table, being used to filter the dust out of drinking water.
Chuck Williams’ favorite method of brewing coffee, the Chemex coffeemaker is an elegant, one-piece vessel made of high quality, heat-resistant glass. This simple, reliable method of making coffee yields a full-flavored, clean-tasting brew using Chemex unbleached filter squares (sold separately). 1 The Chemex coffee maker has been brewing clear, pure, flavorful coffee without bitterness or sediment for over forty years and remains one of the purest methods of brewing. 2  Coffee can be made at the preferred strength. 3  Simple to use: Place grounds in the cone-shaped filter at the top and pour hot water over them.
The Chemex Coffeemaker was invented in 1941 by Dr. Peter Schlumbohm PhD. Made simply from non-porous, borosilicate glass and fastened with a wood collar and tie, it brews coffee without imparting any flavors of its own. The best cup you've ever had, every time you have it. The Chemex® coffeemaker is an elegant, one-piece, hourglass shaped vessel made of high quality, heat resistant glass. The traditional model comes to you with a polished wood collar and leather tie.
Chemex. The Chemex® coffeemaker was invented by chemist Peter J. Schlumbohm, Ph.D., in 1941. Being a doctor of Chemistry, he was very familiar with laboratory apparati and the methods of filtration and extraction. The coffee maker and the water kettle are in the permanent collections of museums such as the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Smithsonian, the Philadelphia Museum and the Corning Museum located in Corning, NY.
In spy literature, film, and television, the Chemex coffeemaker has appeared in the novel From Russia, with Love (1957), by Ian Fleming, who describes James Bond, when in London, brewing his breakfast coffee with a Chemex, using coffee bought from the De Bry's shop in New Oxford Street. Similarly, a Chemex can be spotted on the stovetop in the pilot of  Friends  (1994). A Chemex can be seen in Don Draper' s kitchen in the AMC show Mad Men (2007–15). In the film Interstellar (2014), a Chemex can be seen on the dining room table, being used to filter the dust out of drinking water.