To help prevent Leptospirosis infection, keep rodent problems (rats, mice, or other animal pests) under control. Rodents can carry and spread the bacteria that causes this disease. For more information about rodent control, see: Prevent rodent infestations. Get your pet vaccinated against leptospirosis. The vaccine does not provide 100% protection. This is because there are many strains (types) of leptospires (the bacteria that causes Leptospirosis), and the vaccine does not provide immunity against all strains. 
Leptospirosis is a disease caused by infection with Leptospira bacteria. These bacteria can be found worldwide in soil and water. There are many strains of Leptospira bacteria that can cause disease. Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease, which means it can be spread from animals to people. Infection in people can cause flu-like symptoms and can cause liver or kidney disease. In the United States, most cases of human leptospirosis result from recreational activities involving water
About the Leptospirosis Vaccine: Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection. It causes fever, vomiting, increased urination, and can lead to kidney and sometimes liver failure and death in both animals and humans. Leptospirosis has different strains of bacteria that cause infection. These are commonly referred to as different serovars of the bacteria.
Vaccine Indications. The leptospirosis vaccine is a non-core vaccine, which means it is an optional vaccine that dogs can benefit from based on risk for exposure to the disease. Veterinarians will recommend this vaccine based on a dog’s lifestyle and reasonable exposure risk. There is a vaccine available for the most common subtypes of the bacteria that infect dogs, but it’s not always a recommended part of the routine vaccination protocol. Ask your veterinarian if the leptospirosis vaccine is right for your dog.
1 Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. 3  Leptospirosis isn’t a new disease – in fact, it’s ancient
Currently available vaccines effectively prevent leptospirosis and protect dogs for at least 12 months. Annual vaccination is recommended for at-risk dogs. Reducing your dog’s exposure to possible sources of the Leptospira bacteria can reduce its chances of infection. Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease, which means it can be spread from animals to people. Infection in people can cause flu-like symptoms and can cause liver or kidney disease.
Canine leptospirosis, “lepto” for short, is an infection caused by at least four species of Leptospira bacteria, or serovars. We know there are actually over 20 different serovars in existence that could potentially infect dogs and hundreds of non-pathogenic serovars. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. 3  Leptospirosis isn’t a new disease – in fact, it’s ancient
Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease of dogs and other mammals that primarily affects the liver or kidneys. Leptospires are known as aquatic spirochetes: the organism thrives in water and they have a helical or spiral shape with a characteristic hook on one or both ends. These include L. pomona, L. grippotyphosa, L. australis, and L. bratislava. The most common causes of Leptospirosis in dogs in the United States are L. grippotyphosa and L. pomona. There are other serovars that may infect dogs without apparently causing any signs or disease.