Good credit score: 680 to 719. A credit report score in the 680-and-up range is good news for you. You can still get decent terms from lenders, although not as nice as those offered to borrowers with truly excellent credit scores. If you're shopping for a first home, a score in this range is certainly considered to be a good credit score, and it will get you an acceptable mortgage. Excellent credit score: 720 and Up. Credit scores in this range will open up the best interest rates and repayment terms for loans. If you want to make major purchases, such as an investment property, this credit score range is where you want to be.
Credit scores between 750 and 800 are considered to be excellent; credit scores from 720 and 750 are good to excellent; those ranging from 690 to 720 are considered good; and borrowers with credit scores ranging from 620 and 690 are fair credit risks. A credit score below 620 is considered poor. Ways to Boost a Credit Score. If you don’t have a good credit score, there are ways in which you can work toward improving it.
Anything above 50% will drag down your credit score quite a bit. For example we’ll say you have two credit cards, one has a $3,000 credit limit, the other has a $5,000 limit. Your total “credit line” or “credit limit” on your credit cards would then be $8,000. If you carry a total balance on both cards of 4,000, your total balance would be occupying 50% of your total credit limit, this is not good for your credit score.
The FICO credit score is what most banks and lenders use, and anything in the 660-720 range is considered a good credit score under the FICO model (the higher the better). However, there are more than 1,000 different types of credit scores, and they often utilize different score ranges. So, what’s a good credit score under one model might not be considered good under another. A good credit score is undoubtedly important, but that alone isn’t always enough. Lenders and other decision makers also pay a lot of attention to your assets, income, and liabilities when evaluating your overall credit profile.
Generally a good credit score is considered to be above 720. This is when you will receive the best interest rates. If you want a good credit score you should make sure to pay all your bills early, every time. If you can’t pay them all then at least try to pay more then the minimum payments. Your total “credit line” or “credit limit” on your credit cards would then be $8,000. If you carry a total balance on both cards of 4,000, your total balance would be occupying 50% of your total credit limit, this is not good for your credit score.
Credit Guidelines. Credit scores range from about 300 to 850. According to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which purchase mortgages from banks and resell them to investors, a FICO score above 620 is considered good. However, says Fair Isaac, A 620 score doesn't mean you're going to qualify for the best rate. A credit score below 620 is considered subprime. The subprime lending category is for borrowers whom the lender determines to be risky loan candidates. Scores that fall short of 620 may bring about lender investigation. Applicants will be required to provide additional documentation to prove their creditworthiness.
When you apply for a credit card or mortgage, there’s a good chance the creditor is basing the decision on your FICO scores (you have three, one each from Equifax, Experian and TransUnion). If you want to know how good (or bad) your score is, what you really should be doing is basing that decision on your FICO scores. If you are referring to FICO scores, the score range is from 300 to 850. For many years Fair Isaac and Company (FICO) reported the median national credit score but unfortunately they stopped providing that information.
Fair FICO. A credit score below 620 is considered subprime. The subprime lending category is for borrowers whom the lender determines to be risky loan candidates. Scores that fall short of 620 may bring about lender investigation. Applicants will be required to provide additional documentation to prove their creditworthiness.
For example, if you charge $500 in any given month on your credit cards, and your total limit on both cards is $1000, it will be reported to the credit bureaus accordingly, so at that point your utilization percentage (balance to total limit) would be 50%, which will drag down your credit score significantly. Your total “credit line” or “credit limit” on your credit cards would then be $8,000. If you carry a total balance on both cards of 4,000, your total balance would be occupying 50% of your total credit limit, this is not good for your credit score.
Your 790 credit score might not be as great as you think it is. For example, while a FICO score of 790 out of 850 is considered excellent, it's merely mediocre on the VantageScore model -- which tops out at 990. Overall, the eight most common credit scores used by lenders and consumers range from as low as 150 to as high as 990, according to a new Credit Sesame diagram created by John Ulzheimer, president of consumer education at SmartCredit.com and a former manager at FICO.