Answers. Best Answer: it wont take more than an hour its actually rlly easy to set it up the steps on the instructions are extremely helpfull... if u do everything rite it will take u like half an hour.... warning you need a strong person a the very end when adjusting the last spring. 
Right after you have opened the package, take out everything that is inside it and arrange it on the floor. Here are the steps to follow on how to set up a trampoline: 1  Begin by setting up the legs. 2  It should not be difficult to identify which bars are for the legs. 3  They are short and often come with a 90-degree bend right in the middle. 4  Put them altogether and set aside.
The trampoline is very easy to set up. It takes about one to two hours to set up the trampoline the first time. Then the next time your set up time will be much quicker since you will be familiar with the process. 
Here are the steps to follow on how to set up a trampoline: 1  Begin by setting up the legs. 2  Look for long and curved pieces that come with little holes on their ends that are pointing downwards. 3  Join the sections altogether and this could take up a lot of time. Here are the steps to follow on how to set up a trampoline: 1  Begin by setting up the legs. 2  It should not be difficult to identify which bars are for the legs. 3  They are short and often come with a 90-degree bend right in the middle. 4  Put them altogether and set aside.
Report Abuse. If you are a professional then it takes half an hour if you are new to trampoline it would takes 1 hour. If you dont knoe how to fit then you can visit www.indiatrampoline.com websites support page. Where you can find full details with video on how to fit trampoline frequently and safely.Please choose my answer as the best answer if you really find it Good. Good luck.
You only need to inflate the tube and attach the springs and jump surface. An Aquaglide Supertramp will take longer as you must attach the metal bars to the inflated tube. A bouncer can be set up in about 15 to 20 minutes. It takes about 5-10 minutes to inflate each of the attachments, and another 5 to 10 minutes to attach them properly to your water trampoline or bounce platform. Back to Top. How deep does the water need to be to use the water trampolines? You should anchor your water trampoline in at least 10 feet of water in an area at least 30 feet from any docks, boats or other obstructions.
Attaching the Trampoline Net. Right after setting up the frame, then you are on to the important part which is to attach the net. So here’s how: 1  Stretch out the net and start putting them on the trampoline springs. 2  This will again take up a lot of time and patience, but do not give up. Here are the steps to follow on how to set up a trampoline: 1  Begin by setting up the legs. 2  It should not be difficult to identify which bars are for the legs. 3  They are short and often come with a 90-degree bend right in the middle. 4  Put them altogether and set aside.
Most rectangular trampolines run 10 feet to 14 feet and round usually start at 12 feet. The depth of the hole should be 3 to 4 feet deep, depending on the height of your trampoline. In most cases you want the trampoline to stand an inch or 2 above the ground, allowing for air flow, which will produce better bouncing. In Texas, on our Airborne 14' trampolines, we see 3-5 years on average on the safety pads and 5-7 years on the jumping mat. The frame and springs should last for many, many years. The best thing you can do for and trampoline is to place it in the shade during the heat of the day, or use a weather cover.
The first time you set up your Water Trampoline using two people, it will take approximately 90 minutes. Future set ups should take approximately 45 minutes; based on using two people. Water Trampoline Break-Down: Approximately 30 minutes (using two people). Aquaglide Water Trampolines (Aquaglide Only) use a metal frame and metal springs that attach the jump surface to the inflatable outer tube. Rave Water Trampolines do not use a frame; making set up time a breeze! A frame or springs are not incorporated with Water Bouncers