Just because a reaction is spontaneous, it does not automatically imply that these reactions occur instantaneously. An example of this is when iron nails rust due to constant exposure to moisture -- this process does not occur overnight, but can take days or months. According to the second law of thermodynamics, a reaction is spontaneous if the overall entropy or disorder increases. If we go back to our cleaning the house analogy, when our home becomes messy, then the entropy increases. The mess that accumulates is a spontaneous reaction, and as a result,
Answer by Ali Ladak. Confidence votes 17. The spontaneity of a redox reaction is a function of the reduction potentials of the two species involved in the reaction: the reducing agent and the oxidizing agent. To determine if a reaction is spontaneous or not, you must first isolate the two half-reactions
If change in Gibbs free energy of the reaction is 0 then the reaction is in equilibrium and if change in Gibbs free energy of the reaction is greater than 0 the reaction is unlikely to occur (non spontaneous). Source(s): The exclamation mark · 9 years ago. Best Answer: Look at the change in Gibbs free energy of the reaction if it is below 0, then the reaction is likely to occur (spontaneous).
The spontaneity of a redox reaction is a function of the reduction potentials of the two species involved in the reaction: the reducing agent and the oxidizing agent. To dete … rmine if a reaction is spontaneous or not, you must first isolate the two half-reactions. For other non-spontaneous reactions, there is nothing you can do to make it spontaneous.   Nature favors … reactions that increase a system's entropy (disorder) and nature favors reactions that are exothermic (they release enthalpy).
Now that we know the overall entropy change should increase for spontaneous reactions, we can use this information to tell if a reaction is spontaneous or not. To be able to tell if a reaction is spontaneous or not qualitatively, meaning, without having to calculate anything, the first thing we look at is the entropy. There are ways to tell if the entropy of your system increases. These are listed below. According to the second law of thermodynamics, a reaction is spontaneous if the overall entropy or disorder increases. If we go back to our cleaning the house analogy, when our home becomes messy, then the entropy increases. The mess that accumulates is a spontaneous reaction, and as a result,
To determine if a reaction is spontaneous, use this formula to find Delta G. Gibbs Free Energy is NEGATIVE for spontaneous reactions. You can also determine above which TEMPERATURE the reaction will be spontaneous. Check it out! Check me out: http://www.chemistnate.com. 
For some non-spontaneous reactions, you can change the temperature. For other non-spontaneous reactions, there is nothing you can do to make it spontaneous.   Nature favors … reactions that increase a system's entropy (disorder) and nature favors reactions that are exothermic (they release enthalpy).
1 If a reaction is favorable for both enthalpy (H S G. 2  If a reaction is unfavorable for both enthalpy (H S G. 3  If a reaction is favorable for only one of either entropy or enthalpy, the standard-state free energy equation must be used to determine whether the reaction is spontaneous or not. EQUILIBRIUM: G = 0 (Keq = 1). 1 
Spontaneous reactions simply mean that the products will be lower in free energy than the reactants ($\Delta G$ is negative). If $\Delta G$ is negative, then it is energetically favourable for the reaction to occur-in other words, there will be a release of energy due to the reaction. 1. What I understand by spontaneous reaction is that-A reaction whose G is-ve and which occurs without input of energy. Gasoline reacts with oxygen only if a spark is provided.