Map of Cobram, VIC 3644. The Murray River town of Cobram was established in 1887 to service the railway, which arrived from Melbourne a year later. After World War II the area was part of a large soldier-settlement scheme, which saw the development of dairy farms and orchards on the rich irrigated land. Over the river in New South Wales, a short distance of three kilometres is Cobram's smaller sister town, Barooga. Popular.
The commercial centre of Cobram is primarily based around Punt Road and Main Street, and consists of a selection of shops, supermarkets, hotels and cafes. Historic buildings in the town centre include the Cobram Hotel (built in 1892), law offices (1892) and Masonic Lodge (1888). The old Cobram railway station is set within parklands featuring a small lake, rose gardens, a gallery and a reassembled log cabin dating back to 1874. The Mill End is the oldest part of Cobram, located on the north side of Mookarii Street between Warkil Street and the Murray River.
Cobram is a large fruit growing area situated on the Murray River just 250 kms north of Melbourne. Cobram is 250 kms north of Melbourne via the Hume Freeway and the Goulburn Valley Highway and 542 kms south west of Sydney on the Hume and Murray Valley Highways. Rail and bus service operate daily from Sydney to Cobram via Albury and a daily rail and bus service is available between Melbourne and Cobram via Shepparton
Cobram, the Centre of the food bowl of Australia. Situated in the centre of 'the food bowl of Australia', Cobram Barooga and it's district area are renowned for their magnificent climate and variety of available attractions and activities. The Cobram Barooga area is home to some of the most picturesque sections of Australia's mightiest river, the Murray. Visitors are captivated by the lifestyle, with wide sandy beaches, towering gums and native bushland blending together to form a recipe for a unique holiday destination. Accommodation styles in Cobram and Barooga cater to all tastes and needs with a good selection of motels, caravan parks, B&B's and luxury self contained units. Accommodation options are available in the townships or within a few minutes drive.
Welcome to Cobram & Barooga. Cobram Barooga is situated in the heart of Victoria’s ‘Food Bowl’, and is home to some of the most picturesque sections of the mighty Murray River. 
Cobram is a town in Victoria, Australia. It is on the Murray River which forms the border between Victoria and New South Wales. Cobram along with the nearby towns of Numurkah and Yarrawonga is part of Shire of Moira and is the administrative centre of the Council. Its twin town of Barooga is located on the north side of the Murray River. Surrounding Cobram are a number of orchards, dairy farms and wineries. The Mill End is the oldest area name, given to the old Cobram town bound by Warkil Street to the west and the river to the east, so named because of the timber mills that were once scattered in the area. It is still used, although not as commonly, by people and business.
Welcome to the Cobram google satellite map! This place is situated in Moira, Victoria, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 35° 55' 0 South, 145° 39' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Cobram. 
Cobram-Barooga. Business, tourism and event directory for Cobram in Victoria and Barooga across the Murray River in New South Wales. Cobram is located on the Murray River, just across this grand waterway from the small New South Wales border town of Barooga. The old Cobram railway station is set within parklands featuring a small lake, rose gardens, a gallery and a reassembled log cabin dating back to 1874. The Mill End is the oldest part of Cobram, located on the north side of Mookarii Street between Warkil Street and the Murray River.