These extrinsic eye muscles are some of the fastest contracting and most precisely controlled skeletal muscles in the human body and function as Agonist & Antagonists pairs to move the eyeball. 1  Superior and Inferior Rectus Muscles, 2  Lateral and Medial Rectus Muscles, These muscles are called extrinsic eye muscles because their origin points are outside of the eyeballs (in the orbit) and insertion points are on the outer surface of the Sclera.
Extrinsic muscles are voluntary muscles,external to the eye, that control the direction the eye moves in e.g looking left or right.   Intrinsic muscles are wit … hin the eye, such as those that control the size of the pupil. Intrinsic muscle is not under voluntary control. 11 people found this useful. 
Eye Muscle Function. The movement of each eye is controlled by four rectus and two oblique eye muscles. 1  The lateral rectus muscle moves the eye outwards. 2  The superior rectus muscle moves the eye upwards and, to a lesser extent, rotates the top of the eye towards the nose.
Answers. Best Answer: The extrinsic muscles control the movement of the eyes.The extrinsic muscles are controlled by the somatic nervous system(voluntary) The intrinsic muscles control the lens and pupil. 
The extraocular muscles are the six muscles that control movement of the eye (there are four in bovines) and one muscle that controls eyelid elevation (levator palpebrae). The actions of the six muscles responsible for eye movement depend on the position of the eye at the time of muscle contraction. Four of the extraocular muscles control the movement of the eye in the four cardinal directions: up, down, left and right. The remaining two muscles control the adjustments involved in counteracting head movement; for instance this can be observed by looking into one's own eyes in a mirror while moving one's head.
Simultaneously, the intrinsic muscles of the eye serve to focus the eye and control the amount of light entering it. Each eye is held in place by three pairs of taut, elastic muscles (extrinsic muscles) that constantly balance the pull of the others. The superior rectus acts to roll the eyeball back and up, but it is opposed by the inferior rectus. 
The superior oblique muscle, or obliquus oculi superior, is a fusiform muscle originating in the upper, medial side of the orbit (i.e. from beside the nose) which abducts, depresses and internally rotates the eye. It is the only extraocular muscle innervated by the trochlear nerve (the fourth cranial nerve). 
Anatomy, Physiology & Pathology of the Human Eye. Included are descriptions, functions, and problems of the major structures of the human eye: conjunctiva, cornea, iris, lens, macula, retina, optic nerve, vitreous, and extraocular muscles. A glossary is included. 
Muscles of the eyes, 3.6 out of 5 based on 10 ratings. The are six muscles of the eyes responsible for movement of the eye. These muscles function in Agonist and Antagonist pairs enabling us to move our eyeballs in the cardinal directions, up, down, left and right. There are six muscles which are responsible for controlling the movement of the eyeballs. These muscles are called extrinsic eye muscles because their origin points are outside of the eyeballs (in the orbit) and insertion points are on the outer surface of the Sclera.
Extrinsic muscles are voluntary muscles,external to the eye, that control the direction the eye moves in e.g looking left or right.   Intrinsic muscles are wit … hin the eye, such as those that control the size of the pupil. Intrinsic muscle is not under voluntary control. 11 people found this useful. 