Sodium nitrate belongs to the class of chemicals known as salts, similar to table salt, or sodium chloride. Sodium nitrate is also sometimes called Chile saltpeter, explains Edinformatics.com. At room temperature, sodium nitrate exists as a solid white substance that easily dissolves in water.
In reference to food, “nitrate” really means sodium nitrate, but should really refer to sodium nitrite. While these are two completely different chemical compounds, they are often used interchangeably by those outside of the science realm. 1  Sodium nitrate is a type of salt, naturally found in Chile and Peru.
Sodium nitrate (NaNO3) and its close relative sodium nitrite (NaNO2) are preservatives that you find in lots of processed meats. Stuff like salami, hot dogs, pepperoni, bologna, ham, bacon and SPAM all normally contain sodium nitrate as one of the ingredients.
If you eat cured meats, you've probably encountered sodium nitrate or sodium nitrite. Sodium nitrate is a salt that is often added to jerky, bacon and luncheon meats. Sodium nitrite, on the other hand, is a salt and antioxidant that is commonly used to cure ham and bacon. Both chemicals act as food preservatives and add a red or pink color to processed meats, among other uses.
Sodium nitrate is the chemical compound with the formula Na N O 3. This salt is also known as Chile saltpeter or Peru saltpeter (due to the large deposits found in the Atacama desert in these countries) to distinguish it from ordinary saltpeter, potassium nitrate.
Sodium nitrate is sometimes used as a perservative in cured meats such as bacon. Photo Credit RTsubin/iStock/Getty Images. You may have heard new reports about the dangers of processed foods made with sodium nitrate or with a similar chemical known as sodium nitrite.
Sodium nitrate is a salt that is added to hot dogs, bacon and other cured meats to help preserve them. In higher doses nitrates are also used as fumigates to kill rodents and these nitrates can leach into the soil, contaminating the food supply.
Sodium nitrate, a preservative that's used in some processed meats, such as bacon, jerky and luncheon meats, could increase your heart disease risk. It's thought that sodium nitrate may damage your blood vessels, making your arteries more likely to harden and narrow, leading to heart disease.