You can have your refund deposited directly to your account in 7 days or less. Select Direct Deposit and provide your banking information when Direct Deposit is offered by your tax professional or by your e-file software. If you do not select Direct Deposit, you will get a paper check in about 10 days. 
Direct Deposit. If you choose direct deposit when you e-file your tax return, you can expect a federal return to take two weeks, if you file before the April deadline. Some state returns may take as long as two weeks, but some can come as early as a week after submitting the return. Save. IPGGutenbergUKLtd/iStock/Getty Images. After you e-file your tax returns, you anticipate the arrival of your refund so that you can pay bills or have some spending money. The time that it takes for a refund to arrive depends on such factors as whether you use direct deposit or elect to receive a check by mail.
1 An e-filed tax return usually means a faster refund compared to a paper return. 2  The IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days. 3  If you choose direct deposit, your refund goes directly into your bank account. 4  Combining e-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your refund. 1 Combining e-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your refund. 2  About three out of four taxpayers who file receive a tax refund. 3  Last year the average refund was about $2,700. 4  Payment options. 5  If you owe tax, you can e-file early and set an automatic payment date anytime on or before the April 15 due date
However, if you owe money and do not choose an electronic payment option, you must mail your payment with a Form IT-201-V, Payment Voucher for Income Tax Returns. Refunds. E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. You may also select the debit card refund option. If you don't select direct deposit or debit card refund options, we'll mail you a check for your refund. There are two options for e-filing your return for free: 1  If your income is $60,000 or less, you can prepare and e-file both your federal and state income tax returns at no cost through an approved e-file software provider.
1 Faster refunds. 2  An e-filed tax return usually means a faster refund compared to a paper return. 3  The IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days. 4  If you choose direct deposit, your refund goes directly into your bank account. 5  Combining e-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your refund. 1 Combining e-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your refund. 2  About three out of four taxpayers who file receive a tax refund. 3  Last year the average refund was about $2,700. 4  Payment options. 5  If you owe tax, you can e-file early and set an automatic payment date anytime on or before the April 15 due date
Confidence votes 262. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check. It will be faster if you select a bank product from a tax service firm, however these tend to be extremely expensive and you will have to have decent credit to qualify. If you e-file and you have chosen direct deposit, most people will receive their refund within 5 business days. If you have chosen to receive a paper check you should add 2- … 4 business days for processing. 20 people found this useful.
The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an  e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated  e-filed returns may take around 21 days … for processing. If you e-file and you have chosen direct deposit, most people will receive their refund within 5 business days. If you have chosen to receive a paper check you should add 2- … 4 business days for processing. 20 people found this useful.
If you file a paper return, the IRS says you should allow about six weeks to receive your refund. If you file Form 8379, Injured Spouse Allocation, it could take up to 14 weeks to process your tax return. 