Columbia is the capital of and largest city in the U.S. state of South Carolina, with a population of 129,272 as of the 2010 United States Census. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.
The Republic of Colombia (Spanish: Rep blica de Colombia), is a country in northwestern South America. It's bordered to the east by Venezuela and Brazil, to the south by Ecuador and Peru, to the North by the Atlantic Ocean and to the west by Panama and the Pacific Ocean. 
Columbia is home to the University of South Carolina, the state's flagship and largest university, and is also the site of Fort Jackson, the largest United States Army installation for Basic Combat Training. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.
Summary. Columbia University is a private institution that was founded in 1754. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,170, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 36 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Founded in 1754, Columbia University in the City of New York encompasses more than a dozen graduate and professional schools and the over 6,000 undergraduates studying in Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science.
Colombia located in the northwest side of South America is officially called the Republic of Colombia. This country is bordered by Brazil and Venezuela in the east, Panama in the northeast and Peru and Ecuador in the south. Caribbean Sea in the north and North Pacific Ocean in the west are its coastal boundaries. Colombia occupies a total area of 1,138,910 Sq. Km. making it the 26th largest country of the world. Colombia is situated on the Pacific Ring of Fire. The geographical coordinates of Colombia are 4 00 N and 72 00 W. Colombian terrain includes both high Andes and low Llanos region.
Columbia is home to the headquarters and production facilities of South Carolina Educational Television and ETV Radio, the state's public television and public radio networks. Columbia has the 78th largest television market in the United States. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.
The name Columbia was a poetic term used for the United States, originating from the name of Christopher Columbus. The city is located approximately 13 miles (21 km) northwest of the geographic center of South Carolina, and is the primary city of the Midlands region of the state. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.
Columbia. Columbia (kəlŭmˈbēə) [ key ]. 1 City (1990 pop. 75,883), Howard co., central Md., between Washington, D.C., and Baltimore. Founded in 1967 and developed by James Rouse, it is one of the largest and most successful American planned cities
Columbia University (officially Columbia University in the City of New York) is a private Ivy League research university in Upper Manhattan, New York City. Columbia University's acceptance rate for the class of 2019 (Columbia College and Engineering) was 6.1%, making Columbia the third most selective college in the United States by admission rate behind Stanford and Harvard. The undergraduate yield rate for the class of 2015 was 63%.