Disease-causing bacteria can cause an illness in humans when they enter the body. The bacteria may enter the body through the skin, nose, eyes, vagina, or mouth. Once the invading bacteria start to multiply and harm the body, it is called an infection.
Bacteria cause different diseases depending on the specific type of bacteria and where they are in the body. Examples of bacterial infections include cellulitis, cholera, Fournier's gangrene, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), trachoma, and tuberculosis.
Bacterial diseases: Introduction. Bacterial diseases include any type of illness or disease caused by bacteria, a type of microbe. Microbes are tiny organisms that cannot be seen without a microscope and include viruses, fungi, and some parasites as well as bacteria.
It is a bacterial disease that affects humans and animals. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira. Symptoms of leptospirosis include high fever, severe headache, chills, muscle aches, and vomiting, and may include jaundice (yellow skin and eyes), red eyes, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or a rash.
Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea.
Harmful bacteria can affect almost any area of the body. Other types of bacterial infections include: 1  Bacterial meningitis is a severe infection of the meninges, the lining of the brain. 2  Otitis media is the official name for an infection or inflammation of the middle ear.
Several species, including Escherichia coli, are common causes of food–borne disease. Vibrio cholerae —the bacteria responsible for cholera—is a waterborne pathogen. Gram-negative bacteria can also cause respiratory infections, such as certain types of pneumonia, and sexually transmitted diseases, including gonorrhea.
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites.