Please try again later. HINDI-Learn the benefits of aloe vera on your skin and body. Aloe vera can be used for treating acne, as a moisturizer, anti-bacterial, and as an anti-inflammatory. New Nutrition video every Tuesday. Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/user/mdhilhin... Like us! http://www.facebook.com/mdhil.
ALOE Overview Information. Aloe (often called aloe vera) produces two substances, gel and latex, which are used for medicines. Aloe gel is the clear, jelly-like substance found in the inner part of the aloe plant leaf. Aloe latex comes from just under the plant's skin and is yellow in color
Commonly known as Aloe vera, the plant can be snapped off and placed on cuts and burns for immediate relief. Aloe vera is a clump forming succulent whose fleshy gray-green leaves are arranged in a vase shaped rosette atop a very short stem. Common name: Aloe vera, Medicinal aloe, Burn plant • Hindi: Gheekumari घीकुमारी • Marathi: Khorpad • Tamil: கதலை Kathalai • Malayalam: Chotthu kathalai. Botanical name: Aloe vera. Family: Asphodelaceae (Aloe family).
Aloe vera (/ˈaeloʊiː/ ˈæloʊiː /or/) ˈaeloʊ ˈæloʊ is a succulent. plant species Common names include Chinese Aloe, Indian Aloe, True Aloe, Barbados Aloe, Burn Aloe, First Aid Plant. The species epithet vera means true or genuine. Some literature identifies the white-spotted form of Aloe vera as Aloe vera var.
Aloe, a popular houseplant, has a long history as a multipurpose folk remedy. Commonly known as Aloe vera, the plant can be snapped off and placed on cuts and burns for immediate relief. Aloe vera is a clump forming succulent whose fleshy gray-green leaves are arranged in a vase shaped rosette atop a very short stem. Aloe Vera contains all of these eight essential amino acids, and 11 of the 14 secondary amino acids. Aloe Vera has Vitamins A, B1, B2, B6, B12, C and E. In India, Aloe vera is believed to help in sustaining youth, due to its positive effects on the skin.
Tweet. Species name: Aloe vera. Aloe vera, also known as the true or medicinal aloe, is a species of succulent plant that probably originated in the southern half of the Arabian peninsula, Northern Africa, the Canary islands and Cape Verde. Aloe vera grows in arid climates and is widely distributed in Africa, India and other arid areas
Aloe vera (/ˈaeloʊiː/ ˈæloʊiː /or/) ˈaeloʊ ˈæloʊ is a succulent. Plant species the species is frequently cited as being used in herbal medicine since the beginning of the FIRST. century ad Common names include Chinese Aloe, Indian Aloe, True Aloe, Barbados Aloe, Burn Aloe, First Aid Plant. The species epithet vera means true or genuine. Some literature identifies the white-spotted form of Aloe vera as Aloe vera var.
Information provided on aloe vera. Meaning and definitions of aloe vera, translation in Hindi language for aloe vera with similar and opposite words. Also find spoken pronunciation of aloe vera in Hindi and in English language. Also find spoken pronunciation of aloe vera in Hindi and in English language. Tags for the entry aloe vera. Hindi meaning of aloe vera, aloe vera meaning in Hindi, aloe vera definition, examples and pronunciation of aloe vera in Hindi language.