Tire Rack's advice is that if rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth.. A typical passenger car tire has about twenty square inches of total footprint surface and begins with about 1/3 of
If rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth. Since water can't be compressed, you need enough tread depth to allow it to escape through the tire's grooves.
If your tires have a lot of remaining tread depth, but you need to replace just one that has been damaged by an accident, road hazard or a vandal, you should replace it with a tire that exactly matches the others. Select a replacement tire of the same brand, line, size and speed rating.
While it is simple to place a Lincoln penny in the tread groove of a worn tire and use Abe's likeness as a guide, we don't think Honest Abe knows what's best for today's drivers. The Lincoln penny tread depth test has been touted for years to be a suitable method of determining when it's time to get new tires.
1 On 4-wheel-drive or all-wheel-drive cars you should replace all four tires if it is recommended in your service manual. 2  Differences in tire diameter, even due to different states of tread wear, can permanently damage differentials. 3  Treadwear grades are an indication of a tire's relative wear rate.
Replace the tires at least every 6 years. If you're not sure, the minimum replacement time that is recommended by the NHTSA is six years regardless of use, with 10 years being the maximum service life for tires. Check your owner's manual for specific recommendations related to your car.
The Tire Rack's advice is that if rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth. Since water can't be compressed, you need enough tread depth to allow the rain to escape through the tire's grooves.
Additionally, if snow-covered roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 5/32 of remaining tread depth to maintain good mobility.