Ankylosing spondylitis is a form of progressive arthritis due to chronic inflammation of the joints in the spine. Its name comes from the Greek words “ ankylos, ” meaning stiffening of a joint, and “ spondylo, ” meaning vertebra. 
Ankylosing spondylitis is a painful and progressive type of arthritis where some or all of the joints and bones of the spine fuse together. Ankylosing spondylitis cannot be cured and the symptoms can range from back pain and stiffness to long-term disability. 
The symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis are caused by inflammation of parts of the lower spine. This inflammation can lead to damage and fusion-through the growth of new bone-in the spine, hips, and the joints between the two (the sacroiliac joints). Although lower back pain is a key symptom of ankylosing spondylitis, the inflammation is not confined to the lumbar spine-it is systemic-meaning that pain can also arise in other parts of the body, such as: 2,5. 1  In other joints (arthritis and synovitis symptoms).
The symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis are related to inflammation of the spine, joints, and other organs. Fatigue is a common symptom associated with active inflammation. Inflammation of the spine causes pain and stiffness in the low back, upper buttock area, neck, and the remainder of the spine. People with ankylosing spondylitis can also have arthritis in joints other than the spine. This feature occurs more commonly in women. Patients may notice pain, stiffness, heat, swelling, warmth, and/or redness in joints such as the hips, knees, and ankles.
Ankylosing spondylitis is also a systemic disease, meaning it can affect tissues throughout the body, not just the spine. Accordingly, it can cause inflammation in and injury to other joints away from the spine manifest as arthritis, as well as to other organs, such as the eyes, heart, lungs, and kidneys. Ankylosing spondylitis is considered one of the many rheumatic diseases because it can cause symptoms involving muscles and joints. Ankylosing spondylitis is two to three times more common in men than in women. In women, joints away from the spine are more frequently affected than in men.
About Ankylosing Spondylitis. Ankylosing spondylitis is a form of progressive arthritis due to chronic inflammation of the joints in the spine. Its name comes from the Greek words  ankylos,  meaning stiffening of a joint, and  spondylo,  meaning vertebra. Ankylosing Spondylitis. A form of arthritis that affects the spine, the sacroiliac joints, and sometimes the hips and shoulders. In severe cases, the joints of the spine fuse and the spine becomes rigid. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases).
Like an itis, ankylosing spondylitis is an inflammatory condition, in this case affecting the spine. This particular form of chronic, progressive arthritis primarily affects the lower spine and is a systemic (whole body) inflammatory condition with symptoms ranging from stiffness and pain to severe deformity. Although lower back pain is a key symptom of ankylosing spondylitis, the inflammation is not confined to the lumbar spine-it is systemic-meaning that pain can also arise in other parts of the body, such as: 2,5. 1  In other joints (arthritis and synovitis symptoms).
1 Ankylosing spondylitis belongs to a group of arthritis conditions that tend to cause chronic inflammation of the spine (spondyloarthropathies). 2  Ankylosing spondylitis affects males two to three times more commonly than females. 3  Ankylosing spondylitis is a cause of back pain in adolescents and young adults. Ankylosing spondylitis is considered one of the many rheumatic diseases because it can cause symptoms involving muscles and joints. Ankylosing spondylitis is two to three times more common in men than in women. In women, joints away from the spine are more frequently affected than in men.
A. A. Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis that affects the spine. Ankylosing spondylitis symptoms include pain and stiffness from the neck down to the lower back. The spine 's bones (vertebrae) may grow or fuse together, resulting in a rigid spine. 