Software engineers are involved in the design and development of many types of software, including software for operating systems and network distribution, and software for compilers (which convert programs for execution on a computer). Systems software engineers work for companies that configure, implement, and install complete computer systems. These engineers may be members of the marketing or sales staff, serving as the primary technical resource for sales workers and customers.
What Civil Engineers Do About this section. Civil engineers design major transportation projects. Civil engineers design, construct, supervise, operate, and maintain large construction projects and systems, including roads, buildings, airports, tunnels, dams, bridges, and systems for water supply and sewage treatment. Many civil engineers work in design, construction, research, and education. Transportation engineers plan, design, operate, and maintain everyday systems, such as streets and highways, but they also plan larger projects, such as airports, ports, mass transit systems, and harbors.
Mechanical engineering is concerned with the design, manufacture, and operation of components, devices, or systems such as: 1  Heat exchangers, refrigerators, ventilation systems. 2  Manufacturing technologies that include use of lasers, precision machinery, and nano-technology. 3  Biomedical devices. Mechanical engineers are in demand now, and projections for the future suggest a long-term need for professionals in this specialty. About 20% of the nearly 3 million engineers in the United States are mechanical engineers.
An engineer is a professional practitioner of engineering, concerned with applying scientific knowledge, mathematics, and ingenuity to develop solutions for technical, societal and commercial problems. 
Typically software engineers, working in applications or systems development, analyze first the needs of the user. They then design, construct, test, and maintain computer applications software or systems to meet these needs. Computer Applications Software Engineers. Computer applications software engineers analyze user needs and design, construct, and maintain general computer applications software or specialized utility programs. These engineers use different programming languages, depending on the purpose of the program. Systems software engineers work for companies that configure, implement, and install complete computer systems. These engineers may be members of the marketing or sales staff, serving as the primary technical resource for sales workers and customers.
Mechanical engineers are typically involved with the generation, distribution, and use of energy; the processing of materials; the control and automation of manufacturing systems; the design and development of machines; and the solutions to environmental problems. Mechanical engineers are in demand now, and projections for the future suggest a long-term need for professionals in this specialty. About 20% of the nearly 3 million engineers in the United States are mechanical engineers.
The technical subject areas that form the main basis for their work include mechanics, energy transfer and conversion, design and manufacturing, and the engineering sciences. Through clever use of analysis, modeling, design, and synthesis, they solve important problems to improve quality of life. Mechanical engineers are in demand now, and projections for the future suggest a long-term need for professionals in this specialty. About 20% of the nearly 3 million engineers in the United States are mechanical engineers.
The difference between chemical engineers and other types of engineers is that they apply a knowledge of chemistry in addition to other engineering disciplines. Chemical engineers sometimes are called 'universal engineers' because their scientific and technical mastery is so broad. It is the branch of engineering concerned with the design, construction, and operation of machines and plants that perform chemical reactions to solve practical problems or make useful products.
Mechanical engineers work on teams responsible for developing a wide range of products and systems including, for example, space shuttle vehicles, aircraft of all sizes and shapes, automobiles, turbines, pumps, power plants, and factories. Mechanical engineers are in demand now, and projections for the future suggest a long-term need for professionals in this specialty. About 20% of the nearly 3 million engineers in the United States are mechanical engineers.
What Civil Engineers Do. Civil engineers design, construct, supervise, operate, and maintain large construction projects and systems, including roads, buildings, airports, tunnels, dams, bridges, and systems for water supply and sewage treatment. Many civil engineers work in design, construction, research, and education. Transportation engineers plan, design, operate, and maintain everyday systems, such as streets and highways, but they also plan larger projects, such as airports, ports, mass transit systems, and harbors.