LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a ribosome is a tiny particle made up of nucleic acids and proteins that exist in large numbers in the gel-like substance in between every cell in the body. ribosome. noun. A structure composed of RNA and protein, present in large numbers in the cytoplasm of living cells and serving as the site for assembly of polypeptides encoded by messenger RNA. ribo(nucleic acid) + –some 3.
Definition: DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) is a type of macromolecule known as a nucleic acid. It is shaped like a twisted double helix and is composed of long strands of alternating sugars and phosphate groups, along with nitrogenous bases (adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine). 
rRNA: Ribosomal RNA, a molecular component of a ribosome, the cell's essential protein factory. Strictly speaking, ribosomal RNA (rRNA) does not make proteins. It makes polypeptides (assemblies of amino acids) that go to make up proteins. A tiny particulate structure located in the cytoplasm of the cell (outside the nucleus), the ribosome is composed of two subunits, one larger than the other. Although the ribosome consists of both ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and protein, the active site on the large unit of the ribosome -- the site of the chemical reaction that changes genetic information into the beginnings of a protein -- contains only rRNA.
Scope Note: DNA sequences encoding ribosomal RNA and the segments of DNA separating the individual ribosomal RNA genes, referred to as ribosomal spacer DNA. ... ... the small-and large-subunit ribosomal DNA genes of a limited number of ascomycetes. ... in the nuclear 18s ribosomal RNA gene of deuteromycetes. Curr. ... RPD3 is required for the inactivation of yeast ribosomal DNA genes in stationary phase ... phase, 50% of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) genes in each cell are ... 
A ~ is an organelle composed of rRNA (synthesized in the nucleolus) and ribosomal proteins. It trans lates mRNA into a polypeptide chain (e.g., a protein). It can be thought of as a factory that builds a protein from a set of genetic instructions. Ribosome. Ribosomes (from ribonucleic acid and greek: soma (meaning body)) are complexes of RNA and protein that are found in all cells. Prokaryotic ribosomes from archaea and bacteria are smaller than most of the ribosomes from eukaryotes such as plant s and animals.
rDNA. (Science: molecular biology) dNA that codes for ribosomal RNA. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 2,346 times.
A ribosome is a component of cells that synthesizes protein chains. It assembles the twenty specific amino acid molecule s to form the particular protein molecule determined by the nucleotide sequence of an RNA molecule. Ribosome. Ribosomes (from ribonucleic acid and greek: soma (meaning body)) are complexes of RNA and protein that are found in all cells. Prokaryotic ribosomes from archaea and bacteria are smaller than most of the ribosomes from eukaryotes such as plant s and animals.
Distinguishing Characteristics: Ribosomes are typically composed of two subunits: a large subunit and a small subunit. Ribosomal subunits are synthesized by the nucleolus. These two subunits join together when the ribosome attaches to messenger RNA (mRNA) during protein synthesis. 
The ribosome has a small and a large subunit and is a complex molecule composed of several ribosomal RNA molecules and a number of proteins. Translation of an mRNA molecule by the ribosome occurs in three stages: initiation, elongation, and termination. During initiation, the small ribosomal subunit binds to the start of the mRNA sequence. Then a transfer RNA (tRNA) molecule carrying the amino acid methionine binds to what is called the start codon of the mRNA sequence. The start codon in all mRNA molecules has the sequence AUG and codes for methionine.
ribosomal RNA. n. 1. (Biochemistry) biochem a type of RNA thought to be transcribed from DNA in the nucleoli of cell nuclei, subsequently forming the component of ribosomes on which the translation of messenger RNA into protein chains is accomplished. Sometimes shortened to: r