Effects Of Age on Scrotal Circumference: Bull age has the greatest effect on testicular development in young bulls from 6 to 36 months of age. There is rapid testicular growth in young bulls (6 through 16 months of age) and tremendous range in testes size for bulls of the same age within breed.
At least two months before the start of the breeding season, yearling bulls undergo a breeding soundness examination by a veterinarian. That means most yearling bulls are just that, about the age of 13 months.
A bull will often reach puberty by the time he's around 12 months of age (some a little sooner, if the herd's a good fertile herd), and by this time, as a Yearling Bull, he is ready to be used on heifers or sold to another producer's farm or ranch to be used on the heifers and cows there.
Some bull calves can show libido when they reach 6 to 8 months of age. Some won't show it until a month or so later. Most bulls should be showing libido by the time they are 12 months old. However, all this depends on the breed and each individual bull. Some breeds that are later maturing (typically Continentals), like Charolais, Simmental, Limousin or Salers, won't start showing puberty until they're around 12 to 16
1 The optimum bull-to-cow ratio is 1 bull per 10 to 30 cows, depending on the size of the pasture, and the bull's age, promiscuity/libido and experience. 2  Some bulls, depending on the fertility rate of the cows and how many cows are in heat at one time, can breed over 50 cows in one season.
Bulls can reach puberty as young as 6 months of age and are capable of siring calves when they are 8 months old. The age at which a bull reaches sexual maturity varies from breed to breed and the individual bull. A bull's rate of maturity is affected by nutrition, genetics, environmental situation and health.
Puberty. When bulls reach puberty depends on breed and body weight. Bulls are considered to have reached sexual maturity when their ejaculate contains at least 50 million sperm with a 10 percent motility rate.