Sedimentary [edit]. Sedimentary breccia is a type of clastic sedimentary rock which is made of angular to subangular, randomly oriented clasts of other sedimentary rocks. A conglomerate, by contrast, is a sedimentary rock composed of rounded fragments or clasts of pre-existing rocks. Both breccia and conglomerate are composed of fragments averaging greater than 2 millimetres (0.079 in) in size.
Geologists have been very generous in their use of the word breccia.. It is common to hear the term used when referring to a rock or rock debris made up of angular fragments. Although it is mainly used for rocks of sedimentary origin it can be used for other types of rocks. A few more uses of the word are given below. Breccia has many compositions. Its composition is mainly determined by the rock and mineral material that the angular fragments were produced from. The climate of the source area can also influence composition. Most breccias are a mix of rock fragments and mineral grains. The type of rock that the fragments were produced from is often used as an adjective when referring to the rock. Some examples: sandstone breccia, limestone breccia, granite breccia, chert breccia, basalt breccia and others
Breccia (/ˈbrɛtʃiə/ or /ˈbrɛʃiə/) is a rock composed of broken fragments of minerals or rock cemented together by a fine-grained matrix that can be similar to or different from the composition of the fragments. A conglomerate, by contrast, is a sedimentary rock composed of rounded fragments or clasts of pre-existing rocks. Both breccia and conglomerate are composed of fragments averaging greater than 2 millimetres (0.079 in) in size.
Breccia is a clastic sedimentary rock composed of various sized visible pieces of other rock, cemented together by the processes of lithification. The pieces of rock that are visible are angular fragments, meaning they have somewhat jagged edges. 1 The Different Types of Breccia Rock Breccia rock is a sedimentary rock. 2  It is made from several different broken pieces of rocks held together with matrix. 3  Breccia rock forms where broken or fragmented pieces o…. 4  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Igneous Breccia: A term used for a rock composed angular fragments of igneous rocks. Flow breccia and pyroclastic breccia could be called igneous breccia. Impact Breccia: A deposit of angular rock debris produced by the impact of an asteroid or other cosmic body. See an article about impactites. Breccia has many compositions. Its composition is mainly determined by the rock and mineral material that the angular fragments were produced from. The climate of the source area can also influence composition. Most breccias are a mix of rock fragments and mineral grains. The type of rock that the fragments were produced from is often used as an adjective when referring to the rock. Some examples: sandstone breccia, limestone breccia, granite breccia, chert breccia, basalt breccia and other
The word Breccia is typically defined as a classification of sedimentary rock that contains a variety of rough stones mixed together. The term is used here as both an acronym, and a symbol of the variety, and unpolished/unfinished nature of our educational content. 
Breccia is a name given to clastic sedimentary rocks that are formed by clinging together of a large number of angular fragments. Breccia is formed with the space between the fragments either filled by smaller fragments or mineral cement, which is responsible for holding the rock together. • Breccias have angular fragments. In other words, Breccia has angular clasts. • Fragments are much more rounded in conglomerates. In other words, Conglomerate has rounded clasts.
Breccia is a clastic sedimentary rock composed of various sized visible pieces of other rock, cemented together by the processes of lithification. The pieces of rock that are … visible are angular fragments, meaning they have somewhat jagged edges. Breccia is a common clastic sedimentary rock. It is used as a  building material, for decorative stones, tiles, tombstones,  monuments, jewelry, aquifers, natural gas and pe … troleum reservoirs.