Nadja /nad-ja/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Russian derivation, and the meaning of the name Nadja is hope. Nadja is an alternate spelling of Nadia (Russian): a popular name in Russia. Naji is a common surname. Kreatif forms: Nadda, Nedja, Nidja. Nadia (#288 in 2014) is the only prominent varying form of Nadja (not ranked) listed in the Top 1000. Adoption of this girl name reached its apex in the year 2005 (usage of 0.822%) and is now much lower (usage 0.712%, 13.4% less).
Russian Meaning: The name Nadia is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Nadia is: Hope. Slavic Meaning: The name Nadia is a Slavic baby name. In Slavic the meaning of the name Nadia is: Hope. American Meaning: The name Nadia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Nadia is: Hope. Muslim Meaning: The name Nadia is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Nadia is: Caller. Announcer
In Bulgarian and Russian, on the other hand, Nadia or Nadya (надя, accent on first syllable) is the diminutive form of the full name Nadyezhda (надежда), which also means hope and derives from Old Church Slavonic, it in turn, being a translation of the Greek word ελπίς (Elpis), with the same meaning. In most other languages it is a name in its own right. In Russian military aircraft, the warning system voice is given the name Nadia. Many languages have an equivalent to the Slavic language version, that is to say, the given name Hope exists in different languages.
Nadja is an unusual first name for females. Nadja is an equivalently uncommon surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Nadia (#288 in 2014) is the only prominent varying form of Nadja (not ranked) listed in the Top 1000. Adoption of this girl name reached its apex in the year 2005 (usage of 0.822%) and is now much lower (usage 0.712%, 13.4% less).
Nadja is a contraction (German, Italian, and Russian) of the German and Russian name Nadjeschda as well as a derivative (German, Italian, and Russian) of the Russian and Slavic name Nadezhda. Nadja is also a derivative (German) of Nadia. A form of Nadja is the English, French, German, Italian, Russian, African, Arabic, and Swahili variant spelling Nadia. Nadja is unusual as a baby name for girls. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. [ 2 syll. na-dja, nad-ja ] The baby girl name Nadja is pronounced as N AA T-Yaa (German) †. Nadja is used mostly in the German, Italian, and Russian languages, and it is of Russian origin.
The name Nadja is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Nadja is: Hope. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. People with this name tend to be creative and excellent at expressing themselves.
In the case of the Slavic languages, the name Nadia is the word for hope in most of South Slavic languages, Nadiya (надія, accent on the i) is the Ukrainian word for hope, while Nadzeya (надзея, accent on the e) is the equivalent in Belarusian, or Old Polish Nadzieja all of them derived from Old East Slavic. In most other languages it is a name in its own right. In Russian military aircraft, the warning system voice is given the name Nadia. Many languages have an equivalent to the Slavic language version, that is to say, the given name Hope exists in different languages.
Nadja is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Nad-ja. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 15828 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Nadja Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nadja has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nadja to other names. One part indicates the gender and the other the characteristic of the person. For example, Adelbert or Albert is composed of adel meaning noble and a derivation of beracht meaning bright or shining. Given names are generally gender specific. Male names cannot be used for females and vice versa.