The. error is thrown when there is insufficient space to allocate an object in the Java heap (or a particular area of the heap). That is, the garbage collection cannot make any further space available for a new object and the heap cannot be expanded further. An. When an. is thrown it is not always obvious (at least initially) if the Java heap is exhausted or there is native heap exhaustion (low swap space for example). The first step in the diagnosis of an. is to find out what the error means.
1 In the “System: Status” dialog that opens you’ll see a section in the middle-right called “SAP System data”. 2  Click the icon next to “Component version” to show details of all the components installed on your system. 3  The component you need to look for is called “SAP_BASIS” and is usually at the top of the list. 1 Be sure you replace your hostname and port number with the correct values. 2  The port number (if unchanged from the default) will be 5XX00, where XX is the SAP system number. 3  Look for the section called Software Components. 4  This will list the main components used to determine which version you’re running.
Update SAPJVM using SUM. Phil S asked 11 days ago | Replies (6). I recently applied java updates to my system that is on NW7.4, this is currently using the SAPJVM_6. I noticed that it did not apply the latest sapjvm package that was included with the files when I ran SUM for the other components. I think you misunderstand the problem, SAPJVM is already installed and working. My question was to why the SUM didn't update this when I ran it. When I run SUM and don't specify the XML, just a manual directory, I get Component sap.com/SAPJVM WINDOWS_X86_64 not present in the system when trying to update the JVM.
The SAP Download Manager is an SAP standalone Java application you should install if you want to download multiple files at once, or if you want to schedule downloads to run at a later point in time. Software found in your Download Basket is visible in the SAP Download Manager. Configuring the SAP Download Manager. To make changes to the SAP Download Manager configuration, select from the menu View → SAP Download Manager configuration. The SAP Download Manager displays the configuration window. 1  The Connection tab allows you to make changes to the parameters used by the SAP Download Manager to connect to the Download Basket
I installed Solman 7.1 successfully on Linux 5.4/Oracle 11.2.0.2. When I wanted to install the license for the Java stack using the /configtool.sh under SIDadm I got the following error : I have already applied the license for the ABAP Stack but when I log to the Java portal I got the following information about the License: Licenses.
Using a web browser to check the version of NetWeaver (Java Application Server). Before you start: To access the URL below, you will need administrator privileges on the SAP system in question. 1  Be sure you replace your hostname and port number with the correct values. 2  Look for the section called Software Components. 1 Be sure you replace your hostname and port number with the correct values. 2  The port number (if unchanged from the default) will be 5XX00, where XX is the SAP system number. 3  Look for the section called Software Components. 4  This will list the main components used to determine which version you’re running.