Medical Definition of CIRRHOSIS. : widespread disruption of normal liver structure by fibrosis and the formation of regenerative nodules that is caused by any of various chronic progressive conditions affecting the liver (as long-term alcohol abuse or hepatitis)—see biliary cirrhosis.
n. 1. A chronic disease of the liver characterized by the replacement of normal tissue with fibrous tissue and the loss of functional liver cells. It can result from alcohol abuse, nutritional deprivation, or infection especially by the hepatitis virus. 2. Chronic interstitial inflammation of any tissue or organ. Noun. 1. cirrhosis-a chronic disease interfering with the normal functioning of the liver; the major cause is chronic alcoholism. cirrhosis of the liver. liver disease-a disease affecting the liver. Translations. [sɪˈrəʊsɪs] N → cirrosis f.
cirrhosis. n. 1. (Pathology) any of various progressive diseases of the liver, characterized by death of liver cells, irreversible fibrosis, etc: caused by inadequate diet, excessive alcohol, chronic infection, etc. Also called: cirrhosis of the liver. Noun. 1. cirrhosis-a chronic disease interfering with the normal functioning of the liver; the major cause is chronic alcoholism. cirrhosis of the liver. liver disease-a disease affecting the liver. Translations. [sɪˈrəʊsɪs] N → cirrosis f.
The word cirrhosis is a neologism derived from Greek kirrhos kirrhós meaning, yellowish (tawny the-orange yellow colour of the diseased) liver and the-suffix, osis.i. e condition in medical. terminology Cirrhosis is a condition in which the liver does not function properly due to long-term damage. Typically, the disease comes on slowly over months or years. Early on, there are often no symptoms.
cir·rho·sis. n. 1. A chronic disease of the liver characterized by the replacement of normal tissue with fibrous tissue and the loss of functional liver cells. It can result from alcohol abuse, nutritional deprivation, or infection especially by the hepatitis virus. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cirrhosis (Noun). A chronic disease of the liver caused by damage from toxins (including alcohol), metabolic problems, hepatitis or nutritional deprivation. It is characterised by an increase of fibrous tissue and the destruction of liver cells. 
A chronic disease of the liver marked by degeneration of cells, inflammation, and fibrous thickening of tissue. It is typically a result of alcoholism or hepatitis. Example sentences. 1  Chronic viral hepatitis is the main cause of chronic liver disease, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma throughout the world. 
A. The word cirrhosis is a neologism that derives from Greek kirrhos, meaning orange-yellow. In this condition, the liver appears yellow in pathology from all the tissue changes and damage caused to it. Cirrhosis has many possible causes. liver cirrhosis. (sirō´sis), n a degenerative disease of the liver in which hepatic tissue is replaced with connective tissue, commonly a result of chronic alcoholism. See jaundice. liver failure, n a condition in which the liver fails to fulfill its function or is unable to meet the demand made on it.
1 A chronic disease of the liver characterized by the replacement of normal tissue with fibrous tissue and the loss of functional liver cells. 2  It can result from alcohol abuse, nutritional deprivation, or infection especially by the hepatitis virus. 3  Chronic interstitial inflammation of any tissue or organ. 1 A chronic disease of the liver caused by damage from toxins (including alcohol), metabolic problems, hepatitis or nutritional deprivation. 2  It is characterised by an increase of fibrous tissue and the destruction of
Full Definition of CIRRHOSIS. : widespread disruption of normal liver structure by fibrosis and the formation of regenerative nodules that is caused by any of various chronic progressive conditions affecting the liver (as long-term alcohol abuse or hepatitis). — cir·rhot·ic \-ˈrae-ˈrä\ tik adjective or. noun : widespread disruption of normal liver structure by fibrosis and the formation of regenerative nodules that is caused by any of various chronic progressive conditions affecting the liver (as long-term alcohol abuse or hepatitis)—see biliary cirrhosis.