Steps. 1. Turn off Wi-Fi and cellular data (iPad + 3G) settings. Your iPad drains battery power when searching for and attempting to connect to the nearest Wi-Fi or cellular network tower, so if you're not planning on using Safari or apps that require these features, shut them off. 1 Repeatedly draining your battery completely (called a “deep discharge”) can shorten the life span of the battery. 2  So, if you use your iPad until the battery fails, you will get more use of your iPad on this particular charge, but you will reduce the number of times you can recharge your iPad’s battery.
This 15% of the battery life can make your iPad Air stand by for about two hours of time. If you are in a hurry to visit any place, then you can charge your iPad Air for less than 15 minutes of time and use it for only two hours after charging it slightly. The A7 custom processor in iPad Air makes the battery life get extended for more than 10 hours. If you are a moderate user, then you can access your iPad Air even after 10 hours of time. Moderate usage means the internet, Skype, video streaming are done only for a few minutes of time.
Some iPad users complain that Apple’s new tablet’s battery doesn’t last as long as they’d like it to. Here are tips to drastically improve the iPad’s battery life. Many of these iPad battery saving tips will require some trade offs, but giving up some usability is a better option than carrying around a dead iPad. Improve the ipad’s battery life… leave it on the charger in the closet away from intelligent life. Using an ipad sucks 20 iq points out of it’s users according to latest research.
The iPad Air is significantly thinner and lighter than its predecessor, and the Retina iPad mini has a new power hungry high resolution display. Apple has accomplished an incredible feat of engineering by maintaining the amazing 10 hour battery life in both these devices despite these changes. 
http://www.macblend.com/how-to-calibrate-your-mac-iphone-or-ipad-battery/. At this link http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/galaxy-tab-android-tablet,3014-11.html, tests show that the iPad 2 battery (25 watt-hours) will charge to 90% in 3 hours 1 minute. It will charge to 100% in 4 hours 2 minutes. The new iPad has a larger capacity battery (42 watt-hours), so using the 10W charger will obviously take longer. If you are using your iPad while charging, it will take even longer. It's best to turn your new iPad OFF and charge over night. 
Apple doesn't provide a project lifespan in months or years for the batteries in iPods. This is because the lifespan of a battery is influenced by how the battery is used and charged. Answer: Apple says that iPod batteries will maintain up to 80% of their capacity through 400 charge/discharge cycles. A charge/discharge cycle is just what it sounds like-using the iPod until its battery is substantially run down and then recharging it.
1 Always charge your device before leaving home, especially on long trips. 2  Bring the charger with you if you are going away overnight, or for an extended period of time. 3  While the iPad battery is slated to last up to 10 hours, frequent use will shorten this time dramatically. 1 Repeatedly draining your battery completely (called a “deep discharge”) can shorten the life span of the battery. 2  So, if you use your iPad until the battery fails, you will get more use of your iPad on this particular charge, but you will reduce the number of times you can recharge your iPad’s battery.
Note that it’s not considered a “charge cycle” every time you plug in your iPad. If you used 20% of your iPad’s battery life every day for 5 days, and recharged it each day to 100%, that would be one charge cycle. So 1000 charge cycles is actually quite a long time (probably years of use for most people). A cycle does not mean a single charge – it requires a full 100% charging period. There is no “memory effect” like older Nickel Cadmium batteries, so you can charge your iPad anytime you want and even leave it on a charger overnight. The battery will also charge very rapidly, to about 80% in a few hours, while the last 20% is more of a trickle charge and takes longer.
How to Extend the Battery Life of an iPad. Just as with an iPhone or iPod Touch, the battery life of your iPad will be shorter during heavy use. However, there are some measures you can take to keep your device on and active for hours of enjoyment, and this article explains what you can do to lengthen the battery life. 1 Repeatedly draining your battery completely (called a “deep discharge”) can shorten the life span of the battery. 2  So, if you use your iPad until the battery fails, you will get more use of your iPad on this particular charge, but you will reduce the number of times you can recharge your iPad’s battery.