Property valuation of Lumahai Street, Honolulu, HI: 1, 1 A, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 (tax assessments). Next properties on Lumahai Street. Other nearby streets: Hanapepe Loop Lumahai Street (1) Lumahai Street (2) Poipu Drive Poipu Place. 
There’s always something different to explore when I visit. The ocean can create small pools in the lava rocks and even waterfalls. Then there’s the crescent shaped beach which is a perfect setting for Kauai weddings or a Kauai commitment ceremony. I held mine here which makes Lumahai a sentimental favorite. During periods of big surf Lumahai is best appreciated from the shore for its rugged beauty and remote location. It’s exposed to the open ocean and the waves can be powerful. In the Winter season standing on the rocks is not recommended due to unexpected ocean currents. 
A river delta is a landform that forms from deposition of sediment carried by a river as the flow leaves its mouth and enters slower-moving or standing water. This occurs where a river enters an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir, or (more rarely) another river that cannot transport away the supplied sediment. Despite a popular legend, this use of the word delta was not coined by Herodotus. The tidal currents also cannot be too strong, as sediment would wash out into the water body faster than the river deposits it. Of course, the river must carry enough sediment to layer into deltas over time. The river's velocity decreases rapidly, causing it to deposit the majority, if not all, of its load.
Limahuli Garden. In Hawaiian, the name Limahuli means “turning hands,” which recognizes the ancient Hawaiians who built agricultural terraces out of lava rock and planted cultivars of kalo (taro), an important cultural food crop. Limahuli Garden – Guided Tour. Walk the garden with a resident docent…. Explore this timeless place with a small group as the inextricably interwoven stories of Hawaiian history, culture, natural history, and plants unfold during your visit.
Lumahai is one of my favorite Hawaiian beach second only to Lanikai on Oahu. The problem is the parking and finding it for first timers. It is litteraly a small 4 or 5 car shoulder of a sharp bend in the road followed by a short hike through a trail. The water in May was BEAUTIFUL! Clear, calm, alive w/ fish. Welcome to Kauai. Lumahai is a very dangerous beach and sometimes guidebooks don't offer the most cautious picture. The summer is the season this beach is most likely to be calm, but it can still be dangerous. You'll see that children are most likely swimming in the river at this beach in the summer.
Property valuation of Lumahai Street, Honolulu, HI: 12, 15, 18, 24, 25, 32, 35, 40, 43, 48 (tax assessments). Previous properties on Lumahai Street. Next properties on Lumahai Street. Other nearby streets: Hanapepe Loop Lumahai Street (1) Lumahai Street (2) Moloaa Street Poipu Drive. Recent posts about Honolulu, Hawaii on our local forum with over 1,800,000 registered users.
1 Online English/Hawaiian dictionary. 2  Click Hawaiian Computer Pocket Dictionary. 3  Contains thousands of words. 4  Hawaiian Glossary. 5  Puke wehewehe 'olelo. 6  Hawaiian dictionary. 7  Hawaiian dictionary and list of words and their pronunciation and translation. 1 Click Hawaiian Computer Pocket Dictionary. 2  Contains thousands of words. 3  Hawaiian Glossary. 4  Puke wehewehe 'olelo. 5  Hawaiian dictionary. 6  Hawaiian dictionary and list of words and their pronunciation and translation.
OK John-thanks for the recommendation on Lumahai. Just know that we locals call it Luma-die because it is one of the most dangerous on Kauai. I don't know what conditions you experienced, but last year a college-age girl was swept off the beach (she wasn't even swimming!) and sucked out into the waves. Welcome to Kauai. Lumahai is a very dangerous beach and sometimes guidebooks don't offer the most cautious picture. The summer is the season this beach is most likely to be calm, but it can still be dangerous. You'll see that children are most likely swimming in the river at this beach in the summer.