1 Vegetables like as broccoli, kale, and spinach are also high in calcium. 2  Calcium compounds are used in the making of cement, glass, lime, bricks, paint, paper, sugar, removing non-metallic impurities from alloys, and as a reduction agent in the preparation of other metals. Calcium is found in many rocks such as limestone, chalk and marble as well as many dairy products and vegetables. Read on for more interesting facts about calcium's various properties and uses.
1 Calcium carbonate is used in the making of lime, mortar, limestone, cement, and in the glass industry, etc. 2  Calcium arsenate finds its use in the manufacture of herbicides. 3  Uses of calcium chloride is most commonly seen in ice melting, manufacturing of plastics, treatment of conditions such as depression, etc. 1 Calcium silicate is used in the reinforcement of rubber. 2  Calcium phosphide is used in the manufacture of fireworks, and even bombs used for military purposes. 3  In the human body it acts as a nutrient required for the growth and development of the bones.
1 Calcium may be used as a reducing agent in the process of metal extraction. 2  Calcium is also used in the production of some metals, as an allying agent. 3  Calcium carbonate is used to make cement and mortar and also in the glass industry. 4  alcium carbonate is also added to toothpaste and mineral supplements. 1 Calcium phosphate is used in animal feed and fertilizers. 2  Calcium hydroxide solution is used as blackboard chalk and as Plaster of Paris in its hemihydrate form. 3  Calcium gluconate is used as a food additive. 4  Calcium stearate is used to make wax crayons, cosmetics, plastics and paints.
1 Calcium is also used in the production of some metals, as an allying agent. 2  Calcium carbonate is used to make cement and mortar and also in the glass industry. 3  alcium carbonate is also added to toothpaste and mineral supplements. 1 Calcium phosphate is used in animal feed and fertilizers. 2  Calcium hydroxide solution is used as blackboard chalk and as Plaster of Paris in its hemihydrate form. 3  Calcium gluconate is used as a food additive. 4  Calcium stearate is used to make wax crayons, cosmetics, plastics and paints.
Uses of Calcium. 1  Calcium is used as a reducing agent in order to extract metals such as uranium, zirconium and throium. 2  Cheese is made using calcium ions to promote the coagulation of milk. 3  Cement and mortar, important when constructing buildings and other things, are made using calcium. 4  Calcium hydroxide is used to determine whether carbon 5  ... Ins 1 Cheese is made using calcium ions to promote the coagulation of milk. 2  Cement and mortar, important when constructing buildings and other things, are made using calcium. 3  Calcium hydroxide is used to determine whether carbon dioxide is present. 4  It is commonly used in science laboratories.
1 Calcium is used as a reducing agent in order to extract metals such as uranium, zirconium and throium. 2  Cheese is made using calcium ions to promote the coagulation of milk. 3  Cement and mortar, important when constructing buildings and other things, are made using calcium. 1 Cheese is made using calcium ions to promote the coagulation of milk. 2  Cement and mortar, important when constructing buildings and other things, are made using calcium. 3  Calcium hydroxide is used to determine whether carbon dioxide is present. 4  It is commonly used in science laboratories
Calcium uses in general. 1  Calcium may be used as a reducing agent in the process of metal extraction. 2  Calcium is also used in the production of some metals, as an allying agent. 3  Calcium carbonate is used to make cement and mortar and also in the glass industry. 1 Calcium phosphate is used in animal feed and fertilizers. 2  Calcium hydroxide solution is used as blackboard chalk and as Plaster of Paris in its hemihydrate form. 3  Calcium gluconate is used as a food additive. 4  Calcium stearate is used to make wax crayons, cosmetics, plastics and paints.
Calcium: uses. The following uses for calcium are gathered from a number of sources as well as from anecdotal comments. I'd be delighted to receive corrections as well as additional referenced uses (please use the feedback mechanism to add uses)