So, taken what we know about how darkspawn are created are created by broodmothers, and that broodmothers are transformed from other races/species, and also how the blight or darkspawn taint affect wildlife and humans, I've come up with a hypothesis about what makes Darkspawn look like certain types of darkspawn. Dwarves are the first to encounter darkspawn, it makes no large leap to say that it makes sense that dwarves would be first made into broodmothers and produce more genlocks. I believe the codex even mentions genlocks as having a resistance to magic... peculiar similarity to the dwarven trait.
Hierarchy Edit. The toughest and most intelligent among the darkspawn become alphas; the commanders and generals of the darkspawn armies. During a Blight, they are kept in check by the emissaries, who see to it that they serve the Archdemon's interests and not their own. Freed from his prison and warped by the taint the darkspawn bore, Dumat became the first of the archdemons and led the darkspawn to lay waste to the world in what would become known as the First Blight. The dwarves give little credit to Chantry beliefs, but they themselves have no known origin story for the darkspawn.
1 Hurlocks-The most basic type of darkspawn, the hurlocks are corrupted humans. 2  They're generally warriors or emissaries, the darkspawn equivalent of mages. 3  A subfaction of hurlocks, known as the Disciples, possess greater intelligence than most darkspawn. Their actions corrupted themselves and the Golden City, and they returned as darkspawn. They are led by a demon-dragon known as the Archdemon, who is created when they find and taint one of the old gods that the Chantry count as false idols.
Ghouls are created by the Darkspawn Taint, whilst true darkspawn are created by the Broodmothers. The different types of each are listed below. 1  Hurlocks-The most basic type of darkspawn, the hurlocks are corrupted humans. 2  They're generally warriors or emissaries, the darkspawn equivalent of mages. Their actions corrupted themselves and the Golden City, and they returned as darkspawn. They are led by a demon-dragon known as the Archdemon, who is created when they find and taint one of the old gods that the Chantry count as false idols.
1,468 pages on this wiki. Darkspawn are a race of tainted humanoids in the Dragon Age series. According to the Chantry, the series' main religious group, they were created when mage-lords of the Tevinter Imperium forced their way into the Golden City of the Maker. Their actions corrupted themselves and the Golden City, and they returned as darkspawn. They are led by a demon-dragon known as the Archdemon, who is created when they find and taint one of the old gods that the Chantry count as false idols.
Hurlocks, genlocks and an ogre. The darkspawn, known as night-gangers among the Avvar, are a race of humanoid tainted creatures that mostly dwell in the underground of Thedas. Freed from his prison and warped by the taint the darkspawn bore, Dumat became the first of the archdemons and led the darkspawn to lay waste to the world in what would become known as the First Blight. The dwarves give little credit to Chantry beliefs, but they themselves have no known origin story for the darkspawn.
1 Ogres-The ogres are the tallest and most powerful type of basic darkspawn. 2  Created from corrupted qunari, ogres generally work solo or in two man groups, using their immense strength to tear their enemies apart. 3  Broodmothers-Men are lucky when they've been captured, as they are killed and eaten. Their actions corrupted themselves and the Golden City, and they returned as darkspawn. They are led by a demon-dragon known as the Archdemon, who is created when they find and taint one of the old gods that the Chantry count as false idols.
1 Hurlock-The most basic type of darkspawn, the hurlocks are corrupted humans. 2  They're generally warriors or emissaries, the darkspawn equivalent of mages. 3  A subfaction of hurlocks, known as the Disciples, possess greater intelligence than most darkspawn. 4  Genlock-Much like the hurlocks, genlocks are corrupted as well. Their actions corrupted themselves and the Golden City, and they returned as darkspawn. They are led by a demon-dragon known as the Archdemon, who is created when they find and taint one of the old gods that the Chantry count as false idols.
Unlike the other major races of Thedas, the darkspawn have very little resembling a recognizable form of culture, and in general can barely be considered sapient; rather, they are part of a hive mind via the taint. They do not build homes, for example. Freed from his prison and warped by the taint the darkspawn bore, Dumat became the first of the archdemons and led the darkspawn to lay waste to the world in what would become known as the First Blight. The dwarves give little credit to Chantry beliefs, but they themselves have no known origin story for the darkspawn.
Darkspawn are a race of tainted humanoids in the Dragon Age series of games. According to the main religious group in the series, the Chantry, they were created when mage-lords of the Tevinter Imperium into the Golden City of the Maker, which is basically the game's version of Heaven. Their actions corrupted themselves and the Golden City, and they returned as darkspawn. They are led by a demon-dragon known as the Archdemon, who is created when they find and taint one of the old gods that the Chantry count as false idols.