Answers. Best Answer: Mitosis is the process of cell division. The cell equator, or equatorial plate, is when the nucleus has broken down, and the chromosomes are lengthening, and forming a line in the middle of the cell. This happend during Metaphase. This line is called the cell equator
Definition of EQUATOR. 1. : the great circle of the celestial sphere whose plane is perpendicular to the axis of the earth. 2. : a great circle of the earth or a celestial body that is everywhere equally distant from the two poles and divides the surface into the northern and southern hemispheres. 3. a: a circle or circular band dividing the surface of a body into two usually equal and symmetrical parts. 4.
Cell plate. Definition. noun. A disc like structure in the plane of the equator of the spindle that separates the two sets of chromosomes during cytokinesis; also involved in the formation of cell wall between the two daughter cells following cell division. Supplement. 
cytokinesis. Cytokinesis is the physical process of cell division, which divides the cytoplasm of a parental cell into two daughter cells. It occurs concurrently with two types of nuclear division called mitosis and meiosis, which occur in animal cells. A ring of protein filaments called the contractile ring forms around the equator of the cell just beneath the plasma membrane. The contractile ring shrinks at the equator of the cell, pinching the plasma membrane inward, and forming what is called a cleavage furrow. Eventually, the contractile ring shrinks to the point that there are two separate cells each bound by its own plasma membrane. Further Exploration
The duplicated chromosomes then attach to the spindle, align at the cell equator, and move apart as the spindle microtubules retreat toward opposite poles of the cell. Each set of chromosomes is then surrounded by a nuclear membrane, and the parent cell splits into two complete daughter cells. Cytokinesis is the physical process that finally splits the parent cell into two identical daughter cells. During cytokinesis, the cell membrane pinches in at the cell equator, forming a cleft called the cleavage furrow.
Mitosis is the process in which a eukaryotic cell nucleus splits in two, followed by division of the parent cell into two daughter cells. The word mitosis means threads, and it refers to the threadlike appearance of chromosomes as the cell prepares to divide. Cytokinesis is the physical process that finally splits the parent cell into two identical daughter cells. During cytokinesis, the cell membrane pinches in at the cell equator, forming a cleft called the cleavage furrow.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Also known as the equatorial plate, a cell equator refers to the middle part of the cell. This is where chromosomes line up during the metaphase stage of mitosis. 
The Hadley cell, named after George Hadley, is a tropical atmospheric circulation which features rising motion near the equator, poleward flow 10–15 kilometers above the surface, descending motion in the subtropics, and equatorward flow near the surface. 