Answer: The energy density of food refers to the calorie content per weight of food. We know that we tend to consume a fairly consistent weight of food from day to day. But some foods have more calories, more energy per weight, than others do. One component that might influence energy density for instance would be the water content of food. And a salad for instance, is a meal of relatively low energy density because there's a lot of water in the vegetables that comprise a salad
Unlike nutrient-dense foods, empty-calorie foods or energy-dense foods are nutritionally poor food choices, as they contain more calories than nutrients. A high intake of empty-calorie foods may cause weight gain, especially if your intake of calories exceeds their utilization. 
Simply put, energy density is the number of calories (energy) in a specific amount of food. High energy density means that there are a lot of calories in a little food. Low energy density means there are few calories in a lot of food. When you're striving for weight loss, the goal is to eat low-energy-dense foods. That is, you want to eat a greater volume of food that's lower in calories. This helps you feel fuller on fewer calories
Energy density values are influenced by the composition of foods. Water lowers the energy density of foods, because it has an energy density of 0 kcal/g and contributes weight but not energy to foods. Fiber also has a relatively low energy density (1.5–2.5 kcal/g) and helps lower energy density. such as spinach, zucchini, celery, and carrots, to mixed. dishes such as chili and casseroles lowers the energy. density of these dishes. Research Review: Eating a diet rich in low-. energy-dense foods can help manage body. weight.
Research shows that choosing low-energy-dense foods — foods low in calories but high in volume — can help people feel full without consuming a lot of calories. That is why diets of low energy density are favored for the sake of weight control. 
Low energy density foods include foods with a high water content, such as soups and stews, foods like pasta and rice that absorb water during cooking, and foods that are naturally high in water, such as fruit and vegetables. Page 1 of 2. 'Energy density' is the amount of energy (or calories) per gram of food. Lower energy density foods provide less energy per gram of food so you can eat more of them without consuming too many calories.
Low energy dense foods, in contrast, tend to be moist or juicy. They often have a high percentage of fiber, which retains their natural water. Most vegetables, fruits and legumes are examples of low energy dense foods. Other plant foods like nuts and dried fruit, however, are energy dense. Nuts are loaded with healthy fat, but even healthy fat has lots of calories per bite. Therefore, nutritionists suggest we eat these foods in moderation. If you choose low energy dense foods, the same 20 bites will deliver fewer calories but the same sense of satisfaction. Energy dense foods are often processed foods. Food processors need products that ship well, have a long shelf life, are easy to prepare and entice with an intense taste.
Foods with a lower energy density provide fewer calories per gram than foods with a higher energy density. For the same amount of calories, a person can consume a larger portion of a food lower in energy density than a food higher in energy density. such as spinach, zucchini, celery, and carrots, to mixed. dishes such as chili and casseroles lowers the energy. density of these dishes. Research Review: Eating a diet rich in low-. energy-dense foods can help manage body. weight.
Common processed foods that are energy dense are packaged snack foods, frosted cakes with filling, cookies and candies. Traditional fast foods such as cheeseburgers, fried chicken, and French fries and bakery items such as doughnuts are famous for their energy density. If you choose low energy dense foods, the same 20 bites will deliver fewer calories but the same sense of satisfaction. Energy dense foods are often processed foods. Food processors need products that ship well, have a long shelf life, are easy to prepare and entice with an intense taste.