Coma may follow. The normal incubation period for bubonic plague is between two and seven days after the dog has been bitten. In the case of pneumonic plague, a lung infection will occur; and with septicemic plague, the same symptoms as bubonic plague will appear, along with systemic infection of the blood. 
The period of time between being infected with the Yersinia pestis bacteria and when symptoms first appear is called the plague incubation period. Plague Incubation Period: A Summary. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause plague (Yersinia pestis), the bacteria begin to multiply within the body. With bubonic plague, this occurs in the lymph system; with pneumonic plague, this occurs within the lungs.
Bubonic plague is the most common primary manifestation, with a bubo usually occurring in the groin, axilla or cervical nodes. Buboes are often so painful that patients are generally guarded and have restricted movement in the affected region. The incubation period for bubonic plague is usually 2 to 6 days. If bubonic plague is untreated, plague bacteria invade the bloodstream and spread rapidly, causing septicemic plague, and if the lungs are seeded, secondary pneumonic plague. Septicemic and pneumonic plague may also be primary manifestations. Recommended antibiotic treatment for plague. Begin appropriate IV therapy as soon as plague is suspected. Gentamicin and fluoroquinolones are typically first-line treatments in the United States. Duration of treatment is 10 to 14 days, or until 2 days after fever subsides. Oral therapy may be substituted once the patient improve
For example, the pneumonic plague incubation period is usually one to three days; for bubonic plague, the incubation period is typically two to six days. Plague Incubation Period: A Summary. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause plague (Yersinia pestis), the bacteria begin to multiply within the body. With bubonic plague, this occurs in the lymph system; with pneumonic plague, this occurs within the lungs.
The incubation period for bubonic plague is usually 2-7 days, but occasionally it can be longer. Symptoms in pneumonic plague cases appear in less than one day or up to four days following inhalation exposure to Y. pestis. 
The period between becoming infected and the start of plague symptoms is called the plague incubation period. The bubonic plague incubation period is typically two to six days. The primary pneumonic plague incubation period is usually one to three days. The Plague. Plague Incubation Period: A Summary. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause plague (Yersinia pestis), the bacteria begin to multiply within the body. With bubonic plague, this occurs in the lymph system; with pneumonic plague, this occurs within the lungs.
1 People infected with plague usually develop “flu-like” symptoms after an incubation period of 3-7 days. 2  There are 3 forms of plague infection depending on the route of infection: bubonic, septicaemic and pneumonic. 3  Bubonic-characterized by painful swollen lymph nodes or ‘buboes’- is the most common form. Signs and symptoms. People infected with plague usually develop “flu-like” symptoms after an incubation period of 3-7 days. Typical symptoms are the sudden onset of fever, chills, head and body-aches and weakness, vomiting and nausea.