A caldera is caused when the ground around a volcano collapses. The Greek Island of Santorini's harbor is a caldera. A caldera lies below Crater Lake in Oregon. The eruption of a volcano will usually cause magma chambers to collapse. The largest type are known as resurgent calderas. This is caused by the widespread collapse of magma chambers that are not associated with a particular volcano or point of eruption, and they are the largest volcanic structures on Earth.
Caldera Volcanoes. View a satellite map of the Yellowstone Caldera. Caldera volcanoes are the Extreme Volcanoes. These are the most powerful and catastrophic types of volcanoes in a category by themselves because of the unique way in which they form. This type of volcano is shaped more like an inverse volcano. 
Centuries of rain and snow filled the caldera creating Crater Lake. With a depth of 1932 feet (589 meters), Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States and the seventh deepest lake in the world. Collapse calderas form when a large magma chamber is emptied by a volcanic eruption or by subsurface magma movement. The unsupported rock that forms the roof of the magma chamber then collapses to form a large crater. Crater Lake and many other calderas are thought to have formed by this process. They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon.
Definition of CALDERA. : a volcanic crater that has a diameter many times that of the vent and is formed by collapse of the central part of a volcano or by explosions of extraordinary violence. See caldera defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature on large central volcanoes, a special sort of volcanic crater (from one to several kilometers in diameter), formed when a magma chamber was emptied. The depression then originated either in very big explosive eruptions or in erosion and collapse of the magma chamber roof. The surfaces are dominated by lava flows, and all have one or more collapse calderas. Mars has the largest volcano in the Solar System, Olympus Mons, which is more than three times the height of Mount Everest, with a diameter of 520 km (323 miles).
The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera and supervolcano located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming. 
A caldera is a large crater, up to 50 kilometers, that can form when the summit or side of a volcano collapses into the magma chamber during of after an explosion. Confidence votes 83.6K. A caldera is a depression in the land surface caused by the collapse of land into an emptied magma chamber as a result of an eruption of a stratovolcano. A caldera indicates that the volcano produced an extremely violent eruption. Caldera is also the Spanish language word for cauldr
Calderas are some of the most spectacular features on Earth. They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon.
A caldera is a large depression in a volcano. Most calderas form in one of two ways: by collapse of the top of a composite volcano after the magma chamber is drained. Confidence votes 83.6K. A caldera is a depression in the land surface caused by the collapse of land into an emptied magma chamber as a result of an eruption of a stratovolcano. A caldera indicates that the volcano produced an extremely violent eruption. Caldera is also the Spanish language word for cauldron