Schizoaffective disorder is a condition in which a person experiences a combination of schizophrenia symptoms — such as hallucinations or delusions — and mood disorder symptoms, such as mania or depression. Schizoaffective disorder is not as well understood or well defined as other mental health conditions. This is largely because schizoaffective disorder is a mix of mental health conditions ― including schizophrenic and mood disorder features ― that may run a unique course in each affected person.
1 Residual schizophrenia -- a person is no longer experiencing delusions or hallucinations, but has no motivation or interest in life. 2  Schizoaffective disorder --a person has symptoms of both schizophrenia and a major mood disorder such as depression. The cause of schizophrenia is still unclear. Some theories about the cause of this disease include: genetics (heredity), biology (the imbalance in the brain’s chemistry); and/or possible viral infections and immune disorders.
To be diagnosed with schizophrenia, you have to have at least two of these symptoms for at least 6 months. One of them must be hallucinations, delusions, or disorganized speech. A single voice that offers ongoing comments about your thoughts and actions, or voices that talk to each other, is enough. Doctors who specialize in mental health used to divide schizophrenia into five subtypes. The diagnosis depended on one main kind of symptom when the doctor first examined you. But the severity of symptoms can change or overlap.
Diagnosis. Schizoaffective disorder can be difficult to diagnose because it has symptoms of both schizophrenia and either depression or bipolar disorder. There are two major types of schizoaffective disorder: bipolar type and depressive type. To be diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder a person must have the following symptoms. 
If your friend or relative with schizophrenia won't get treatment, there are steps you can take to help. Instead, in 2013, the standard book that mental health experts use, called The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, changed how schizophrenia is classified. Doctors who specialize in mental health used to divide schizophrenia into five subtypes. The diagnosis depended on one main kind of symptom when the doctor first examined you. But the severity of symptoms can change or overlap.
Schizophrenia types (subtypes) are diagnosed by the symptoms the person is experiencing. However, this is problematic as one person can experience a different set of schizophrenia symptoms at different times, thus leading to multiple schizophrenia subtype diagnoses. Diagnostic Criteria for Each Type of Schizophrenia. Schizophrenia types are diagnosed based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR). The DSM-IV-TR criteria for each form of schizophrenia is as follows: 4. 1  Paranoid type schizophrenia. 2  Contains: preoccupation with delusions and frequent auditory hallucination
Types. Types of Schizophrenia. Learn about the 5 types of schizophrenia, each a bit different. This article will help you understand. Schizoaffective Disorder. For some people, depression or bipolar disorder symptoms are also part of the mix. Click here to learn more. Schizophreniform Disorder. Find out how this short-term type of schizophrenia is different. Learn about the symptoms and treatment of schizophreniform disorder. Delusional Disorder. Delusions are the main features of this serious condition. Find out the different types, symptoms, and treatment of delusional disorder
Definition. Schizoaffective disorder is a condition in which a person experiences a combination of schizophrenia symptoms — such as hallucinations or delusions — and mood disorder symptoms, such as mania or depression. Schizoaffective disorder is not as well understood or well defined as other mental health conditions. This is largely because schizoaffective disorder is a mix of mental health conditions ― including schizophrenic and mood disorder features ― that may run a unique course in each affected person.