Medical Definition of RESTING POTENTIAL. : the membrane potential of a cell that is not exhibiting the activity resulting from a stimulus—compare action potential, potential difference.
hyperpolarization. A change in the value of the resting membrane potential towards a more negative value. The inside of the cell becomes more negative than the outside. Hyperpolarization is inhibitory because the membrane potential moves away from the neuron's threshold at which an action potential could occur. Example: the retinal photoreceptor potentials when stimulated by light. See depolarization; receptor potential; resting membrane potential; synaps
Like the resting potential, action potentials depend upon the permeability of the cell membrane to sodium and potassium ions. Transient changes in conductance for different ions cause the changes in membrane potential necessary to initiate, sustain, and terminate action potentials. Figure 1. A. view of an idealized action potential shows its various phases as the action potential passes a point on a cell membrane. B. Recordings of action potentials are often distorted compared to the schematic view because of variations in electrophysiological techniques used to make the recording.
The relatively static membrane potential of quiescent cells is called the resting membrane potential (or resting voltage), as opposed to the specific dynamic electrochemical phenomena called action potential and graded membrane potential. Conventionally, resting membrane potential can be defined as a relatively stable, ground value of transmembrane voltage in animal and plant cells.
The resting potential of a cell is the membrane potential that would be maintained if there were no action potentials, synaptic potentials, or other active changes in the membrane potential. Typically, the amount of certain potassium channels is most important for control of the resting potential (see below). Some ion pumps such as the Na+/K+ATPase are electrogenic, that is, they produce charge imbalance across the cell membrane and can also contribute directly to
The resting potential is mostly determined by the concentrations of the ions in the fluids on both sides of the cell membrane and the ion transport proteins that are in the cell membrane. How the concentrations of ions and the membrane transport proteins influence the value of the resting potential is outlined below. Typically, the amount of certain potassium channels is most important for control of the resting potential (see below). Some ion pumps such as the Na+/K+ATPase are electrogenic, that is, they produce charge imbalance across the cell membrane and can also contribute directly to the membrane potential.
An action potential is stimulated by depolarizing the membrane, i.e., by increasing the voltage of the cell's interior relative to the cell's exterior. This depolarization opens voltage-sensitive channels, which allow positive current to flow inwards, further depolarizing the membrane. Figure 1. A. view of an idealized action potential shows its various phases as the action potential passes a point on a cell membrane. B. Recordings of action potentials are often distorted compared to the schematic view because of variations in electrophysiological techniques used to make the recording.
For such cells there is never any “rest” and the “resting potential” is a theoretical concept. Other cells with little in the way of membrane transport functions that change with time have a resting membrane potential that can be measured by inserting an electrode into the cell. Typically, the amount of certain potassium channels is most important for control of the resting potential (see below). Some ion pumps such as the Na+/K+ATPase are electrogenic, that is, they produce charge imbalance across the cell membrane and can also contribute directly to the membrane potential.
Imbalance of electrical charge which is present between the interior of an electrically excitable nerve cell and its surrounding cells. See also: action potential. RESTING POTENTIAL: The resting potential for a neuron is different from that found in other types of cells.. No related posts. 
An action potential is a pulse-like wave of voltage that can travel on certain types of cell membranes. It occurs most commonly on the membrane of the axon of a neuron, but also appears in other types of excitable cells, such as cardiac muscle cells and even plant cells. Figure 1. A. view of an idealized action potential shows its various phases as the action potential passes a point on a cell membrane. B. Recordings of action potentials are often distorted compared to the schematic view because of variations in electrophysiological techniques used to make the recording.