Reverse the placement of the numerator and denominator for the reciprocal of a fraction. For example, if the fraction is 3/4, reversing the positions results in 4/3. Multiply the exponent of a number by -1 to express the exponent as a reciprocal. For example, 4^3 becomes 4^-3 when the exponent is multiplied by -1. Instructions. Write the number as the denominator of a fraction that has 1 as a numerator to find the reciprocal of an integer. For example, the reciprocal of 5 is 1/5. Place a decimal number as the denominator of a fraction with 1 as the numerator, then divide to calculate the reciprocal of a decimal. For example, the reciprocal of 0.5 is 1/0.5
Published on Sep 26, 2013. This tutorial shows how to find the inverse of a number when dealing with a modulus. When dealing with modular arithmetic, numbers can only be represented as integers ranging from 0 to (the modulus minus 1). This tutorial shows one method that can be used when solving for an inverse of modular arithmetic. 
Shares & Saves. Save. A number can have two inverses. One inverse is the additive inverse, which is the value that when added with the original number will equal zero. To find the additive inverse, just make the original value negative if it's positive or positive if it's negative. Instructions. Write the number as the denominator of a fraction that has 1 as a numerator to find the reciprocal of an integer. For example, the reciprocal of 5 is 1/5. Place a decimal number as the denominator of a fraction with 1 as the numerator, then divide to calculate the reciprocal of a decimal. For example, the reciprocal of 0.5 is 1/0.5
inverse number. The inverse number or reciprocal number of a non-zero real or complex number. may be denoted by. , and it means the quotient. (so, it is really the. power of. ). Two numbers are inverse numbers of each other if and only if their product is equal to 1 (cf. opposite inverses). 
Then the inverse is y = / 3. If you need to find the domain and range, look at the original function and its graph. The domain of the original function is the set of all allowable x-values; in this case, the function was a simple polynomial, so the domain was all real numbers. The inverse is not a function. Any time you come up with a   sign, you can be pretty sure that the inverse isn't a function. The only difference between this function and the previous one is that the domain has been restricted to only the negative half of the x-axis. This restriction makes the graph look like this:
Microsoft Excel has built-in functions to calculate the logarithm of a number with a specified base, the logarithm with base 10, and the natural logarithm. To calculate the inverse log of a number in the first two cases, raise the base to the power of the value returned by the particular logarithm function being used. To find the inverse natural log, use the EXP function.
The Natural Log. The inverse of the function e x is the natural log function ln(x) . These two graphs are pictured below: Figure %: e x and ln(x) are inverses. Recall that if log a b = x, then x is the power that a must be raised to in order to equal b. With the natural log, the base is e. So, for example, ln(e) = 1. 
In mathematics, a multiplicative inverse or reciprocal for a number x, denoted by 1/ x or x −1, is a number which when multiplied by x yields the multiplicative identity, 1. The multiplicative inverse of a fraction a / b is b / a. For the multiplicative inverse of a real number, divide 1 by the number. For example, the reciprocal of 5 is one fifth (1/5 or 0.2), and the reciprocal of 0.25 is 1 divided by 0.25, or 4. The notation f −1 is sometimes also used for the inverse function of the function f, which is not in general equal to the multiplicative inverse. For example, the multiplicative inverse 1/(sin x) = (sin x)−1 is different from the inverse sin of x, denoted sin−1 x or arcsin x.