DEFINITION of 'Gadfly'. A slang term for an investor who attends the annual shareholders meeting to criticize the corporation's executives. A gadfly addresses many issues for the shareholders, often grilling the management by asking difficult or embarrassing questions. Next Up
Passion for power: the wicked gadfly which is mounted on the vainest peoples; the scorner of all uncertain virtue; which rideth on every horse and on every pride. Thus Spake Zarathustra: A Book For All And None by Nietzsche, Friedrich View in context. 
Full Definition of GADFLY. 1. : any of various flies (as a horsefly, botfly, or warble fly) that bite or annoy livestock. 2. : a person who stimulates or annoys especially by persistent criticism. See gadfly defined for English-language learners. See gadfly defined for kids. 
Gadfly is a relational database management system which uses a large subset of very standard SQL as its query language and Python modules and optional Python/C extension modules as its underlying engine. Gadfly stores the active database in memory, with recovery logging to a file system. Furthermore the Gadfly database storage format (based in the Python marshal format) is binary compatible between all these systems -- you can create a database on any one of the systems and use a binary transfer mechanism to any other system and the database should load and run.
1 A persistent irritating critic; a nuisance. 2  One that acts as a provocative stimulus; a goad. 3  Any of various flies, especially a warble fly, botfly, or horsefly, that bite or annoy livestock and other animals. noun. 1 
gadfly. noun. 1  A persistent irritating critic; a nuisance. 2  One that acts as a provocative stimulus; a goad. 3  Any of various flies, especially a warble fly, botfly, or horsefly, that bite or annoy livestock and other animals.
The noun GADFLY has 2 senses: 1. a persistently annoying person. 2. any of various large flies that annoy livestock. Familiarity information: GADFLY used as a noun is rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of gadfly): botfly (stout-bodied hairy dipterous fly whose larvae are parasites on humans and other mammals). warble fly (hairy bee-like fly whose larvae produce lumpy abscesses (warbles) under the skin of cattle).
gadfly. n, pl-flies. 1. (Animals) any of various large dipterous flies, esp the horsefly, that annoy livestock by sucking their blood. 2. a constantly irritating or harassing person. 
A gadfly is a person who upsets the status quo by posing upsetting or novel questions. The term gadfly (Ancient Greek: μύωψ, mýops) was used by Plato in the Apology to describe Socrates 's relationship of uncomfortable goad to the Athenian political scene, which he compared to a slow and dimwitted horse. In modern politics, a gadfly is someone who persistently challenges people in positions of power, the status quo or a popular position. For example, Morris Kline wrote There is a function for the gadfly who poses questions that many specialists would like to overlook. Polemics are healthy..