Report Abuse. MOS = Military Occupational Specialty I know the U.S. Army uses these MOS codes and I believe the Marines may too, but I'm not sure about that. The MOS code (MOSC), consisting of nine characters, provides more defined information than a soldier's MOS. It is used in automated management systems and reports.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved.
MOS is basically the job AIT is the school you'll be learning how to do your job Marine and the Army uses MOS Air Force uses AFSC (Air Force Specialty Code) Navy I believe uses Rating. Tula · 7 years ago.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners.
At the time you leave for AIT, you’ll have graduated from BCT and will have been trained for every Soldier’s primary responsibility—being a combat rifleman. While you are at AIT, you’ll learn your secondary area of responsibility, your Military Occupational Specialty (MOS).
You'll learn what to do with your paperwork, move into Advanced Individual Training (AIT) and begin studying your Military Occupational Specialty (MOS). Whether you go right after Basic Combat Training, or after your phase two RSP training, you’ll eventually be going to Advanced Individual Training (AIT).
Ait. An ait is a small island. It is especially used to refer to river islands found on the River Thames and its tributaries in England. Aits are typically formed by the deposition of sediment in the water, which accumulates over a period of time.
AIT = Advanced Individual Training This is the training you go to to learn your specialty (whatever your MOS is) after BCT (Basic Combat Training). The military LOVES acronyms so go to http://www.fas.org/news/reference/lexico... and learn them!!
Best Answer: MOS: Military Occupational Specialty (a.k.a. your job. 11b is infantrymen for example AIT: Advanced Individual Training (job training which you attend after BCT).