Latin pius meant ‘ pious ’(Late Middle English) but had a wider range of meanings than the word does in modern English, to include a wide range of moral qualities from being dutiful to your parents to being loyal, affectionate, compassionate, and kind. Synonyms. 1  Now the third important point related to government regulation is the aim of religion education is to develop pious and devout students. 2  However, Bosch was an orthodox Christian, a member of the Brotherhood of our Lady, a pious religious confraternity.
The word you used is actually descriptive of someone who has piety. Piety; 1. reverence for god or devout fulfillment of religious obligations: a prayer full of piety. 2. the quality or state of being pious: saintly piety.
adj. 1. a. Earnestly compliant in the observance of religion; reverent or devout: a pious nun. b. Showing or characterized by religious devotion: pious observance. c. Expressive of or used in religious devotion; devotional: pious readings. 2.
In spiritual terminology, piety is a virtue. While different people may understand its meaning differently, it is generally used to refer either to religious devotion or to spirituality, or often, a combination of both. Piety; 1. reverence for god or devout fulfillment of religious obligations: a prayer full of piety. 2. the quality or state of being pious: saintly piety.
In 1 Timothy 5:4, piety is used to refer to one s duty of caring for elderly family members. Piety implies aspects of reverence, external action, and religiosity, any of which may be well-intended or used in a showy, inappropriate manner. A person who shows great devotion to God through religious observance is said to be pious. Today, piety often carries a vaguely negative connotation, evidenced by the secondary definition provided by one dictionary: a belief that is accepted with unthinking conventional reverence—the accepted pieties of our time.
2. characterized by a hypocritical concern with virtue or religious devotion; sanctimonious. 3. practiced or used in the name of real or pretended religious motives, or for some ostensibly good object; falsely earnest or sincere: a pious deception. That is, according to some, if one is truly pious (in the spiritual sense), the natural and inevitable result of it will be religious piety.
Piety is being good and doing good for the sake of it, and not for selfish reasons. Pious is the adjective form of piety, to describe a pious act, attitude, or person. The Roman Emperor Antoninus Pious was so named for his piety, and his reign was the most peaceful of all the Roman emperors. Pious   Adjective: Having or showing a dutiful spirit of reverence for God or an earnest wish to fulfill religious obligations.
Socrates and Euthyphro discuss the nature of piety in Plato's Euthyphro. Euthyphro proposes (6e) that the pious (τὸ ὅσιον) is the same thing as that which is loved by the gods (τὸ θεοφιλές), but Socrates finds a problem with this proposal: the gods may disagree among themselves (7e). 
The word piety comes from the Latin word pietas, the noun form of the adjective pius (which means devout or dutiful). Pietas in traditional Latin usage expressed a complex, highly valued Roman virtue; a man with pietas respected his responsibilities to gods, country, parents, and kin. 
Report Abuse. n spiritual terminology, piety is a virtue. While different people may understand its meaning differently, it is generally used to refer either to religious devotion or to spirituality, or often, a combination of both. A common element in most conceptions of piety is humility. That is, according to some, if one is truly pious (in the spiritual sense), the natural and inevitable result of it will be religious piety.