If a patient's TSH falls in the normal range, thyroid tests for free T4 and free T3 and thyroid antibodies can rule out hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. Low TSH levels can indicate hyperthyroidism, TSH deficiency or the result of certain medications. Symptoms of an overactive thyroid include nervousness, irritability, increased perspiration, heart racing, hand tremors, anxiety, diarrhea, vision changes and muscle weakness.
This leads to high levels of TSH and low levels of free T4. If your free T4 levels are too low—the normal range for T4 is 5 to 13.5 micrograms per deciliter—it's a possible indicator that you have hypothyroidism, even if your previous TSH tests came back normal. Again, the normal ranges vary from lab to lab. Anti-thyroid Microsomal Antibodies Testing.
If you go by TSH normal ranges your score is normal, however TSH alone does not give a full picture of thyroid health. Insist on testing for Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, thyroid antibodies, ferritin and D3 as the first step. One test is just not enough to get a full picture. Normally the reference range for TSH is around 0.5 to 5.0 but thyroid doctors have been debating these numbers for years. 0.03 is lower than “normal” however TSH does not give a full picture. You should speak with your doctor about testing your Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, and thyroid antibodies.
Normal Levels of T3 and T4. Normal ranges of a T3 level needs to be 3-8. The normal levels for the T4 need to be 4-11. When levels are beyond 8 to 11, this is considered an overactive thyroid, also known as hyperthyroidism. Hyperthyroidism simply means the body is creating too much of these hormones. 
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists has proposed a range of 0.3 to 3.0 for normal TSH levels.
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal
As you know from this article a normal TSH range depending on the lab is around 0.5 to 5.0 which is why your TSH of 4.46 was determined normal, however the very fact that your first TSH test showed up 6.49 should be reason to investigate further. Normally the reference range for TSH is around 0.5 to 5.0 but thyroid doctors have been debating these numbers for years. 0.03 is lower than “normal” however TSH does not give a full picture. You should speak with your doctor about testing your Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, and thyroid antibodies.
It is very important to maintain TSH levels normal range. The following TSH levels chart will help you to know what is the normal range for TSH levels. As we can see from the chart, TSH levels normal range is 0.4 - 4.0 mIU/L. Yet, people without signs of abnormal thyroid, showing TSH result 2.0 mIU/L and normal T4 test results, may acquire thyroid problems later, such as hypothyroidism