Definition of MULTIPLICATIVE INVERSE. : an element of a mathematical set that when multiplied by a given element yields the identity element —called also reciprocal. 
Another name for Reciprocal. When you multiply a number by its Multiplicative Inverse you get 1. Example: 8 × (1/8) = 1. See: Reciprocal. 
Multiplicative Inverse. In a monoid or multiplicative group where the operation is a product, the multiplicative inverse of any element is the element such that, with 1 the identity element. The multiplicative inverse of a nonzero number is its reciprocal (zero is not invertible). For complex, where. The multiplicative inverse of a nonsingular matrix is its matrix inverse. To detect the multiplicative inverse of a given element in the multiplication table of finite multiplicative group, traverse the element's row until the identity element 1 is encountered, and then go up to the top row.
In mathematics, a multiplicative inverse or reciprocal for a number x, denoted by 1/ x or x −1, is a number which when multiplied by x yields the multiplicative identity, 1. The multiplicative inverse of a fraction a / b is b / a. For the multiplicative inverse of a real number, divide 1 by the number. For example, the reciprocal of 5 is one fifth (1/5 or 0.2), and the reciprocal of 0.25 is 1 divided by 0.25, or 4. The reciprocal function, the function f (x) that maps x to 1/ x, is one of the simplest examples of a function which is its own inverse (an involution).
Multiplicative Inverse of a Number Reciprocal. The reciprocal of x is. In other words, a reciprocal is a fraction flipped upside down. Multiplicative inverse means the same thing as reciprocal. For example, the multiplicative inverse (reciprocal) of 12 is and the multiplicative inverse (reciprocal) of is. Note: The product of a number and its multiplicative inverse is 1
The multiplicative inverse of is -4, since () × (-4) = 1. Sample Problem. The multiplicative inverse of is, since × = 1. The multiplicative inverse of a fraction is called the reciprocal, and is the upside-down version of that fraction. Don't take us too literally here—you won't be converting to a fraction on its head.
The denominator will be the numerator of the first factor. The numerator of the multiplicative inverse is 2 and the denominator is 3. This gives an answer of: All the examples in Reciprocal demonstrate that a number multiplied by its inverse gives a product of 1. INVERSE INSTRUCTIONS. Two numbers are multiplicative inverses of each other if the product of the numbers is one (1). Multiplicative Inverse is similar to the program MULTIPLY FRACTIONS except that you are to determine the second factor, which will be the multiplicative inverse of the first factor.
Multiplicative Inverse or Reciprocal. When the product of two numbers is one, they are called reciprocals or multiplicative inverses of each other. For example, and are reciprocals because. This is the motivation for the following property of fractions. where a and b are nonzero. The fraction is called the multiplicative inverse of (or reciprocal) and vice versa. Notice that a reciprocal (multiplicative inverse) can be formed from any common fraction by exchanging the positions of the numerator and denominator. The reciprocal of is, of is, and is