The term “white bean” can be correctly applied to any bean that is white or off-white in color. Most of the time, white beans that are sold commercially, either as seeds or as a food product, are marketed under more specific names, such as navy beans, Great Northerns, or cannellini. Varieties. Beans sold as “white beans” in the U.S. and Canada are usually either navy beans or Great Northern beans. Navy beans, as their name might suggest, were used as a primary food supply by U.S. naval forces in the early 1900s. They are typically the smaller of the two, and are popular in soups and stews
White kidney beans and other legumes are rich in antioxidants, which are known to have anticancer properties. When cells in your body metabolize, they produce compounds known as free radicals. Such compounds bind to your cells, causing aging, cancer and chronic diseases. White kidney beans -- so named due to their convex shape that resembles the kidney -- are among the best foods for helping you lose weight due to their high fiber content, which leaves you feeling full for longer and keeps food cravings at bay.
All White bean varieties are usually considered a health food, but their nutritive value can be diminished depending on what they are paired with. Loading baked beans with sugar or bacon, for instance, or simmering them in butter or animal fat, may outweigh their attributes. Varieties. Beans sold as “white beans” in the U.S. and Canada are usually either navy beans or Great Northern beans. Navy beans, as their name might suggest, were used as a primary food supply by U.S. naval forces in the early 1900s. They are typically the smaller of the two, and are popular in soups and stew
Rich in vitamin B9 -- also called folate or folic acid -- and low in fat, white kidney beans are heart-healthy. Folate reduces the levels of the amino acid homocysteine in the bloodstream. In elevated amounts, homocysteine increases your risk for heart attack and stroke. White kidney beans -- so named due to their convex shape that resembles the kidney -- are among the best foods for helping you lose weight due to their high fiber content, which leaves you feeling full for longer and keeps food cravings at bay.
Rich in slow-digesting carbohydrates, protein and fiber, beans — including white beans — are considered a low GI food. The glycemic index, or GI, is a numerical index that ranks foods based upon their predicted impact on blood sugar levels. White beans have detoxifying properties. White beans are one of the most concentrated food sources of molybdenum. Despite being discovered already in 1778, molybdenum is a relatively unknown trace mineral. Nevertheless, it is extremely important for good health.
Lima beans, sometimes called butter beans, are a flat-shaped, creamy white-colored bean. They have a smooth, creamy, sweet flavor and cook up in 1 to 1-1/2 hours. They are a popular vegetable side-dish and are also added to soups and casseroles. 
Canned navy beans are also available year round at local markets. Navy beans are small, pea-sized beans that are creamy white in color. They are mild-flavored beans that are dense and smooth. Like other common beans, navy beans are one of 13,000 species of the family of legumes, or plants that produce edible pods. 
White beans, also known as white navy beans, offer extraordinary health benefits. They are loaded with antioxidants and provide a good supply of detoxifying molybdenum. They are also a good source of fiber and protein and rank low on the glycemic index. They produce alpha-amylase inhibitors which help regulate fat storage in the body. What's more, white beans deliver a good supply of magnesium, a mineral with multiple health benefits. White beans have detoxifying properties. White beans are one of the most concentrated food sources of molybdenum. Despite being discovered already in 1778, molybdenum is a relatively unknown trace mineral. Nevertheless, it is extremely important for good health.