Which Foods Contain Genetically Modified Organisms? Eight GE crops are used in our food supply: corn, soy, canola, cotton, sugar beets, papaya, zucchini and crookneck squash. The main crops, soybeans and corn, are in hundreds of foods, from vegetable oils and high-fructose corn syrup to supplements and food additives. 
Scientific Conflict. Genetically modified foods – also called genetically engineered foods – contain DNA that scientists have modified in an unnatural way, such as by adding a gene from a different organism, according to the World Health Organization. 
The AAEM has called for a moratorium on genetically modified foods, labeling, and long-term independent studies. Their position paper stated that several animal studies have indicated serious health risks associated with genetically modified foods to include: 1  Infertility. 2  Insulin regulation. 3  Accelerated aging. 4  Immune problems. 5  Changes in major organs. 6  Changes in the gastrointestinal system.
Health risks of genetically modified foods. Dona A(1), Arvanitoyannis IS. Author information: (1)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, University of Athens, Medical School, Athens, Greece. Comment in Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2010 Jan;50(1):85-91; author reply 92-5. As genetically modified (GM) foods are starting to intrude in our diet concerns have been expressed regarding GM food safety. These concerns as well as the limitations of the procedures followed in the evaluation of their safety are presented
The genetically modified foods controversy is a dispute over the use of food and other goods derived from genetically modified crops and other uses of genetic engineering in food production. Corn used for food has been genetically modified to tolerate various herbicides and to express a protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) that kills certain insects. About 90% of the corn grown in the U.S. was genetically modified in 2010.
------. Unintended GMO Health Risks. Genetically modified foods: YES, you are already eating them. NO, they are not safe to eat. Did you know... since 1996 Americans have been eating genetically modified (GM) ingredients in most processed foods. Did you know... GM plants, such as soybean, corn, cottonseed, and canola have had foreign genes forced into their DNA. And the inserted genes come from species, such as bacteria and viruses, that have never been in the human food supply. Did you know... genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are not safe.
The American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM) has called on doctors to educate their patients, the public, as well as the medical community to avoid genetically modified foods whenever possible and to provide educational materials concerning genetically modified foods and their associated health risks. Their position paper stated that several animal studies have indicated serious health risks associated with genetically modified foods to include: 1  Infertility. 2  Insulin regulation. 3  Accelerated aging. 4  Immune problems. 5  Changes in major organs. 6  Changes in the gastrointestinal system.
Genetically modified corn and soy are used in a wide variety of foods. Nearly all of the samples we tested of the products that did not make any non-GMO-related claim on the package did, in fact, contain substantial amounts of genetically modified corn or soy. More than 70 percent of Americans say they don’t want genetically modified organisms in their food, according to a recent Consumer Reports National Research Center survey of 1,000 adults. The trouble is, it’s hard to avoid them.
When food-crops are genetically modified, (genetically modified food is a misnomer!) one or more genes are incorporated into the crop's genome using a vector containing several other genes, including as a minimum, viral promoters, transcription terminators, antibiotic resistance marker genes and reporter genes. 1 Publications on GM food toxicity are scarce. 2  An article in Science magazine said it all: Health Risks of Genetically Modified Foods: Many Opinions but Few Data.1 In fact, no peer-reviewed publications of clinical studies on the human health effects of GM food exist. 3  Even animal studies are few and far between.