Football and film star O.J. Simpson led police on a low-speed chase along the Los Angeles freeways shortly before his arrest for the murders of his ex-wife Nicole Brown and her friend Ron Goldman. This video, aired on CNN, features the sound from OJ's phone conversation with Homicide Detective Tom Lange.
Twenty years ago today, Los Angeles came to a halt. On June 17, 1994, television networks and cable news channels aired two hours of nonstop coverage of perhaps the most famous car chase to have ever taken place on Los Angeles freeways: O.J. Simpson in a white Ford Bronco.
Police chase a Ford Bronco driven by Al Cowlings as he takes his friend, O.J. Simpson, to Simpson's home in Brentwood. The slow-moving June 17, 1994, freeway chase took law enforcement authorities through two counties after Simpson was charged with the murders.
Email. Twenty years ago today, 95 million viewers across the America were glued to their televisions as police went on a low-speed chase after a white Ford Bronco as it cruised along a Los Angeles freeway. Inside the car, O.J. Simpson was sitting in the backseat, allegedly with a gun to his head.
Police declared Simpson a fugitive, and hours later, the infamous low-speed chase began. Approximately 6:45 p.m. on June 17, 1994, police saw Simpson on the expressway in a white Ford Bronco driven by his best friend and former teammate, Al Cowlings. Simpson was riding in the back, and he reportedly had a gun.
Nineteen years ago, on June 17, 1994, O.J. Simpson captivated the American public by leading the LAPD in an hour-long police chase around Los Angeles.
Fullscreen. Police chase a Ford Bronco driven by Al Cowlings as he takes his friend, O.J. Simpson, to Simpson's home in Brentwood. The slow-moving June 17, 1994, freeway chase took law enforcement authorities through two counties after Simpson was charged with the murders.
The police expected Simpson to turn himself on the charges of murdering his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ronald Goldman. But he never showed up. The Los Angeles Police Department located Simpson in the Bronco as it traveled on an interstate south of Los Angeles after tracking cell phone calls.