There is always a little mold everywhere-in the air and on many surfaces. There are very few reports that toxigenic molds found inside homes can cause unique or rare health conditions such as pulmonary hemorrhage or memory loss. Growth occurs when there is moisture from water damage, excessive humidity, water leaks, condensation, water infiltration, or flooding. Constant moisture is required for its growth. It is not necessary, however, to determine what type of mold you may have.
Black mold is commonly used as a name for the most harmful mold species, which happen to be black in appearance. However, even molds of a different color can be toxic to the human body. Any place that is dark and where there is an accumulation of moisture, is a potential breeding pool for mold. Mold can grown on almost any organic surface as long as moisture and oxygen are present. People are exposed to some amount of mold everyday. When mold is growing on a surface, spores can be released into the air where a person can then inhale them. A person who is subject to inhaling a large amount of these spores may be subject to some medical damage. There are five categories of toxic mold
Toxic mold is a term that is used to describe types of mold that are considered deadly to humans. Most people believe that the name refers to one particular species of mold; however, it encompasses hundreds of species, a small fraction of which are not very harmful to the human body. People are exposed to some amount of mold everyday. When mold is growing on a surface, spores can be released into the air where a person can then inhale them. A person who is subject to inhaling a large amount of these spores may be subject to some medical damage. There are five categories of toxic mold
Humidity and moisture is essentially all that is needed for mold to grow. There are more than 100,000 different types of mold that are seen outdoors as well as indoors. Many of these molds can cause allergic reactions, which result in hay fever, headaches, breathing problems, etc. Some molds produce harmful toxins that are very bad for human health. These molds are known as Toxic Mold. A very harmful and sometimes deadly type of toxic mold is known as Black Mold. 
1 Mold in your home, school, or workplace is a serious concern for your health, since up to 40 percent of American schools and 25 percent of homes have mold infestations. 2  Mycotoxins, or the toxins some molds produce, can cross into your brain from your nose and eyes. 1 Two of the better-known toxic molds include Stachybotrys chartarum (black mold), which can cause everything from headaches to cancer, and Aspergillus, which can cause severe lung infections, or progress to whole-body infections. 2  Mold is particularly dangerous for infants and children
Mold is a form of fungus that grows both indoors and outdoors and thrives in warm, damp, and humid environments. There are over a thousand different varieties of indoor mold, and the good news is that the presence of a moderate amount of mold in your home is generally not harmful to your health. The mycotoxins produced by Stachybotrys chartarum are potent, but there is some evidence that only a few strains of Stachybotrys chartarum are toxigenic, indicating that this particular type of toxic mold may be quite rare. Aspergillis. Aspergillis is a family of molds, and only some aspergillis molds are toxigenic.
If you’ve spotted white mold in basement, or any type of basement mold, you may be wondering what it is and what to do about it. Any type of mold, regardless of color, is cause for concern because inhaling the microscopic mold spores can cause health problems, including respiratory problems and allergic reactions. Types of White Mold in Basement Environments. Many types of mold can appear white in color, depending on the type of material on which they are growing, including aspergillus, cladosporium, and penicillium (penicillium is often blue or bluish-green and white). Mildew, a type of fungus similar to mold, may also appear white and powdery