Hair Loss classification helps decide the size of the hair transplant procedure and the cost. If your hair loss situation only requires a low (usually under 1,000) number of hair transplants to cover your bald spot, the cost is typically between $8 and $9.50 per graft. In fact, it is one of the deciding factors for many men and women in terms of whether or not to move forward with the procedure. Having been the most experienced hair restoration expert for over forty years, a lot of people look to Bosley for a general idea on cost.
Let’s take an average procedure of 1,500 hair grafts. At Hair Restoration Centers, the cost of your hair transplant is $4,500. But don’t forget about the $600 travel allowance, so your expense is now $3,900. In this example, HRC will save you $5,100, with no hidden fees or surprise costs. The price is $3 per hair graft, period. Think about that for a moment. With that savings of $5,100, you could afford to get a second hair transplant procedure which could fill in and give you more density and fullness.
Summary: Find out how clinics use 2 different methods for calculating the cost of hair transplants and compare our $3 hair grafts with the higher prices other clinics charge with our hair graft price comparison chart. In this example, HRC will save you $5,100, with no hidden fees or surprise costs. The price is $3 per hair graft, period. Think about that for a moment. With that savings of $5,100, you could afford to get a second hair transplant procedure which could fill in and give you more density and fullness.
At the other end of the scale, you pay about $5.50-$7 per graft if you need a sizeable hair transplantation (involving a high number of grafts). The cost is not definite because each patient’s hair loss classification and donor hair are different from the next person. Hair transplantation at Bosley can range widely between $4,000 and $12,000. In fact, it is one of the deciding factors for many men and women in terms of whether or not to move forward with the procedure. Having been the most experienced hair restoration expert for over forty years, a lot of people look to Bosley for a general idea on cost.
Therefore the cost of buying and maintaining quality hair systems over 15 years is about $28,125.00 ($1,200 plus $675 in annual upkeep = $1,875 x 15 years = $28,125.00). This total cost far exceeds the typical cost of surgical hair restoration. Today most hair transplant clinics offer free no obligation consultations, with surgical sessions priced either per graft or by the session. Financing with low monthly payments is also often offered. Hair transplant prices typically range from $3.00 to $8.00 per graft, with $5 to $6 per graft being about average. Normally the price per graft also drops as the size of the surgical session increases. Hair transplant surgery is not inexpensive
Additional costs: 1  During the hair transplant procedure, the surgeon moves grafts of skin and hair from a donor site on the back or sides of the head to the area where hair has been lost. 2  Although different methods have been used in the past, follicular unit hair transplantation is now considered the most advanced. 1 Skilled hair transplant surgeons practicing in the United States are very much in demand, and most charge a premium for their work. 2  Tip: Be sure to look for an experienced surgeon, certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery or the American Board of Dermatology.
Hair Transplant Costs. The cost of your hair transplant depends mostly on the degree of your hair loss, how many grafts you need, and/or how many sessions you need to complete them in.Your personal cosmetic goals can also impact costs. When researching costs for hair transplant you may come across offers for cheap surgery. Cheap surgery is no bargain. Often the cheaper quotes don’t include other costs that are then surreptitiously added on after you have committed.
The average hair transplant cost varies significantly by region and country. In fact, the price difference can be dramatic. In the United States, the average FUE hair transplant cost varies from $3,000.00 up to $24,000.00. We can often offer dedicated quality FUE hair restoration and still provide savings of 10-35% on hair transplantation costs. Less than the national average cost: The national average cost of a hair transplant using FUE grafts ranges from 5-11$ per hair follicle graft with various tools including Alphagraft, Neograft, SAFE, Artas hair robotic system and manual approaches.
1 The average surgeon's fee for hair transplantation is $5,033, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. 1 Skilled hair transplant surgeons practicing in the United States are very much in demand, and most charge a premium for their work. 2  Tip: Be sure to look for an experienced surgeon, certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery or the American Board of Dermatology.