The recommended non-prescription dose for most people over 12 years of age is Motrin 200 mg by mouth every four to six hours as needed to reduce pain or fever. If one tablet or caplet does not work, then two may be used. However, the daily non-prescription dose of Motrin should not exceed 1200 mg (six tablets or caplets), unless directed by your doctor. For children or infants under the age of 12, follow the directions on the label or call your healthcare provider or pharmacist.
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS). MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use MOTRIN (ibuprofen) . Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS). MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
When possible, calculate ibuprofen dose based on weight using 4-10 mg/kg/dose. Give PO every 6-8 hours. Maximum single dose is 400 mg/dose, and maximum daily dose is 40 mg/kg/day up to 1200 mg/day. When weight is unknown, the below guideline based on age may be used. Age 6-11 months (weight, 12-17 lbs [5.4-8.1 kg]). 
MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets are indicated for relief of mild to moderate pain. MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets are also indicated for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea. Controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets in children have not been conducted. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS). MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
The dose of ibuprofen can range from 200 mg every 4 to 6 hours up to 800 mg every 6 hours. The maximum daily dose anyone should ever take is 800 mg every 6 hours or a total of 3200 mg per day. However, anything over the recommended over-the-counter dose of 200 mg should only be taken on the advise of your doctor. Motrin and Advil can be purchased over-the-counter in 200 milligram (mg) tablets, while higher doses require a prescription. Available in tablets and capsules, ibuprofen is also found in combination with other drugs sold over the counter for cough, cold, and migraine.
Ibuprofen Dosage. Ibuprofen purchased over-the-counter comes in tablets or capsules of 200 mg, while prescription doses are available in 400, 600, and 800 mg tablets. For adults and children over 12 years of age, the usual dose of ibuprofen is one to two tablets or capsules every four to six hours as needed. Do not take more than 2,400 mg (12 capsules or tablets) of ibuprofen daily. Take ibuprofen with food or after meals if it seems to bother your stomach. Motrin and Advil can be purchased over-the-counter in 200 milligram (mg) tablets, while higher doses require a prescription. Available in tablets and capsules, ibuprofen is also found in combination with other drugs sold over the counter for cough, cold, and migraine.
Ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) is an over-the-counter fever reducer and pain reliever. This chart, based on your child's weight, can help determine the right dosage amount but is no substitute for your doctor's advice. You should always call the pediatrician with any questions or concerns. Use the following tips to keep your child safe and avoid overdosing: Ibuprofen Dosage Chart. Ibuprofen can help soothe your child's fever and relieve pain. Use our age-by-age guide to find out how much medicine is safe for your baby or kid. 1  Facebook.
The recommended starting prescription dose for most people with mild to moderate pain or painful menstruation is Motrin 400 mg by mouth every four to six hours as needed to control pain. You should not take this amount of Motrin unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. However, the daily non-prescription dose of Motrin should not exceed 1200 mg (six tablets or caplets), unless directed by your doctor. For children or infants under the age of 12, follow the directions on the label or call your healthcare provider or pharmacist.