A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar. The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Hollow bricks feature a unique design with a durable shell and a hollow space in the center of each brick.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall ranges between $8.59 - $11.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Cost: A base price for a single-sided, natural colored wall at 6’ tall will cost about $30 a linear ft for materials, $36 a linear foot for a double-sided design. A colored wall will cost about $33 a linear ft for a single-sided design and $39 a linear ft for a double-sided design. Installation costs vary depending on height, design choice, colored vs. non-colored options but prices range between $15 – $44 a linear ft.
First, though, let wood dry three to six months, depending on the humidity of your climate. Cost: For a no-frills 6-foot-tall fence: Southern pine, $10 to $35 a linear foot; cypress, $12 or $13 a linear foot; cedar, around $15.50 a linear foot; redwood, $20 a linear foot. A colored wall will cost about $33 a linear ft for a single-sided design and $39 a linear ft for a double-sided design. Installation costs vary depending on height, design choice, colored vs. non-colored options but prices range between $15 – $44 a linear ft.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Cap Installation project. For a basic 25 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall Cap ranges between $13.26 - $16.36 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Bulkhead or seawall workshould be reserved for a qualified andexperienced marine contractor.How much does Bulkhead constructioncost?Depending on the local constructionmarket and bulkhead design requirements,repairs may cost $100-$400 per linear footof wall. Bulkhead replacement may cost$500-$1,000 per linear foot. Conclusions 1. Bulkhead design is site-specific andthe design elements of a particular struc-ture should be understood prior to evalua-tion.2. Bulkhead materials of constructionexhibit various forms of deterioration inthe marine environment.
Retaining Wall Cost. Poured retaining walls with elaborate curves require complex formwork and will drive up cost for a wall. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot. If you add a decorative finish, curves, steps, lighting or other upgrades, the cost will rise. For Ralston, $39 per square foot is the average cost he charges for a wall under 4 feet tall. For walls below 4 feet, he says his prices are often competitive with finished block. A block wall has to be stuccoed or finished with veneer, while a concrete wall does not need an added finish.
For the purpose of this discussion we will consider the costs of building a retaining wall from cast concrete and at a length of 50 linear feet. We will also take into consideration various heights as well, ranging from six, eight and ten feet. 1 Costs will vary widely. 2  The Wall-for a cast in place (concrete) retaining wall with a vertical face, installed on no more than a 33 degree slope with a level embankment, at 6' high (including excavation and backfill) the cost will be $12,800.
1 The Wall-for a cast in place (concrete) retaining wall with a vertical face, installed on no more than a 33 degree slope with a level embankment, at 6' high (including excavation and backfill) the cost will be $12,800. 1 Costs will vary widely. 2 