Summary. Total Hydrocarbons is a requirement for most specifications. This term is defined by the analytical method which can only detect volatiles and some semi-volatiles. It is therefore, a test of Total Volatile Hydrocarbons (TVHC), and does not determine hydrocarbons that are condensable (Oil Mist).
The Maine Department of Environmental Protection [DEP] relies on laboratory tests called EPH [Extractable Petroleum Hydrocarbons] and VPH [Volatile Petroleum Hydrocarbons] to test for the presence of gasoline or fuel oil in drinking water.
The following is intended as a brief guide to selection of the appropriate testing procedures. Petroleum hydrocarbons are a large group of varied compounds. The compounds can be classified by number of carbon molecules and arrangement. The more carbons in a given compound, the less volatile, or higher the boiling point.
as determined by infrared (IR) spectrometry, is defined as Total Recoverable Petroleum Hydrocarbons (TPH, TRPH, or TPH-IR). A number of modifications of these methods exist. EPA Method 418.1 has been one of the most widely used methods for the determination of TPH in soils.
Biodegradation of semi-and non-volatile petroleum hydrocarbons in aged, contaminated soils from a sub-Arctic site: laboratory pilot-scale experiments at site temperatures. Chang W, Dyen M, Spagnuolo L, Simon P, Whyte L, Ghoshal S.
These methods will be replaced with EPA Method 1664: n-Hexane Extractable Material (HEM) and Silica Gel Treated n-Hexane Extractable Material (SGT-HEM) by Extraction and Gravimetry (Oil and Grease and Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons) (EPA 1996a). Conventional methods of TPH analysis are summarized in Table 3-2.
EPH/VPH/APH Methods Page 4 of 12 Derivation of Remediation Criteria for Petroleum Hydrocarbons Risk-based criteria are derived using data and assumptions to define those potentially exposed to contaminated environmental media, the rate at which the exposure may occur, and the toxicity of the substance.
TOTAL PETROLEUM HYDROCARONS 17 3. IDENTITY AND ANALYSIS OF TOTAL PETROLEUM HYDROCARBONS 3.1 INTRODUCTION Petroleum hydrocarbons (PHCs) are common site contaminants, but they are not generally regulated as hazardous wastes.