Bacillus anthracis are rod shaped, gram positive bacteria. Their  endospores are the infectious agents of anthrax. The infection is  fatal in both animals and humans. The ma … jor symptoms are vomiting  blood, respiratory collapse, severe diarrhea, skin lesions with  boils, and acute inflammation. Split and merge into it. Answer by Kendrakat. Confidence votes 55. bacilli bacteria (Bacillus anthracis) causes anthrax in sheep and humans, and (lactobacillus) causes tooth decay and is also an ingredient in yogurt. Bacilli can cause tetanus (lockjaw) typhoid feaver, tuberculosis, and diphtheria (Milady's Standard Cosmetology ~source)
1. Rare to none: Bacillus megaterium is a rod-shaped, gram-positive, endospore forming, aerotolerant species of bacteria used as a soil inoculant in agriculture and horticulture. Bacterium is arranged into the streptobacillus form. Bacillus cereus: Bacillus cereus or b. Cereus is a type of bacteria that produces toxins. These toxins can cause two types of illness: one type characterized by diarrhea and the other, called emetic toxin, by nausea and vomiting. It comes from contaminated food that is undercooked and generally lasts a day.
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea.
Anthrax is an acute disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. Most forms of the disease are lethal, and it affects mostly animals. It is contagious and can be transmitted through contact or consumption of infected meat. 
The clinical spectrum of infections caused by Bacillus spp. include self limited food poisoning, localized infections related to trauma (e.g. ocular infections), deep seated soft tissue infections, and systemic infections (e.g. meningitis, endocarditis, osteomyelitis, and bacteremia). M ICROBIOLOGY. Bacillus spp are aerobic spore forming rods that stain gram positive or gram variable. Except for few species the large majority have no pathogenic potential and have never been associated with disease in man or animals. Members of the genus have significant microbiological uses (42).
Bacillus subtilis is a Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria, commonly found in soil. It was originally named “ Vibrio subtilis” when it was discovered in 1835 by Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg. It was renamed “ Bacillus subtilis” in 1872 by Ferdinand Cohn. Bacillus subtilis is an endospore forming bacteria, and the endospore that it forms allows it to withstand extreme temperatures as well as dry environments. Bacillus subtilis is considered and obligate aerobe, but can also function anaerobicly when in the presence of nitrates or glucose.
pH range: 4.9-9.3. Lowest reported Aw for growth: 0.93. The Disease: The Disease: Bacillus cereus can cause two distinct types of illnesses: 1) a diarrheal illness with an incubation time of approximately 10 to 16 hours, and 2) an emetic (vomiting) illness with an incubation time of one to six hours. Symptoms include: 
7. Bacillus cereus: Bacillus cereus or b. Cereus is a type of bacteria that produces toxins. These toxins can cause two types of illness: one type characterized by diarrhea and the other, called emetic toxin, by nausea and vomiting. It comes from contaminated food that is undercooked and generally lasts a day.