The main function of endocrine glands is to secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream. Hormones are chemical substances that affect the activity of another part of the body (target site). In essence, hormones serve as messengers, controlling and coordinating activities throughout the body. 
Hormones are chemical messengers produced by cells that bind to receptors on the plasma membrane of other cells or enter other cells and alter the metabolic function of these cells. Example of hormones are cortico steroids, adrenaline, growth hormone, androgens, oestrogen,thyroid hormone and insulin. Hormones have a dramatic and broad range of effects on metabolism, growth and maturation, sexuality and reproduction, and other important bodily functions. 4 people found this useful.
Hormones affect distant cells by binding to specific receptor proteins in the target cell resulting in a change in cell function. When a hormone binds to the receptor, it results in the activation of a signal transduction pathway. Hormone synthesis may occur in specific tissues of endocrine glands or in other specialized cells. Hormone synthesis occurs in response to specific biochemical signals induced by a wide range of regulatory systems
A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour. Hormone synthesis may occur in specific tissues of endocrine glands or in other specialized cells. Hormone synthesis occurs in response to specific biochemical signals induced by a wide range of regulatory systems
How Hormones Function. The function of hormones in the body is mainly to serve as chemical messengers. The brain receives a message from the nerves, interprets it, and transmits the message to a specific endocrine gland. In response, the endocrine gland releases one or more hormones to bind with a specific cell. Put simply, hormones are the body s chemical messengers that relay a signal from cell to cell. Endocrine glands produce and release these hormones into the bloodstream, where they will travel and bind with a specific receptor, to reproduce or to trigger the production of proteins.
Growth hormone (GH or HGH), also known as somatotropin or somatropin, is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, cell reproduction and regeneration in humans and other animals. It is a type of mitogen which is specific only to certain kinds of cells. 
The function of the thyroid gland is to take iodine, found in many foods, and convert it into thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body which can absorb iodine. These cells combine iodine and the amino acid tyrosine to make T3 and T4. 
The Importance of Hormones. The function of hormones in the body is inarguably very important; even the slightest change in how a hormone works could impact the entire body. In order to perform all the necessary processes normally, such as growth, development, metabolism, movement, and reproduction, hormones are needed. Put simply, hormones are the body s chemical messengers that relay a signal from cell to cell. Endocrine glands produce and release these hormones into the bloodstream, where they will travel and bind with a specific receptor, to reproduce or to trigger the production of proteins.