Most Italians favor a few simple pieces of jewelry, and Italian women generally wear simple makeup, opting for soft shades of lipstick and nail polish. Italian silk is world-renowned, so shop for a local scarf, shawl or men's tie to dress up your travel wardrobe. Summers can be steamy, but shorts are still regarded as resort wear by most Italians. Cotton slacks or capri pants for women are a stylish alternative. The appeal of jeans is universal, and a quality pair (no holes) matched with a pressed sports shirt or blouse is acceptable casual wear in Italy.
The first thing Italians will look at are your shoes and then the quality of the fabrics, rather than what they represent. - Italian women always wear make-up (usually the kind of make-up that looks very natural) and have their hair, eyebrows and nails done (especially toe nails), but they hardly wear perfume. - for men, always wear socks in closed shoes. The only exception to this are moccasin-style shoes or yachting shoes, but even here Italians will usually wear a type of socks specifically adapted to this kind of shoes, called fantasmini ('invisible' or very short socks).
The first thing to know is that Italians adapt the way they dress to the moment of the day, the occasion, and the site or place they are visiting. Some typical examples: no shorts for men in the evening and no tank tops or other shoulder-less clothing when entering a church or cathedral. - for men, always wear socks in closed shoes. The only exception to this are moccasin-style shoes or yachting shoes, but even here Italians will usually wear a type of socks specifically adapted to this kind of shoes, called fantasmini ('invisible' or very short socks).
- no bright, flashy colors. Italians do wear bright colors, but in specific combinations and not at all times. Some colors that are typically very popular in some countries look very strange to Italians as colors for clothes, such as mustard yellow, petrol blue, bottle green and dull bordeaux red. - for men, always wear socks in closed shoes. The only exception to this are moccasin-style shoes or yachting shoes, but even here Italians will usually wear a type of socks specifically adapted to this kind of shoes, called fantasmini ('invisible' or very short socks).
How to Dress in Italy. Fashion is important in the Italian culture, and Italians typically pay close attention to a person's clothes. If you are planning a visit to Italy and you would like to fit in with the Italians, then follow some important guidelines when learning how to dress in Italy. Ad.
Select more formal dress-wear if you are not sure what to wear. Opt for quality material, designer labels and the complete look of an outfit. Wearing ties with short sleeve shirts, lightweight summer shirts and jeans is not usual Italian attire. Fashion is important in the Italian culture, and Italians typically pay close attention to a person's clothes. If you are planning a visit to Italy and you would like to fit in with the Italians, then follow some important guidelines when learning how to dress in Italy. Ad.
Dark jeans, black pants or black skirts are worn by many Italians. A winter coat accessorized with a scarf in the popular color of the season is also a must.EleganceElegance is a commonly used term to describe the sartorial tradition of Italy. Grooming is important to most Italians. Men usually wear a button down shirt or polo type of shirt rather than a logo tee. Women may wear a blouse or a sleeveless shirt but usually have a scarf or wrap on hand when visiting a church.Cooler Weather AttireDuring fall and winter months, Italians tend to layer clothing.
On the other hand, Italians also tend to be known for their attractive informal wear. Indeed, they tend to adjust their dressing styles to the demands of the particular occasion. For example, it's comfortable walking clothes for a weekend mountain hike or countryside visit. For most Christians, they wear the same type of clothing that other people wear... they might wear more formal clothing to church, but on weekdays they wear regular clothes... … jeans, shorts, t-shirts, sweaters, button-up shirts, or whatever is appropriate to the occasion. 16 people found this useful. Answered
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Italians are known for their style and looking after their appearance. The kind of clothes that Italians wear include A-line and flared skirts, linen shirts, pants or shorts and linen jackets. 