When do babies roll over? Your baby may be able to kick himself over, from his tummy to his back, as early as age 4 months. It may take him until he's about 5 or 6 months to flip from back to front, though, because he needs stronger neck and arm muscles for that maneuver. Your baby developed his leg, neck, back, and arm muscles while learning to roll over. Now he'll put those same muscles to work as he learns to sit independently and crawl. Most babies have mastered sitting up sometime between 6 and 8 months; crawling comes a little later.
Most babies can roll over by the time they are six months. If your baby is not rolling over, at least from front to back, by the time he is six months you should discuss this with your doctor. 
As was mentioned earlier, the normal time frame for a baby to commence the rolling over is somewhere between 4-7 months of age, and if you’re a parent and your child has not started the roll by 6 or 7 months, you might become concerned and, as parents, that’s a normal way to feel. 
How babies learn to roll over. At about 3 months, when placed on his stomach, your baby will lift his head and shoulders high, using his arms for support. This mini-pushup helps him strengthen the muscles he'll use to roll over. He'll amaze you (and himself!) the first time he flips over. Your baby developed his leg, neck, back, and arm muscles while learning to roll over. Now he'll put those same muscles to work as he learns to sit independently and crawl. Most babies have mastered sitting up sometime between 6 and 8 months; crawling comes a little later.
What to do if your baby doesn't roll over. If your baby hasn't figured out how to flip one way or the other by the time he's about 6 months old, and hasn't moved on to sit and try to scoot and crawl instead, bring it up the next time you talk to his doctor. Your baby developed his leg, neck, back, and arm muscles while learning to roll over. Now he'll put those same muscles to work as he learns to sit independently and crawl. Most babies have mastered sitting up sometime between 6 and 8 months; crawling comes a little later.
Babies can flip over from front to back as early as the age of 3 months but they usually do not master the ability of rolling nor use it as a mean of movement by the age of 5 to 6 months. Most of them first learn to flip over from front to back because it is a lot easier than rolling from back to front. 
Report Abuse. My brother couldn't roll over until around 7 months. At the age of 21 he can now do around 200 sit ups and most likely stronger and fitter than the average baby that rolled over at 3 months. :) My point being it doesn't really matter. We all age according to genes. My son started to roll over when he was 3 months he rolled from belly to back and back to belly all with in a week when he turned 3 months old. I would just keep giving her lots of tummy time each day. Mommy to a lil boy and expecting the 2nd · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Yes | No Thank you! Usually babies roll over from front to back at around 3 months or so and back to front at around 4-6 months. It really depends on the baby. My son rolled over front to back at 2.5 months and back to front at 3.5 months. My daughter is 5 months and she is crawling:) She rolled over first when she was about two months, It was Back to Belly though.. She was only 7 pounds 14 ounces when she was born so I dont think it has to do with size, Every baby is different though.
It differs with each baby, but I think the average is 4-6 months. I don't think that you should be too concerned at 5 months. He'll probably get there in the next few weeks. What you can do to 'get the ball rolling' is tuck his arms along his sides, and help him roll back and forth. 
A: Rolling over is your baby's first big milestone on the road to getting mobile, and it usually happens around 4 months, but a little later or earlier is totally normal. At first your baby will only roll from his belly to back; this is easier because he can use his arms to help him take off. Back-to-belly rolling comes later, usually by 5 to 6 months, or a month after he learned to roll over initially. Your baby's first roll-over usually occurs during a tummy-time session. When placed flat on his belly, your baby instinctively uses his arms to raise his head and shoulders off the floor