Anything you put it in the toilet affects the leach field. Also known as a drain field or soil absorption system, leach fields are an integral part of a septic system. If the leach field fails, replacing it can be costly. The cost of a new leach field depends on various factors. If your leach field needs replacement, get estimates from several contractors. You might save a few thousand dollars that way. Replacement Costs. Although costs vary according to the size of the leach field, soils and costs of local permits, expect to pay between $5,000 and $20,000 for leach field replacement. It is the most expensive component of the septic system.
You can call your septic company or if you are able, handy, check the level of liquid in your tank. Using your wife’s favorite shovel, pry up the tank lid or lids. The level of the tank should be down where the inlet comes in from the house or on the outlet where the effluent leaves the tank for the leach field. This is about 10 – 12 inches down from the top of the tank.
If washing machines, dishwashers, and garbage disposals are used, the amount of sludge will increase and the septic tank will require frequent cleaning. WASTEWATER DISPOSAL BY SOIL ABSORPTION. Effluent from the septic tank flows by gravity or is pumped to a leach field for disposal. The wastewater effluent is absorbed by soil particles and moves both horizontally and vertically through the soil pores. DO... 1  inspect and, if necessary, pump septic tank every three years. 2  reduce the amount of water used during winter and spring when groundwater levels are high. 3  minimize or eliminate the use of garbage grinders. 4  conduct percolation tests during wet weather season before installing a new system.
If the top of your septic tank is 6' below grade the leachfield must be at least 7' below grade. There would be no problem with planting over the leach field, in fact, it might have some advantage to both your plants and the septic system. 1. The leach field would keep the soil moist which provides additional water to the crop. 2
If the level is normal, (at the bottom of the inlet pipe), you have a clogged line from the house to the tank. We recommend Garvin’s plumbing service if you need a plumber. If this level is up to the lid, or overflowing you have an obstructed line to the leach field or a problem with the drainage in the leach field. The level of the tank should be down where the inlet comes in from the house or on the outlet where the effluent leaves the tank for the leach field. This is about 10 – 12 inches down from the top of the tank.
leach fields in most cases have an important rule of thumb: IF A leach field WORKED BEFORE IT CAN WORK AGAIN! To begin with this is how the septic system and leach field is supposed to work. 1  You flush the toilet. 2  The waste travels down the drain pipes in your home until they all come together into one large sewer pipe. 3  This pipe goes through or under the foundation in your home. See an animation of the septic tank leach field process here. When a septic tank backs up into your house, damage to the leach field is already done. 1  The sludge layer has overflowed the baffle in the tank. 2  That sludge has run into the leach field.
Mark Kent, WA. I would expect a leach field to last more like 40 years, not 20. Pumping the tank is not solving the problem. You need to check your output pipe baffle to make sure it still exists (all septic pumpers should do this, and spend the $50 extra to replace it if there is any question). If the leach field has become totally clogged or is not not porous enough anymore to take the water, then you'll need a new one. Costs can be all over the place depending on whether you can do a repair or need a whole new permitted system.
If, after you have it pumped, you observe flow, back into the tank.................you need a new leach field.This could be because the tank settled, back grading the leach field pipe or the leach field has heaved or was not installed correctly. Also, after it is pumped look into the outlet for roots or other blockage. 
leach field the fewer bacteria you will have present there, and bacteria is what will open the clogged. parts of your leach field to restore flow. Steps you can take to help your septic system recover. 1  Use a septic tank treatment regularly to eat away the clogs in your leach field. 2  Please see our CHEMICALS page. See an animation of the septic tank leach field process here. When a septic tank backs up into your house, damage to the leach field is already done. 1  The sludge layer has overflowed the baffle in the tank. 2  That sludge has run into the