And improve it did: 1  In 1998, the fastest quick-service drive thru, Long John Silver’s, averaged a time of 159.1 seconds, and Whataburger topped the accuracy rankings with 86.7 percent of its orders served correctly.
It depends on what part of Arizona you will be departing from and where your arrival will be in Maryland. The estimated distance is 2,351.56 miles. The amount of time it … will take to drive that distance will be approximately 35 hours and 19 minutes.
And it's why the number of drive-thru windows at fast-food stands has doubled in five years. (The industry cooks better than it spells: It's drive-through in English class, but it's drive-thru at every major chain.). In 1975, McDonald's didn't have a single drive-thru. Today, more than 90% of its 13,000 U.S. restaurants do. Industrywide, 80% of fast food's growth over the past five years has been at the drive-thru. Most drive-thru customers are just stopping to fill their guts, says Bob Sandelman, a fast-food consultant. The industry's bread and butter  folks who buy fast food 25 to 30 times monthly  are the biggest drive-thru fans, he says.
While the data changes a bit from year to year, the 2012 drive-thru study indicated that the average wait time for a Wendy’s order was just 130 seconds, the quickest in the field and more than one minute faster than Burger King. Meanwhile, Chick-fil-A was tops in terms of accuracy, getting 92% of orders correct.
Last year’s study indicated that the average drive-thru wait time hit 181 seconds, up from 173 seconds the year before. According to the new study—an expanded version that incorporated 23 quick-serve restaurant brands, up from just seven in 2013—the average wait time reached a record high of 203 seconds.
It’s true, too, with drive-thru service; some brands perform better than the rest. And this year the QSR Drive-Thru Performance Study focuses on seven brands as a benchmark group that have consistently, year after year, risen to the top of the heap in drive-thru performance.