Baby Names Meaning BEAUTY, BEAUTIFUL. Label: Names Meaning. F ind out list of beautiful names-baby names meaning BEAUTY, BEAUTIFUL page 1 of 5. These beautful names are originated of Biblical, African, Polish, Slavic, Italian, Latin, French, Greek and Spanish cultures. - AASHIYANA: Indian, a girl name's meaning Beautiful home. 
Lovely: Means attractive or beautiful especially in a graceful way. Helen: Is Latin which means the most beautiful woman in the world. The Helen of Troy. Meishan: Is a Mandarin name meaning virtuous beauty. Adonia: From Spain, meaning beautiful lady and a feminine version of Adonis. Venus: Known as the Goddess of love and beauty. Mary: The mother of Jesus and known as the most beautiful of all. 
Beautiful Names. Beautiful baby names and what they mean, for beautiful, fair, beauty, sweet, pretty, lovely, attractive, charm. Here is the list of Handsome names for boy
Girl names with lovely meanings. Many of today’s parents want a unique baby girl name that also has a beautiful meaning. Our Advanced Baby Name Search allows you to research not only the origin of the name, but also the meaning. Check out our picks of the best baby girl names with beautiful meanings. These pretty baby girl names also have a meaning that is equally as beautiful. 1  Elle: Beautiful fairy. 2  Lily: Purity and beauty. 3  Mabel: My beautiful one. 4  Jamila: Beauty. 5  Belinda: Very beautiful. 6  Jolie: Cheerful, pretty.
The baby name Jacolin is a girl name. The name Jacolin comes from the Irish, Ireland origin. In English The meaning of the name Jacolin is: One who glides with beauty Information: Name: JacolinName meaning: One who glides with beautyGender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Irish, Ireland. In English The meaning of the name Hebe is: myth name (goddess of youthful beauty) Information: Name: HebeName meaning: myth name (goddess of youthful beauty) Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Greek. beauty, goddess, youthful.
Baby Names associated with Beautiful for Girls. Usage of these girl names was at its most widespread in the year 2002 (usage of 0.1342%) and is almost as widespread today (usage 0.123%, down 8.4%), but with names like Ayanna, Belinda, Dulce, Ingrid and Kaya becoming somewhat dated. Beautiful baby names and what they mean, for beautiful, fair, beauty, sweet, pretty, lovely, attractive, charm. Here is the list of Handsome names for boys
The baby name Husn is a girl name. The name Husn comes from the Arabian, arabic origin. In English The meaning of the name Husn is: beauty Information: Name: HusnName meaning: beauty Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Arabian, arabic. In English The meaning of the name Hebe is: myth name (goddess of youthful beauty) Information: Name: HebeName meaning: myth name (goddess of youthful beauty) Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Greek. beauty, goddess, youthful.
The baby name Jamila is a girl name. The name Jamila comes from the Egyptian, Egypt origin. In English The meaning of the name Jamila is: beauty Information: Name: JamilaName meaning: beauty Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Egyptian, Egypt. In English The meaning of the name Hebe is: myth name (goddess of youthful beauty) Information: Name: HebeName meaning: myth name (goddess of youthful beauty) Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Greek. beauty, goddess, youthful.
Today’s parents are not only looking for a unique name for their baby girl, but they also want one that has a story behind it. If you want a baby girl name that is unique or trendsetting, but also has an extra special meaning, let us help you narrow down your list: 1  Sophia: Wise. 2  Emma: Whole or complete. 3  Olivia: Olive, symbol of peace. 4  Isabella: Devoted to God. 5  Hannah: Favor or grace. 6  Mia: A wished for child. 7  Chloe: Fresh blooming.