Mafic and ultramafic magmas are high in dark, heavy minerals like pyroxene, amphibole, and olivine, which contribute to an igneous rock being dark in color with a higher speci … fic gravity than felsic and intermediate magmas and rocks. A light colored igneous rock is more less dense and more felsic (which means the rock is mostly rich in silicon and aluminum). A dark colored igneous rock is more dense and ma … fic (which means the rocks are rich in iron and magnesium. 2 people found this useful. Paul Jones. 112,553 Contributions.
Dark colored igneous rocks are high in iron and other heavier elements: ma-fic, magnesium-iron. Light color igneous rocks are high in aluminum and potassium. . You need to understand one of the fundamental differences between mafic and felsic rocks. Mafic rocks contain larger amounts of Mg and Fe than felsic rocks. The atomic weights of Mg and Fe are higher than Al, Si, and O, therefore they tend to be heavier. Very simple concept.
Very dark igneous rocks commonly a large fraction of minerals with iron as a major constituent. As those minerals are denser than most other silicate minerals occuring in igneous rocks, dark colored igenous rocks are usually denser than the ligher ones. A light colored igneous rock is more less dense and more felsic (which means the rock is mostly rich in silicon and aluminum). A dark colored igneous rock is more dense and ma … fic (which means the rocks are rich in iron and magnesium. 2 people found this useful. Paul Jones. 112,553 Contributions.
Black sand can be seen as a layer on top of silica sand in regions with high wave energy, on the flanks of volcanoes, and in areas where most of the source rock is mafic, or dark-colored and poor in silica. It can be composed of a number of different dark minerals-most are iron-rich and heavier than silica sand. 
Basalt and granite actually have quite a bit in common. Both are igneous rocks, which means that they cooled from a magma (the earth gets very hot just below the surface, and there is lots of liquid rock available). Both are made up of minerals from the silicate group, so both have large amounts of silicon and oxygen. Granite is intrusive, which means that the magma was trapped deep in the crust, and probably took a very long time to cool down enough to crystallize into solid rock. This allows the minerals which form plenty of time to grow, and results in a coarse-textured rock in which individual mineral grains are easily visible.
On the other hand an Intrusive igneous rock cools very slowly beneath the surface and is created by magma. Since the cooling process is very slow intrusive igneous rocks have very large crystals (coarse grained). In some instances there is also a third type of igneous rock. Technically it is an extrusive rock, but it resembles glass. This glass type of igneous rock forms when magma/lava is instantly cooled. An Igneous rock is the product of cooled solidified magma/lava. As magma/lava cools it goes through the process of crystallization which turns it into an igneous rock. The amount of time it takes for an igneous rock to form depends on its location and its composition.
Answer by Paul Jones. Confidence votes 68.1K. Rockhound. Mafic and ultramafic magmas are high in dark, heavy minerals like pyroxene, amphibole, and olivine, which contribute to an igneous rock being dark in color with a higher specific gravity than felsic and intermediate magmas and rocks. 
Among other characteristics, mafic minerals and rocks are generally dark in color and high in specific gravity. This is in large part due to the amount of iron, magnesium, and several other relatively heavy elements which contaminate the silica and oxygen. Granite is intrusive, which means that the magma was trapped deep in the crust, and probably took a very long time to cool down enough to crystallize into solid rock. This allows the minerals which form plenty of time to grow, and results in a coarse-textured rock in which individual mineral grains are easily visible.