Their focus was, and remains, to promote stability in the markets and, most importantly, to protect investors. FINRA is the largest self-regulatory organization (SRO) in the securities industry in the United States. An SRO is a membership-based organization that creates and enforces rules for members based on the federal securities laws. SROs, which are overseen by the SEC, are the front line in regulating broker-dealers. 
FINRA is appointed by the SEC to oversee broker-dealer regulation but the SEC still holds the ultimate regulatory authority. Presently, FINRA does not regulate investment adviser firms as all registered investment adviser firms are currently regulated by the SEC or relevant state(s). Over the last few years, FINRA has expressed a desire to become a self regulatory organization for RIA firms. While FINRA does not regulate RIAs, it does administer the online application and filing system for the registration of investment advisory firms and individual investment adviser representatives.
FINRA oversees the people and firms that sell stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other securities. Simply type in your current or prospective broker’s name to see employment history, certifications, and licenses—as well as regulatory actions, violations or complaints you might want to know about. 
Overview [edit]. FINRA is a self-regulatory organization that promulgates rules that govern broker-dealers and certain other professionals in the securities industry. It was formed by the merger of the enforcement divisions of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and the New York Stock Exchange. 
FINRA. FINRA, the acronym of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, is the largest self-regulatory organization (SRO) in the United States. It writes and enforces rules governing the securities industry as well as enforcing federal securities laws. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. A self-regulatory organization that assists the SEC in regulating financial markets, notably exchanges and companies that deal with securities. Among other duties, FINRA enforces rules, arbitrates disputes, and provides training and licensing services.
FINRA regulates trading in equities, corporate bonds, securities futures, and options. All firms dealing in securities that are not regulated by another SRO, such as by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), are required to be member firms of the FINRA. In July 2007, the SEC approved the formation of a new SRO to be a successor to NASD. The NASD and the member regulation, enforcement and arbitration functions of the New York Stock Exchange were then consolidated into the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).
FINRA is appointed by the SEC to oversee broker-dealer regulation but the SEC still holds the ultimate regulatory authority. Presently, FINRA does not regulate investment adviser firms as all registered investment adviser firms are currently regulated by the SEC or relevant state(s). Over the last few years, FINRA has expressed a desire to become a self regulatory organization for RIA firms. While FINRA does not regulate RIAs, it does administer the online application and filing system for the registration of investment advisory firms and individual investment adviser representatives.
DEFINITION of 'Financial Industry Regulatory Authority-FINRA'. A regulatory body created after the merger of the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York Stock Exchange's regulation committee. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is responsible for governing business between brokers, dealers and the investing public. By consolidating these two regulators, FINRA aims to eliminate regulatory overlap and cost inefficiencies.
A hybrid RIA firm may find itself regulated by both FINRA and the SEC (or relevant states) given that individuals at the firm may be serving as investment adviser representatives of the advisory firm while simultaneously serving as a registered representative of a broker dealer firm. While FINRA does not regulate RIAs, it does administer the online application and filing system for the registration of investment advisory firms and individual investment adviser representatives.
Overview [edit]. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is the largest independent regulator for all securities firms doing business in the United States. FINRA's mission is to protect investors by making sure the United States securities industry operates fairly and honestly. In July 2007, the SEC approved the formation of a new SRO to be a successor to NASD. The NASD and the member regulation, enforcement and arbitration functions of the New York Stock Exchange were then consolidated into the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).