From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Phenazopyridine is a chemical which, when excreted into the urine, has a local analgesic effect. It is often used to alleviate the pain, irritation, discomfort, or urgency caused by urinary tract infections, surgery, or injury to the urinary tract. Phenazopyridine was discovered by Bernhard Joos, the founder of Cilag. It is sometimes used in conjunction with an antibiotic or other anti-infective medication at the beginning of treatment to help provide immediate symptomatic relief. Phenazopyridine does not treat infections or injury, it is only used for symptom relief.
INDICATIONS. Pyridium® (phenazopyridine) is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain, burning, urgency, frequency and other discomforts arising from irritation of the lower urinary tract mucosa caused by infection, trauma, surgery, endoscopic procedures, or the passage of sounds or catheters. 100 mg tablets: Adult dosage is two tablets 3 times a day after meals. 200 mg tablets: Adult dosage is one tablet 3 times a day after meals. When used concomitantly with an antibacterial agent for the treatment of a urinary tract infection, the administration of Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride should not exceed 2 days.
Phenazopyridine is used to relieve the pain, burning, and discomfort caused by infection or irritation of the urinary tract. It is not an antibiotic and will not cure the infection itself. In the U.S., phenazopyridine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
CHEMICAL NAME. PHENAZOPYRIDINE. INDICATIONS. Phenazopyridine HCL is a urinary tract analgesic used to relieve pain, burning, and other discomfort caused by infection or irritation of the lower urinary tract. It may also be used to treat other conditions as determined by your doctor. Phenazopyridine hcl 100 mg tablets, each. Click for Alternatives. By PHENAZOPYRIDINE. Generic Pyridium Tablets-Phenazopyridine is used to relieve pain, burning and discomfort of the urinary tract.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Pyridium® (phenazopyridine hydrochloride) is chemically designated 2,6-Pyridinediamine, 3-(phenylazo), monohydrochloride. It is a urinary tract analgesic agent for oral administration. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride tablets contain 100 mg or 200 mg Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride. Stop using phenazopyridine and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  pale skin, fever, confusion or weakness; 2  jaundice (yellowing of your skin or eyes); 3  urinating less than usual or not at all; 4  drowsiness, confusion, mood changes, increased thirst, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting; 5  swelling, weight gain, ....
phenazopyridine hydrochloride. [fen′əzōpī′ridēn]. a urinary tract analgesic. indications It is prescribed to reduce the pain of cystitis or other urinary tract infections or to relieve the pain following clinical procedures of the urinary tract.
Side Effects. Headache, dizziness, or stomach upset may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly. If your doctor has directed you to use this medication, remember that he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Uses. This medication is used to relieve symptoms caused by irritation of the urinary tract such as pain, burning, and the feeling of needing to urinate urgently or frequently. This drug does not treat the cause of the urinary irritation, but it can help relieve the symptoms while other treatments take effect. Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.