That’s pretty straightforward when it comes to eating vegan. Animal products like meat, dairy, honey, and eggs are out. Plant-based foods like fruits, veggies, beans, and whole grains are in. Easy peasy. If you’re looking for vegan makeup, though, things can get a little bit dicey.
Animal Ingredients and Their Alternatives. Adopting a vegan diet means saying “no” to cruelty to animals and environmental destruction and “yes” to compassion and good health. It also means paying attention to the ingredients in your food, cosmetics, and other products. On the ingredients list below, the vegan alternatives were selected and used to formulate DeVita Natural Skin Care System skin care products and Absolute Minerals Color Cosmetics. PETA’s list of animal ingredients and their alternatives helps consumers avoid animal ingredients in food, cosmetics, and other products.
Vegans may mean well when they buy organic products, but this dubious designation should be better scrutinized to discover how it undermines and cashes in on the vegan cause. What’s needed are rational decisions and sound scientific policy, not mythical “natural” appeals of faith-based agriculture such as organic. 
Veganism is a type of vegetarian diet that excludes meat, eggs, dairy products and all other animal-derived ingredients. Many vegans also do not eat foods that are processed using animal products, such as refined white sugar and some wines. Vegan refers to either a person who follows this way of eating, or to the diet itself. That is, the word vegan can be an adjective used to describe a food item, as in, This curry is vegan  , or, it can be used as a noun, as in,  Vegans like cookies, too.. See also: 1  Types of Vegetarians. 2  Easy Vegan Recipes.
The word vegan refers to a food or material free from any animal products: no meat, milk, eggs, honey, wool, goose down, or leather. If it involves animal ingredients or exploitation, it's not vegan. We should all consider carefully what our Group, and our magazine, and ourselves, shall be called. ‘Non-dairy’ has become established as a generally understood colloquialism, but like ‘non-lacto’ it is too negative.
The other issue to keep in mind when you’re on the hunt for vegan makeup is animal testing. Even if your product is totally plant-based, if the company tests it on animals, it’s not a vegan product. Vegan products – whether we’re talking snacks or vegan makeup – do not harm animal directly or indirectly in any way. Animal products like meat, dairy, honey, and eggs are out. Plant-based foods like fruits, veggies, beans, and whole grains are in. Easy peasy. If you’re looking for vegan makeup, though, things can get a little bit dicey.
This is the ONLY label used for products that are made with 100% GMO-free and 100% organic ingredients. If a product is labeled “100% organic”, then all the ingredients including even salt must be organic and non-GMO. A product is USDA certified organic, if 95% of its ingredients (by weight) are organic. The remaining 5% could have synthetic additives and preservatives but it’s among substances that are approved by USDA. Here are the lists of substances that are allowed or banned in USDA list. However, be aware that non-GMO project label doesn’t mean that the product is organic whereas USDA certified organic means that up to 95% of the ingredients in the product are both organic and GMO free.
Veganism is both the practice of abstaining from the use of animal products, particularly in diet, and an associated philosophy that rejects the commodity status of animals. A follower of veganism is known as a vegan. Distinctions are sometimes made between several categories of veganism. Dietary vegans (or strict vegetarians) refrain from consuming animal products, not only meat but also eggs, dairy products and other animal-derived substances; this is known as a vegan or entirely plant-based diet.
This means that up to 70% of the ingredients in the product are organic. However, these products cannot use USDA Certified Organic label and are NOT usually non-GMO. In other words, they do most certainly contain some GMO ingredients. However, be aware that non-GMO project label doesn’t mean that the product is organic whereas USDA certified organic means that up to 95% of the ingredients in the product are both organic and GMO free.