Bacterial and viral infections can cause similar symptoms such as coughing and sneezing, fever, inflammation, vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue, and cramping -- all of which are ways the immune system tries to rid the body of infectious organisms. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex.
Common signs of viral infections caused by these viruses can include a runny or stuffy nose, headaches, body aches, chills, nausea, problems breathing, a wheezing in your chest, coughing, muscle spasms, and other general viral symptoms. Gastroenteritis is one type of viral infection that can have symptoms ranging from mild to severe. These infections can be caused by a number of viruses, and if the symptoms are severe you should seek medical treatment.
Types of viral infections. Probably the most common viral infections are. Respiratory infections: Infections of the nose, throat, upper airways, and lungs. The most common respiratory infections are upper respiratory infections, which include sore throat, sinusitis, and the common cold.
Other common causes of viral infections can include the common cold, the flu, and viral pneumonia. Many viruses can cause symptoms which appear in the upper or lower respiratory tract, or both. Gastroenteritis is one type of viral infection that can have symptoms ranging from mild to severe. These infections can be caused by a number of viruses, and if the symptoms are severe you should seek medical treatment.
Types of Viral Infections. Viruses can affect any part of the body or body system, and can cause infections such as the common cold, flu, gastroenteritis, chicken pox or herpes. The most common type of viral infections involves the respiratory tract. A viral infection is any type of infection that is caused by a virus, which is even smaller than bacteria and is encapsulated by a protective coating, so it is more difficult to kill than bacteria. Viral infections involve a dormant virus getting into a living cell and re-writing the cell's genetic codes with its own.
Probably the most common viral infection is the sinus infection, which produces sinusitis symptoms. Throat infections, ear infections, and respiratory infections are all caused by the cold virus. These infections include sore throat, the common cold and influenza, commonly known as the flu. A viral infection is caused by exposure to viruses. Viruses are disease causing organisms that can invade the body and attach themselves to your cells. As they begin to mutate and reproduces themselves, their major function is to stop the cells from functioning properly.
Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 3  Contact with contaminated surfaces, food, and water
Viruses usually infect a specific type of cell, which causes viral infections to affect certain parts of the body. A cold is the most common type and generally affects the upper respiratory tract. Influenza is another common infection, but symptoms can affect the entire body. Ad. Urinary tract infections are common bacterial infections that can be treated with antibiotics. Thorough hand washing can help prevent infections. Some infections require antibiotic therapy. Fungus is a common cause of infections, such as ringworm.
Viral diseases are extremely widespread infections caused by viruses, a type of microorganism. There are many types of viruses that cause a wide variety of viral diseases. The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosi
A viral infection can be caused by any of the thousands of viruses that can cause symptoms and infections in humans. The specific strain of virus that is causing the infection, your health and immunities, and other factors can help determine how serious the viral infection is and how to treat you. Gastroenteritis is one type of viral infection that can have symptoms ranging from mild to severe. These infections can be caused by a number of viruses, and if the symptoms are severe you should seek medical treatment.