Symbolism is the use of symbols to signify ideas and qualities by giving them symbolic meanings that are different from their literal sense. Symbolism can take different forms. Generally, it is an object representing another to give it an entirely different meaning that is much deeper and more significant. Sometimes, however, an action, an event or a word spoken by someone may have a symbolic value. Common Examples of Symbolism in Everyday Life. In our daily life, we can easily identify objects, which can be taken as examples of symbol such as the following: 1  The dove is a symbol of peace. 2  A red rose or red color stands for love or romance. 3  Black is a symbol that represents evil or death
1 The dove is a symbol of peace. 2  A red rose or red color stands for love or romance. 3  Black is a symbol that represents evil or death. 4  A ladder may stand as a symbol for a connection between the heaven and the earth. Common Examples of Symbolism in Everyday Life. In our daily life, we can easily identify objects, which can be taken as examples of symbol such as the following: 1  The dove is a symbol of peace. 2  A red rose or red color stands for love or romance. 3  Black is a symbol that represents evil or dea
A country can have more than one symbol. For instance, an eagle is a symbol of the U.S., and the maple leaf is a symbol of Canada. A c … ross is the symbol of Christianity, and a Star of David is the symbol of Judaism. An arrow is a symbol of direction or movement. A shining sun is sometimes used as a symbol of happiness. A heart is a symbol of love. In symbolism, a word is more powerful than a picture. For example, the name Rome conjures up associations of empire and history that a picture of the city itself does not. A photograph of the Eiffel tower may represent Paris, but the name Paris represents cosmopolitanism, cuisine, love, and much mor
A red octagon symbolizes stop even without the word. A symbol is an object or a concept that represents, stands for or suggests another idea, visual image, belief, action or material entity. Symbols take the form of words, sounds, gestures, ideas or visual images and are used to convey other ideas and beliefs. For example, a red octagon may be a symbol for STOP
In the broadest sense of the term, all words are symbols. (See also sign .) In a literary sense, says William Harmon, a symbol combines a literal and sensuous quality with an abstract or suggestive aspect (A Handbook to Literature, 2006). In language studies, symbol is sometimes used as another term for logograph. See Examples and Observations below. 1 Although symbolism works by the power of suggestion, a symbol is not the same as a meaning or a moral. 2  A symbol cannot be an abstraction. 3  Rather, a symbol is the thing that points to the abstraction. 4  In Poe's 'The Raven,' death isn't the symbol; the bird is.
noun. The Jack o'lantern is a symbol of Halloween. The Jack o'lantern is a symbol of Halloween. The definition of a symbol is something that stands for or represents something else. An example of symbol is a jack o' lantern representing Halloween. 
A flag is a symbol of a country. A country can have more than one symbol. For instance, an eagle is a symbol of the U.S., and the maple leaf is a symbol of Canada. A cross is the symbol of Christianity, and a Star of David is the symbol of Judaism. An arrow is a symbol of direction or movement. A shining sun is sometimes used as a symbol of happiness. A heart is a symbol of love. 