Saltillo tiles create a rustic, old-world aesthetic for indoor and outdoor settings. Sometimes known as “Mexican tile” due to the fact they originate in the eponymous town of Saltillo in Coahuila, Mexico, Saltillo tile is a clay-based type of tile that can be used in both indoor and outdoor settings.
Quality Saltillo tile when properly sealed is the most “kick-around” floor in the world…it acts just like a floor should. Ask about our sealer-it works and there are many that don’t. Remember, you don’t maintain your tile; you maintain your sealer and topcoat. Following is information about Saltillo tile, which we feel should be provided to you so that you will know exactly what you are buying and/or selling. Saltillo tile is one of our specialties at Mexican Tile and Stone Company.
Since Saltillo Tile and Terra Cotta tiles have no glaze on the surface of the tile, it creates a highly porous and delicate material. Saltillo Tiles and Terra Cotta are quite prone to staining and water ingress and therefore should be sealed for protection. To maintain the breathability, look, and slip resistance of a Saltillo Tile or Terra Cotta it is extremely important to use a high quality invisible impregnating sealer.
Saltillo tile is named for the town in Mexico where it is made. The tile has been made using the same methods that were brought from Spain hundreds of years age. The area around Saltillo has the proper mix of clay, climate and dedicated workers to produce one of the world's most popular tiles. SALTILLO TILE. Myths and misinformation abound about these centuries old terra-cotta pavers made only in Northern Mexico. Many people mistakenly believe that these natural clay tiles are merely sun dried, although sun drying is indeed one step in its production, Saltillo tiles are kiln fired.
Saltillo. Saltillo tile is a handmade variety developed from clay found in riverbeds in Mexico. The tiles, no two of which are the same, are kiln fired to produce a durable floor tile. They are good for use indoors and in some outdoor environments, depending upon the climate. 
Authentic Saltillo tile is made in only one place in the world: Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico. These tiles are unglazed clay floor tiles that local artisans make from the natural clay that surrounds the area. There are several methods of making the clay tiles and different quality levels of tiles. 
It is one of the two most famous products of the city, the other being multi-coloured woven sarapes so typical of the region. Saltillo-type tiles are now manufactured at many places in Mexico, and high-fire Saltillo look tiles, many from Italy, compete with the terra-cotta originals. Saltillo tile vary in colour and shape, but the majority range from in varying hues of reds, oranges and yellows. Depending on the raw tile's placement among other tiles at the time of firing, its colour ranges from yellow to a rich orange. Saltillo tile is highly porous, and soaks in liquid easily. Unlike most ceramic tile, there is no glaze on the top surface of the tile.
Saltillo tile is an unglazed clay floor tile made in Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico. The tile is made from natural clay deposits from that region which is one of the finest natural clay deposits in the world. Briefly, this is the manufacturing process: Clay is excavated from the earth, cleaned and sifted. Following is information about Saltillo tile, which we feel should be provided to you so that you will know exactly what you are buying and/or selling. Saltillo tile is one of our specialties at Mexican Tile and Stone Company.