Peer pressure is influence on a peer group, observers or individual exerts that encourages others to change their attitudes, values, or behaviors to conform to groups. Even though the peer pressure process begins and ends with one in a (conflict-less) state of harmony, as a result of conflict and the conflict resolution process, one leaves with a new identity—a new set of internalized standards.
Peer pressure is a term describing the pressure exerted by a peer group in encouraging a person to change their attitude, behavior and/or morals, to conform to, for example, the group's actions, fashion sense, taste in music and television, or outlook on life. Positive peer pressure is when someone tries to help you change something about yourself for the better, and negative peer pressure is the opposite. It can also be used to pressure someone into having sex without a condom. For popularity, drugs, money, etc.
Peers become an important influence on behavior during adolescence, and peer pressure has been called a hallmark of adolescent experience. Peer conformity in young people is most pronounced with respect to style, taste, appearance, ideology, and values. Even though the peer pressure process begins and ends with one in a (conflict-less) state of harmony, as a result of conflict and the conflict resolution process, one leaves with a new identity—a new set of internalized standards.
Brett Laursen: Before we tackle that question, I think it's important to define peer pressure. If we define peer-pressure as essentially, influence, then I think we can see that peer pressure begins very early on. But, it's not often the way that parents and adults think of it. You have explicit peer pressure and you have implicit peer pressure. 
1 \n \n25.\n \n“its good, people think peer pressure only leads to bad things but ur friends can influence you to be a good person, its actually not the peer pressure thats bad, it the friends you hang out with. 1 By having our peers and friends pressuring us in different directions hinders the choices we make”. \ 2 n \n25.\n \n“its good, people think peer pressure only leads to bad things but ur friends can influence you to be a good person, its actually not the peer pressure thats bad, it the friends you hang out with.
Social groups affected include membership groups, in which individuals are formally members (such as political parties and trade unions), or social cliques in which membership is not clearly defined. A person affected by peer pressure may or may not want to belong to these groups. They may also recognise dissociative groups with which they would not wish to associate, and thus they behave adversely concerning that group's behaviors. Even though the peer pressure process begins and ends with one in a (conflict-less) state of harmony, as a result of conflict and the conflict resolution process, one leaves with a new identity—a new set of internalized standards.
Internalisation (or internalization) in sociology and other social sciences is the process of acceptance of a set of norms and values established by people or groups which are influential to the individual through the process of socialisation. Through internalisation individuals accept a set of norms and values that are established by other individuals, groups, or society as a whole. Lev Vygotsky, a pioneer of psychological studies, introduced the idea of internalisation in his extensive studies of child development research.
1 You can aswell have friend that like to party and drink, however they do very well in skwl! 2  These friends may influence you to party and drink, but in the end, they also influence you to do well in skwl. 3  So really, peer pressure isnt something we can get rid of so we may as well deal with it. 1 By having our peers and friends pressuring us in different directions hinders the choices we make”. \ 2 n \n25.\n \n“its good, people think peer pressure only leads to bad things but ur friends can influence you to be a good person, its actually not the peer pressure thats bad, it the friends you hang out with.
[noncount]. : a feeling that you must do the same things as other people of your age and social group in order to be liked or respected by them. She started drinking in high school because of peer pressure. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 