Round Tip Steak: A steak cut from the untrimmed round tip roast. Rump Roast: Cut from the bottom round. When the bone is left in, it is called a standing rump roast. Top Round Roast: A lean and fairly tender cut as compared to the other cuts from the round. Eye Round Roast/Steak or Eye of the Round: A boneless roast that looks like tenderloin, but it is much tougher. Used as a roast or cut into steaks. Steaks cut from the roast are used in stews or processed into cube steak.
Suitable for both dry and moist cookery. Ideal to roast or rotisserie, pot roast, marinate or grill, or stir-fry. Great when enhanced with value-added marinades, sauces, accompaniment and side dishes. Cook to recommended internal temperatures: Rare (140°F), Med. 
1 Place beef round roast in slow cooker, then add carrots, onion, and celery. 2  Season with garlic powder and black pepper. 3  Pour Worcestershire and barbeque sauce over meat and vegetables. 4  Cook on Low until the meat is tender, 6 to 8 hours. 
The round is the rear leg of the cow. A frequently used muscle, the meat from this area is lean but tough. Bottom Round: One area is tougher than the other, and it's usually divided into two smaller cuts -- bottom round roast and rump roast (the end that comes to a point). Bottom Round Roast: Roasts from the bottom round. A bit tough and best suited as corned beef or pot roast. This is called beef silverside in the UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand. Eye Round Roast/Steak or Eye of the Round: A boneless roast that looks like tenderloin, but it is much tougher. Used as a roast or cut into steaks. Steaks cut from the roast are used in stews or processed into cube steak.
Seasoning. Before you cook your inside round, season the meat to bring out additional flavor. If you're a purist, just rub a little salt and pepper on the meat. For more flavor, try using onion powder, garlic powder, dried oregano or soy sauce. If you have fresh garlic, rub cut cloves on the meat. With just 153 calories and 4.2 grams of fat in a 3-ounce serving, this type of meat is among the leaner cuts, allowing you to enjoy the benefits of red meat without the excess. Depending on the thickness of the cut, you can either quickly sear or slow roast an inside round with just a few seasonings and spices.
Top round steak. Carnivore Locavore / Flickr. Top round one of the major subprimals of the beef round primal cut. Beef round is a large primal cut consisting of well-exercised muscles from the leg and rump of the animal. But the top round (also called inside round, because it comes from the inside of the leg), is actually a good cut of meat for roasting, as long as it's done slowly at a low temperature. Cooking it this way ensures that it comes out medium rare, thus preserving what little tenderness the top round has to begin with.
Cut Description. 1  Separated from the knuckle and bottom round, the Inside Round is the inside portion of the round primal, with all bones, cartilages and exposed lymph glands removed. 
A beef roast cut from the top round muscle, which is the inside muscle of the upper portion of the rear leg. It is one of the better cuts from the round primal in terms of flavor. Pot-roasting is still the recommended cooking method for a top round roast, because it can be a bit chewy if cooked with dry heat methods.
An inside round, also called a top round, is an affordable cut of beef with plenty of juiciness and flavor. With just 153 calories and 4.2 grams of fat in a 3-ounce serving, this type of meat is among the leaner cuts, allowing you to enjoy the benefits of red meat without the excess. Depending on the thickness of the cut, you can either quickly sear or slow roast an inside round with just a few seasonings and spices.