Slime molds and algae are protists. Sometimes they are called the odds and ends kingdom because its members are so different from one another. Protists include all microscopic organisms that are not bacteria, not animals, not plants and not fungi. Most protists are unicellular. You may be wondering why those protists are not classified in the Archaebacteria or Eubacteria kingdoms. It is because, unlike bacteria, protists are complex cells. Plants are all multicellular and consist of complex cells. In addition plants are autotrophs, organisms that make their own food. With over 250,000 species, the plant kingdom is the second largest kingdom. Plant species range from the tiny green mosses to giant trees.
The taxonomic kingdom Protista is a collection of single-celled organisms that do not fit into any other category. Protists are a group made up of protozoa, unicellular algae, and slime molds. We will concentrate on the animal portion of this group: the protozoa (proto = first, zoa = animals). Protozoa are the oldest known group of heterotrophic life that consume and transform complex food particles into energ
In all biological taxonomy schemes, protists (/ˈproʊtɨst/) were a large group of diverse eukaryotic microorganisms, mainly unicellular animals and plants, that do not form tissues. Formerly, these were assigned to the now-obsolete kingdom Protista. Some protists reproduce sexually using gametes, while others reproduce asexually by binary fission. Some species, for example Plasmodium falciparum, have extremely complex life cycles that involve multiple forms of the organism, some of which reproduce sexually and others asexually.
Morphology (Structures). All five groups of protozoans include some sessile species but most are swimmers. Ciliates use their many tiny cilia, in controlled waves, to propel themselves through the water. Flagellates have a single posterior flagella that pushes them forward in much the same way as a motor boat uses its propeller. Protists are a group made up of protozoa, unicellular algae, and slime molds. We will concentrate on the animal portion of this group: the protozoa (proto = first, zoa = animals).
Other protists include pathogenic species such as the kinetoplastid Trypanosoma brucei, which causes sleeping sickness and species of the apicomplexan Plasmodium which cause malaria. Some protists reproduce sexually using gametes, while others reproduce asexually by binary fission. Some species, for example Plasmodium falciparum, have extremely complex life cycles that involve multiple forms of the organism, some of which reproduce sexually and others asexually.
Some protists are significant parasites of animals (e.g., five species of the parasitic genus Plasmodium cause malaria in humans and many others cause similar diseases in other vertebrates), plants (the oomycete Phytophthora infestans causes late blight in potatoes) or even of other protists. Some protists reproduce sexually using gametes, while others reproduce asexually by binary fission. Some species, for example Plasmodium falciparum, have extremely complex life cycles that involve multiple forms of the organism, some of which reproduce sexually and others asexually.
Definition. noun. Any of a group of eukaryotic organisms belonging to the Kingdom Protista. Supplement. Protists do not have much in common apart from a relatively simple organization. They may occur as unicellular, multicellular, coenocytic, or colonial organisms. Protists include: (1) protozoa, the animal-like protists, (2) algae, the plant-like protists, and (3) slime moulds and water moulds, the fungus-like protists. Word origin: Greek protiston-a meaning the (most) first of all ones. 
Protists include all eukaryotes except the clades Planta, Animalia and Fungi. Since all of these organisms are presumed to share a common ancestor, protists as a group would not include all of its descendents thereby making the grouping paraphyletic. All eukaryotic unicellular and multicellular organisms that are not included in Kingdom Planta, Kingdom Animalia, Kingdom Fungi; the protist grouping of course excludes Domains Archaea and Bacteria.
2. Some protists are heterotrophs, a group of phyla called the protozoa. Heterotrophs get their energy by consuming other organisms. Protists reproduce asexually by binary fission, and a few species are capable of sexual reproduction. All protists are aquatic. Many protists can move through the water by means of flagella, or cilia, or pseudopodia (= false feet). Cilia and flagella are tiny movable hairs. Motile cells usually have one or two long flagella, or numerous shorter cilia.
“Protists include species traditionally referred to as protozoa and algae, some fungal-like organisms, and many other life forms that do not fit into the old worldview that divided species between plants and animals,” said Professor Sina Adl, from the University of Saskatchewan. 