Find out how many songs you have on your iPhone 5. Category. License. 
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehowtech. Sowing how many gigs are in your iTunes library will show you how much hard drive space your songs take up. Show how many gigs are in your iTunes library with help from an expert who is proficient with all Apple products and able to provide OS/iOS instruction and troubleshooting in this free video clip. 
See how much storage you've used on your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. Follow steps to see how much storage your apps use on your iOS device. If your device is near its capacity or you get an alert that your storage is full, you can remove some of your less used content to make more room.
So continue reading below to learn where you can find count of the different media types on your iPhone 5. Step 1: Touch the Settings icon. Step 2: Touch the General button. Step 3: Select the About option at the top of the screen. Step 4: This screen shows a lot of important information, so scroll down to see if there is anything else that you have been looking for previously, but had been unable to find. Your media counts are shown to the right of the appropriate label in the table. So, for example, you can see that I have 9 songs on my iPhone. Now is a great time to buy a new laptop, as prices have been getting very low. Fortunately there is a way to find this information that doesn’t require you to manually count everything, and you can see how many songs, videos and pictures you have on your device from one screen.
Choosing between the 16GB iPhone for $199, the 32GB iPhone for $299 and the 64GB iPhone for $399 can be a Goldilocks-style conundrum: There's no telling which one will be just right until you actually test all three options, live with a smartphone and discover how much storage you require through trial and error. The quick-and-dirty way to determine how much storage you need for music is to assume that each four-minute song takes up about 4MB, or that 1GB of storage will get you 250 songs. That's not a scientific measurement by any stretch, as many songs can be larger or smaller than 4MB
You can add songs, albums, playlists, and music videos to your library from anywhere in Apple Music. Items you add on one device are also added to your other devices that are signed in to Apple Music. On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  In the Music app, find the song, album, or playlist that you want to add. You can save songs, albums, or playlists to listen to when you're not connected to the Internet.* You must save songs, albums, or playlists on each device that you want to use for offline listening. On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  In the Music app, find the item that you want to save.
iPod Touch and iPhone. Tap Settings on the main screen of your Apple iPod touch or iPhone. Scroll down and tap General.. Tap About then locate the Songs section to view how many songs are on the iPod touch or iPhone. From this menu you can also view the number of videos, photos and applications on the iPod or iPhone. iPod Classic and iPod Nano. Tap Menu at the top of the scroll wheel until you arrive at the main menu of your iPod. Roll your finger around the scroll wheel and select Settings.. Press the center button on the scroll wheel to select it. Scroll down to About using the scroll wheel and press the center button