Puberty is the time of life when a child’s body matures into an adult’s. 1  For girls, puberty can start as early as age 7½ years or as late as age 13. 2  Their breasts begin to develop and their hips get wider. 3  Girls start to grow underarm hair and pubic hair, and have a growth spurt. 1 For girls, puberty can start as early as age 7½ years or as late as age 13. 2  Their breasts begin to develop and their hips get wider. 3  Girls start to grow underarm hair and pubic hair, and have a growth spurt. 4  They start having menstrual periods about 2 to 3 years after their breasts start to develop
Many kids who have early puberty don't need treatment. In those who do, treatment usually works well in halting the process. Here are some basic facts about the causes of early puberty and the ways it might affect your child. 1 These hormones in turn stimulate the testicles or ovaries to make other hormones, testosterone or estrogen. 2  It's these sex hormones that cause the changes of puberty, like breast development in girls. 3  Peripheral precocious puberty or precocious pseudo-puberty is a different condition. 4  It's also rarer.
Precocious puberty means having the signs of puberty (development of breasts, testes, pubic and underarm hair; body odor; menstrual bleeding; and increased growth rate) earlier than usual. Precocious puberty is puberty that starts before age 8 in a girl or 9 in a boy. The normal age range for puberty in girls is 9-16, while in boys it is 13-15. Precocious puberty is more common in girls than boys. In boys, it is much more likely to be caused by an underlying disease. However, American boys are also entering puberty at a younger age than they did just decades ago [1a].
Causes. To understand what causes precocious puberty in some children, it's helpful to know what causes puberty to begin. This process involves the following steps: 1  The brain starts the process. 2  Part of the brain makes a hormone called gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH). Estrogen or testosterone in your child's body causes this type of precocious puberty. The less common peripheral precocious puberty occurs without the involvement of the hormone in your brain (Gn-RH) that normally triggers the start of puberty.
As a guide, puberty usually begins around 10-11 years for girls and around 11-13 years for boys. But it’s normal for the start of puberty to range from 8-13 years in girls and 9-14 years in boys. Every child is different. Genetics, nutrition and social factors all play a role in the onset of puberty. There’s no way of knowing exactly when your child will start puberty.
Puberty starts on average in girls between ages 8 and13 and in boys between ages 9 and 14. Doctors diagnose early puberty when this normal process starts early and continues to progress through growth spurts and bone maturation, usually for reasons we don't understand. 1 These hormones in turn stimulate the testicles or ovaries to make other hormones, testosterone or estrogen. 2  It's these sex hormones that cause the changes of puberty, like breast development in girls. 3  Peripheral precocious puberty or precocious pseudo-puberty is a different condition. 4  It's also rarer.
1 It's these sex hormones that cause the changes of puberty, like breast development in girls. 2  Peripheral precocious puberty or precocious pseudo-puberty is a different condition. 3  It's also rarer. 1 These hormones in turn stimulate the testicles or ovaries to make other hormones, testosterone or estrogen. 2  It's these sex hormones that cause the changes of puberty, like breast development in girls. 3  Peripheral precocious puberty or precocious pseudo-puberty is a different condition. 4  It's also rarer.