Trusted Results with How long does rotisserie chicken last in the fridge. Rotisserie Chicken Jump-starts Snazzy Meals-Allrecipes. Tips when buying rotisserie chicken. ... It's easier to separate while warm, it saves room in the fridge, and you can start your recipe without delay. ... Making Chicken Stock-Allrecipes. A step-by-step tutorial for making chicken stock.
(Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. 
1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6
1sweetpea Apr 20, 2011 11:27 AM. If you take the meat off the bone as soon as you bring it home, I'd say it's good for about 3 days in the fridge. Beyond that, you'll have to do a taste test. If the meat tastes gummy, mushy, rubbery or off in any way, turf it
1 Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 2  Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4 
For dairy foods like milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, cheeses and butter, use the expiration date to determine how long they can safely be kept in your fridge. Many dairy products like milk safely last about two to three weeks. Cheeses and soy milk may last a few months. 1  Keep milk and cream for 1 to 5 days after the sell-by date, according to Clemson University. 2  Leave yogurt in your fridge 7 to 10 days after the sell-by date, notes Clemson University. 
Trusted Results with How long does rotisserie chicken keep in the refrigerator. Making Chicken Stock-Allrecipes. A step-by-step tutorial for making chicken stock. ... *DanaMarie* Recipe Reviewed-Community-Allrecipes. I let them marinate in the pesto for 3 hours in the refrigerator. I cooked them in a pan ... I bought a rotisserie chicken and just used that instead. I also substituted cherry ...
How to Marinate Chicken in the Refrigerator. You can marinate your poultry for up to two days in the refrigerator. If you are going to baste the bird with the marinade as it cooks, boil the marinade first, to avoid cross-contamination. Throw away any unused marinade