It is your responsibility to have conversations with your manager/supervisor to discuss expectations and develop mutually agreeable goals that support and enhance your performance. This process will help you create a “road map” to chart the course for the P erformance E xcellence P rocess, PEP.
Performance expectations for a lower-level employee often define the tasks she needs to accomplish to meet the expectations. If an administrative assistant is expected to assume responsibility for creating presentations, her performance expectations might mention the training classes she needs to attend.
There's a saying that if you don't know where you're going, any road will get you there. For a company to achieve its strategic objectives, it must establish goals and performance expectations for employees to ensure everyone performs the right work to realize those goals.
Introduction. Purpose | How to use this program | The university's expectations regarding performance management | Definition | Objectives | Principles of developing a performance management plan | Supervisor's responsibility | Available resources.
PERFORMANCE EXPECTATION/STANDARDS: Judgment Definition: Demonstrates sound decisions and the ability to complete one’s work when obstacles are encountered. Develops alternative solutions after analyzing facts and makes acceptable recommendations.
PERFORMANCE EXPECTATION/STANDARDS: Acceptance of Responsibility Definition: Demonstrates responsibility or liability for one’s actions; performs with the appropriate level of supervision; accepts responsibility and supervision; and applies themselves to their responsibilities.
Management of performance is important to being a good supervisor and clarification of expectations and performance feedback is also important to those they supervise. Consequently, all supervisors are expected to participate in a performance management program with their staff.
PERFORMANCE EXPECTATION/STANDARDS: Customer Service Definition: Demonstrates professionalism toward fellow employees and customers. One’s actions, attitude, and appearance bring credit to the department and County.