It is subdivided into four separate portions or 'heads', which have received distinctive names: 1  Rectus femoris occupies the middle of the thigh, covering most of the other three quadriceps muscles. 2  It originates on the ilium. 3  It is named from its straight course. 1
The quadriceps muscle group (commonly called the quads) consist of four muscles located on the anterior (front) of your thigh. The muscles are: 1  Vastus Lateralis. 2  Vastus Intermedius. 3  Vastus Medialis. 4  Rectus Femoris. 
1 The vastus medialis is a muscle present in the anterior compartment of thigh, and is one of the four muscles that make up the quadriceps muscle. 2  It is the most medial of the vastus group of muscles, the others being vastus intermedius and vastus lateralis. 1 It is the most medial of the vastus group of muscles, the others being vastus intermedius and vastus lateralis. 2  The vastus medialis arises medially along the entire length of the femur, and attaches with the other muscles of the quadriceps in the quadriceps tendon.
Knee Extensors: The Quadriceps Muscles. The quadriceps muscle is a group of four muscles located in the anterior thigh on both sides of the body. Their names are: 1) Vastus Rectus (a.k.a. Rectus Femoris), 2) Vastus Medialis, 3) Vastus Lateralis, and 4) Vastus Intermedialis. These muscles are shown in Figure 1 below:
Not to be confused with quadratus femoris. The quadriceps femoris (/ˈkwɒdrɨsɛps ˈfɛmərɨs/) (Latin for four-headed muscle of the femur ), also called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, or quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh. 1 Rectus femoris occupies the middle of the thigh, covering most of the other three quadriceps muscles. 2  It originates on the ilium. 3  It is named from its straight course.
Quadriceps. Quadriceps, 4.3 out of 5 based on 5 ratings. The Quadriceps Femurs which derives it’s name from the Latin, meaning four headed muscle of the femur can be subdivided into four muscles or heads. These are the Vastus Intermedius, the Vastus Lateralis, the Vastus medialis and the Rectus Femoris. 1 The Rectus Femoris muscle is the fourth muscle making up the Quadraceps occupying the middle of the thigh covering most of the other three muscles making up the quadriceps. 2  It has two tendons with origin attachment points from the anterior inferior iliac spine as well as from just above the Acetabulum.
Quadriceps femoris. The quadriceps femoris is a group of muscles located in the front of the thigh. The Latin translation of quadriceps is four headed, as the group contains four separate muscles: the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, vastus intermedius, and the rectus femoris.