Download article as a PDF. A subpoena (pronounced suh-pee-nuh) is a request for the production of documents, or a request to appear in court or other legal proceeding. Conclusion. Subpoenas are formal legal documents that should be taken seriously. A person who receives a request for the production of documents or a request to appear in court should take the necessary steps to comply with the demand sought.
Generally, a request for production asks the responding party to. make available the original documents, but a requesting party may permit photocopies. of the requested documents be sent instead, if inspection of the original document is not. necessary. Requests for production can also be used to test, measure, photograph, etc., physical evidence in the other party’s possession or control. Instead, you must write your own requests on pleading paper. A sample is at the end of this Guide. You may download a customizable template for your requests from the link listed above. You will need to select a date and location for the production of documents and/or things. This date must be at least 30 days after service of your request (35 days, if served by mail within California)
Other common requests made in a request for production of documents include: 1  Copies of any bills for medical care or repair of damaged property. 2  Contact information for every expert whose testimony the party may use at trial. 3  Copies of the resume or curriculum vitae (CV) of each of these experts. To ensure that only the appropriate information is given to the other party and that it is turned over on time, attorneys usually review the documents their clients provide in response to a request for production of documents before forwarding them to the party making the request.
When a party is served with a request for the production of documents, she is obligated by law to find all of the documents enumerated in the request and turn those documents over to the other party unless the documents qualify for an exception. To ensure that only the appropriate information is given to the other party and that it is turned over on time, attorneys usually review the documents their clients provide in response to a request for production of documents before forwarding them to the party making the request.
A request for production of documents in a medical malpractice case may ask for information about the physician’s or hospital’s credentials. Some requests, like the request for any documents referred to in the interrogatories, apply to almost every personal injury case, regardless of what happened. To ensure that only the appropriate information is given to the other party and that it is turned over on time, attorneys usually review the documents their clients provide in response to a request for production of documents before forwarding them to the party making the request.
A request for production is a legal request for documents, electronically stored information, or other tangible items. In civil procedure, during the discovery phase of litigation, a party to a lawsuit may request that another party provide any documents that it has that pertain to the subject matter of the lawsuit. For example, a party in a court case may obtain copies of e-mail messages sent by employees of the opposing party.