The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an  e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated  e-filed returns may take around 21 days … for processing. 2 people found this useful. 1 About 4-5 business days. 2  I filed my State Tax Returns through TurboTax E-File. 3  Federal direct deposit takes about 8 days but state returns can vary from a week to over a month. 4  I'm a Massachusetts resident and it has been close to 30 days and i still have not received the direct deposit
Electronic filing: You should have your refund within sixty days. Paper return: It can take up to ninety days to process your return and refund. All refund checks and direct deposits are issued by the State Department of Finance. Certain situations may slow down the issuing of your refund. Common problems and solutions are: 1  New address – If your check was mailed to an old address, the post office will return it to the State Department of Finance. 2  Contact the State Tax Commission (801-297-2200 or 1-800-662-4335) to get the refund check number.
Best Answer: Here is the website to check on your Michigan state tax refund. http://www.michigan.gov/taxes/0,1607,7-2... Laura H – H&R Block – Senior Tax Advisor 5 **This advice was prepared based on our understanding of the tax law in effect at the time it was written as it applies to the facts that you provided. 
The IRS eliminated the refund schedules that were used in prior years for both direct deposit and mailed refunds. The guideline the IRS is using in 2015 for filing your 2014 tax return is: Don’t count on getting your refund by a certain date to make major purchases or pay other financial obligations. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. Tax Refund Direct Deposit versus Mail. If you want to get your refund faster, opt for the direct deposit route. Not only will the IRS send your money earlier via direct deposit, but you’ll cut down on the mailing time too.
For anyone wanting to check the status of their tax refund, simply go to the IRS's Where's my refund webpage where you'll find an easy to use tool to request the information. If you would rather check the refund status by phone, you may call 1-800-829-1954. The IRS asks that you wait 3 days after filing electronically, or 3 weeks after mailing a return before checking for a status update. Filing a return through the mail is, of course, the slower of the two processes. For those who mail their federal return, the IRS will remit a tax refund within six weeks after they have been received the completed return. If you file electronically, you should receive your tax refund within three weeks. The IRS allows two options for receiving a federal tax refund: paper check sent via the mail, or an electronic funds transfer (also called a direct deposit). The direct deposit method, not surprisingly, is always the quicker option
1 New address – If your check was mailed to an old address, the post office will return it to the State Department of Finance. 2  Contact the State Tax Commission (801-297-2200 or 1-800-662-4335) to get the refund check number. Certain situations may slow down the issuing of your refund. Common problems and solutions are: 1 
Re: how long does it take to get your refund back if you have it deposit to your checking account. ‎04-13-2014 02:10 PM. It takes around 21 days for acceptance, processing of the return, and processing of the refund. If you are having it direct deposit, it may take another few days for it to clear your bank (depending on your bank). I am a CSP for H&R Block (not a Tax Professional). Any advice I give is meant to guide to the answer.
1 You owe other federal or state debts – We may apply your refund to any outstanding federal or state debt. 2  If you did not receive your refund, contact the State Tax Commission (801-297-2200 or 1-800-662-4335) to get the refund check number. 3  The Tax Commission does not have record of refunds applied to other debts. Certain situations may slow down the issuing of your refund. Common problems and solutions are: 1  New address – If your check was mailed to an old address, the post office will return it to the State Department of Finance. 2  C