Convection ovens cook just like conventional ovens (electric coils or natural gas heat), except the air inside is blown around by a fan. This evenly distributes the heat, which means there are no hot spots. In other words, it is as hot near the top of the oven as it is near the bottom.
1 Roasting the turkey on a rack in a shallow pan with the legs swinging free. 2  Cooking the turkey in the Convection Roast mode at 400 degrees for 20 minutes then reducing the temperature to 350 degrees/375 for large capacity ovens, for the remainder of the cooking time.
1 When following a recipe designed for a conventional oven, heat the convection oven to a temperature 25°F lower than the recipe suggests. 2  Expect food to be done in less time (as much as 25% less) than it would be in a conventional oven, even with the 25°F reduction.
Lower the temperature for a convection oven. Because the air circulates around the food, the temperature should be lowered from a traditional recipe when cooking with a convection oven. Most baking recipes suggest lowering the temperature by 20-25 degrees when cooking in
Position the racks of the convection oven before preheating it, as the oven will heat up more quickly than a conventional oven. Preheat the oven to 25 degrees less than what is called for in the recipe. For example, if your recipe requires a 350-degree oven, set the temperature of your convection oven to 325 degrees.
Roasting with Convection. In Convection the heated air in the oven is continuously circulated penetrating the food from the outside to the center. 1  Meats should be cooked on a rack in a shallow pan for maximum exposure and to prevent juices from being leeched out by the heat of the pan.
A traditional oven has heating elements on top and bottom of the oven. A convection oven differs by having a fan in addition to the heating elements. The fan continuously circulates air through the oven as the food cooks. This process of blowing hot air over the food as it cooks makes the food cook more evenly.
A convection oven circulates hot air with a fan. Unlike conventional radiant (also called thermal) ovens, convection ovens have a fan that continuously circulates air through the oven cavity. When hot air is blowing onto food, as opposed to merely surrounding it, the food tends to cook more quickly.
1 Cooking the turkey without stuffing. 2  Roasting the turkey on a rack in a shallow pan with the legs swinging free. 3  Cooking the turkey in the Convection Roast mode at 400 degrees for 20 minutes then reducing the temperature to 350 degrees/375 for large capacity ovens, for the remainder of the cooking time.
Roasting with the Convection Oven. 1  Roast Chicken and Root Vegetables with Mustard-Rosemary Sauce. 2  The vegetables will cook in about 45 minutes and the chicken will be done in as little as 1 hour and 20 minutes. 3  Herbed Roast Leg of Lamb with Roasted Onions and Potatoes.