The inner part of the adrenal gland. The adrenal medulla produces the hormones epinephrine (adrenaline), which stimulates the heart, tightens blood vessels, and relaxes some smooth muscles; and norepinephrine, which has similar effects. adrenal medulla, the inner portion of the adrenal gland. Its cells secrete the catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine when stimulated by the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system. Compare adrenal cortex
Split and merge into it. Answer by UlqSchif. Confidence votes 117. The adrenal glands are separated into the adrenal cortex and the adrenal medulla. The adrenal cortex releases corticosteroid hormones, androgens (testosterone), and aldosterone. Aldosterone regulates the osmotic activity in the kidneys, which are located right below the adrenal glands. The adrenal medulla secretes epinephrine and norepinephrine, which control the fight-and-flight response. These hormones increase blood flow, raises heart beat, and causes sweating and increased breathing/respiration. 
The adrenal medulla mainly secretes epinephrine (more commonly  known as adrenaline), norepinephrine, and small amount of dopamine.  Epinephrine and norepinephrine are relea … sed from the adrenal  medulla in response to short term stress. These two hormones are  catecholamines. Composed mainly of hormone-producing chromaffin  cells, the adrenal medulla is the principal site of the conversion  of the amino acid tyrosine into the catecholamines adrenaline  (epinephrine), noradrenaline (norepinephrine), and dopamine.
The adrenal medulla, the inner part of the adrenal gland, helps a person cope with physical and emotional stress. The adrenal medulla secretes the following hormones: Epinephrine (also called adrenaline) . The ACTH stimulates the adrenal glands to make and release corticosteroid hormones into the blood. Both the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland can sense whether the blood has the right amount of an adrenal hormone (cortisol) in it.
It is the innermost part of the adrenal gland, consisting of cells that secrete epinephrine (adrenaline), norepinephrine (noradrenaline), and a small amount of dopamine in response to stimulation by sympathetic preganglionic neurons. The adrenal medulla consists of irregularly shaped cells grouped around blood vessels. These cells are intimately connected with the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system (ANS).
Cells in the adrenal medulla synthesize and secrete epinephrine and norepinephrine. The ratio of these two catecholamines differs considerably among species: in humans, cats and chickens, roughly 80, 60 and 30% of the catecholamine output is epinephrine. 
Rather than releasing a neurotransmitter, the cells of the adrenal medulla secrete hormones. Composed mainly of hormone-producing chromaffin cells, the adrenal medulla is the principal site of the conversion of the amino acid tyrosine into the catecholamines epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. The adrenal medulla consists of irregularly shaped cells grouped around blood vessels. These cells are intimately connected with the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system (ANS).