Commercial repellents that are used to repel deer are often also effective on rabbits. Odor repellents are applied around the perimeter of your lawn or on plants, and can contain eggs, predator urine, thiram or garlic, which have a foul smell or instill fear in rabbits. Taste repellents are applied directly on plants, and can contain capsaicin or hot pepper extract. Install a Fence. Placing a fence around your yard is one of the most effective, long-term methods to keep wild rabbits at bay, according to the Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources at the University of California.
1 Trapping is another effective way to get rid of rabbits in your yard. 2  There are both lethal and live traps available at many hardware and garden stores. 3  You can even try calling your local humane society’s office and ask if they can lend you a trap or let you rent it. HUMANE HINTS: In some cases you can resolve a rabbit problem without trapping the animal-for example, you can install fencing around a garden you don't want eaten. Spray very hot sauce, like capsaicin, on plants.
You're here to learn how to get rid of rabbits in the garden or yard. This site is intended to provide rabbit education and information, so that you can make an informed decision if you need to deal with a rabbit problem. HUMANE HINTS: In some cases you can resolve a rabbit problem without trapping the animal-for example, you can install fencing around a garden you don't want eaten. Spray very hot sauce, like capsaicin, on plants.
1 Just the presence of a dog in your yard may be enough to keep rabbits away. 2  However, you may not want to deal with the expense and maintenance of a dog to get rid of rabbits from your garden. 3  Scare and Ultrasonic devices. 1 Trapping can be time consuming and costly. 2  Keep a dog in your yard. 3  Just the presence of a dog in your yard may be enough to keep rabbits away. 4
How to Get Rid of Rabbits. Rabbits can create havoc on your property, and getting rid of them requires an integrated approach. Below, Havahart® shares step-by-step instructions that teach you how to trap, repel and exclude rabbits so you can keep your yard and vegetable garden rabbit-free. 1  Eliminate Cover ». 
One of the many wildlife sights that you get in the suburbs is rabbits. Rabbits are beautiful animals and seeing them close to your house can be a treat; that is until they make a home in your yard. The damages that rabbits can cause on your yard include damaging of the grass, digging and damaging of your plants. Because those damages could add up in the money that you will spend for repairs not to mention that your property will not look as good, you need to find a way to get rid of the rabbits. These traps don’t cause any harm to the rabbits or any other animals that may come across it. When you are looking to set a trap for a rabbit, you must pay attention to their activities. When you go out into your yard look for trails and burrow holes near trees, where they would find an abundant supply of food.
If you have a rabbit problem that you want to take care of, try these suggestions to get rid of rabbits. More in-detail how-to rabbit removal articles: Information about rabbit trapping-analysis and methods for how to trap. Information about how to kill a rabbit-with poison or other methods. HUMANE HINTS: In some cases you can resolve a rabbit problem without trapping the animal-for example, you can install fencing around a garden you don't want eaten. Spray very hot sauce, like capsaicin, on plants.
Here are some basic tips for trapping rabbits with a live cage trap. 1  Rabbit traps should be washed with soap and water or with bleach and water to get rid of any human smells on the traps, and to get rid of any urine or defecation left in the trap by previously trapped rabbits. 1 Put a cloth sheet over the trap to help prevent additional trauma to the animal during transportation. 2  Once you reach your release point, lift the sheet away from the trap door, unlock the door, and walk away from the trap. 3  Don’t mess with the trap or jiggle the trap until the rabbit has left willingly.
1 Traps are best left in areas where rabbits seek shelter or food. 2  Putting a trap out in the middle of your lawn is likely to be less effective than leaving the trap near some bushes or a garden. 3  Use common sense and your instincts when deciding where to lay the trap. 4  Check the trap often. 1 Put a cloth sheet over the trap to help prevent additional trauma to the animal during transportation. 2  Once you reach your release point, lift the sheet away from the trap door, unlock the door, and walk away from the trap. 3  Don’t mess with the trap or jiggle the trap until the rabbit has left willingly.
1 Keep a dog in your yard. 2  Just the presence of a dog in your yard may be enough to keep rabbits away. 3  However, you may not want to deal with the expense and maintenance of a dog to get rid of rabbits from your garden. 4  Scare and Ultrasonic devices. 1 Trapping can be time consuming and costly. 2  Keep a dog in your yard. 3  Just the presence of a dog in your yard may be enough to keep rabbits away. 4