Tubular Adenoma Polyp. A tubular adenoma polyp is a type of colon polyp that may turn cancerous, as it grows bigger in size. This article will provide you with a brief overview about this type of colon polyp. Such developments increase the risk of cancer in tubular adenoma polyps. In short, the risk of colon cancer depends on the type of polyp to some extent only. The main factors that determine the chances of developing cancer, is the size of the polyp and the degree of abnormal cellular development (dysplasia).
A small adenomatous polyp (tubular adenoma) is seen here. This lesion is called a tubular adenoma because of the rounded nature of the neoplastic glands that form it. It has smooth surfaces and is discreet. Such lesions are common in adults. Small ones are virtually always benign.
Adenomas have several different growth patterns that can be seen under the microscope by the pathologist. There are 2 major growth patterns: tubular and villous. Because many adenomas have a mixture of both growth patterns, some polyps may be called tubulovillous adenomas. Most adenomas that are small (less than ½ inch) have a tubular growth pattern. Larger adenomas may have a villous growth pattern. Larger adenomas more often have cancers developing in them. Adenomas with a villous growth pattern are also more likely to have cancers develop in them. A polyp is a projection (growth) of tissue from the inner lining of the colon into the lumen (hollow center) of the colon. Different types of polyps look different under the microscope. Polyps are benign (non-cancerous) growths, but cancer can start in some types of polyps.
Adenomas have several different growth patterns that can be seen by the pathologist under the microscope. There are two major growth patterns: tubular and villous. Because many adenomas have a mixture of both growth patterns, some polyps may be called tubulovillous adenomas. Most adenomas that are small (less than ½ inch) and have a tubular growth pattern. Larger adenomas may have a villous growth pattern. Larger adenomas are more often found to have cancers developing in them
A tubular adenoma is a kind of breast adenoma characterized by densely packed ‘ tubular ‘ and ‘ acinar ‘ (bud-like) cell formations. An adenoma is a disorganized neoplasm consisting of varied amounts of glandular, fibrous, and fat tissue that can result in a mass or pseudo-lesion. Have a look at our new and improved page on tubular adenoma – it is more up-to-date. However, this one is still pretty good, too! Histologically (microscopically), the tubular and acinar cell formations, which are actually small breast ducts, tend to be very small and regular in size.
This small adenomatous polyp (tubular adenoma) on a small stalk is seen microscopically to have more crowded, disorganized glands than the normal underlying colonic mucosa. Goblet cells are less numerous and the cells lining the glands of the polyp have hyperchromatic nuclei. However, it is still well-differentiated and circumscribed, without invasion of the stalk, and is benign. Two colonoscopic views of a small polyp that proved to be a tubular adenoma is seen below.
Adenoma is a benign tumor of glandular tissue, such as the mucosa of stomach, small intestine, and colon, in which tumor cells form glands or gland like structures. In hollow organs (digestive tract), the adenoma grows into the lumen-adenomatous polyp or polypoid adenoma. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An adenoma (from Greek αδένας, adeno- , gland + -ώμα, -oma, tumor) (/ˌaedɨˈnoʊmə/ ; ˌædɨˈnoʊmə plural adenomas or /adenomata/) ˌaedɨˈnoʊmɨtə ˌædɨˈnoʊmɨtə is a benign tumor of epithelial tissue with, glandular origin, glandular characteristics. or both