Satellite view showing Kobe, the sixth largest city in Japan. The capital city of Hyōgo Prefecture is located in the Kansai region at the southern coast of Honshu, Japan's main island. Kobe has a population of about 1.5 million inhabitants. Kobe was one of the busiest ports in the world until the city was hit by a massive earthquake in January 1995. Beside other huge damages the earthquake destroyed 120 of the 150 quays in the port of Kobe. Today Kobe is Japan's fourth busiest container port.
Located between the sea and the Rokko mountain range, Kobe is also considered one of Japan's most attractive cities. Kobe has been an important port city for many centuries. Its port was among the first to be opened to foreign trade in the 19th century alongside the ports of Yokohama, Nagasaki, Hakodate and Niigata.
Kobe (_, Kōbe) is the capital of Hyogo Prefecture and one of Japan's ten largest cities. Kobe has been an important port city for many centuries. Its port was among the first to be opened to foreign trade in the 19th century alongside the ports of Yokohama, Nagasaki, Hakodate and Niigata.
Kobe (神戸市, Kōbe-shi, Japanese pronunciation: [koːꜜbe]) is the sixth-largest city in Japan and is the capital city of Hyōgo Prefecture. It is located on the southern side of the main island of Honshū, on the north shore of Osaka Bay and about 30 km (19 mi) west of Osaka. With a population around 1.5 million, the city is part of the Kyoto-Osaka-Kobe metropolitan area along with Osaka and Kyoto. To commemorate Kobe's recovery from the 1995 quake, the city holds an event every December called the Luminarie, where the city center is decorated with illuminated metal archways. The Port of Kobe was Japan's busiest port and one of Asia's top ports until the Great Hanshin earthquake.
Early Life. Kobe Bean Bryant was born on August 23, 1978, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Named after a Japanese steakhouse, Kobe Bryant is the son of former NBA player Joe Jellybean Bryant. In 1984, after ending his NBA career, the elder Bryant took the family to Italy where he played in the Italian League. Born in 1978 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Kobe Bryant spent his early years in Italy and joined the NBA straight out of high school. A dominant scorer, Bryant won five NBA championships and the 2008 MVP Award with the Los Angeles Lakers.
Kobe Bryant-G/F-Lakers. Kobe Bryant said he's planning to be a Laker for the rest of his career. Bryant has been non-committal on his plans beyond the 2015-16 season, but he said he plans on being a Laker for as long as he's in the NBA. 
Bryant was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as the youngest of three children and the only son of Joe Bryant and Pamela Cox Bryant. He is also the maternal nephew of John Chubby Cox. His parents named him after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which they saw on a restaurant menu. At 34 years and 104 days of age, Bryant became the youngest player in league history to reach 30,000 career points. He is also the all-time leading scorer in Lakers franchise history. Since his second year in the league, Bryant has been selected to start every All-Star Game.