The lungs are located in the chest on either sides of the heart. 1 The primary cause…. 2  Just Breathe: Studies in Pulmonary Function The lungs move oxygen into the body and carbon dioxide out into the air. 3  Pulmonary function studies are conducted to measure the effectiveness of your lung function. 4  Here is ….
In humans, the lungs are located on either side of the heart in the chest, with the left lung sharing the left side of the space with the heart, which sits in an impression called the cardiac notch. 
1 Just Breathe: Studies in Pulmonary Function The lungs move oxygen into the body and carbon dioxide out into the air. 2  Pulmonary function studies are conducted to measure the effectiveness of your lung function. 3  Here is …. 1 The primary cause…. 2  Just Breathe: Studies in Pulmonary Function The lungs move oxygen into the body and carbon dioxide out into the air. 3  Pulmonary function studies are conducted to measure the effectiveness of your lung function. 4  Here is ….
Anatomy of the Heart. Your heart is located under your ribcage in the center of your chest between your right and left lungs. Its muscular walls beat, or contract, pumping blood to all parts of your body. The size of your heart can vary depending on your age, size, and the condition of your heart. Oxygen-rich blood from your lungs passes through the pulmonary veins (shown in red to the right of the left atrium in figure B above). The blood enters the left atrium and is pumped into the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the oxygen-rich blood is pumped to the rest of your body through the aorta.
Air is forced in and out of your lungs by movements of your diaphragm and other breathing muscles. When you breathe in, your breathing muscles contract, pulling your ribs up and out. The space within your chest increases and reduces the air pressure inside your lungs. As a result, air flows into your lungs. Your lungs are a pair of large sponge-like organs that almost fill your chest cavity. Your left lung is slightly smaller than your right lung, to make space for your heart. When you breathe in, you suck air in through your nose and mouth and down a tube called the trachea.
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 1 Emphysema: A form of COPD usually caused by smoking. 2  The fragile walls between the lungs' air sacs (alveoli) are damaged, trapping air in the lungs and making breathing difficult. 3  Chronic bronchitis: Repeated, frequent episodes of productive cough,
your lungs are located on the right and left side of your body just up from your waistline. 
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 
The organs of your body that allow you to breathe are called your lungs. You have twoof them that work together, located in your chest inside the rib cage. The main purpose of your lungs is to breathe in good air and breathe out bad air. The good air contains oxygen, which your body needs. Inside your lungs, oxygen is removed from the air you breathe and pumped into blood cells. Your lungs also get rid of harmful carbon dioxide from these cells. This process takes place inside hundreds of millions of tiny air sacs.Each adult lung is about the size of a football.