A metalloid is an element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals, and which is therefore hard to classify as either a metal or a nonmetal. This is a generic definition that draws on metalloid attributes consistently cited in the literature. As a halogen, astatine tends to be classified as a nonmetal. It has some marked metallic properties and is sometimes instead classified as either a metalloid or (less often) as a metal. Immediately following its production in 1940, early investigators considered it a metal.
There are a stair of elements known as metalloids. Boron (B), silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), arsenic (As), antimony (Sb), and tellurium (Te) are all metalloids. Anything to the left of those elements are considered metals and anything to the right are considered nonmetals. The elements in group 3 (or 13) of the periodic table are boron, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium. Among them, boron is a metalloid and the remaining elements which lie to the left of the diagonal line referred to above, are metals. On this basis, Indium can be safely classified as a metal. Sources:
Metalloid is a term used in chemistry when classifying the chemical elements. On the basis of their general physical and chemical properties, nearly every element in the periodic table can be termed either a metal or a nonmetal-however a few elements with intermediate properties are referred to as metalloids. (In Greek metallon = metal and eidos = sort). Some allotropes of elements exhibit more pronounced metal, metalloid or non-metal behavior than others. For example, for the element carbon, its diamond allotrope is clearly non-metallic, however the graphite allotrope displays limited electric conductivity more characteristic of a metalloid.
metalloid. nonmetal. The elements can be classified as metals, nonmetals, or metalloids. Metals are good conductors of heat and electricity, and are malleable (they can be hammered into sheets) and ductile (they can be drawn into wire). The metals are to the left of the line (except for hydrogen, which is a nonmetal), the nonmetals are to the right of the line, and the elements immediately adjacent to the line are the metalloids.
Recognition status, as metalloids, of some elements in the p-block of the periodic table. Percentages are median appearance frequencies in the list of metalloid lists. The staircase-shaped line is a typical example of the arbitrary metal–nonmetal dividing line found on some periodic tables. As a halogen, astatine tends to be classified as a nonmetal. It has some marked metallic properties and is sometimes instead classified as either a metalloid or (less often) as a metal. Immediately following its production in 1940, early investigators considered it a metal.
The elements in group 3 of the periodic table are boron, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium. Elements can be classified as metals or non-metals. Explain, using its position in the periodic table, weather indium is a metal or a non-metal. The elements in group 3 (or 13) of the periodic table are boron, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium. Among them, boron is a metalloid and the remaining elements which lie to the left of the diagonal line referred to above, are metals. On this basis, Indium can be safely classified as a metal. Sources:
A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. As a halogen, astatine tends to be classified as a nonmetal. It has some marked metallic properties and is sometimes instead classified as either a metalloid or (less often) as a metal. Immediately following its production in 1940, early investigators considered it a metal.
Scandium is a metal because it is in the transition metals section of the Periodic Table. The nonmetals are located near the right of the periodic table and the metalloids are … right next to them between the metal and nonmetals. There are only few metalloids. 6 people found this useful. Lead is a poor metal and (or) a metalloid: it has some amphoteric properties as well, like bismuth or arsenic. It has some fine metallic properties though. 10