Causes. It's not clear what causes spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD). Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) causes a superficial tear inside an artery. When the inner layers of the artery separate from the outer layers, blood can pool in the area between the layers. The pressure of the pooling blood can make a short tear much longer. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) may slow blood flow through the artery to the heart, which makes the heart work harder. Or blood flow through the artery can be completely stopped, causing heart muscle to die (heart attack). 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors.
After the tear, blood enters the arterial wall and forms a blood clot, thickening the artery wall and often impeding blood flow. The symptoms of vertebral artery dissection include head and neck pain and intermittent or permanent stroke symptoms such as difficulty speaking, impaired coordination and visual loss. This is most likely due to a tear in the tunica intima (the inner layer), allowing blood to enter the tunica media, although other lines of evidence have suggested that the blood may instead arise from the vasa vasorum, the small blood vessels that supply the outer layer of larger blood vessels.
A dissection is not a hole in an artery, which would cause extensive bleeding. Rather, a tear occurs in one of the inner layers of the vessel, which results in a pooling of blood in the wall that partly or completely closes the flow of blood to the brain. Rarely, a dissection can result in a bulge — an aneurysm — on the outer wall of the vessel that may or may not be painful. Although vertebral artery dissection is one of the most common causes of stroke in young adults, it may produce no noticeable symptoms at first. And when they do occur, they are often nonspecific, like headache or neck pain.
Vertebral artery dissection is less common than carotid artery dissection (dissection of the large arteries in the front of the neck). The two conditions combined account for 10–25% of non-hemorrhagic strokes in young and middle-aged people. This is most likely due to a tear in the tunica intima (the inner layer), allowing blood to enter the tunica media, although other lines of evidence have suggested that the blood may instead arise from the vasa vasorum, the small blood vessels that supply the outer layer of larger blood vessels.
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection — sometimes referred to as SCAD — is a rare emergency condition that occurs when a tear forms in one of the blood vessels in the heart. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) can slow or block blood flow to the heart, causing a heart attack, abnormalities in heart rhythm and sudden death. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) tends to affect people ages 30 to 50, though it can occur at any age.
Background. Carotid artery dissection begins as a tear in one of the carotid arteries of the neck, which allows blood under arterial pressure to enter the wall of the artery and split its layers. The blood dissects along the artery to create an intramural hematoma that leads to a thrombus, which can narrow the carotid artery lumen and become a nidus for distal embolization (see the image below). Arterial dissection. (A) Tear and elevation of intima from wall of artery, resulting in luminal stenosis.
Carotid artery dissection is a separation of the layers of the artery wall supplying oxygen-bearing blood to the head and brain and is the most common cause of stroke in young adults. 
Carotid artery dissection is a tear in one of the layers of the artery wall. Blood leaks out through this gap and spreads between the layers of the wall. Once blood starts accumulating in the area of the tear it begins to form a clot, which again hinders the flow of blood through the artery. The carotid artery is a prime blood vessel which passes from the aorta into the neck beside the trachea and just above the heart. The human body comprises of four carotid arteries.
It refers to a tear in one of the four carotid arteries in the body. It is considered to be one of the most reasons for ischemic stroke in young adults. The carotid artery is a prime blood vessel which passes from the aorta into the neck beside the trachea and just above the heart. The human body comprises of four carotid arteries. Two arteries lie on each side of the neck and are known as the internal and external carotid
Vertebral artery dissection (abbreviated VAD, often vertebral dissection) is a dissection (a flap-like tear) of the inner lining of the vertebral artery, which is located in the neck and supplies blood to the brain. This is most likely due to a tear in the tunica intima (the inner layer), allowing blood to enter the tunica media, although other lines of evidence have suggested that the blood may instead arise from the vasa vasorum, the small blood vessels that supply the outer layer of larger blood vessels.