Selective estrogen receptor modulators, called SERMs for short, block the effects of estrogen in the breast tissue. SERMs work by sitting in the estrogen receptors in breast cells. If a SERM is in the estrogen receptor, there is no room for estrogen and it can't attach to the cell. If estrogen isn't attached to a breast cell, the cell doesn't receive estrogen's signals to grow and multiply. If you're taking a SERM, call your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms: 1  abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge. 2  pain or pressure in the pelvis. 3  leg swelling or tenderness. 4  chest pain. 5  shortness of breath. 6  weakness, tingling, or numbness in your face, arm, or leg. 7  sudden difficulty seeing.
SERM is an acronym that stands for Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator. SERMs bind with estrogen receptors, blocking some estrogen actions while at the same time permitting others. This means their action is different in various tissues, hence the selective' descriptor. This results in an increase in testosterone production. Clomid is a weak synthetic estrogen that binds to estrogen receptors, blocking 'real' estrogen. Nolvadex is a mixed estrogen agonist/antagonist of the same type as Clomid.
Nolvadex is a Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator (SERM) comprised of the active drug Tamoxifen first created by Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI.) Originally developed to provide a “Morning After” effect this soon proved to be useless. Nolvadex is a member of the SERM class of drugs with very similar properties to Clomiphene Citrate. An antagonist of the estrogen receptors by-which it binds itself preventing active estrogen from binding in its place.
Tamoxifen citrate is the chemical name of active ingredient in Nolvadex. Nolvadex is a registered trademark of AstraZeneca UK Limited in the United States and/or other countries. Nolvadex – Tamoxifen as an anti-estrogen (selective estrogen receptor modulator – SERM). To understand how Nolvadex can speed recovery, it’s important to understand how inhibition occurs, and how it may be reversed by a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) such as Nolvadex.
Tamoxifen, the generic name of Nolvadex, is the oldest and most-prescribed SERM. Tamoxifen is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat: Because it's a SERM, it selectively either blocks or activates estrogen's action on specific cells. While tamoxifen blocks estrogen's action on breast cells, it activates estrogen's action in bone and liver cells.
Nolvadex is the generic name of Tamoxifen Citrate, a type of drug that is classified as a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) and originally formulated as treatment for some types of breast cancer in both men and women. 
SERM stands for selective estrogen receptor modulator. Also known as estrogen receptor agonist/ antagonists (or anti-estrogens), these drugs are used by bodybuilders to block the estrogenic effects of anabolic steroids and/or to help stimulate the production of natural testosterone after a steroid cycle. 
Tamoxifen offers other health benefits that aren't related to treating cancer. Because it's a SERM, it selectively either blocks or activates estrogen's action on specific cells. While tamoxifen blocks estrogen's action on breast cells, it activates estrogen's action in bone and liver cells. So tamoxifen can: 1  help stop bone loss after menopause
Post-cycle therapy (PCT) with Nolvadex was introduced specifically to enable faster recovery. To understand how Nolvadex can speed recovery, it’s important to understand how inhibition occurs, and how it may be reversed by a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) such as Nolvadex. Testosterone production is regulated in a chain process