You should NEVER aim a laser pointer at or near an airplane or helicopter. It is not safe, you may be arrested, and you may help get laser pointers banned. Below is more information about these three aspects. This is expensive and a major hassle. You do NOT want to hire a lawyer to represent you in a trial with a state or federal prosecutor. In the United States, there is a federal law that makes it illegal to aim a laser pointer at an aircraft, or the flight path of an aircraft.
Possession and/or misuse of laser pointers can get you a fine or even up to 14 years in prison. NEVER aim a laser beam at an aircraft, a vehicle, or towards strangers. In other words, DON’T ANNOY PEOPLE WITH THE LASER BEAM. This is expensive and a major hassle. You do NOT want to hire a lawyer to represent you in a trial with a state or federal prosecutor. In the United States, there is a federal law that makes it illegal to aim a laser pointer at an aircraft, or the flight path of an aircraft.
For all these reasons -- and especially due to the distraction, glare and flashblindness effects -- you should NEVER point a laser towards an aircraft. (It is not even smart to aim directly at stars, since a slow-moving far-away aircraft could look like a star. This is expensive and a major hassle. You do NOT want to hire a lawyer to represent you in a trial with a state or federal prosecutor. In the United States, there is a federal law that makes it illegal to aim a laser pointer at an aircraft, or the flight path of an aircraft.
Also pointing a Laser Pointer at planes, helicopters, etc. is Illegal and you can wind up in jail for up to 5-10 years and hefty fine. This can cause a loss of control of the pilot's aircraft, putting the flight and occupants in jeopardy. It is not a good idea to point a laser at anyone, and is extremely immature to do so.
The risk is not limited to aircraft. Pointing a laser at a bus driver is also dangerous. The difference is that the bus driver may decide to stop the bus and come looking for you, and it's harder to aim a laser at a bus driver from a long distance away. This can cause a loss of control of the pilot's aircraft, putting the flight and occupants in jeopardy. It is not a good idea to point a laser at anyone, and is extremely immature to do so.
Will we ever know if a Laser was a contributing factor to the crash, Most likely Not. So in ending don't do as it can have serious consequences to all involved. Also pointing a Laser Pointer at planes, helicopters, etc. is Illegal and you can wind up in jail for up to 5-10 years and hefty fine. Just don't do it. This can cause a loss of control of the pilot's aircraft, putting the flight and occupants in jeopardy. It is not a good idea to point a laser at anyone, and is extremely immature to do so.
The feds can track your air-menacing ass from the sky—provided you haven't blinded them yet, of course. It happens very quickly. The chopper pilots get the equivalent of a flashlight to the face from the tiny presentation laser on the ground, and call in for help. I can only imagine what the effect would have been from some of the more, ahem, shockingly powerful lasers available. 
It's against federal law and any sense of human decency to shine a laser pointer at an aircraft, but this is a big world with many wondrous a-holes in it. Last night one of them decided to pass the time by shining a laser beam into the cockpit of a charter flight coming in for a landing at Kennedy Airport. 
Even a very weak beam can be a distraction. The photo below shows a 1 milliwatt beam seen at a distance of 20 kilometers (12 miles) across Tokyo. Obviously, seeing laser beams and flashes is distracting to pilots. This is one reason you should never aim at or near an aircraft. This is expensive and a major hassle. You do NOT want to hire a lawyer to represent you in a trial with a state or federal prosecutor. In the United States, there is a federal law that makes it illegal to aim a laser pointer at an aircraft, or the flight path of an aircraft.