Entropion can also create secondary pain of the eye (leading to self trauma, scarring of the eyelid, or nerve damage). The upper or lower eyelid can be involved, and one or both eyes may be affected. When entropion occurs in both eyes, this is known as bilateral entropion.. 
Secondary eye cancers. Sometimes a cancer can spread to the eye from another part of the body. A cancer that has spread to the eye is called a secondary eye cancer. You can view and print the quick guides for all the pages in the about eye cancer section.
Find Your Surgeon. Eyelid surgery, or blepharoplasty, is a surgical procedure to improve the appearance of the eyelids. Surgery can be performed on either the upper and lower lids, or both. Whether you want to improve your appearance or are experiencing functional problems with your eyelids, eyelid surgery can rejuvenate the area surrounding your eyes. Specifically, eyelid surgery can treat: 
There is a tear gland around the cartilage of the third eyelid that produces about 1/3 of tears for the eye. In a dog with cherry eye, the fibrous attachments of the gland to of the third eyelid are weak or strained. This allows the gland to prolapse, or bulge out from beneath the eyelid. It looks red or pink and is commonly called cherry eye. This can irritate the surface of the eye and produce recurrent conjunctivitis. Removal is not recommended as it has a function. The third eyelid serves a few functions: 1  It protects the eye the way the other eyelids do and can wipe debris off the surface of the eye. 2  It has a gland that produces 1/3 of tears for the eye. 3  It has some limpid tissue in the glad that helps fight off infection.
Secondary eye cancers. Sometimes a cancer can spread to the eye from another part of the body. A cancer that has spread to the eye is called a secondary eye cancer. In women this is most likely to happen with breast cancer, and in men lung cancer. Sometimes a cancer can spread to the eye from another part of the body. A cancer that has spread to the eye is called a secondary eye cancer. You can view and print the quick guides for all the pages in the about eye cancer section.
Ptosis can affect one eye or both eyes. Ptosis may be present at birth, or may be acquired later in life. If a droopy eyelid is present at birth or within the first year of life, the condition is called congenital ptosis. In most cases of congenital ptosis, the problem is isolated and does not affect the vision.
Secondary cancer. A primary cancer is where a cancer starts. Sometimes cancer cells can break away from the primary cancer and settle and grow in another part of the body. This new cancer growth is called secondary cancer. Secondary cancers are made up of the same type of cells as the primary cancer. So, if you have bowel cancer that has spread to the liver, you have primary bowel cancer with secondary cancer in the liver. Some cancers can spread to other parts of the body through the blood system or through the lymphatic system. You can read about what cancer is and about how cancer spreads.
The nictitating membrane of a masked lapwing as it closes. The nictitating membrane (from Latin nictare, to blink) is a transparent or translucent third eyelid present in some animals that can be drawn across the eye for protection and to moisten it while maintaining visibility. The cherry eye is due to a gland called the gland of the third eyelid (nictitans gland), which prolapses. This gland helps to produce up to 50% of the tear film in certain animals. Another gland, called Harder's gland, is present in other animals.
Disease Entity [edit | edit source]. A drooping eyelid is called ptosis or blepharoptosis. In ptosis, the upper eyelid falls to a position that is lower than normal. In severe cases of ptosis, the drooping eyelid can cover part or all of the pupil and interfere with vision, resulting in amblyopia. Ptosis may be present at birth, or may be acquired later in life. If a droopy eyelid is present at birth or within the first year of life, the condition is called congenital ptosis. In most cases of congenital ptosis, the problem is isolated and does not affect the vision.