T he essential feature of a composite volcano is a conduit system through which magma from a reservoir deep in the Earth's crust rises to the surface. The volcano is built up by the accumulation of material erupted through the conduit and increases in size as lava, cinders, ash, etc., are added to its slopes. Schematic representation of the internal structue of a typical composite volcano. S ome of the Earth's grandest mountains are composite volcanoes--sometimes called stratovolcanoes. They are typically steep-sided, symmetrical cones of large dimension built of alternating layers of lava flows, volcanic ash, cinders, blocks, and bombs and may rise as much as 8,000 feet above their bases.
Composite volcanoes are constructed from multiple eruptions, sometimes recurring over hundreds of thousands of years, sometimes over a few hundred. Andesite magma, the most common but not the only magma type forming composite cones, produces lava more brittle than basaltic lava because of its higher viscosity. 
Some of the most conspicuous and beautiful mountains in the world are composite volcanoes, including Mount Fuji in Japan, Mount Cotopaxi in Ecuador, Mount Shasta in California, Mount Hood in Oregon, and Mount St. Helens and Mount Rainier in Washington. Volcanic domes commonly occur within the craters or on the flanks of large composite volcanoes. The nearly circular Novarupta Dome that formed during the 1912 eruption of Katmai Volcano, Alaska, measures 800 feet across and 200 feet high.
Composite volcanoes, also called strato volcanoes, are formed by alternating layers of lava and rock fragments. This is the reason they are called composite.  Strato-volcanoe … s often form impressive, snow-capped peaks which are often exceeding 2500m in height, 1000sq.km in surface, and 400km3 in volume. They are formed when an oceanic plate goes under another oceanic plate. Causing it to go under to the mantle. Which causes it to burn making the magma turn into lava. Once the lava hardens it then forms a Composite Volcano.
St. Augustine volcano, Alaska. Composite volcanoes are built by multiple eruptions, sometimes recurring over hundreds of thousands of years, sometimes over a few hundred. Andesite magma, the most common but not the only magma type, tends to form composite cones. 
A strong amount of lava flows from the central vent of the volcano to the summit where it disperses in all directions, evenly sloping into a flat, dome shape. (Travels long distances) very runny Lava. 
A composite volcano is built up from alternate layers of ash and lava. It has steep sides because when it erupts it lava is thick and viscous (andesitic) meaning that it does … not travel great distances and stays on the side of the volcano. An example is Mount Vesuvius (which destroyed Pompeii). They are formed when an oceanic plate goes under another oceanic plate. Causing it to go under to the mantle. Which causes it to burn making the magma turn into lava. Once the lava hardens it then forms a Composite Volcano.
Composite Volcanoes. http://www.winona.edu/geology/MRW/Archean.htm. Composite volcanoes, also known as stratovolcanoes, make up some of the most known volcanoes that we have here on earth. A composite volcano is made up of many layers of hardened lava and volcano ash from eruptions that have already taken place. Shield volcanoes are very large in size; the picture above shows an example of one which is the largest volcano on earth, Mauna Lau. They are formed by lava flows of low-viscosity, so over time and flow after flow, it is what makes the mountain grow.
The volcanoes form on the continental side of a subduction zone. The melting oceanic crust forms pools of molten rock in a magma chamber. The magma, molten rock, in the magma chamber is lighter than the volcano rocks that surround it. The magma works its way to the summit where it erupts as tephra or in thick lava flows. Lava eruptions on stratovolcanoes.
Composite Volcano. A composite volcano forms in subduction zones when a crustal plate is forced into the mantle and begins to melt. Andesite, dacite and rhyolite lavas are the primary types of lava that form these volcanoes. Eruptions on the volcanoes often alternate between tephra and lava flows. Subduction zone volcanoes. Geologists often use the term stratovolcanoes to describe the mountains that form in subduction zones. The melting oceanic crust forms pools of molten rock in a magma chamber. The magma, molten rock, in the magma chamber is lighter than the volcano rocks that surround it. The magma works its way to the summit where it erupts as tephra or in thick lava flows. Lava eruptions on stratovolcanoes.