While 3-5 days is most common, anywhere between 2 and 7 days is considered normal. See your doctor if your period lasts longer than a week or suddenly changes from what's regular for you. 1  Previous. 2  Continue. In young girls and teenagers, periods are commonly irregular and have cycles ranging between 21 and 45 days. Keep track of your periods on a calendar (which can help you and your doctor determine what pattern is normal for you)
A normal period versus an irregular period. A woman will, on average, get her period for three to seven days once a month (every 30 days or so). After menstruating for several years, women tend to settle into a cycle; some women can even predict down to the hour when their periods will come. 
If a fertilized egg does not implant in the lining, then the uterus will shed the endometrium; this shedding initiates menstrual bleeding, otherwise known as your period. Length. The menstrual cycle normally lasts from 21 to 35 days-although teens and women in their 40s may have longer, irregular cycles up to 45 days. If you are nearing menopause, you can expect that the time between your periods will probably get longer, and eventually, stop. 
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
References. A menstrual cycle is the time from the day a menstrual period starts to the time the next period starts. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. However, a normal cycle can be shorter or longer than this. It may be anywhere from 21 to 35 days long. Most periods last 3 to 5 days, but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. Menstrual cycles may happen around the same date every month or they may be irregular. A menstrual period is considered late if it hasn’t started 5 or more days after the day you expected it to start. 
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. Tracking your menstrual cycles can help you understand what's normal for you, time ovulation and identify important changes — such as a missed period or unpredictable menstrual bleeding. While menstrual cycle irregularities usually aren't serious, sometimes they can signal health problems.
For most women, periods usually occur from 21 to 35 days apart. In young girls and teenagers, periods are commonly irregular and have cycles ranging between 21 and 45 days. Keep track of your periods on a calendar (which can help you and your doctor determine what pattern is normal for you). 1  Previous. 2  Continue
Most women have between 11 and 13 menstrual periods each year. You may be different: You may have more or fewer. Missed or irregular periods must be looked at in terms of what is normal for you. Menstrual periods are often irregular during the first few years after menstruation starts. It may take several years for the hormones that control menstruation to reach a balance. Menopause occurs when it has been 12 months since you had a menstrual period. Pregnancy is the most common cause of a missed period. If you might be pregnant, treat yourself as if you are pregnant until you know for sure. Use a home pregnancy test as the first step to finding out whether you are pregnant. If you are not pregnant, other causes of missed or irregular periods include:
Your menstrual cycle might be regular — about the same length every month — or somewhat irregular, and your period might be light or heavy, painful or pain-free, long or short, and still be considered normal. Within a broad range, normal is what's normal for you. Tracking your menstrual cycles can help you understand what's normal for you, time ovulation and identify important changes — such as a missed period or unpredictable menstrual bleeding. While menstrual cycle irregularities usually aren't serious, sometimes they can signal health problems.