Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Duck eggs take 28-30 days to hatch, except for Muscovy eggs, which take 35 days. If you find a wild duck's nest on your property and don't see the mother on the eggs, don't necessarily worry. Ducks lay an egg every day or two until they have a full clutch (usually 8 to 15); only then will the mother start to sit on them. It takes the eggs 28 days to hatch from when she starts sitting all the time. When they hatch, she will soon lead them to a nearby body of water. The father takes no part in caring for the eggs or young. Source(s): internet reading
Muscovy will lay up to 180 eggs a year and hatch about four sets of ducklings if they get lots of high protein feed. Muscovy ducks are great mothers and do a good job raising their young. Muscovy take longer to hatch than other poultry... an egg takes 33 to 35 days to hatch. A chicken, for example, hatches in 21 days. Muscovy meat is one of the healthiest meats on the market today, being 98% or greater fat free.
Most ducks start laying between 4 to six months if a drake is present. If not they may take longer however the eggs will not hatch. When a drake is not present these eggs should b gathered daily and refridgerated for eating. If a drake is present each duck will lay between 10 to 15 eggs in about a week.
Report Abuse. Duck eggs hatch in a period of 28-33 days after they are laid, if they are fertile. The ducklings will hatch over a period of several hours, maybe even over a day or so. If there is no Jack in Jill's life, the eggs are not fertile and will never hatch
How soon does an egg have to be put in the incubator? Eggs do not lose viability unless they are held longer than 10 days after being laid. Remember that it takes a duck or goose about two weeks to lay a nest full of eggs in the wild before they start sitting on them. So that first egg may be two weeks old before it is warmed up and development starts.
Ducks. For information on raising ducklings, go to Raising Ducklings and Goslings. Duck eggs take 28-30 days to hatch, except for Muscovy eggs, which take 35 days. If you find a wild duck's nest on your property and don't see the mother on the eggs, don't necessarily worry. Ducks lay an egg every day or two until they have a full clutch (usually 8 to 15); only then will the mother start to sit on them. It takes the eggs 28 days to hatch from when she starts sitting all the time. 
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. 
Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime.
Best Answer: Duck eggs need to be incubated for 28 days. That is 28 days from the time she starts sitting on them. It may take her a couple of weeks to lay enough eggs for her to start sitting. When she feels that her clutch (group of eggs) is the right size, she will start sitting. Wait for 28 days. Duck eggs hatch in a period of 28-33 days after they are laid, if they are fertile. The ducklings will hatch over a period of several hours, maybe even over a day or so. If there is no Jack in Jill's life, the eggs are not fertile and will never hatch