However, if you confirmed your holiday knowing there was a possibility you may need to cancel, the insurance will not cover you in the event of a claim. Cancellation charges as per the Terms and Conditions of your holiday will also apply. If you have not arranged travel insurance with Thomson, please contact your insurance provider. If you wish to cancel your Thomson holiday, please do so by using our ' Manage My Booking ' service. A cancellation invoice for insurance purposes will automatically be sent once the cancellation has been processed. If you send any cancellation notices by email, we cannot be held liable for non-receipt of email cancellations, which we have not received. 1  View our full Terms and Conditions. 2  View insurance information.
Let's look at each of the issues related to auto insurance cancellation: how to get insurance again, getting your money back, and more. Canceling Voluntarily. If you choose to cancel your insurance policy for any reason, then you should be entitled to a full refund of the remaining premium. You can do this in person or by phone. Wait for Your Money Back. Once you have told the provider that you want to cancel your policy, your unearned premium should be refunded. Depending on your provider, you will either have to wait for a check to come in the mail or get a direct transfer to your bank account.
If you are due to travel today or tomorrow and wish to cancel your booking, please call 0800 093 5478. If you are travelling the day after tomorrow, or any time after that, then please use our online service. 1 Where it is possible to cancel a booking and obtain a refund, you will be charged a cancellation fee of £15 per room per night. 2  Where any amendment to a booking reduces the total number of rooms or nights require
If you have only been insured a short amount of time, then you will get a refund of most of your premium. For example, most premiums cover six months of insurance. If you paid $300 for six months and you cancel after 1month, then you will get approximately $250 as a refund. You can do this in person or by phone. Wait for Your Money Back. Once you have told the provider that you want to cancel your policy, your unearned premium should be refunded. Depending on your provider, you will either have to wait for a check to come in the mail or get a direct transfer to your bank account.
A: You will get a full refund if you notify us at least 75 days prior to your sailing date (60 days for 3 & 4-night cruises or 90 days for holiday sailings). Consult the chart below to determine cancellation charges applicable later. 
If you do cancel coverage, you need to have new insurance in place before you cancel your previous policy. In many states, you will be liable for a penalty and fee for any amount of time that you are not covered. It may take several days or even weeks to receive your policy refund. You can do this in person or by phone. Wait for Your Money Back. Once you have told the provider that you want to cancel your policy, your unearned premium should be refunded. Depending on your provider, you will either have to wait for a check to come in the mail or get a direct transfer to your bank account.
How to Cancel Car Insurance after 14 Days. Most auto insurance companies let you cancel car insurance within 14 days of taking out the policy. This is commonly known as a cooling off period where you get grace to cancel any agreement before you become committed to it. You can do this in person or by phone. Wait for Your Money Back. Once you have told the provider that you want to cancel your policy, your unearned premium should be refunded. Depending on your provider, you will either have to wait for a check to come in the mail or get a direct transfer to your bank account.
**You can cancel your holiday online using our Manage My Booking service if you made your booking online at thomson.co.uk**. Go to Manage My Booking. You can't use Manage My Booking for the following holiday types. A cancellation invoice for insurance purposes will automatically be sent once the cancellation has been processed. If you send any cancellation notices by email, we cannot be held liable for non-receipt of email cancellations, which we have not received. 1  View our full Terms and Conditions. 2  View insurance information.
Ask us a Question, Accommodation Only Information, Booking Information, Cancelling Your Holiday, Changing Your Holiday, Manage My Booking Information, Disabled Passengers, Flights, Contact Thomson, Important Information, Payment Information, Technical Website Problems, Travelling with Children. A cancellation invoice for insurance purposes will automatically be sent once the cancellation has been processed. If you send any cancellation notices by email, we cannot be held liable for non-receipt of email cancellations, which we have not received. 1  View our full Terms and Conditions. 2  View insurance information.
So a ny opportunity to cancel will depend on your travel agent's terms and conditions. As you found, First Choice allows cancellations within 24 hours but not after that unless you give up your deposit, which in your case is a hefty £600. I recently booked an all inclusive holiday to the Maldives for myself, my husband and my children of 11 and 13 at the First Choice branch in the Asda superstore in Gravesend. We're going for two weeks next August and the price the agent gave us was £16,910.00. There was a £600 deposit, which we paid at the time.