State laws typically put a maximum percentage in place, often between 70 and 80 percent of the salary the individual earned per week, but plans factor other data before creating a payment plan, including how much individuals earned, and how long they had been at that payment level. How much the employee earned per week controls how much unemployment they are eligible to receive per week. If an employee earned varying rates per week due to commissions or another type of variable compensation, states typically average out their pay to create a weekly amount.
This calculation typically adds a dollar amount to the weekly benefit ($5 to $20), then takes a percent of the weekly income made in the part-time job (70 to 80 percent) and subtracts the percentage from the new weekly benefit amount to reduce the benefit payment. How much the employee earned per week controls how much unemployment they are eligible to receive per week. If an employee earned varying rates per week due to commissions or another type of variable compensation, states typically average out their pay to create a weekly amount.
The basic benefit rate is 55% of your average insured earnings up to a yearly maximum insurable amount of $41,100. This means you can receive a maximum payment of $435 per week. Your EI payment is a taxable income, meaning federal and provincial or territorial, if it applies, taxes will be deducted. The number of weeks of benefits which may be paid are determined at the start date of the benefit period, based on the unemployment rate in your region and the amount of insurable hours you have accumulated in the qualifying period. Source(s): @ http://www1.servicecanada.gc.ca/en/sc/ei...
NOTE: The smallest UI benefit payment that we will pay is $5.00, so if your calculation results in an amount which is less than $5.00, no payment will be made. In addition, if your total gross pay is more than $500.00 you will not be eligible for a partial unemployment payment regardless of your weekly benefit rate. MAXIMUM BENEFIT AMOUNT (MBA): The total amount of unemployment benefits the department could pay you during your benefit year. It is the lesser of 26 times your WBR, or 40% of your total base period wages from all covered employment. Use your MBA as you would a checking account balance.
Step 1: Compute the average weekly wage by dividing the total wages for all qualifying weeks in the base period by the total number of such qualifying weeks. Example: If you had $32,000 in total wages and 32 qualifying weeks, then $32,000 divided by 32 equals $1,000 average weekly wage. Step 2: Computer 50 percent (half) of your average weekly wage during the base period. Example: If your average weekly wage is $1,000, then 50 percent of that is $500. $1,144 or higher. $572. Example: Average weekly wage is $1,000, and 50 percent is $500. Compare $500 to the maximum weekly payment for the number of allowable dependents, as follows: If you have no dependents, the weekly benefit amount would be the maximum weekly payment for 0 dependents (Class A) of $424.
Save. Unemployment insurance is a type of benefit offered to those who lose their jobs and need a source of income while searching for another job. Most types of unemployment insurance are offered by states, and as state programs they can vary considerably, especially when it comes to compensation rates. How much the employee earned per week controls how much unemployment they are eligible to receive per week. If an employee earned varying rates per week due to commissions or another type of variable compensation, states typically average out their pay to create a weekly amount.
0. Roughly $30 million is set aside for the state of California to pay for unemployment insurance benefits right now. The maximum is $900 every two weeks. The minimum is approximately $80 every two weeks. The formula is 50% of your weekly gross up to a limit. 
Regular benefits can be paid from 14 to a maximum of 45 weeks. The number of weeks of benefits which may be paid are determined at the start date of the benefit period, based on the unemployment rate in your region and the amount of insurable hours you have accumulated in the qualifying period. Source(s): @ http://www1.servicecanada.gc.ca/en/sc/ei...
Best Answer: Minimum weekly = $40 Maximum weekly = $450 Details on how it's calculated can be found at http://www.edd.ca.gov/Unemployment/Eligi... There's a chart on page 10 of the 48-page pamphlet de1275a.pdf Based on your $28,000 / year, I assume you earned it approximately evenly during the year. 
Unemployment benefits usually cover about 40 percent of the former worker's earnings, up to the state maximum. Depending on the state, the average ranges from 30 to 50 percent, again dependent on the benefit maximum. Beneficiaries must pay federal taxes on unemployment compensation. 