Definition: (adjective) Describes trees or shrubs that bear cones and have needle-like or scale-like evergreen leaves that are not generally shed seasonally, and instead retain their foliage throughout the year, even during winter. Birds and Conifers. Coniferous trees are critical for northern birds because the seed crops are essential food sources, and if seed crops are poor, many of these birds become irruptive or nomadic and shift their ranges during winter in search of more abundant foods.
Adj. 1. coniferous-of or relating to or part of trees or shrubs bearing cones and evergreen leaves. cone-bearing. evergreen - (of plants and shrubs) bearing foliage throughout the year. Any of various mostly needle-leaved or scale-leaved, chiefly evergreen, cone-bearing gymnospermous trees or shrubs of the order Coniferales, such as pines, spruces, and firs.
Temperate evergreen forests are common in the coastal areas of regions that have mild winters and heavy rainfall, or inland in drier climates or mountain areas. Coniferous forests can be found in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Asia. Temperate rain forests can be temperate coniferous forests or temperate broadleaf and mixed forests.
Coniferous Forests. Coniferous forest ecosystems are found in regions of the Earth that experience somewhat long and cold winters, with summer being much shorter. Thus, it is no surprise that these biomes are more common the closer one travels towards the Earth’s pole
The Ponderosa pine is a coniferous tree. The definition of coniferous is something related to trees that have cones. A pine tree is an example of a tree that would be described as coniferous. 1 SPRUCE spruce-fir, a coniferous tree belonging to the genus Picea, of which there are several species, such as the Norway spruce, Picea excelsa; the black spruce, Picea nigra, &c. ( 2 see FIR). 3  ARAUCARIA, a genus of coniferous trees included in the tribe Araucarineae.
Some of the more common conifers are spruces, pines, and firs. Precipitation in coniferous forests varies from 300 to 900 mm annually, with some temperate coniferous forests receiving up to 2,000 mm. The amount of precipitation depends on the forest location. In the northern boreal forests, the winters are long, cold and dry, while the short summers are moderately warm and moist
In most temperate coniferous forests, evergreen conifers predominate, while some are a mix of conifers and broadleaf evergreen trees and/or broadleaf deciduous trees. Temperate rain forests can be temperate coniferous forests or temperate broadleaf and mixed forests.
A pine forest is an example of a temperate coniferous forest. Map of temperate coniferous forest ecoregions of the world. Temperate coniferous forest is a terrestrial biome found in temperate regions of the world with warm summers and cool winters and adequate rainfall to sustain a forest. Temperate rain forests can be temperate coniferous forests or temperate broadleaf and mixed forests.
A coniferous forest contains evergreen trees that bear cones. Elegant pines grow in this biome, along with spruce, fir, and tamarack. In much of the northern forest, the conifers mingle with deciduous trees, particularly aspen, birch, sugar maple, and basswood. Foundations of today's coniferous forest. Coniferous Forest Biome. Wind whispers in the fragrant needles, and the heavy branches create a cathedral effect. This is the coniferous forest, the north country loved by many Minnesotans. It is a place where the vast deciduous forest of the North American continent gives way to needled trees.