a. Two basic types of epinephrine receptors -- called alpha and beta adrenergic receptors (adrenergic = for adrenaline). The two types are distinguished (primarily) by their relative affinities for epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline). An example -- effects of epinephrine (adrenaline) on smooth muscle. Some smooth muscles relax, and some contract in response to epinephrine. In this case, different receptors & 2nd messengers are involved.
Epinephrine and the skin. The effect of epinephrine on the skin is mainly caused by it binding to alpha-adrenergic receptors, the alpha-2-adrenergic receptor in particular. Restriction of the arteries is caused by the binding of epinephrine to these alpha-adrenergic receptors. This cuts off blood supply to the skin. Epinephrine, along with another hormone called glucagon, is responsible for the breakdown of glycogen in liver cells. Glycogen is a form of energy storage in animals. Epinephrine binds to a receptor on the outside of a liver cell causing a conformational change to occur. This change means that a G protein can now bind.
Adrenergic Receptors. Adrenaline is the original name for what we now call epinephrine. Stimulation of the adrenal medulla by the sympathetic nervous system causes the secretion of both epinephrine (E) (80%) and norepinephrine (NE)(20%) into circulation. Epinephrine is a hormone; norepinephrine is both a hormone and a neurotransmitter.
If an a receptor blocker is administered, epinephrine 2-receptor effects dominate and total peripheral resistance falls as does mean blood pressure--this phenomenon is termed epinephrine reversal. Cardiac Effects. Epinephrine exerts most of its effects effects on the heart through activation of 1-adrenergic receptors. 
Alpha receptors have been further subdivided into alpha1 and alpha2 receptors. Both epinephrine and norepinephrine activates both the alpha1 and alpha2 receptors. Presynaptic Alpha2 Receptors Alpha2 receptors also exist presynaptically associated with nerve terminals. The adrenergic receptors which subserve the response of the sympathetic nervous system have been divided into two discrete subtypes: alpha adrenergic receptors (alpha receptors) and beta adrenergic receptors (beta receptors).
Epinephrine is an important cell signaling molecule in the fight or flight response. Also known as adrenaline, epinephrine is an efficient messenger that signals many cell types throughout the body with many effects. In the lungs, epinephrine binds to receptors on smooth muscle cells wrapped around the bronchioles. 
Epinephrine is normally produced by both the adrenal glands and certain neurons. It plays an important role in the fight-or-flight response by increasing blood flow to muscles, output of the heart, pupil dilation, and blood sugar. Epinephrine does this by its effects on alpha and beta receptors. It is found in many animals and some one cell organisms. Jokichi Takamine first isolated epinephrine in 1901. Its wholesale cost is between 0.10 and 0.95USD a vial. Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a medication, hormone and neurotransmitter. As a medication it is used for a number of conditions including: anaphylaxis, cardiac arrest, and superficial bleeding. Inhaled epinephrine may be used to improve the symptoms of croup
Epinephrine (ep-uh-nef-rin, -reen) is also known as adrenaline. It is a hormone that is secreted by the adrenal glands. (1, 3). Adrenalin, without the e, was originally used as a trademark for a product made by an American pharmaceutical firm Parke, Davis & Co. Epinephrine, along with another hormone called glucagon, is responsible for the breakdown of glycogen in liver cells. Glycogen is a form of energy storage in animals. Epinephrine binds to a receptor on the outside of a liver cell causing a conformational change to occur. This change means that a G protein can now bind.
Epinephrine and the heart. Epinephrine binds to beta-adrenergic receptors on heart muscle cells. This causes the contraction rate of the heart to increase. This ultimately leads to increased blood supply to the tissues in the body. Epinephrine, along with another hormone called glucagon, is responsible for the breakdown of glycogen in liver cells. Glycogen is a form of energy storage in animals. Epinephrine binds to a receptor on the outside of a liver cell causing a conformational change to occur. This change means that a G protein can now bind.