Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension
Such a contraction is called a twitch. Thus, each motor unit is either relaxed or each presynaptic action potential causes an action potential in all of the muscle fibers of the motor unit, causing them all to contract at once. In the whole muscle, contractions of different strengths necessarily are created by activating different numbers of motor units.
The specific contraction requirements of a particular muscle determine the type of motor units found in that muscle. Muscles which must produce great tension but are only called on periodically will likely incorporate a high percentage of type A motor units in their organization. The innervation ratio represents the number of muscle fibers innervated by a single motor nerve fiber. A small motor unit might have an innervation ratio as low as 10:1. Some of the large motor units of the gastrocnemius have been estimated to be as high as 2000:1.
Because all of the muscle fibers of a motor unit contract simultaneously, it is more difficult to achieve fine gradations in the force of contraction when motor units are large. Suppose one motor unit contains 20 fibers and another only 5, and suppose each fiber can produce 1 gram of force. The end-points of this continuum are, of course, a single twitch in the weakest element (the minimum) and a fused tetanic contraction in the strongest (the maximum single-unit twitch). Each muscle fiber is contacted by only one motoneuron, but a motoneuron can contact many muscle fibers.
Skeletal muscle contractions can be broadly separated into twitch, summation, and tetanic contractions. In a twitch contraction, a single action potential, whether from a motor neuron or from within the muscle, causes the muscle fiber to produce a single contraction and relaxation cycle called a twitch. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension
Motor unit consists of a motor neuron and the group of skeletal muscle fibers which it innervates. Three types of motor units are found in skeletal muscle. The largest of these are the type A motor units, which are characterized by high contractile speed and power. The innervation ratio represents the number of muscle fibers innervated by a single motor nerve fiber. A small motor unit might have an innervation ratio as low as 10:1. Some of the large motor units of the gastrocnemius have been estimated to be as high as 2000:1.
Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric. But if the muscle length lengthens, then the contraction is eccentric. In natural movements that underlie locomotor activity, muscle contractions are multifaceted as they are able to produce changes in length and tension in a time-varying manner. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension
B. The motor neuron and the muscle fibers it innervates are called a motor unit. 1. When a muscle is composed of many motor units (such as in the hand), there is fine control of muscle contraction. 2. The large muscles of the leg have relatively few motor units, which are correspondingly large in size. 3. Sustained contractions are produced by the asynchronous stimulation of different motor units. Mechanisms of Contraction. I. Skeletal muscle cells, or fibers, contain structures called myofibrils. A. Each myofibril is striated with dark (A) and light (I) bands; there are Z lines in the middle of each I band.
Muscle fibers are in turn composed of myofibrils. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle.
(2) A motor neuron in the ventral horn of the spinal cord is activated, and an action potential passes outward in a ventral root of the spinal cord. (3) The axon branches to supply a number of muscle fibers called a motor unit, and the action potential is conveyed to a motor end plate on each muscle fiber. 