At this time, there is no vaccine for hepatitis C. However, all people with chronic liver disease, including hepatitis C, should be immunized against both hepatitis A and B. A second infection by either virus can compound the damage to your liver. Hepatitis B is another form of liver disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver. The hepatitis B virus is 100 times more contagious than the virus that causes AIDS. It is spread through infected blood or body fluids or by sexual contact with an infected person.
1 Hepatitis A, B, and C are the most common viral forms of hepatitis and are the primary focus of this report. 2  Hepatitis D and E are less common hepatitis viruses. 3  Hepatitis D is a serious form of hepatitis that can be chronic. 4  It is associated with hepatitis B because the D virus relies on the B virus to replicate. 
Thanks to successful research, three forms of liver disease – hepatitis A, B and D* – can be prevented by immunization. *although there is no specific vaccine for hepatitis D, being immunized against hepatitis B will prevent you from contracting hepatitis D. Hepatitis B is another form of liver disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver. The hepatitis B virus is 100 times more contagious than the virus that causes AIDS. It is spread through infected blood or body fluids or by sexual contact with an infected person.
The good news is that hepatitis A can be prevented by vaccination. A variety of vaccines are available to make immunization fit your needs. The vaccine will prevent you from contracting hepatitis A and from being a potential source of infection to others. Hepatitis B is another form of liver disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver. The hepatitis B virus is 100 times more contagious than the virus that causes AIDS. It is spread through infected blood or body fluids or by sexual contact with an infected person.
Safe and effective vaccines are available to prevent HAV. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is transmitted through exposure to infective blood, semen, and other body fluids. HBV can be transmitted from infected mothers to infants at the time of birth or from family member to infant in early childhood. Hepatitis D virus (HDV) infections occur only in those who are infected with HBV. The dual infection of HDV and HBV can result in a more serious disease and worse outcome. Hepatitis B vaccines provide protection from HDV infection.
Prevent hepatitis B through vaccination. The term 'hepatitis' means inflammation of the liver. Hepatitis can be caused by viruses or other infectious agents, alcohol, and other chemicals. The two viruses that most commonly infect the liver are the hepatitis A virus, the hepatitis B virus and the hepatitis C virus. Vaccination against hepatitis B. Although there is no vaccination against hepatitis C, hepatitis B can be prevented through vaccination. The hepatitis B vaccine contains a protein that stimulates the body to make protective antibodies. Three doses (given at 0, 1, and 6 months) are necessary to assure protection
Hepatitis B vaccine can prevent hepatitis B, and the serious consequences of hepatitis B infection, including liver cancer and cirrhosis. Hepatitis B vaccine may be given by itself or in the same shot with other vaccines. Adults getting hepatitis B vaccine should get 3 doses — with the second dose given 4 weeks after the first and the third dose 5 months after the second. Your doctor can tell you about other dosing schedules that might be used in certain circumstances. Top of Page.
Hepatitis is a virus that attacks the liver. There are different forms of Hepatitis and each is unique. You can get Hepatitis A, B, or C from sex. Find out more about the different types of Hepatitis and how to prevent them below.