Life Without Facebook. Overall I’d say this is a subtle lifestyle change that leads to bigger gains. It’s like when you flick a drop of water into a pool of water and it slowly ripples out, first forming small waves, then big waves that effect the entire pool. Definitely a 20% high value habit. First things first. Like I mentioned in my first post, I’m not a standard Facebook user (with almost 5,000 friends in my personal account and 2 fan pages with over 3,500 fans in total), so the problems I faced with FB were probably at a magnified scale compared to the average user.
Life is Better Without Facebook. That's right, you read that correctly. Life is better without facebook and I'll tell you why. Social media has made our society dumber and more narcissistic. People that use facebook religiously inevitably become obsessed with it. They get addicted to the false attention they receive.
I searched “life without facebook” on google and this is the first link that came up. I’m on day 3 without it. Well its good to read about other people who feel the same way I do about it. I should add that I’m 16, so my whole generation has facebook.. Mid-February I was invited to a Facebook group with people dedicated to giving it up for Lent. I have never observed Lent before, but I thought it sounded interesting and challenging. And so I looked up Lent and it’s significance, and thought it was a great idea. Observing Lent, that is.
Life Without Facebook: An Update. Get free updates via email. It’s been a week since I’ve nuked my Facebook account, and everything’s going great so far. In case you’ve missed my earlier post on why I deleted Facebook, read it here first: Deleting Facebook From My Life. First things first. Like I mentioned in my first post, I’m not a standard Facebook user (with almost 5,000 friends in my personal account and 2 fan pages with over 3,500 fans in total), so the problems I faced with FB were probably at a magnified scale compared to the average user.
I spend less time on my computer without Facebook's source of infinite content. During real life experiences, what is or isn't worth sharing on Facebook no longer lingers in the back of my mind, so I spend more time simply enjoying the present. In the final analysis, what my little experiment has shown me is that Facebook has become so ingrained in human life that it's kind of like religion in a way. You can partake or not partake as much as you like, but the thing itself isn't going anywhere.
You don’t constantly compare your life against the lives of others. I cannot begin to explain how good it feels to just focus on what’s going on for you without comparing it to what everyone else is doing and wondering whether you’re doing enough with your life after seeing the achievements of others. Picture it. You’re waiting next to someone you know but you can’t whip out your phone to check the Twittersphere or see the wild night so and so had from their Facebook photos. So rather than standing there like a lemon you have to have an actual conversation. With your mouth.
In July, I deactivated my Facebook account as a sort of social experiment. With Facebook and real life becoming increasingly symbiotic, what would I miss? What wouldn't I miss? In the final analysis, what my little experiment has shown me is that Facebook has become so ingrained in human life that it's kind of like religion in a way. You can partake or not partake as much as you like, but the thing itself isn't going anywhere.
Steven Corona nixed Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, and more for 30 days-and lived to tell about it. P. 30 days ago, I made the decision to give up social media for a month. Well, here I am, reporting that I'm still alive and that the past month has been life changing-the most successful month of my existence. Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, and Hacker News were all on my blacklist, well-sort of. Steven Corona nixed Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, and more for 30 days-and lived to tell about it. 30 days ago, I made the decision to give up social media for a month.
Bye Bye Facebook! But I finally did it, and so I would like to share with you the 10 ways in which leaving Facebook have changed my life, maybe you would be inspired to leave as well, or maybe you would reconsider your Facebook use!