Among the 'core' Carry On stars who had major roles in several of the series, only six are still alive: • Barbara Windsor (born on 6 August 1937), who appeared in 10 Carry Ons, is 77. • Julian Holloway (born on 24 June 1944), who appeared in 9 Carry Ons, is 70. • Jim Dale (born on 15 August 1935) appeared in 11 Carry Ons and is now 79. • June Whitfield (born on 11 November 1925), who starred in 4 of the series, is 89. • Leslie Phillips (born on 20 April 1924) who also appeared in 4 Carry Ons, is 91. • Valerie Leon (born on 12 November 1943), who appeared in 5 Carry Ons, is 71. There were 31 Carry On films made, starting with Carry On Sergeant in 1958
1 Kenneth Williams (26 films, including co-presenting That's Carry On! ) 2  played a range of character types, nearly always a lead character. 3  Early roles were rather strait-laced, he then sometimes played his snide character: quite slimy and smarmy with a distinctive nasal voice. 1 Barbara Windsor (10, including co-presenting That's Carry On with Williams) played main roles in all her Carry On appearances. 2  Her characters were always the cheeky and saucy young blonde, often in revealing costumes. 3  Sometimes her characters were chaste (and very often chased), some were easily swayed.
The following actors are considered to be the core members of the Carry On team: 1  Kenneth Williams (26 films, including co-presenting That's Carry On! ) 2  played a range of character types, nearly always a lead character. 1 Barbara Windsor (10, including co-presenting That's Carry On with Williams) played main roles in all her Carry On appearances. 2  Her characters were always the cheeky and saucy young blonde, often in revealing costumes. 3  Sometimes her characters were chaste (and very often chased), some were easily swayed.
Among the Carry On stars still with us are: Jim Dale, the delicious Fennela Fielding, Shirley Eaton, and Valerie Leon, Bernard Cribbins, Liz Fraser, Peter Gilmore, Julian Holloway and Norman Hudis, writer of the first six films. 
Who is still alive out of the carry on films. Only six cast members out of the original 21 from the Carry On film series are still alive.
/ reply You need to login before you can answer. Not many of the main Carry On team are still with us, sadly. Jim Dale and Barbara Windsor are the only two main team members still alive. 
With a number of leading lights of the English theatre including Kenneth Williams, Sid James and Richard Burton, the Carry On series is still viewed as the creme de la creme of the British film industry winning in total 17 Oscars. 1 Carry On Luggage : (1975) Considered by many Carry On fans as the film that represents the true high water point of the series and the last to feature all the classic cast.
1 Unusually for a regular, in some films, including Again Doctor, Henry and Loving, his role consists of a cameo appearance in a single scene. 2  Additionally, he also appeared in three of the four Carry On Christmas TV specials, and nine episodes of the Carry On Laughing TV series. 1 Barbara Windsor (10, including co-presenting That's Carry On with Williams) played main roles in all her Carry On appearances. 2  Her characters were always the cheeky and saucy young blonde, often in revealing costumes. 3  Sometimes her characters were chaste (and very often chased), some were easily swayed.
Full Cast of Carry On Films Actors/Actresses. Carry On films cast list. This list of the Carry On films actors’ names (actors in the movie Carry On films) contains photos of the cast members when available. This fact-based cast roster includes any Carry On films actresses and all other actors from the film. Carry On films cast members have done many other films so be sure to check out the filmographies and individual pages of the stars of Carry On films. This list of who was in Carry On films can be sorted by any column, but is currently alphabetical and includes photos of who starred in Carry On film
1 Actor. 2  He was a cast member of the Carry On series of movies, appearing first in Carry on Cowboy and in 16 altogether. 3  He played the 'Meddling Monk' in the Doctor Who science fiction television series. 1 Actor, cast member of the Carry On series of movies. 2  Father of Jeremy Connor. 3  Much loved British comedy actor. 4  He made his stage debut at age two, and by 11 was performing in both a solo act and a double acts with his brother in various revue shows.