You want to do this so that you can lift up the carpet and check the pad and the floor underneath. It's important to remove the furniture as quickly as possible so that you can get started on the carpet. 1  Leaving the furniture on the wet carpeting can damage both the furniture and the flooring. If you have a small area rug or carpet that is wet, the best thing to do it is remove it from the floor and hang or lay it outside until it dries completely. However, if you are dealing with wet wall-to-wall carpet, or a carpet piece that is too large to remove, you may need to try to dry it where it is.
Whether you can save flood-damaged rugs and carpets depends on the source of the flooding. “If the floodwaters consisted of clean basement seepage or runoff from your yard, you can dry and clean your rugs and carpets,” [insert name and title] of [insert county name] says. 
If Your Carpet is Loose with a Pad Under It. 1  Remove the pad and dispose of it. 2  Use a wet-vac to carefully and thoroughly remove as much water as you can. 3  Use fans and blowers to circulate air over and under the carpet. 1 Saving a flooded carpet is a lot of work. 2  If you have standing water, use pumps to get the water out. 3  Buy or rent if necessary, and speed is essential here, as standing water will affect not just carpet, but wallboard and everything else it contacts.
Carpet Water Damage Mold. Carpet water damage mold and black mold in carpet can develop anytime your carpet has become wet and stayed wet for a while without the opportunity to dry out thoroughly. If your home had some flooding and the carpet was damp for more than 24 hours, you probably have some mold in your carpets. Mold in your home carries many health risks and can be a great deal of work to clean up. Cleaning up Black Mold in Carpet. Once carpet water damage mold has taken hold, there’s often no cleaning it up. You can shampoo your carpet but that won’t remove all the mold. Additionally, if the carpet has been wet for more than 48 hours, the floor and padding beneath the carpet probably have mold as well.
To decide what to do if your basement is flooded, go by these rules: If the floodwater was clean (broken pipe, burst washing machine supply hose or a foundation leak), you can probably save the carpet (the pad is “iffy”). But you've got to act fast. For this article, we'll assume the basement was flooded with clean water, the water is now shut off and the cost of the carpet is less than your insurance deductible (or that you simply want to do it yourself to avoid a claim).
1 You may want to get professional help anyway. 2  Saving a flooded carpet is a lot of work. 3  If you have standing water, use pumps to get the water out. 4  Buy or rent if necessary, and speed is essential here, as standing water will affect not just carpet, but wallboard and everything else it contacts. 1 Saving a flooded carpet is a lot of work. 2  If you have standing water, use pumps to get the water out. 3
Cleaning Rain-soaked Carpets. If the carpet has been soaked for more than 24 hours, replace it. If the carpet has been wet for less than 24 hours, you may clean it or have professional cleaners come in to address the need. Check with your insurance company to be sure you respond in a manner that will be covered. 
Carpeting that gets wet during a flood (for example) may be salvageable if the carpet is quickly (within 48 hours) dried. Carpets can be dried using dehumidification and water extraction equipment to remove the moisture in the carpet. This equipment can usually be rented. Cleaning up Black Mold in Carpet. Once carpet water damage mold has taken hold, there’s often no cleaning it up. You can shampoo your carpet but that won’t remove all the mold. Additionally, if the carpet has been wet for more than 48 hours, the floor and padding beneath the carpet probably have mold as well.
Water damage can flood your carpet causing the carpet and pad to get soaked. Removing water from the carpet is not that hard, but the pad will remain wet and can get mold damaged. Drying both can be a trick. If you do not have a professional dry out your wet carpet then you should at least remove the wet pad. Then try to dry the carpet by its self. Extracting the water from both the carpet AND the pad is important. Properly installing an air mover and dehumidifier to finish the repair is key.
1 Vacuum the carpet with the wet vacuum cleaner until you get no more water. 2  The wet vacuum cleaner removes water from the carpet itself, but it may not be able to remove it from the padding if the water has wicked through the carpet backing or soaked in under the edges. If you have a small area rug or carpet that is wet, the best thing to do it is remove it from the floor and hang or lay it outside until it dries completely. However, if you are dealing with wet wall-to-wall carpet, or a carpet piece that is too large to remove, you may need to try to dry it where it is.