A psychiatrist specializes in prescribing mental health medications, and rarely provides psychotherapy. A psychiatrist's training is that of a medical physician's, involving four years of pre-med studies (i.e. a Bachelor Degree with a pre-med emphasis), then four years of medical school. People often ask, what is the difference between a psychologist and a psychiatrist in training.. Psychologists obtain a BA (usually-but not always-in psychology), then go to a five year graduate program that focuses exclusively on behavioral science.
In order to become a psychiatrist, you must posses a bachelor's degree in addition to four years of medical school. To enter medical school, you must posses a minimum of three years of college coursework and/or a bachelor's degree. Four years of psychiatric residency training must be completed after medical school. Psychiatrists must also apply to become licensed through their local state agency. Additionally, in order to practice as a psychiatrist, a certification is mandatory through the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology.
Psychiatry Overview. Psychiatrists are medical doctors who primarily care for patients with mental health problems. The education path to entering this career field is a long one, including medical school and at least four years of post-graduate residency training. As a psychiatrist, you may work with patients afflicted with addiction disorders, mood disorders, anxiety or psychotic disorders. Medical School Acceptance. Most medical school applicants have a bachelor's degree or higher. Upon earning your undergraduate degree, you need to apply to medical school. Acceptance to an accredited medical school is difficult due to keen competition.
To become a psychiatrist, a student must complete four years of college, four years of medical school, and three or more years of internship and residency. Yet, medical knowledge is just one of the skills a good psychiatrist needs. 
Requirements to become a Psychiatrist     You need   * high school diploma  * Four years of undergraduate school with a Bachelor's degree in the scienc … es  * Four years of medical school (in order to be licensed to prescribe medication  * Three years of psych training in residency at a hospital  . People often ask, what is the difference between a psychologist and a psychiatrist in training.. Psychologists obtain a BA (usually-but not always-in psychology), then go to a five year graduate program that focuses exclusively on behavioral science.
Psychiatrists are medical doctors who specialize in the treatment of disorders of the mind. Psychiatrists spend twelve or more years studying at the postsecondary and postgraduate levels to acquire the education and training necessary to start a career. During completion of a psychiatric residency program, medical school graduates receive the additional training and education needed to work as a psychiatrist. Admission to residency programs can be competitive and is based on performance in medical school and scores received on medical board exams
Following medical school graduation, you must complete a 4-year residency in psychiatry to fulfill state medical board requirements for licensing. A medical residency is part of a psychiatrist's medical education and involves paid, on-the-job training, which usually takes place in a hospital. Medical School Acceptance. Most medical school applicants have a bachelor's degree or higher. Upon earning your undergraduate degree, you need to apply to medical school. Acceptance to an accredited medical school is difficult due to keen competition.
A psychiatrist is a medical physician specializing in treatment of  the mind.  It's not easy to become a real-life Dr. Frasier Crane. At a  minimum, you have to complete fo … ur years of college, then four  years of medical school and, finally, four years of psychiatry  residency training. People often ask, what is the difference between a psychologist and a psychiatrist in training.. Psychologists obtain a BA (usually-but not always-in psychology), then go to a five year graduate program that focuses exclusively on behavioral science.
Required Education. You'll need to graduate from medical school and complete a psychiatric residency in order to become a psychiatrist. To qualify for medical school, you must first graduate from a four-year undergraduate program, which includes courses in biology, chemistry, and other sciences.