Brain Lobes and their Functions. The brain is divided into four sections, known as lobes (as shown in the image above). The frontal lobe, occipital lobe, parietal lobe, and temporal lobe have different locations and functions that support the responses and actions of the human body. 1 Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information. 2  The formation of visual and verbal memories. 3  The interpretation of smells and sounds.
1 The frontal lobes are the most uniquely human of all the brain structures. 2  Parietal lobe —plays important roles in integrating sensory information from various senses, and in the manipulation of objects; portions of the parietal lobe are involved with visuospatial processing. If not specified, the expression lobes of the brain refers to the telencephalon. Terminologia Anatomica (1998) divides cerebrum into 6 lobes. (See individual articles for more information): 1  Frontal lobe —conscious thought; damage can result in mood changes, social differences, etc.
The lobes of the brain were originally a purely anatomical classification, but have been shown also to be related to different brain functions. The telencephalon (cerebrum), the largest portion of the human brain, is divided into lobes, but so is the cerebellum. If not specified, the expression lobes of the brain refers to the telencephalon. Terminologia Anatomica (1998) divides cerebrum into 6 lobes. (See individual articles for more information): 1  Frontal lobe —conscious thought; damage can result in mood changes, social differences, etc.
Other functions of the temporal lobe include: 1  Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information. 1 Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information. 2  The formation of visual and verbal memories. 3  The interpretation of smells and sounds.
Print. Each side of your brain contains four lobes. The frontal lobe is important for cognitive functions and decision-making. The parietal lobe processes information about temperature, taste, touch and movement, and spatial orientation. The occipital lobe is primarily responsible for vision. 
Parietal Lobe Controls Sensory Functions. Next is the parietal lobe. The parietal lobe is located in the middle of the brain and is associated with our sensory functions such as pressure, pain, and touch. This is the somatosensory center for the brain and is responsible for processing the body's senses. Temporal Lobe Controls Language. The third lobe of the brain is the temporal lobe. Another one that is easily found simply by the way it is named. The temporal lobe sits below the frontal lobe, near your temples. The temporal lobe is associated with processing sounds and the language we hear.
Location. The frontal lobes are located in the anterior of the cerebral cortex. In other words, they are located in the front of the brain. The frontal lobes have a lot to do with personality and how we act. 
The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. 1 Wernicke's Area-This portion of the temporal lobe is formed around the auditory cortex. 2  While scientists have a limited understanding of the function of this area, it is known that it helps the body formulate or understand speech.