Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus — the same virus that causes chickenpox. After you've had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue near your spinal cord and brain. Years later, the virus may reactivate as shingles. While it isn't a life-threatening condition, shingles can be very painful. 
To repeat what I have cited in the above, people can get shingles only after they have contracted chickenpox, which is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. And it is not a necessity that everyone who has had chickenpox, would eventually contract shingles. But before I reveal the answer, why not we know what shingles exactly is, and how is it caused. What happens is, after the varicella-zoster virus causes chickenpox in a person, it goes into a state of dormancy; it hides in the nerve tissues near the spinal cord and the brain.
However, even though you can't catch shingles from shingles, you can catch chickenpox from shingles. If someone who doesn't have immunity to chickenpox comes in contact with a person with shingles, there is a good chance that they will catch the virus, and it will develop into chickenpox. Shingles (herpes zoster) is a viral infection of the nerve roots. It causes pain and often causes a rash on one side of the body, the left or right. The rash appears in a band, a strip, or a small area.
A recent report published in the Archives of Dermatology finds that people who have herpes zoster-commonly known as shingles-are more likely to have family members who also have had the condition. Herpes zoster is a disease characterized by a skin rash with blisters in a specific area or on one side of the body. It is caused when the virus varicella zoster-the virus that causes chickenpox-becomes reactivated in nerves of the spinal cord.
Shingles is the reactivation of a viral infection in the nerves to the skin that causes pain, burning, or a tingling sensation, along with an itch and blisters in the skin supplied by the affected nerve. It is caused by the varicella zoster virus[1] , or VZV—the same virus that causes chickenpox. 
Genetics of Shingles: Shingles is NOT a genetic disease. Shingles is an infectious disease. In general, an infectious disease can be caused by a pathogenic organism (viruses, bacteria, fungi, worms, parasites) that can invade the body and cause infection. About inheritance and genetics: Inheritance of Shingles refers to whether the condition is inherited from your parents or runs in families. The level of inheritance of a condition depends on how important genetics are to the disease.
However, the virus that causes shingles, the varicella zoster virus, can be spread from a person with active shingles to another person who has never had chickenpox. In such cases, the person exposed to the virus might develop chickenpox, but they would not develop shingles. The virus is spread through direct contact with fluid from the rash blisters caused by shingles. A person with active shingles can spread the virus when the rash is in the blister-phase. A person is not infectious before the blisters appear. Once the rash has developed crusts, the person is no longer contagious.
Shingles (also known as herpes zoster) is a painful blistering rash caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox (the varicella zoster virus). What causes shingles? If you have had chickenpox the virus that caused it may live on afterwards in a dormant state in the nerves linked to your spinal cord. About 20% of people who have had chickenpox will have an attack of shingles later in life. Shingles is not caught from someone who has shingles, but follows an earlier attack of chickenpox. However, a person with shingles can infect someone who has never had chickenpox, causing an attack of chickenpox but not shingles.
If you have a blood relative who has had shingles, you may be a greater risk of developing the disease. Shingles is a very painful rash that can last from one to three months. In May of 2006, the FDA licensed a new vaccine to reduce the risk of shingles in older Americans. Zostavax, a live virus vaccine, is given as a single injection and is recommended for use in people 60 years of age and older. 
Shingles is regarded as a complication that may occur in a person who has been infected by chickenpox at some point of his life. This article helps you understand if shingles is hereditary. Advertisement. But before I reveal the answer, why not we know what shingles exactly is, and how is it caused. What happens is, after the varicella-zoster virus causes chickenpox in a person, it goes into a state of dormancy; it hides in the nerve tissues near the spinal cord and the brain. So years later, with the help of certain triggers, the same virus reactivates, and causes the infection known as shingles