These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The cornea is the transparent portion of the eye which allows light to enter and performs two-thirds of the focusing tasks. This part also covers both the iris, the colored portion of the external eye, and the pupil, the reactive light meter in front of the lens. 
The cornea is the transparent part of the eye that covers the front portion of the eye. It covers the pupil (the opening at the center of the eye), iris (the colored part of the eye), and anterior chamber (the fluid-filled inside of the eye). The cornea's main function is to refract, or bend, light. 
Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass, but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: 1  It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. 2  The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the white part of the eye (sclera). 1 The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the white part of the eye (sclera). 2  The cornea acts as the eye’s outermost lens. 3  It functions like a window that controls and focuses the entry of light into the eye.
Corneal dystrophy is a degenerative eye disease caused by abnormal cellular function and development, leading to excess fluid in the cornea. The cornea is the part of the eye that covers your iris and pupil, forming the front-most part of your eyes. It is formed of crystal-clear protective layers and helps focus light passing onto the lens where vision “begins” in a sense. 
Cornea, Lens, and Iris. The iris is the colored part of the eye. A circular muscle in the iris controls the amount of light entering the eye through the pupil, the black area in the center of the iris. The cornea is the outer clear, round structure that covers the iris and the pupil. The cornea directs light rays into the eye and helps focus them on the light-sensitive retina at the back of the eye, providing sharp, clear vision. The lens is located behind the iris and is normally clear.
A cornea transplant, also called keratoplasty, is a surgical procedure to replace part of your cornea with corneal tissue from a donor. Your cornea is the transparent, dome-shaped surface of your eye that accounts for a large part of your eye's focusing power. 
If the cornea of your eye becomes damaged through disease, infection, or injury, the resulting scars can interfere with vision by blocking or distorting light as it enters the eye. The cornea is the clear, protective outer layer of the eye. Along with the sclera (white of the eye), it serves as a barrier against dirt, germs, and other particles that can harm the eye's delicate components. The cornea is also capable of filtering out some amounts of the sun's ultraviolet light.
For other uses, see Cornea (disambiguation) . The cornea is the transparent front part of the eye that covers the iris, pupil, and anterior chamber. The cornea, with the anterior chamber and lens, refracts light, with the cornea accounting for approximately two-thirds of the eye's total optical power. In humans, the refractive power of the cornea is approximately 43 dioptres. While the cornea contributes most of the eye's focusing power, its focus is fixed. The curvature of the lens, on the other hand, can be adjusted to tune the focus depending upon the object's distance.