2.2.1: Describe and explain the operation of a mass spectrometer. A simple diagram of a single beam mass spectrometer is required. The following stages of operation should be considered: vaporisation, ionisation, acceleration, deflection and detection. AIM 7: Simulations can be used to illustrate the operation of a mass spectrometer. 
1. The Mass Spectrometer. In order to measure the characteristics of individual molecules, a mass spectrometer converts them to ions so that they can be moved about and manipulated by external electric and magnetic fields. The three essential functions of a mass spectrometer, and the associated components, are:
Infrared spectroscopy is used in research to identify samples, do quantitative analysis, or detect impurities. Infrared spectroscopy can be used on gaseous, liquid, or solid samples and does not destroy the sample in the process. Other applications include: When deciding which infrared spectrometer is right for your laboratory, there are several things to consider. 
A spectrophotometer is an instrument that can pass light of a single wavelength through a solution and measure the amount that passes through. First, the spectrophotometer must be zeroed by passing light of the chosen wavelength (500 nm for example) through a blank containing only the solvent. A spectrophotometer can be set to measure either the percent transmittance or the absorbance of a solution. In lab, you will be using a spectrophotometer called the Spectronic 20 or Spec 20 to measure absorbance.
Isotope-ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS) is a specialization of mass spectrometry, in which mass spectrometric methods are used to measure the relative abundance of isotopes in a given sample. This technique has two different applications in the earth and environmental sciences. This method can be used for 'stable isotope' analysis of light gases (as above), but it is particularly used in the isotopic analysis of noble gases (= rare or inert gases) for radiometric dating or isotope geochemistry.
A mass spectrometer is an analytical instrument that is used to identify the amount and type of chemicals present in a sample by measuring the mass-to-charge ratio and abundance of gas-phase ions. where m and v are mass and velocity of the particle. The focussing principle of the oldest and simplest magnetic spectrometer, the semicircular spectrometer, invented by J. K. Danisz, is shown on the left. A constant magnetic field is perpendicular to the page.
A spectrometer is an tool commonly used by astronomers which splits the light collected by a telescope into its colors. This allows astronomers see the details in the light from space. 
In physics, a spectrometer is an apparatus to measure a spectrum. Generally, a spectrum is a graph that shows intensity as a function of wavelength, of frequency, of energy, of momentum, or of mass. where m and v are mass and velocity of the particle. The focussing principle of the oldest and simplest magnetic spectrometer, the semicircular spectrometer, invented by J. K. Danisz, is shown on the left. A constant magnetic field is perpendicular to the page.
Mass spectroscopy can be used for a series of applications, ranging from the determination of chemical elements and chemical compounds in all kinds of samples to the inv … estigation of reactions and interactions of DNA with other substances. 