Oxycodone is listed as a Class A drug in the Misuse of Drugs Act of Singapore, which means offences in relation to the drug attract the most severe level of punishment. After a dose of conventional oral oxycodone, peak plasma levels of the drug are attained in about one hour; in contrast, after a dose of OxyContin (an oral controlled-release formulation), peak plasma levels of oxycodone occur in about three hours.
Oxycodone does not eliminate the sensation of pain but decreases discomfort by increasing tolerance to pain. In addition to tolerance to pain, oxycodone also causes sedation and respiratory depression. Acetaminophen is a non-narcotic pain-reliever and antipyretic (fever reducer). Acetaminophen relieves pain by elevating the threshold to sensing pain. It reduces fever through its action on the heat-regulating center of the brain. 
The FDA approved oxycodone in 1976. PRESCRIBED FOR: Oxycodone is prescribed for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term treatment with a narcotic, and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate for the relief of moderate to severe pain. The precise mechanism of action is not known but may involve stimulation of opioid receptors in the brain. Oxycodone does not eliminate the sensation of pain but decreases discomfort by increasing the tolerance to pain.
OxyContin is the brand name for oxycodone hydrochloride, an opioid (narcotic) analgesic (pain reliever). OxyContin is a controlled-release oral formulation of oxycodone hydrochloride. It is available by prescription only and is used to treat moderate to severe pain when around-the-clock pain relief is needed for an extended period of time. As pain medication, OxyContin is taken every 12 hours because the tablets contain a controlled, time-release formulation of the medication. Most pain medications must be taken every three to six hours.
Oxycodone is a Class A drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act. For Class A drugs, which are considered to be the most likely to cause harm, possession without a prescription is punishable by up to seven years in prison, an unlimited fine, or both. After a dose of conventional oral oxycodone, peak plasma levels of the drug are attained in about one hour; in contrast, after a dose of OxyContin (an oral controlled-release formulation), peak plasma levels of oxycodone occur in about three hours.
Oxycodone: Opioid analgesic; semisynthetic pure opioid agonist whose principal therapeutic action is analgesia. Effects are mediated by receptors (eg, µ and kappa) in the CNS for endogenous opioid-like compounds (eg, endorphins, enkephalins). Lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness/sedation, N/V, respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, shock. Oxycodone: May cause severe hypotension after coadministration with drugs that compromise vasomotor tone (eg, phenothiazines).
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Oxycodone is a strong narcotic pain-reliever and cough suppressant similar to morphine, codeine, and hydrocodone. The precise mechanism of action is not known but may involve stimulation of opioid receptors in the brain. Oxycodone does not eliminate the sensation of pain but decreases discomfort by increasing the tolerance to pain.
Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Percocet ® (oxycodone/APAP) is a prescription narcotic pain medicine licensed for the treatment of moderate to moderately severe pain. Although it is commonly used for treating short-term pain (such as pain due to a surgery, injury, or dental procedure), Percocet can also be used to treat migraines, chronic pain, or other types of recurring or long-term conditions that cause pain.
It was developed in 1917 in Germany as one of several new semi-synthetic opioids in an attempt to improve on the existing opioids. Oxycodone is available as single-ingredient medication in immediate release and controlled release. Parenteral formulations of 10 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL are available in the U.K. for IV/IM administration. After a dose of conventional oral oxycodone, peak plasma levels of the drug are attained in about one hour; in contrast, after a dose of OxyContin (an oral controlled-release formulation), peak plasma levels of oxycodone occur in about three hours.
The most serious risk associated with opioids, including OxyContin, is respiratory depression — slowed breathing. Common opioid side effects are constipation, nausea, sedation, dizziness, vomiting, headache, dry mouth, sweating, mood changes, flushing, loss of appetite, and weakness. As pain medication, OxyContin is taken every 12 hours because the tablets contain a controlled, time-release formulation of the medication. Most pain medications must be taken every three to six hours.