Store your thawed chicken in the refrigerator. Chicken that has been thawed can be safely stored in the fridge for 1-2 days. Once a chicken has been thawed it should not be refrozen. 1  Store your thawed chicken in the coldest part of your
To thaw chicken faster, place it wrapped in a bowl of cold water in the sink. It is important that the water is cold, as warm water can encourage bacteria growth. Additionally, it’s important that the water be changed every 30 minutes to maintain the temperature of the water.
Allow five hours of thawing time for every pound of chicken. You can also thaw wrapped chicken safely by submerging it in cold water in your sink or a large bowl. Allow about 30 minutes of thawing time for every pound of chicken, changing the water every 30 minutes.
1 Chicken may also be safely thawed in cold water. 2  Place chicken in its original wrap or watertight plastic bag in cold water; change water often. 3  It takes about 2 hours to thaw a whole chicken. 4  For quick thawing of chicken (raw or cooked), use the microwave.
Thaw frozen chicken slowly and safely. It will take anywhere from 24 hours to two days to thaw a whole chicken in the refrigerator, and about 2 to 9 hours for cut-up chicken parts (less for boneless pieces). You can thaw chicken more quickly in a cold water bath or by using the defrost cycle of the microwave.
1 Thaw chicken in the refrigerator (not on the countertop) or in cold water. 2  It takes approximately 24 hours to thaw a four pound chicken in the refrigerator; cut-up parts, 3-9 hours. 3  Chicken may also be safely thawed
If you are pressed for time, you will not be able to thaw the whole chicken in the refrigerator. You can quickly thaw a whole chicken in cold water or in the microwave, then proceed to cook the chicken the way you prefer.
Thawing tips. 1  Thaw chicken in the refrigerator (not on the countertop) or in cold water. 2  It takes approximately 24 hours to thaw a four pound chicken in the refrigerator; cut-up parts, 3-9 hours. 3  Chicken may also be safely thawed