Glucose Fermentation: A. Escherichia coli-The color change from red to yellow indicates acid production. Note the large amount of gas production by E. coli. B. Proteus vulgaris-This organism is positive for acid but this bubble is too small to score this test as a clear positive for gas production. BACK TO LIST. 
One of the three species Hauser identified was Proteus vulgaris, so this organism has a long history in microbiology. Over the past two decades, the genus Proteus, and in particular P. vulgaris, has undergone a number of major taxonomic revisions. In 1982, P. vulgaris was separated into three biogroups on the basis of indole production. It is known to cause urinary tract infections and wound infections. The term Proteus signifies changeability of form, as personified in the Homeric poems in Proteus, the old man of the sea, who tends the sealflocks of Poseidon and has the gift of endless transformation.
Microbiological Characteristics: Proteus mirabilis is part of the Enterobacteriaceae family. It is a small gram-negative bacillus and a facultative anaerobe. Proteus mirabilis is characterized by its swarming motility, its ability to ferment maltose, and its inability to ferment lactose. Proteus mirabilis is part of the normal flora of the human gastrointestinal tract. It can also be found free living in water and soil. When this organism, however, enters the urinary tract, wounds, or the lungs it can become pathogenic.
Disease: The most common infection involving Proteus mirabilis occurs when the bacteria moves to the urethra and urinary bladder. Although Proteus mirabilis mostly known to cause urinary tract infections, the majority of urinary tract infections are due to E. coli. Proteus mirabilis is part of the normal flora of the human gastrointestinal tract. It can also be found free living in water and soil. When this organism, however, enters the urinary tract, wounds, or the lungs it can become pathogenic.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Proteus vulgaris is a rod-shaped, nitrate-reducing, indole+ and catalase-positive, hydrogen sulfide-producing, Gram-negative bacterium that inhabits the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. It can be found in soil, water, and fecal matter. It is known to cause urinary tract infections and wound infections. The term Proteus signifies changeability of form, as personified in the Homeric poems in Proteus, the old man of the sea, who tends the sealflocks of Poseidon and has the gift of endless transformation.
It is grouped with the enterobacteriacea and is an opportunistic pathogen of humans. In humans P.vulgaris is known to cause urinary tract infections and wound infections. P.vulgaris is associated with nosocomial infection, and has the ability to degrade urea to ammonia by production of the enzyme urease. McConkey agar contains lactose, which P.vulgaris does not ferment. It ferments glucose, sucrose, galactose, glycerol occasionally maltose with gas production, but never lactose. P.vulgaris ferments liquefies gelatin, casein, and blood serum, curdling milk with acid production
Salmonella & Proteus (A & D) ferment the glucose (present in low concentration) but do not ferment the lactose or sucrose. These organisms use the protein at the aerobic surface of the slant as a carbon source, the pH increases and the top of the slant becomes red. The black is due to hydrogen sulfide production. Substantial hydrogen sulfide production by Proteus mirabilis makes it difficult to determine color in the butt of the slant.
C. Interpretation of results 1. Fermentation results When using phenol red as the pH indicator, a yellow color indicates that enough acid products have been produced by fermentation of the sugar to lower the pH to 6.8 or less. A delayed fermentation reaction may produce an orange color. Fermentation reactions are detected by the color change of a pH indicator as acid products are formed. A color change only occurs when enough acid products have been produced by fermentation of the carbohydrate
Triple sugar iron agar (TSI) is a differential medium that contains lactose, sucrose, a small amount of glucose (dextrose), ferrous sulfate, and the pH indicator phenol red. It is used to differentiate enterics based on the ability to reduce sulfur and ferment carbohydrates. 
PROTEUS VULGARIS. Proteus vulgaris is a rod-shaped, gram-negative bacterium that inhabits the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. It can be found in soil, water and fecal matter. It is grouped with the enterobacteriaceae and is an opportunistic pathogen of humans. 