This is a picture of persistent and expectant prayer. We trust that God is good, and so we ask for His gifts. Luke 18:1-7 shares a similar parable, this time of a widow and an unjust judge. However, Paul remarks in 2 Corinthians 12:8-9 that he pled to the Lord for something three times. God refused Paul's request. 
Then they can share in the process and become a part of the answer as well. When we become involved in prayer, God allows us to participate in what He’s doing in this world. When the Lord gets ready to do something, He often moves the hearts of His people to pray. Back to the story Jesus told of the unrighteous judge. It’s important to note that in the story, Jesus had the supplicant appealing to a judge for help.
God also uses persistence in prayer to mold, even transform, our desires, to change how we pray and even what we are praying for so that we gradually come to pray closer to the heart of God’s will. For example, you might have prayed for years for your child or your parents to have a good marriage. And it doesn’t happen. No doubt you have your story of frustrations in prayer. Take heart. Persistence does not guarantee that you will get what you asked for, but it does promise you will get something better and actually closer to your heart’s deepest desire.
A new and important look at Jesus’ story about the persistent woman and the judge. I used to believe that it increased the likelihood of having my prayers answered if I prayed constantly about the thing that concerned me. I thought the longer I stayed on my knees about it the better off the outcome would be. When the Lord gets ready to do something, He often moves the hearts of His people to pray. Back to the story Jesus told of the unrighteous judge. It’s important to note that in the story, Jesus had the supplicant appealing to a judge for help.
In these verses, the Lord Jesus tells His disciples a parable that is designed to teach them the importance of remaining persistent in prayer. I would like for us to examine this parable together this evening because we need to hear the truths that are taught here. 
How we view God has everything to do with what expectations (faith) we have when we come to Him in prayer. I’ve already said that Jesus was using contrast to show the difference between our situation when we ask God for something and the situation of the widow in His story. When the Lord gets ready to do something, He often moves the hearts of His people to pray. Back to the story Jesus told of the unrighteous judge. It’s important to note that in the story, Jesus had the supplicant appealing to a judge for help.
The first key to answered prayer is persistence -- which means to hold fast to, or hold onto tightly. God wants us to hold on tightly to His promises in prayer. Don't let disappointment cause you to let go of your faith. The man in the parable didn't give up when his neighbor turned down his initial request. Prayer is an essential part of our relationship with God. Yet, too often we neglect this vital bridge of communication with heaven. In many cases, we don't pray because we don't know exactly how to pray -- or how often. Jesus' disciples clearly saw the effect that prayer had in His life.
II. Our prayers will be answered if we are persistent in our prayers. Ask-seek-knock: all these verbs are in the Greek present tense, meaning keep on asking, keep on seeking, keep on knocking.. The emphasis is not merely on prayer, but on persistence in prayer. Pray about matters, but keep at it.
The same word is used again to indicate persistence or perseverance in prayer. God desires this kind of prayer, because it indicates that we have come to a sense of our own lack and are unable to meet the need ourselves. With persistence and perseverance, we are to be devoted to prayer and petition for all the saints. It is the work of the Spirit of God in our lives that makes this effective and possible. But we are responsible to apply ourselves with diligence and urgency. Praying will take persistence and diligence.
In this story Jesus was doing what He did so many other times, and that is to make an argument through contrast. The truth Jesus wants us to see is that we are not to think of God that way! In this story Jesus was doing what He did so many other times, and that is to make an argument through contrast. When the Lord gets ready to do something, He often moves the hearts of His people to pray. Back to the story Jesus told of the unrighteous judge. It’s important to note that in the story, Jesus had the supplicant appealing to a judge for help.