The family has a number of different baobab-type trees, also of the genus Adansonia. With one species in Australia and four species native to Madagascar, the most spectacular, A. grandidieri, reaches a staggering 40 m in height, only bearing branches at the very top of the tall, thick trunk. A number of significantly large, historical baobab trees can be seen in the Limpopo Province: 1  The Sagole Baobab is recorded as being the biggest tree in South Africa with a stem diameter of 10.47 m, a height of 22 m and a crown spread of 38.2 m. 2  It grows east of Tshipise.
8 photos: Deforestation in Madagascar. Madagascar's baobab trees – Six out of the eight species of the baobab tree are endemic to Madagascar. The tree's trunk could reach a diameter of nine meters and a height of 18 meters. Hide Caption. 3 of 8. Madagascar's baobab trees – The baobab is often described as the upside down tree due to its unusual shape -- its branches look like roots sticking up in the air.
Baobab is the common name of a genus of trees (Adansonia). There are eight species. Six species live in the drier parts of Madagascar, one in mainland Africa, and one in Australia. The baobab is the national tree of Madagascar. Other common names include 'boab', 'boaboa', 'bottle tree', 'the tree of life', 'upside-down tree', and 'monkey bread tree'
Baobab Tree Pictures. Picture of a group of Baobab Trees (Adansonia grandidieri). The Adansonia genus consists of eight species of Baobab trees, six native to Madagascar, one native to mainland Africa and the Arabian Peninsula and one to Australia. The mainland African species also occurs on Madagascar, but it is not a native of that island. List of Baobab Trees, Adansonia Genus-All known species, taxa types organized by scientific Latin botanical name first and common names second.
A baobab tree's massive trunk is often disproportional to the tree's crown. The nine baobab tree species (Adansonia spp.) grow in low-lying, arid areas of Africa, Madagascar and/or Australia. The deciduous trees can become massive, with the larger species reaching 80 feet in height and 40 feet in trunk diameter
Adansonia grandidieri, sometimes known as Grandidier's baobab, is the biggest and most famous of Madagascar 's six species of baobabs. This imposing and unusual tree is endemic to the island of Madagascar, where it is an endangered species threatened by the encroachment of agricultural land. 
Raphael Van Butsele/The Image Bank/Getty Images. There are eight species of Adansonia tree, but only one baobab tree (Adansonia digitata), native to the African mainland. Six of its relatives live in Madagascar and one in Australia. It is a tiny-and very distinctive family