Sucanat -- a granulated sugar that takes its acronym-like name from the words “sugar cane natural” -- is often marketed as less refined and more nutritious than table sugar, or sucrose. Although it is minimally processed, Sucanat isn’t any healthier than other types of sugar. Sucanat is made by heating sugar cane juice into a rich syrup that’s then cooled and crumbled into dry granules.
Sucanat is a registered trademark of Ragus Holdings, Inc. Sucanat stands for SUgar CAne NATural (SU CA NAT) and is made by crushing the sugar cane, extracting the juice then heating it. The juice is reduced to a dark syrup, then hand-paddled, creating dry porous granules called Sucanat.
Sucanat stands for SUgar CAne NATural. It's an organic sweetener made from 100% certified organic sugar cane. It's minimally processed to remain a natural and very tasty sweetener. After the sugar cane is harvested, it is pressed to squeeze out the cane juice. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Sucanat™ is a minimally refined form of cane sugar. Some cooks use Sucanat™ in lieu of more refined forms of sugar because they believe it is healthier, or because they prefer the flavor. 
Generally, Sucanat can be added in a 1:1 ratio in place of white sugar to recipes, which is a benefit for an unrefined sweetener as honey and maple syrup are trickier to substitute due to their liquid state. All that said, let’s remember we’re still talking about sugar. Sucanat is still a sugar, and sugar is sugar is sugar! Sucanat is simply sugar very near to its “whole food” form. It is a better alternative to white sugar, less stressful to our bodies, and provides a tiny amount of nutrition. However, I am not promoting the wide-spread, frequent use of Sucanat
If you're looking for real raw sugar, sucanat should be your choice. An abbreviation for sugar cane natural, sucanat is simply dehydrated sugar cane juice. Compared to other sugars, sucanat is a better source of nutrients, which means it offers some benefits to your health other than just a source of calories. Calories and Carbs. The calorie and carb content in sucanat is comparable to other types of sugars, including granulated sugar and turbinado sugar. A 1-teaspoon serving of sucanat contains 15 calories and 4 grams of carbs, which is the same amount found in the same serving of granulated sugar.
Unlike refined and processed white cane sugar and brown cane sugar, but similar to panela and muscovado, Sucanat retains its molasses content. It is essentially pure dried sugar cane juice. The juice is extracted by mechanical processes, heated, and cooled, forming small brown grainy crystals. Minimal processing produces products like Panela from Latin America, Rapadura from Brazil, Muscovado from the Philippines, Jaggery which can be found in Asia, Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean, and Sucanat (which is a brand name product).
Unlike refined and processed white sugar, Sucanat retains its molasses content; it is essentially pure dried sugar cane juice. The juice is extracted by mechanical processes, heated and cooled at which point the small brown grainy crystals are formed. Sucanat stands for SUgar CAne NATural (SU CA NAT) and is made by crushing the sugar cane, extracting the juice then heating it. The juice is reduced to a dark syrup, then hand-paddled, creating dry porous granules called Sucanat.