Report Abuse. Personally I prefer Gran Canaria to Tenerife-it's a bigger island with more to see. But out of the Canaries, I loved Lanzarote-really out of this world. It all depends what kind of holiday you want. Tenerife is for the young who want to party all the time, Gran Canaria is for the families and Lanzarote is more for people who want to tour round the island and take in the unusual scenery. Lynda Lou · 7 years ago. 
I would then say Tenerife would be hotter than Lanza but Tenerife would be my last choice to stay in..not because there is owt bad about it..its just not my cup of tea in places like PDLA and Los Cristianos..I too prefer going off the beaten track abit. 
My husband and I are both 59 and we love Lanzarote. We went to Tenerife many years ago (Playa Del Americas) but it is the main, tourist area for all the young ones. We revisited Tenerife last year (sorry can't remember the resort name, but very hilly) and we were not enamoured with it at all. I would recommend Lanzarote. I've lived in Lanzarote for 5 years now with many trips to Tenerife. Lanzarote does seem like a more relaxing place compared to Tenerife. Less hussle and bussle :) Like all tourist destinations, Lanzarote has a very good selection of tourist activities and of course many bars / restaurants
We decided to go on holiday to the canary Islands as they are within 4 hours flight time of UK. When going on holiday with a toddler this is an important factor!! Tenerife seems to be the cheapest option in terms of flights so thats what we went with. Or hop further east from Gran Canaria over to Tenerife and La Gomera. The predominantly Spanish speaking Canary Islands are made up of 7 main islands and are extremely popular holiday destinations with tourists.
Colin James on Apr 02, 2012. Lanzarote is no colder or hotter than any of the other islands, I used to live in CT and have visited countless times, I have experienced 40c in May and in October, most of the year the weather is nice and hot. I don’t think Lanzarote is colder than the other islands, it is definitely more windy. I too had been watching the webcam for Costa Teguise and thought the same but I was there last week and there are loads of people on the beach, obviously just can’t see them.
As with Tenerife, Lanzarote's weather and climate conditions can vary depending on where you are on the island, but Lanzarote is considered the most consistant climates of all the Canary Islands, making it a favourite holiday destination for the UK and other northern European holidaymakers during the winter months. Summer in Lanzarote is from April untill November, during these months the weather is hot and dry with average high temperatures between 24C and 29C. Average night temperatures are around 17C with the peak months around 20C.
Gran Canaria's summers are dry and hot while winter season are only slightly cooler with a few showers-especially in the south of the island. Gran Canaria is the third largest of the Canary Islands after Tenerife and Fuerteventura. The island's location-being much further south than mainland Spain and on the same latitude as Morocco and the Sahara desert, means much better weather conditions and hotter winters than Spain itself. Summer in Lanzarote is from April untill November, during these months the weather is hot and dry with average high temperatures between 24C and 29C. Average night temperatures are around 17C with the peak months around 20C.
I go to tenerife every year usually around the winter months. The weather is comfortable usually around 22 - 25 degrees and down to around 17 at night time. In the summer, it can get really hot, but can also have a fair amount of cloud cover which is to be expected on an island. 
And if you can't make up your mind it's easy to hop between the islands by ferry for the day or a few nights with Lanzarote just 20 minutes from Fuertaventura and an hour from Gran Canaria. Or hop further east from Gran Canaria over to Tenerife and La Gomera. The predominantly Spanish speaking Canary Islands are made up of 7 main islands and are extremely popular holiday destinations with tourists.