A: Testosterone is the male androgen, or sex hormone. It controls too many things to list here. While it does help regulate mood, sex drive, and metabolism, it does this by working in tandem with other hormones in your body. Though testosterone is often considered a male sex hormone, it's also produced in small amounts by female adrenal glands and ovaries, and it may be linked to women's sex drive. The hormone is sometimes prescribed off-label to improve sexual desire in women who no longer have ovaries or have ovaries that aren't working.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in humans and other vertebrates. In humans and other mammals, testosterone is secreted primarily by the testicles of males and, to a lesser extent, the ovaries of females. Small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands. It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid. On average, in adult males, levels of testosterone are about 7–8 times as great as in adult females. As the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men. Females are also more sensitive to the hormone. Testosterone is observed in most vertebrates
The role of testosterone in a man's body. Testosterone is a hormone made by your body in the testes, the reproductive glands that make sperm. The amount of testosterone your body produces is controlled by the brain's hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. Testosterone plays an important role in the body. It's impact can be seen in: 1  Growth and maturation of the prostate and other male sex organs. 2  Development and distribution of male hair, such as facial hair.
Testosterone is a sex hormone that is naturally produced in the male testicles. In women, small amounts of testosterone is produced in the ovaries and by the adrenal system. Testosterone is available in various medications for testosterone replacement therapy. Though testosterone is often considered a male sex hormone, it's also produced in small amounts by female adrenal glands and ovaries, and it may be linked to women's sex drive. The hormone is sometimes prescribed off-label to improve sexual desire in women who no longer have ovaries or have ovaries that aren't working.
The pituitary gland then sends the message to the testicles. Most testosterone is produced in the testicles, but small amounts come from the adrenal glands, which are located just above the kidneys. In women, the adrenal glands and ovaries produce small amounts of testosterone. Before a boy is even born, testosterone is working to form male genitals. During puberty, testosterone is responsible for the development of male attributes like a deeper voice, beard, and body hair. 
Testosterone is a sex hormone that's also available as a prescription medicine to treat male hypogonadism and symptoms of low testosterone levels (low T). Symptoms of low T may include sexual dysfunction, low energy, and the loss of some male characteristics. Though testosterone is often considered a male sex hormone, it's also produced in small amounts by female adrenal glands and ovaries, and it may be linked to women's sex drive. The hormone is sometimes prescribed off-label to improve sexual desire in women who no longer have ovaries or have ovaries that aren't working.
The sex hormones: testosterone, estrogen, and progesterone. The hormones commonly considered to be sex hormones in the body are testosterone, estrogen, and progesterone. Testosterone is often referred to as a male hormone, and estrogen and progesterone are often referred to as female hormones. 
Testosterone is a hormone that is produced in large amounts by males (and a little bit in females), in the testes and adrenal glands. High testosterone levels are associated with sexual performance, reproductive function, muscle mass, hair growth, aggressive, competitive behaviors, and other such manly things. Testosterone levels tend to peak at the age of 40, and slowly decline from there. Luckily, there are many things you can do to increase testosterone, so if you feel like your T levels could use a boost, you've come to the right place.