So maybe take a look at our Child Support Guide. Every parent has the basic responsibility to provide for their child up until the age of 16, when they are legally allowed to leave school and get a job. After this age, it depends what your child chooses to do. If they continue in full-time non-advanced education, not higher than A-level equivalent, for at least 12 hours a week, then your maintenance payments will continue until your child finishes or until they turn 20. The flat rate is used when the non resident parent's weekly income is between £5 and £100 or they or their partner who they live with receive income related benefits or certain other benefits. Nil Rate: The nil rate means the non resident parent does not have to pay child maintenance.
Between the ages of 16 and 19 (changing to 20), if the child is enrolled full-time in school (more than 12 hours per week and the course is up to and including A level), child maintenance for the child must be paid. 
If they continue in full-time non-advanced education (see below for information about the new school/education leaving age rules), not higher than A-level equivalent, for at least 12 hours a week, then your maintenance payments will continue until your child finishes or until they turn 20. The flat rate is used when the non resident parent's weekly income is between £5 and £100 or they or their partner who they live with receive income related benefits or certain other benefits. Nil Rate: The nil rate means the non resident parent does not have to pay child maintenance.
You owe child maintenance until your children are at the very least, 16 years old. If you have several children and one is over 16 and the rest are not, you still owe child maintenance for the children who are under 16. You must pay child maintenance for the 11 year old no matter what kind of school she is or isn t in-under no circumstances do you not owe child maintenance for her to the custodial parent. The 16 year old may be a different story.
For example: You have three children, an 11 year old, a 16 year old and an eighteen year old. You must pay child maintenance for the 11 year old no matter what kind of school she is or isn t in-under no circumstances do you not owe child maintenance for her to the custodial parent. The 16 year old may be a different story.
As long as a child needs the support, they are entitled to child maintenance. If the child is earning an income by age 18, the maintenance order will cease to operate. However, support payments can extend until the child turns 21 (or even later) if the child is not self-supporting by this time. In South African law a child becomes an adult at age 18. So at what age does child maintenance end? Contrary to what some people may think, maintenance obligation doesn’t end when a child turns 18.
If you have a statutory child maintenance arrangement, regular child maintenance payments must be made if a child is: 1  is under the age of 16; 2  is under the age of 20 and in full time non-advanced education or approved training, or: 3  is under the age of 20 and child benefit is being paid for them, and. If you don't feel you could do this, the statutory child maintenance service may be able to arrange child maintenance for you. If not, you may be able to arrange child maintenance through the UK courts. A UK court order can be enforced in many countries abroad. Read more about child maintenance if a parent lives abroad.
However, 16 is the minimum age where child maintenance can stop. Between the ages of 16 and 19, if the child is enrolled full-time in school (more than 12 hours per week and the course is up to and including A level), child maintenance for the child must be paid. This does not apply to advanced study, like study at a college or university, this only includes non-advanced study. You must pay child maintenance for the 11 year old no matter what kind of school she is or isn t in-under no circumstances do you not owe child maintenance for her to the custodial parent. The 16 year old may be a different story.
When child maintenance payments stop. Child maintenance payments usually stop when the child reaches 16 (or 20 if they’re in full-time education not higher than A-level or equivalent). Child maintenance can stop sooner if, for example: 1  the child is 16 or over and getting certain state benefits-including Income Support. 2  the child stops being eligible for Child Benefit for any other reason. 3  the parent receiving the payment stops being the main carer of the child