The origins of Campobasso are disputed. According to the most widely held theory, the city was founded by the Lombards before the 8th century as a fortified camp on the slope of the hill where the castle stands. After the Norman conquest of Southern Italy, Campobasso lost its importance as a defensive stronghold, but became a significant trading and administration centre. From 1330 to 1745 the city was ruled by the Monforte-Gambatesa family, who built the castle and established a mint.
This description page of Campobasso, in the Italian region of Molise, will guide you in planning your trip to Italy and help you find useful travel information about this Italian city. Campobasso is the capital of Molise. In 1806 feudalism was abolished and Campobasso was later made capital of the Province of Molise. For two years during World War II the Campobasso was occupied by Canadian forces and for a time was nicknamed Canada Town or Maple Leaf City.
[kambuˈwaʃʃə]) is a city and comune in central/southern Italy, the capital of the region of Molise and of the province of Campobasso. It is located in the high basin of the Biferno river, surrounded by Sannio and Matese mountains. After the Norman conquest of Southern Italy, Campobasso lost its importance as a defensive stronghold, but became a significant trading and administration centre. From 1330 to 1745 the city was ruled by the Monforte-Gambatesa family, who built the castle and established a mint.
The provincial capital of Campobasso lies in the south of the province, north of the Matese mountains, one of the three main mountain ranges in the Molise region. On the coast, the principal towns are Termoli and Campomarino. 
Last Name (Surname). Campobasso is located in the Molise region of south central Italy and is the name of both a province (Provincia di Campobasso), as well as the capital city (Comune di Campobasso). After the Norman conquest of Southern Italy, Campobasso lost his connotation of defensive strongpoint and gained a role as trading and administration centre. From 1330 to 1745 the city was ruled by the Monforte-Gambatesa, who built the castle and established a mint.
This description page of Campobasso, in the Italian region of Molise, will guide you in planning your trip to Italy and help you find useful travel information about the culture of this Italian city. In 1806 feudalism was abolished and Campobasso was later made capital of the Province of Molise. For two years during World War II the Campobasso was occupied by Canadian forces and for a time was nicknamed Canada Town or Maple Leaf City.
Welcome to the Campobasso google satellite map! This place is situated in Campobasso, Molise, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 41° 34' 0 North, 14° 39' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Campobasso. See Campobasso photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Campobasso in Italy. 
Campobasso is a province of Molise that extends over an area of 1,123 sq mi, encompassing 84 municipalities, including Campobasso, the region's capital. The typical gastronomy of Campobasso is based on genuine, organic ingredients like zucchini, caciocavallo (cheese) and sausages. Appetizers include soups made with the legumes grown in the area, such as lentils, pearl barley, and beans, especially fava. Caponata is the dish that best characterizes Campobasso's cuisine.
This description page of Campobasso in the Italian Region of Molise, will guide you in planning your trip to Italy and help you to find useful travel information about the Food & Wine of this Italian city. In 1806 feudalism was abolished and Campobasso was later made capital of the Province of Molise. For two years during World War II the Campobasso was occupied by Canadian forces and for a time was nicknamed Canada Town or Maple Leaf City.
Campobasso is renowned for the craftsmanship of blades (including scissors and knives), a fact well documented since the 14th century. It is also famous for the production of pears and scamorza (cheese). The city is the home of the University of Molise and of the Archdiocese of Campobasso-Boiano. After the Norman conquest of Southern Italy, Campobasso lost its importance as a defensive stronghold, but became a significant trading and administration centre. From 1330 to 1745 the city was ruled by the Monforte-Gambatesa family, who built the castle and established a mint.