Rowe Schist plus Amphibolite unit [in Rowe Schist] - Rowe Schist-Light-gray to silvery, fine-to medium-grained, generally poorly layered schist, composed of quartz, muscovite, biotite, oligoclase, and generally garnet, staurolite, and kyanite or sillimanite. Hawley Formation-Medium-gray plagioclase-hornblende-chlorite schist containing megacrysts of plagioclase and angular fragments of feldspar granofels, epidote-plagioclase granofels, and dark-gray amphibolite.
Pictures of Foliated and Non-Foliated Rock Types. Amphibolite is a non-foliated metamorphic rock that forms through recrystallization under conditions of high viscosity and directed pressure. It is composed primarily of hornblende (amphibole) and plagioclase, usually with very little quartz. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat
Amphibolite is a widespread metamorphic rock. Amphibolite is made of amphiboles (usually hornblende) and plagioclase. Most amphibolites have a relatively simple composition: hornblende + plagioclase. Garnet (almandine), pyroxene, biotite, titanite, magnetite, epidote, chlorite, and quartz are also frequent constituents. Amphibolite is usually coarse-grained enough for the individual mineral grains to be seen with the unaided eye. Main minerals in amphibolite are plagioclase (white) and hornblende. Senja, Norway. Width of sample 9 cm.
Ratlum Mountain Schist plus Amphibolite unit [in Ratlum Mountain Schist] - Ratlum Mountain Schist-Gray, medium-grained, interlayered schist and granofels, composed of quartz, oligoclase, muscovite (in the schist), biotite, and garnet, also staurolite and kyanite in the schist. Hawley Formation-Medium-gray plagioclase-hornblende-chlorite schist containing megacrysts of plagioclase and angular fragments of feldspar granofels, epidote-plagioclase granofels, and dark-gray amphibolite.
Amphibolite /aemˈfɪbəlaɪt/ æmˈfɪbəlaɪt is a metamorphic rock consisting mainly of, amphibole especially the species hornblende and. Actinolite a holocrystalline plutonic igneous rock composed primarily of hornblende amphibole is called a, hornblendite which are usually crystal cumulates feldspar groundmass may be a. lamprophyre A holocrystalline plutonic igneous rock composed primarily of hornblende amphibole is called a hornblendite, which are usually crystal cumulates feldspar groundmass may be a lamprophyre. Amphibolite is a grouping of rocks composed mainly of amphibole and plagioclase feldspars, with little or no quartz.
Eastern Piedmont From expanded explanation (ref. VA002): Amphibolite, amphibole gneiss, and schist. Melanocratic, fine-to coarse-grained, weakly to strongly foliated, irregularly layered amphibole-rich gneiss and schist. Mineralogy: hornblende + clinopyroxene + plagioclase + magnetite + biotite +/- scapolite +/- garnet +/- quartz +/- epidote. Amphibolite and interlayered biotite gneiss adjacent to the State Farm gneiss were named the Sabot amphibolite by Poland (1976), who characterized the formation as a tabular sheet 0.7 to 1.0 km thick. He and Goodwin (1970) interpreted these amphibolites as metamorphosed mafic volcanic or pyroclastic rocks.
Amphibolite /aemˈfɪbəlaɪt/ æmˈfɪbəlaɪt is a metamorphic rock consisting mainly of, amphibole especially the species hornblende and. actinolite A holocrystalline plutonic igneous rock composed primarily of hornblende amphibole is called a hornblendite, which are usually crystal cumulates feldspar groundmass may be a lamprophyre. Amphibolite is a grouping of rocks composed mainly of amphibole and plagioclase feldspars, with little or no quartz.
Amphibolite is a coarse-grained metamorphic rock that is composed mainly of green, brown or black amphibole minerals and plagioclase feldspar. The amphiboles are usually members of the hornblende group. Amphibolite is a rock of convergent plate boundaries where heat and pressure cause regional metamorphism. It can be produced through the metamorphism of mafic igneous rocks such as basalt and gabbro or from the metamorphism of clay-rich sedimentary rocks such as marl or graywacke.
Amphibolite is a rock composed mostly of amphibole minerals. Usually it's a hornblende schist like this as hornblende is the commonest amphibole. (more below). Amphibolite forms when basaltic rock is subjected to higher temperatures (550750°C) and slightly greater pressure range than that which yields greenschist. 
Amphibolite unit [in Ratlum Mountain Schist] - Black or mottled, generally massive amphibolite and hornblende gneiss, composed of hornblende and andesine, commonly with minor quartz and magnetite, and locally with garnet, biotite, and epidote. Hawley Formation-Medium-gray plagioclase-hornblende-chlorite schist containing megacrysts of plagioclase and angular fragments of feldspar granofels, epidote-plagioclase granofels, and dark-gray amphibolite.