Chyme has a low pH that is countered by the production of bile, helping to further digest food. Chyme is part liquid and part solid: a thick semifluid mass of partially digested food and digestive secretions that is formed in the stomach and small intestine during digestion. Depending on the quantity and contents of the meal, the stomach will digest the food into chyme in anywhere between 40 minutes to a few hours. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancreas
In most vertebrates, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called proteases and gastric acid to aid in food digestion, through smooth muscular contractions before sending partially digested food (chyme) to the small intestines. 
Picture of the Stomach. © 2009 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The stomach is a muscular organ located on the left side of the upper abdomen. The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food. Ridges of muscle tissue called rugae line the stomach. The stomach muscles contract periodically, churning food to enhance digestion. The pyloric sphincter is a muscular valve that opens to allow food to pass from the stomach to the small intestine. 
Chyme (/kaɪm/ ; from Greek χυμός khymos, juice) is the semifluid mass of partly digested food that is expelled by the stomach into the duodenum and moves through the intestines during digestion. Depending on the quantity and contents of the meal, the stomach will digest the food into chyme in anywhere between 40 minutes to a few hours. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancreas
The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia. The fundus stores undigested food and also the gases released from the chemical digestion of food. Function of the stomach. 1  The stomach is J-shaped and it can expand to temporarily store food. 2  Partial digestion of the food takes place here. 3  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner.
1 The esophagus connects to the stomach at a small region called the cardia. 2  The cardia is a narrow, tube-like region that opens up into the wider regions of the stomach. 3  Within the cardia is the lower esophageal sphincter, a band of muscle tissue that contracts to hold food and acid inside of the stomach. 1 Within the cardia is the lower esophageal sphincter, a band of muscle tissue that contracts to hold food and acid inside of the stomach. 2  The cardia empties into the body of the stomach, which forms the central and largest region of the stomach. 3  Superior to the body is a dome shaped region known as the fundus.
In the stomach, a large sack-like   organ, the food is churned and mixed with a strong gastric (mostly   hydrochloric) acid. Only partly digested, this   mix in the s … tomach is called chyme.   Additional Information:   However, the digestive process isn't   restricted to the stomach. Digestion is accomplished over the full   range of the digestive system, beginning in the mouth and ending at   the anus. 
First, it stores the swallowed food and liquid. To do this, the muscle of the upper part of the stomach relaxes to accept large volumes of swallowed material. The second job is to mix up the food, liquid, and digestive juice produced by the stomach. The lower part of the stomach mixes these materials by its muscle action. The third task of the stomach is to empty its contents slowly into the small intestine. 
Bile is a special substance that breaks down fat molecules. Bile is produced by the liver and is stored in small pouch below the organ called the gall bladder. After you eat something, bile passes from the gall bladder into the small intestine. The bile mixes with fats in food and breaks them into small fat droplets. 