Charles Sturt (1795-1869), by unknown engraver. National Library of Australia, nla.pic-an9941030. Charles Sturt (1795-1869), explorer, soldier and public servant, was born on 28 April 1795 in India, eldest of eight sons and one of thirteen children of Thomas Lenox Napier Sturt, a judge in Bengal under the East India Co. In July they were released by heavy rain. Sturt moved his party in a north-westerly direction to Fort Grey, whence he made a series of reconnoitring expeditions culminating in a 450-mile (724 km) journey towards the centre of the continent.
Sydney is the most popular city in the world for international students (2014 Global Cities Index). Melbourne is no. 1 on Forbes’ Most Liveable City in the World list (2014). Our locations form part of the wider Charles Sturt University community, which features locations across Australia and overseas.
City Of Charles Sturt. 6 hrs ·. Pam Tobin & Chefs from The Food Studio will demonstrate how to create easy snack ideas, quick and healthy lunch options and meals for supporting good immune function at the Findon Community Centre on Wednesday 28 October from 11am-1.30pm. Cost is $25 per person. City Of Charles Sturt added 4 new photos. October 13 at 1:29am ·. Knitters and crocheters of all skill levels are invited to join our new, fun, Social Knitting and Crochet Group at the Seaton North Neighbourhood Centre fortnightly on Mondays from 10am-12noon.
Charles Sturt was born in Bengal, British India, the eldest son (of thirteen children) of Thomas Lenox Napier Sturt, a judge under the British East India Company. The Governor of New South Wales, Sir Ralph Darling, formed a high opinion of Sturt and appointed him major of brigade and military secretary. Sturt became friendly with John Oxley, Allan Cunningham, Hamilton Hume and other explorers. Sturt was keen to explore the Australian interior, especially its rivers.
Captain Charles Napier Sturt (28 April 1795 – 16 June 1869) was a British explorer of Australia, and part of the European exploration of Australia. He led several expeditions into the interior of the continent, starting from both Sydney and later from Adelaide. The Governor of New South Wales, Sir Ralph Darling, formed a high opinion of Sturt and appointed him major of brigade and military secretary. Sturt became friendly with John Oxley, Allan Cunningham, Hamilton Hume and other explorers. Sturt was keen to explore the Australian interior, especially its rivers.
Click here for an easier version. Captain Charles Sturt (1795-1869) was born in India in 1795. This was about the same time that Bass & Flinders started to explore Australia's coastline. Sturt fought against Napoleon's army in Spain and at Waterloo. Because of his ability, his commanders made him a Captain and sent him to Australia with his army regiment in 1827. Such had been their ordeal, that Sturt went blind for many months. He was to suffer eye problems for the rest of his life. He returned to England for a couple of years, and in 1834 was given 50 000 acres of land near Mittagong in New South Wales.
Established in 1989, it was named in honour of Captain Charles Sturt, a British explorer who made expeditions into regional New South Wales and South Australia. The university has campuses at Bathurst, Canberra, Albury-Wodonga, Dubbo, Goulburn, Orange, Port Macquarie, Wagga Wagga and Burlington, Ontario (Canada). Charles Sturt University in collaboration with the registered training organisation IT Masters Pty Ltd awards academic qualifications in information technology (IT) by distance learning through the IT Masters programme.
Charles Sturt University (CSU) is an Australian multi-campus public university located in New South Wales, Victoria, and the Australian Capital Territory. Charles Sturt University in collaboration with the registered training organisation IT Masters Pty Ltd awards academic qualifications in information technology (IT) by distance learning through the IT Masters programme.
Welcome to the eGateway Service for The City of Charles Sturt. Save time and do your business with the City of Charles Sturt online with eGateway. This service allows you to deal with Council payments securely on the internet. 