Quality AdBlue, as produced by Yara, is directly produced from the urea manufacturing process. This urea solution is then diluted with processed demineralized water. A specific quality and high purity of water is used for AdBlue to avoid all contamination. SCR is the name of a post-combustion technology treatment for diesel vehicles, which allows them to reduce their emissions of NOx (nitrogen oxides). SCR stands for Selective Catalytic Reduction. This technology requires the use of a reagent called AdBlue.
TextCenter. AdBlue is the name used internationally for an additive developed for the chemical and motoring sectors. It's an extremely high purity, 32.5% aqueous solution of urea (minimum 31.8% - maximum 33.3%) that transforms nitrogen oxides into nitrogen (N2) and water vapour (H2O) by means of chemical reduction
AdBlue is produced from a high purity urea solution. Urea is produced by the synthesis of ammonia and CO 2 (carbon dioxide). Technical urea is found in such products as shampoos, cosmetics and glues. Urea used in AdBlue is of a different quality grade then that used for fertilizers. SCR is the name of a post-combustion technology treatment for diesel vehicles, which allows them to reduce their emissions of NOx (nitrogen oxides). SCR stands for Selective Catalytic Reduction. This technology requires the use of a reagent called AdBlue.
AdBlue®. 1. AdBlue® is an aqueous solution which helps to reduce the nitrous oxides in diesel vehicle exhaust by up to 90 %. Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) transforms the nitrous oxides in the exhaust gas system with the aid of AdBlue® into its environmentally-friendly components, nitrogen and water.
It is injected into the exhaust gases as a post combustion process through an SCR where it breaks harmful NOx (Nitrous Oxide) emissions down into mostly Nitrogen and Oxygen What is AdBlue made of? AdBlue is a high purity, 32.5% strength urea solution, mixed with 67.5% demineralised water. AdBlue never comes into contact with the fuel, it is a common misconception that it is an additive. AdBlue is carried onboard the vehicle in a separate vessel to the fuel storage tank.
Diesel exhaust fluid for sale in small quantities. Diesel exhaust fluid (DEF), commonly referred to as AdBlue and standardised as ISO 22241 is an aqueous urea solution made with 32.5% high-purity urea (AUS 32) and 67.5% deionized water. Within the SCR catalyst, the NO x are catalytically reduced by the ammonia (NH 3) into water (H2O) and nitrogen (N 2), which are both harmless; and these are then released through the exhaust. DEF is a 32.5% solution of urea, (NH 2) 2CO.
AdBlue is very easy to use and is a harmless substance. It is not a fuel, nor a fuel additive but a high purity urea solution that must be used in a dedicated tank on your vehicle, that should just be refilled as and when required. AdBlue is non-flammable and non-explosive. SCR is the name of a post-combustion technology treatment for diesel vehicles, which allows them to reduce their emissions of NOx (nitrogen oxides). SCR stands for Selective Catalytic Reduction. This technology requires the use of a reagent called AdBlue.
AdBlue is an aqueous urea solution made from 32.5% high purity urea and 67.5% deionised water. It is also known as diesel exhaust fluid or AUS32. The German Association of the Automobile Industry (VDA) own the trademark for AdBlue. Large vehicles have a designated AdBlue tank in which the solution is stored. This is then injected into the exhaust (at a rate of 2% of the diesel consumption volume) as it moves through the engine. It then vaporises and decomposes to form ammonia and carbon dioxide.
AdBlue is a high quality urea solution that is easy to use. AdBlue is the registered trademark for AUS32, or Aqueous Urea Solution 32.5% that is used with the Selective Catalytic Reduction system (SCR) to reduce emissions of oxides of nitrogen from the exhaust of UK diesel vehicles. Average consumption of AdBlue in UK vehicles is generally 5% of diesel use, so you will need to tank much less for AdBlue then you do for diesel. You will use about 5 liters of AdBlue to every 100 liters of diesel.