The enzyme helicase catalyzes the unwinding and the breaking of H-bonds to create a separated section of DNA. The open section is known as a replication bubble and in contains two replication forks. Many different replication bubbles are formed along the DNA structure. RNA polymerase enzyme synthesizes a strand of RNA complementary to a section of one of the DNA strands (the template strand). 1. Initiation: A section of DNA known as the promoter (TATA box for eukaryotes) signals where the transcription begins. RNA polymerase recognizes and binds to this site.
Each new DNA contains one strand that was originally part of the parent strand, and one newly-synthesized daughter strand. This is called semiconservative replication. (Each DNA is half old and half new.) Transcription – Synthesis of RNA from a DNA template Occurs in a region of the nucleus called the nucleolus. RNA polymerase enzyme synthesizes a strand of RNA complementary to a section of one of the DNA strands (the template strand). 1. Initiation: A section of DNA known as the promoter (TATA box for eukaryotes) signals where the transcription begins. RNA polymerase recognizes and binds to this site.
An enzyme's name is often derived from its substrate or the chemical reaction it catalyzes, with the word ending in-ase. Examples are lactase, alcohol dehydrogenase and DNA polymerase. Different enzymes that catalyze the same chemical reaction are called isozymes. Here, an enzyme such as DNA polymerase catalyzes a reaction in a first step and then checks that the product is correct in a second step. This two-step process results in average error rates of less than 1 error in 100 million reactions in high-fidelity mammalian polymerases.
The enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of new DNA molecules is called a. DNA ligase. b. DNA polymerase. c. DNA gyrase. d. DNA helicase. e. DNA endonuclease. DNA endonuclease is an an enzymes that cuts up DNA molecules at sites within the strand (as opposed to an exonuclease, which chews up the end of the strand). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dna_polymer... him · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
The enzyme that synthesizes DNA, DNA polymerase, can only add nucleotides to an already existing strand or primer of DNA or RNA that is base paired with the template. Enzymes. An enzyme, DNA polymerase, is required for the covalent joining of the incoming nucleotide to the primer. 
Answers. Best Answer: the answer is b. DNA polymerase the others are: a. DNA ligase is an enzyme the catalyzes the attachment of one existing DNA molecule to another. c. DNA gyrase is an enzyme the catalyzes the untwisting of a DNA molecule d. DNA helicase is an enzyme the separates the two strands of DNA e. DNA endonuclease is an an enzymes that cuts up DNA molecules at sites within the strand (as opposed to an exonuclease, which chews up the end of the strand). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dna_polymer... him · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Enzymes that catalyze the synthesis of new DNA adding nucleotides to a pre-existing chain-enzymes catalyze elongation of new DNA at a replication fork. 
DNA polymerases are a family of enzymes that carry out all forms of DNA replication. DNA polymerases in general cannot initiate synthesis of new strands, but can only extend an existing DNA or RNA strand paired with a template strand. To begin synthesis, a short fragment of RNA, called a primer, must be created and paired with the template DNA strand. DNA polymerase adds a new strand of DNA by extending the 3' end of an existing nucleotide chain, adding new nucleotides matched to the template strand one at a time via the creation of phosphodiester bonds.
Just as in DNA replication, the enzyme reads the template strand in a 3’→5’ direction, while building the new RNA strand in a 5’→3’ direction. Again, two of the phosphate groups are removed as a new phosphodiester bond is formed, connecting the nucleotide to the chain. RNA polymerase enzyme synthesizes a strand of RNA complementary to a section of one of the DNA strands (the template strand). 1. Initiation: A section of DNA known as the promoter (TATA box for eukaryotes) signals where the transcription begins. RNA polymerase recognizes and binds to this site.