Manufactured by Merck Serono, Saizen is produced by recombinant DNA technology from a mammalian cell line (mouse C127) that was modified by the addition of the human GH gene, resulting in an identical 191- amino acid sequence and structure. Saizen, like all synthetic somatropin, has special importance for children and adolescents whose growth failure is due to inadequate production of growth hormone. Studies have shown that somatropin usage fails to produce athletic performance enhancement despite claims to the contrary.
Somatropin injection is a man-made version of human growth hormone. Growth hormone is naturally produced by the pituitary gland and is necessary to stimulate growth in children. Man-made growth hormone may be used in adults or children who have certain conditions that prevent normal growth. 1 Your doctor may adjust your dose if needed. 2  Saizen ®: Dose is based on body weight and must be determined by your doctor. 3  The usual dose is 0.06 mg per kg of body weight, given three times per week and injected under the skin or into a muscle. 4 
INDICATIONS. Saizen® [ somatropin (rDNA origin) for injection] is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with growth failure due to inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone. To reconstitute Saizen®, inject the diluent into the vial of Saizen® aiming the liquid against the glass vial wall. Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until contents are dissolved completely. DO NOT SHAKE.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Saizen® is a human growth hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology. Saizen® has 191 amino acid residues and a molecular weight of 22,125 daltons. Its amino acid sequence and structure are identical to the dominant form of human pituitary growth hormone. Saizen® is produced by a mammalian cell line (mouse C127) that has been modified by the addition of the human growth hormone gene. Saizen® is a sterile, non pyrogenic, white, lyophilized powder intended for subcutaneous injection after reconstitution with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (0.9% Benzyl Alcohol).
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. For subcutaneous injection. Saizen® therapy should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosis and management of pediatric patients with growth hormone deficiency or adult patients with either childhood-onset or adult-onset growth hormone deficiency. To reconstitute Saizen®, inject the diluent into the vial of Saizen® aiming the liquid against the glass vial wall. Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until contents are dissolved completely. DO NOT SHAKE.
Pediatric Patients. Saizen® [ somatropin (rDNA origin) for injection] is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with growth failure due to inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone. To reconstitute Saizen®, inject the diluent into the vial of Saizen® aiming the liquid against the glass vial wall. Swirl the vial with a GENTLE rotary motion until contents are dissolved completely. DO NOT SHAKE.
Saizen ® [somatropin (rDNA origin) for injection] is a human growth hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology. Saizen ® has 191 amino acid residues and a molecular weight of 22,125 daltons. Its amino acid sequence and structure are identical to the dominant form of human pituitary growth hormone. After determining the appropriate patient dose, reconstitute each vial of Saizen ® as follows: 5 mg vial with 1-3 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (Benzyl Alcohol preserved); 8.8 mg vial with 2-3 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (Benzyl Alcohol preserved).
Somatropin ... ... ... ... ... ......................... 8mg / equivalent to 24 IU's. Saizen [somatropin (rDNA origin) for injection] is a human growth hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology. Saizen has 191 amino acid residues and a molecular weight of 22,125 daltons. After determining the appropriate patient dose, reconstitute each vial of Saizen ® as follows: 5 mg vial with 1-3 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (Benzyl Alcohol preserved); 8.8 mg vial with 2-3 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (Benzyl Alcohol preserved).
Saizen is a commercial preparation of synthetic somatropin (growth hormone, a.k.a. GH). Saizen, like all synthetic somatropin, has special importance for children and adolescents whose growth failure is due to inadequate production of growth hormone. Studies have shown that somatropin usage fails to produce athletic performance enhancement despite claims to the contrary.
Usage [edit]. Saizen is injected. It is intended for long-term treatment of individuals who are growth hormone deficient. Saizen, like all synthetic somatropin, has special importance for children and adolescents whose growth failure is due to inadequate production of growth hormone. Studies have shown that somatropin usage fails to produce athletic performance enhancement despite claims to the contrary.