1. One of the confusing concepts of Earth structure is the distinction between chemical layering (crust, mantle and core) and mechanical layering (lithosphere, asthenosphere and mesosphere). The scale model illustrates all of these layers on a single diagram.
1 The lithosphere is the outermost mechanical layer and is the most rigid layer of the Earth. 2  The lithosphere consists of the crust, and some of the uppermost mantle. 3  The lithosphere averages about 100 km thick. 1 This is the only internal layer of the Earth that is a true liquid. 2  The core-mantle boundary is the one mechanical boundary that is also a compositional boundary. 3  Movement of the electically conductive fluid in the outer core generates the Earth's magnetic field.
The continents are part of the uppermost layer, and they move slowly around Earth’s surface. What You Will Learn • Earth’s interior can be divided into layers based on chemical composition and physical properties. • Scientists use seismic waves to study Earth’s interior. Below the asthenosphere is the mesosphere, which is the lower part of the mantle. The mesosphere flows even more slowly than the asthenosphere. Figure 2 The Physical Structure of Earth Earth’s core has two layers. The outer core is a layer of liquid iron and nickel.
by the chemical composition is: the crust, the mantle (upper mantle and mantle), and the core. (you can put inner or outer) by the physical property is: lithosphere, ast … henosphere, outer core, inner core. hope i helped. + 91 others found this useful. 
by the chemical composition is: the crust, the mantle (upper mantle and mantle), and the core. (you can put inner or outer) by the physical property is: lithosphere, ast … henosphere, outer core, inner core. hope i helped. The asthenosphere consists of many varieties of rock which is mostly in a semi molten condition. The temperatures in the asthenosphere reach levels high enough for most of the rock to become soft and plastic, capable of slowly moving while remaining in a solid state, while only about 10 percent is totally molten.
Earth’s outer layer is the lithosphere, which is a cool, rigid layer that includes the crust and the upper part of the mantle. The lithosphere is divided into pieces called tectonic plates. Below the lithosphere is the asthenosphere, which is a layer of the mantle that is made of very slow-flowing solid rock. Below the asthenosphere is the mesosphere, which is the lower part of the mantle. The mesosphere flows even more slowly than the asthenosphere. Figure 2 The Physical Structure of Earth Earth’s core has two layers. The outer core is a layer of liquid iron and nickel.
The Earth's Crust, Lithosphere and Asthenosphere. Crust, the upper layer of the Earth, is not always the same. Crust under the oceans is only about 5 km thick while continental crust can be up to 65 km thick. Also, ocean crust is made of denser minerals than continental crust. The tectonic plates are made up of Earth s crust and the upper part of the mantle layer underneath. Together the crust and upper mantle are called the lithosphere and they extend about 80 km deep. The lithosphere is broken into giant plates that fit around the globe like puzzle pieces
Earth's lithosphere includes the crust and the uppermost mantle, which constitute the hard and rigid outer layer of the Earth. 
The lithosphere is Earth's outermost layer, composed of rocks in the crust and upper mantle that behave as brittle solids. The rigid lithosphere sits on top of the asthenosphere, a layer of the mantle in which rocks are hot and deformable. The lithosphere is broken into large pieces called plates, which are made up of either seafloor lithosphere (mostly basalt) or continental lithosphere (less dense rocks, like granite).
The asthenosphere is that part of the Earth which is viscous and undergoes ductile deformation and convection on a geological time scale. It is part of the upper mantle and is … approximately 600 km thick laying below the lithosphere at a depth of around 100 to 200 km and it's base is around 700 km deep. The asthenosphere consists of many varieties of rock which is mostly in a semi molten condition. The temperatures in the asthenosphere reach levels high enough for most of the rock to become soft and plastic, capable of slowly moving while remaining in a solid state, while only about 10 percent is totally molten.