Alcohol’s excitatory actions(e.g., reduction of social inhibitions)appear to be caused, at least in part,by suppression of inhibitory neuro-transmitter systems (Pohorecky 1977). Alcohol Increases InhibitoryNeurotransmission The main inhibitory neurotransmitterin the brain is gamma-aminobutyricacid (GABA).
During alcohol withdrawal, thesecompensatory changes are no longeropposed by the presence of alcoholand the balance shifts toward a stateof excessive excitation. This state ofhyperexcitation is characterized byseizures, delirium, and anxiety.
What this article seeks to explain is the body systems that are tied to addiction. There are many different reasons that a person might initially become alcohol dependent. A person might drink because he or she is impulsive, stressed, depressed or seeking some form of pleasure experience.
For example, amino acids such as glutamate and glycine, which are well known as constituents of proteins, also act as neurotransmitters (Kandel et al. 2000). Histamine, a molecule that has a prominent role in inflammation and infection in the body, also is a neurotransmitter (Haas and Panula 2003).
[Neurobiology of alcohol withdrawal inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters]. [Article in Turkish]. Eşel E. Alcohol withdrawal is a syndrome that is the result of adaptive changes in the brain secondary to chronic alcohol use and is associated with changes in many neurotransmitter, neuropeptide, and hormonal systems.
The behavioral effects of alcohol are produced through its actions on the central nervous system (CNS) and, in particular, the brain. Synaptic transmission—the process by which neurons in the CNS communicate with one another—is a particular target for alcohol actions that alter behavior.
Other drugs interact with more than one type of neurotransmitter. Cocaine, for example, attaches to structures that regulate dopamine, thereby producing euphoria; however, cocaine also produces changes in norepinephrine and glutamate, which are the sources of its stimulant effects.