Function of Nephron. The nephron is the basic functional and structural unit found in the kidneys. Its main functions include regulating the concentration of sodium salts and water by filtering the kidney’s blood, excreting any excess in the urine and reabsorbing the necessary amounts.
Kidney Health Care-David Mangusan Jr, PTRP. The nephron is the tiny filtering structure in your kidneys. Each of your kidneys contain more than a million tiny filtering nephrons that help clean your blood. Function of the Nephrons. Your nephrons help: Each nephron is composed of two main structures: the glomerulus and renal (kidney) tubule. The Glomerulus. The glomerulus is a tiny blood vessel or capillary, which looks like a ball of yarn. Actual filtering of your blood occurs in the glomerulus
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
The nephron consists of the renal corpuscle, the proximal convoluted tubule, the descending and ascending limbs of the loop of Henle, the distal convoluted tubule, and the collecting tubule. Each kidney is an aggregation of about a million nephrons. The specific function of the nephron is to remove from the blood plasma certain end products of metabolism, such as urea, uric acid, and creatinine, and also any excess sodium, chloride, and potassium ions.
The primary function of the kidney is to remove nitrogenous wastes (mainly urea) from the body. This is an extremely important kidney function, since toxic build-up of nitrogenous wastes in the body can lead to life-threatening diseases and eventually death. Filtering the blood is the primary function of the kidney. Every day the kidneys process about 200 quarts (190 liters) of blood and filters out about 2 quarts of waste products and extra water. To effectively handle this volume of blood, the kidneys are equipped with lots of blood vessels
(June 2011). The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
Each kidney is an aggregation of many nephrons. The specific function of the nephron is to remove from the blood plasma certain end-products of metabolism, such as urea, uric acid and creatinine, and to regulate excretion of sodium, chloride, potassium and other ions. 
The functional unit of the kidney is the nephron. The major functions of the kidney are to maintain extracellular fluids, to eliminate wastes resulting from normal metabolism, and to excrete xenobiotics and their metabolites. Mammalian kidneys have 10,000-1,000,000 nephrons per kidney. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main function of the nephrons in the human kidney is to filter the blood. It does this by regulating the concentration of water and sodium salts. 