It will likely be very insightful. With the data that you have gleaned, it is time to begin intervention for word retrieval fluency and rapid automatic naming. Meta-cognition. It is advantageous to incorporate some type of meta-cognitive task. There is also ecological validity for these when you are doing group therapy. There are a host of games that require word retrieval and place time constraints on the students (bear in mind that you can alter the rules or adjust the timers to make the games more accessible for your students).
C-RAN, i.e. Cloud-RAN, sometimes also referred as Centralized-RAN, is a new cellular network architecture for the future mobile network infrastructure. It was first introduced by China Mobile Research Institute in April 2010 in Beijing, China. 
Rapid automatized naming can be used in many different ways. One of its strengths is flexibility in what types of stimuli categories it uses. Different categories consist of colors, digits, objects and letters. Some researchers argue that discrete testing is a better method because of individual differences in the reading speed of a list of sight words; the relationship of RAN and reading will be stronger if sight word reading speed is measured by discrete presentation.
A stress test can be used to test for heart disease. Stress tests are tests performed by a doctor and/or trained technician to determine the amount of stress that your heart can manage before developing either an abnormal rhythm or evidence of ischemia (not enough blood flow to the heart muscle). 1 Pharmacologic stress test: Some people, because of a disability, are unable to use the treadmill or exercise adequately to achieve target heart rate. 2  Therefore, the stress test can be performed with the vasodilator regadenoson medication. 3  This agent is used to simulate the effect of exercise on your heart
Variations in rapid automatized naming time in children provide a strong predictor of their later ability to read, and is independent from other predictors such as phonological awareness, verbal IQ, and existing reading skills. Some researchers argue that discrete testing is a better method because of individual differences in the reading speed of a list of sight words; the relationship of RAN and reading will be stronger if sight word reading speed is measured by discrete presentation.
B. Click here for pricing. Quick to administer and easy to score, the RAN/RAS tests assess children’s and adolescents’ ability to perceive a visual symbol and name it accurately and rapidly, effectively aiding in the identification of children who have reading disabilities. An important component of any diagnostic assessment of oral and written language. 1  The tests consist of rapid automatized naming tests (i.e., letters, numbers, objects, colors) and two rapid alternating stimulus tests (i.e., two-set letters and numbers; three-set letters, numbers, and colors).
Rapid automatized naming (RAN) is a task that measures how quickly individuals can name aloud objects, pictures, colors, or symbols (letters or digits). Some researchers argue that discrete testing is a better method because of individual differences in the reading speed of a list of sight words; the relationship of RAN and reading will be stronger if sight word reading speed is measured by discrete presentation.
The RAN and RAS Tests are considered to be the gold standard of naming tests. These tests reflect three decades of clinical evidence and research across all parts of the United States, Canada, Europe, Israel, Asia, and Australia that have examined the relation between processing speed and reading. 
Standardized tests such as the Comprehensive Test Of Phonological Processing (CTOPP) and RAN-RAS (Rapid Automatized Naming-Rapid Alternating Stimulus) assess rapid automatic naming of pictured items, numbers, and letters. There is also ecological validity for these when you are doing group therapy. There are a host of games that require word retrieval and place time constraints on the students (bear in mind that you can alter the rules or adjust the timers to make the games more accessible for your students).