American River view from the campus of California State University, Sacramento. From the confluence at Auburn, the combined North and Middle Forks river flows at an elevation of 600 feet (180 m) in a forested canyon 800 feet (240 m) deep and is called the North Fork. The American River is divided into the North, Middle, and South forks, which are located in El Dorado County, Placer County, and Sacramento County. The river's three forks originate in the Tahoe and Eldorado National Forests
Driving Maps. The American River can be found in California, U.S.A., about halfway between Sacramento and South Lake Tahoe. Road map for a section of northern California, showing the relationship between San Francisco, Sacramento, Lake Tahoe, and Coloma. 
American River Recreation has been the premier provider of fun and excitement on the American River, Merced River, and Kaweah River since 1979. Satisfaction guaranteed! 1  Over 35 years of California River Rafting. 2  We’ve been practicing for over thirty years to make your California river rafting adventure one you’ll never forget. 3  American River Recreation Guides are the Best. 4  Our California white water rafting guides are the best on the American River.
The Sacramento River continues to eventually empty into the San Francisco Bay and the Pacific Ocean at San Francisco, California. The American River flows entirely within California. The American River is divided into the North, Middle, and South forks, which are located in El Dorado County, Placer County, and Sacramento County. The river's three forks originate in the Tahoe and Eldorado National Forests
The American River (Rio río de Los americanos during The-mexican ruled period before) 1846 is A california river which runs from the crest of The Sierra nevada mountain range to its confluence with The Sacramento river In, Sacramento. california The American River is divided into the North, Middle, and South forks, which are located in El Dorado County, Placer County, and Sacramento County. The river's three forks originate in the Tahoe and Eldorado National Forests.
The Sacramento River is the principal river of Northern California in the United States, and is the largest river in California. Rising in the Klamath Mountains, the river flows south for 445 miles (716 km) before reaching the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta and San Francisco Bay. About 10 miles (16 km) downstream, it flows into the city of Sacramento, California and receives the American River, its second largest tributary. Here the river splits into two: the main stem and the artificial Sacramento Deep Water Ship Channel.
The American River: where California learns to raft. Sacramento’s nearest whitewater rafting—an easy day trip from the San Francisco Bay Area—these rugged canyons form one of the most popular rafting destinations in the United States. 
Rooms. American River is a stream located just 1.3 miles from Sacramento, in Sacramento County, in the state of California, United States. Fishermen will find a variety of fish including northern pike, brown trout, redear sunfish, sucker, steelhead trout, white catfish, striped bass, largemouth bass and rainbow trout here. 
California White Water Rafting on the American River! COLOMA, CALIFORNIA: AMERICAN RIVER RAFTING — River rafting on California’s best whitewater rivers. With over 25 years of running the highest quality rafting trips and river tours, Adventure Connection invites you to join us on one of our spectacular rafting adventures. 1 The North Fork of the American River provides one of the most biologically diverse habitats in North America. 2  The South Fork of the American River has the most consistent rapids than any river in California.