Composition roof lifeAsphalt shingles are rated at 20, 25, 30, or 35 years. The average roof life is 5 to 10 years less, depending on climate conditions in your area. The life … of any asphalt shingle roof is effected if Algae and Mildew is allowed to grow on it. 
Compared to concrete, clay tiles are more colorfast. They are also more durable. An installation of clay roof tiles can be expected to last 100 years. (The average lifespan of concrete roof tiles is about 50 years.) Because they wear so well over time, clay roof tiles add significantly to a home’s resale value. At $700 to $1,000 per square, clay costs twice as much as concrete
Asphalt shingles are manufactured in various qualities with life expectancies of 15 to 30 years. The 15 year variety, fortunately, has been pretty much eliminated since they s … eldom lasted even 10 years depending on the climate. Longer-life shingles between 30 and 40 years life expectancy are also available, but at this point you might want to look at steel or tile roofing.
The lifespan of a flat roof depends on the material covering it. Asphalt coverings use layers of felt combined with molten asphalt and topped with a coating of gravel. This is an inexpensive flat roofing option, but typically only lasts about 10 years. The life expectancy of your roof depends factors that include the roof design and the climate you live in, as well as the quality of installation and long-term care and maintenance.
Composition roof lifeAsphalt shingles are rated at 20, 25, 30, or 35 years. The average roof life is 5 to 10 years less, depending on climate conditions in your area. The life of any asphalt shingle roof is effected if Algae and Mildew is allowed to grow on it. The 15 year variety, fortunately, has been pretty much eliminated since they s … eldom lasted even 10 years depending on the climate. Longer-life shingles between 30 and 40 years life expectancy are also available, but at this point you might want to look at steel or tile roofing.
Concrete Tile - 35 to 50 years. Built-Up or Modified Bitumen - 10 to 16 years. EPDM (rubber) - 10 to 16 years. But average lifespan estimates are based on “average” conditions. Many factors contribute to a longer or shorter life of the roof; so a particular roof’s life can vary—sometimes significantly—from the average. Here’s a list of conditions that affect roof longevity: • Color of roof-A dark roof absorbs more heat, which shortens the lifespan.
You can expect a metal roof to last at least 2 to 3 times longer than a regular roof. In general terms, count on a metal roof lasting 40 to 60 years and beyond. To put it in context, the average life span of an asphalt roof is 12 to 20 years. That lifespan can be shorter depending on the pitch of your roof and the climate in your area. Made of oil impregnated paper or fiberglass, asphalt begins to deteriorate as soon as you expose it to normal weather
Asphalt shingles are inexpensive, low-maintenance and easy to install, but tend to be less resistant to wind and strong rain than other materials. The average lifespan of asphalt shingles ranges from 20 to 40 years depending on the manufacturer, although many warranties only guarantee between 15 and 25 years. Fiberglass shingles are more expensive, but can last more than 50 years. The life expectancy of your roof depends factors that include the roof design and the climate you live in, as well as the quality of installation and long-term care and maintenance.
Life Span. Asphalt shingles generally last 15 to 30 years, according to U.S. Inspect. Their life span depends on several factors, including shingle weight, roof slope (to shed water), sun exposure, shingle color (light colors absorb less heat and last longer) and climate. How shingles are stacked in storage also matters. 