Horseradish has a particularly high level of glucosinolates compared to other cruciferous vegetables. High In Vitamin C. Horseradish contains a good amount of the powerful antioxidant, vitamin C. Vitamin c helps reduce the effects of free radical damage in the body, a known cause of cancer. It also boosts the immune system and supports the body’s fight against flu, the common cold and other bacterial and viral infections. Harvested mostly for its roots, this perennial is actually a tall flowering plant that grows up to five feet high. A member of the group of highly touted cruciferous vegetables, horseradish has many medicinal properties.
Horseradish root is LIKELY SAFE when taken by mouth in food amounts. It is POSSIBLY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth in medicinal amounts. However, it contains mustard oil, which is extremely irritating to the lining of the mouth, throat, nose, digestive system, and urinary tract. Horseradish can cause side effects including stomach upset, bloody vomiting, and diarrhea.
Horseradish is low in calories and fat. However, it contains good amounts of dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals, and anti-oxidants. Certain active principles in it found to have been anti-inflammatory, diuretic (increase urine output), and nerve soothing effects. Horseradish has good amounts of vitamin-C, which is a powerful water soluble anti-oxidant. 100 g fresh root holds 29 mg or 41% of daily-recommended values. Vitamin-C helps alleviate viral infections by boosting immunity.
The roots of the horseradish are used for a variety of purposes ranging from medicinal purposes to culinary uses. Here are some benefits of horseradish. 1. Treats certain ailments. Chewing the root of the horseradish is a natural medicine for treating toothaches and even scurvy. This root is expectorant, emetic and antiscorbutic and thus it assists in efficient removal of waste. The horseradish root can also be used as a good herbal treatment for respiratory disorders and rheumatic disorders. This is because it contains high amounts of vitamin B and C complex, enzymes and nutritive minerals like calcium, potassium and iron.
Horseradish is a common condiment used in fish or meat dishes and sandwiches. Originating from the same family as cabbage and mustard, horseradish is quite well-known for its strong and spicy flavor. Scientific studies over the last several years have also shown that horseradish offers plenty of health benefits.
In folk medicine, horseradish is used for its many health benefits. Among the many health benefits of horseradish include its antimicrobial activity, antispasmodic properties, as a diuretic and purgative. More popular traditional health benefits from horseradish include treatment for: 1  Achy joints and muscles, What is Horseradish is a strong flavored vegetable root used as condiments with many folkloric health benefits. Horseradish Health Benefits Horseradish has been traditionally used to treat urinary tract infection, coughs, colds and many others.. Horseradish Side effects and warnings.
Benefits of Horseradish. Horseradish is a root that is grated or ground to make an interesting condiment. It provides a pungent, spicy flavor to sandwiches and other dishes, and has been used for thousands of years in traditional herbal medicine as a remedy for respiratory and urinary problems. Horseradish is also relatively rich in vitamin C, and also provides small amounts of the B vitamins. In addition to these vitamins and minerals, horseradish also contains several phytochemicals, which are responsible for its medicinal properties.
Horseradish (Armoracia rusticana) is a large-leaf perennial plant of the Brassicaceae family that includes wasabi, cabbage and mustard. Horseradish is a popular herb used as flavoring and condiments for food and valued likewise as a medicinal herb with many health benefits. What is Horseradish is a strong flavored vegetable root used as condiments with many folkloric health benefits. Horseradish Health Benefits Horseradish has been traditionally used to treat urinary tract infection, coughs, colds and many others.. Horseradish Side effects and warnings.
Horseradish is a perennial plant that belongs to the same family as mustard, wasabi, broccoli and cabbage. Native to southeastern Europe and western Asia, the plant grows up to 1.5 meters and is mainly cultivated for its large white, tapered root. A spicy condiment & traditional medicinal food, horseradish has seemingly endless benefits. Explore this article to know the nutritional value, health benefits and nutrition benefits of horseradish.
6 Health Benefits of Horseradish. Last updated on August 1, 2012. Cultivated since antiquity, horseradish was used medicinally in ancient Egypt and throughout the Middle Ages. Harvested mostly for its roots, this perennial is actually a tall flowering plant that grows up to five feet high. A member of the group of highly touted cruciferous vegetables, horseradish has many medicinal properties. Here are 6 health benefits of horseradish: Cancer Prevention. Consumption of cruciferous vegetables like horseradish is associated with preventing many types of cancer, notably lung and colorectal cancer