The name Orion derives from Greek Mythology. In Greek Mythology, Orion, the son of Poseidon, is a mighty hunter, who is killed by Artemis and turned into a constellation. The constellation Orion is one of the largest, most recognizable constellations in the night sky and is visible around the world.
Origin of the name Orion: From Greek and Roman mytholoogy, Orion was a son of Poseidon. He loved the goddess Diana but was accidentally killed by her and thenceforth placed in the heavens as the constellation Orion. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Orion : | Edit. Dweller on the Mountain - Greek. Dawn, east - Latin. Son of fire, son of light - Greek. Light of Heaven - Akkadian. This name also means, urine, or, water bringer. This is attributed to the way that Orion was born in Greek mythology.
The constellation Orion was named after the greek hunter Orion, who was supposedly put into among the stars by Artemis after she was tricked into killing him by her brother Ap … ollo. Another version is that after a giant scorpion killed Orion, Artemis put the scorpion and Orion into the stars. This constellation is named after a hunter in Greek mythology by  the name of Orion. Homer's epic called the 'Odyssey' has a mythic  tale about this great hunter.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Orion. Orion is a name we get from Greek mythology but you might also know it better as the starry constellation. In any case, the two are intertwined. In ancient Greek mythology Orion was a huntsman of gigantic proportions whom Zeus placed in the sky (hence the constellation)
Orion /ori-on/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced oh-RYE-on. It is of Greek origin. Greek mythology: Orion was a mighty hunter, the son of Poseidon, who was turned into a constellation. The Orion constellation contains three of the most conspicuous stars in the nighttime sky. Orion is a rare first name for men but a somewhat popular last name for both adults and children (#97848 out of 150436, Top 65%).
It is one of the most conspicuous and recognizable constellations in the night sky. It was named after Orion, a hunter in Greek mythology. Its brightest stars are Rigel (Beta Orionis) and Betelgeuse (Alpha Orionis), a blue-white and a red supergiant, respectively. 
While the name Orion is steeped in Greek mythology, many cultures have been influenced by the story of this constellation. Orion has also associated with the Egyptian Pharaoh of the Fifth Dynasty called Unas. In Hungary, Orion is known as (magic) Archer (Íjász), íjász Or (Scyther). kaszas kaszás 
Orion is definitely an exotic name, but it does date back to the 19th century in America. In the late 1800s, Orion was on the charts now and again, but at extremely low levels of popularity that he was barely detectable. By the turn of the 20th century in 1900, the name dropped completely from sight. Orion is a name we get from Greek mythology but you might also know it better as the starry constellation. In any case, the two are intertwined. In ancient Greek mythology Orion was a huntsman of gigantic proportions whom Zeus placed in the sky (hence the constellation)