http:ecotourismtoday.com/panda Find our more about these lovable pandas by visiting this website, you will find some cute videos there. Where do pandas live-in 5 isolated areas of China. Panda habitat is forests in mountain areas with an under story of bamboo. As bamboo isn't very nutritious panda bears spend a lot of their time eating and sleeping. 
Geographic Distribution: Giant pandas live in a few mountain ranges in central China, in Sichuan, Shaanxi, and Gansu provinces. They once lived in lowland areas, but farming, forest clearing, and other development now restrict giant pandas to the mountains. Giant pandas live in broadleaf and coniferous forests with a dense understory of bamboo, at elevations between 5,000 and 10,000 feet. Torrential rains or dense mist throughout the year characterizes these forests, often shrouded in heavy cloud
Some other places of Asia where pandas are abundant are Taipei, Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan, Chuang Chuang, Chiang Mai, Lin Hui, River Safari, New Park in Singapore, and Wakayama. Do you know where do pandas live? The panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) is also recognized as the Giant Panda and is endemic to North America and southern China. More than 90% of the pandas’ diet composes of bamboo. Though occasionally, these animals also feed on grasses, rodents, carrion, and wild tubers
Some of the notable zoos where pandas are kept include Beijing Zoo, Bifengxia Panda Base, Su Lin, Zhen Zhen, Hua Mei, Tai Shan, Mei Sheng, Chengdu Research Base of Giant Breeding, Wolong National Nature Reserve, and Ocean Park. Do you know where do pandas live? The panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) is also recognized as the Giant Panda and is endemic to North America and southern China. More than 90% of the pandas’ diet composes of bamboo. Though occasionally, these animals also feed on grasses, rodents, carrion, and wild tubers
Giant pandas are bears that are native to China, where they are considered a national treasure. Even with this exalted status, giant pandas are endangered: only about 1,600 live in the wild, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). About 100 live in zoos around the world. Also called great pandas, parti-colored bears, bamboo bears and white bears, giant pandas are distinguished from other pandas by their large size and black-and-white coloring. The bold coloring may provide camouflage, according to the Smithsonian National Zoo. Giant pandas live up to their name.
About the size of an American black bear, giant pandas stand between two and three feet tall at the shoulder (on all four legs), and reach four to six feet long. Males are larger than females, weighing up to 250 pounds in the wild. Females rarely reach 220 pounds. Giant pandas live in broadleaf and coniferous forests with a dense understory of bamboo, at elevations between 5,000 and 10,000 feet. Torrential rains or dense mist throughout the year characterizes these forests, often shrouded in heavy clou
Pandas are also found in the Australian zoos such as Adelaide zoo and southern hemisphere. In Europe, these species exist in Berlin (Germany), Vienna (Australia), Madrid (Spain), Edinburgh zoo, and Zooparc de beauval. Do you know where do pandas live? The panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) is also recognized as the Giant Panda and is endemic to North America and southern China. More than 90% of the pandas’ diet composes of bamboo. Though occasionally, these animals also feed on grasses, rodents, carrion, and wild tubers
Pandas are about the size of the American black bear. An adult panda is typically 1.5 meters long (4 - 5 feet) and weighs about 75 to 135 kilograms (165 to 353 pounds). Males are 10% to 20% heavier than females. Pandas live between 18 to 25 years in the wild. 