A home inspector spends 2-3 hours at a property examining the grounds, structure, exterior, roof, plumbing, electric, insulation, ventilation, interior, attic, bathrooms, kitchen, basement, crawlspaces, heating, air conditioning, and garage or carport. However, you can take as much time as needed, and there are no limits on re-taking exams. The total course time is broken up into 70 hours for course instruction, 25 hours for field assignments/report writing (field assignments are done on your own property), 10 hours for course assignments, and 15 hours for testing.
Frank Carr, Other Pro, Deltona, FL. This is a very good question and one that most buyers do not ask. As a home inspector I can tell you most inspections should take 2 to 3 hours at the site. There are variables that effect the time an inspection will take. It depends on the inspector, size of house, and types of inspections ordered. A general inspection on a 3 bed 2 bath house will take about 3-4 hours. You could add time to this by ordering a termite inspection, septic inspection, radon inspection etc...
Get educated. If you weren’t licensed before September 1, 2009, you’re required to take a board-approved, 120-hour Fundamentals of Home Inspection course, and mentor with an experienced home inspector for 40 hours of field training. See Home Inspector Education Course Catalog for a list of board-approved fundamental courses. 1 If you fail all or part of the exam, you must wait 24 hours before scheduling with the exam provider to retake your exam. 2  The cost to retake your exam is $125 for the state portion, and $250 for the national portion.
What are the requirements to be a licensed Home Inspector? Every licensed home inspector who is engaged in home inspection shall secure, maintain, and file proof of a certificate of liability coverage with the Department of State, which shall be a minimum amount of $150,000 per occurrence and $500,000 aggregate. The renewal application is posted to the Home Inspector approximately 3 months prior to the expiration of his or her license. The application must be completed and submitted with a $100 fee to the Department of State, Division of Licensing Services.
Naturally it will take longer to inspect a 5000 square foot home than one half that size. As a rule of thumb, a good home inspector will spend at LEAST 2 and a half to 3 hours, or more, to inspect a typical home. If a home inspector promises to be in & out of your home in an hour, then look for a different inspector. There is no possible way to inspect and test all the systems and components in a home in less than 2 and a half hours, and that's for a home less than 2500 SF. 
The length of home inspection class you need may depend upon your state! The home inspection class you need to attend will depend upon your state's requirements to become a home inspector. Find out here what you need. If your state does not have home inspector licensing laws then you may be able to attend one of our home inspector classes in any location you like. You might even be able to make it a learning vacation! Click a state on the map to view that state's home inspection licensing requirements.
There is a strong, long-term demand for qualified individuals to start careers as home inspectors. Depending on the area of the country, home inspectors typically charge from $300 to $500 to inspect an average home. In areas with high numbers of resales, home inspection is a volume business where home inspectors can earn considerably more. However, you can take as much time as needed, and there are no limits on re-taking exams. The total course time is broken up into 70 hours for course instruction, 25 hours for field assignments/report writing (field assignments are done on your own property), 10 hours for course assignments, and 15 hours for testing.
The Inspector most of my Buyer's use, seems to take from 2 to 3 hours on most homes. We're usually in homes up to 3000 square feet. If the Buyer is a first time buyer and wants to know everything about their new home, the inspector shows them everything and I do mean everything. It depends on the inspector, size of house, and types of inspections ordered. A general inspection on a 3 bed 2 bath house will take about 3-4 hours. You could add time to this by ordering a termite inspection, septic inspection, radon inspection etc...
Since home inspectors will not need to make any fixes to the home, the work is often well refined. You show up, audit, and the home inspection process is usually completed in a single call with no loose ends to tie up and without an intricate follow up. Becoming a home inspector is a smart choice for those looking to take the next step in their lives. Fundamentals to become a home inspector fluctuate depending upon where you reside, but when it comes to home inspection training, you should seek out a training program consisting of many encompassing lessons.