1 Olive oil contains twice as much saturated fat as canola oil. 2  Trans fats raise bad cholesterol and lower good cholesterol (HDL). 3  While all processed oils contain very small levels of trans fatty acids, canola oil is defined as zero trans fat by government regulatory authorities in North America.
Fats are made of smaller units called fatty acids. Canola Oil is: Low in saturated fat: 7% of total fatty acids, lower than any other common cooking or salad oil. A source of omega-6 fat: 22% of total fatty acids. High in omega-3 fat: 11% of total fatty acids, the most of any common culinary oil.
1 Trans fats raise bad cholesterol and lower good cholesterol (HDL). 2  While all processed oils contain very small levels of trans fatty acids, canola oil is defined as zero trans fat by government regulatory authorities in North America.
Best Foods® authentic taste with the goodness of Canola Oil, makes this a delicious choice for cooking cholesterol-free dishes. Rich in Omega 3 ALA (Contains 300 mg ALA per serving, which is 18% of the 1.6g Daily Value of ALA, and 4g fat) there's 0g saturated or trans fats per serving.
Canola oil is one of the best oils for heart health. Made from crushed canola seeds, it has less saturated fat than any other oil commonly used in the U.S. Check out the numbers: Canola oil has 7% saturated fat, compared to 12% for sunflower oil, 13% for corn oil, and 15% for olive oil. Cutting down on saturated fats helps cut your cholesterol levels. Canola oil is also very high in healthier unsaturated fats. It's higher in the omega-3 fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) than any other oil except flaxseed oil. ALA is particularly important to have in your diet because your body can't make it.
Fats are made up of smaller units called fatty acids. Canola oil is rich in two fatty acids that are essential in your diet because your body can't make them: 1  Alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) is an essential omega-3 fatty acid. 2  It protects against heart attacks and strokes by helping to lower bad cholesterol. 3  Linoleic acid (LA) is an essential omega-6