1 Fermentation is a metabolic process converting sugar to acids, gases and/or alcohol using yeast and/or bacteria. 2  Some helpful links: 3  Brief synopsis of fermentation in food processing specifically: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermentation_in_food_processing. 4  http://www.wildfermentation.com/.
Fermentation is a process used to produce wine, beer, yogurt and other products. Here's a look at the chemical process that occurs during fermentation.
The Fermentation Science program, one of just a handful in the nation, is a “hands-on” applied science addressing the use of microorganisms as processing agents in the production of wine and beer, as well as a variety of other fermented foods such as cheese, yogurt, soy sauce, pickles, breads and fermented vegetables.
1 The fermentation science program is unique in Colorado, as well as the United States and Canada. 2  Although the University of California Davis offers an undergraduate degree in fermentation science, it is focused on fermented beverages. 3  Oregon State offers an undergraduate minor in fermentation science.
Answer: Fermentation is a metabolic process in which an organism converts a carbohydrate, such as starch or a sugar, into an alcohol or an acid. For example, yeast perform fermentation to obtain energy by converting sugar into alcohol. Bacteria perform fermentation, converting carbohydrates into lactic acid.
Two pathways of anaerobic respiration in cells are fermentation pathways, one producing ethanol and the other producing lactate. Both fermentation processes replenish the necessary NAD + for glycolysis to proceed with its net yield of 2 ATP molecules per glucose.
Fermentation is a widely used process in industry as well as in the production of many foods, beverages, and pharmaceuticals. Fermentation uses microorganisms to convert raw materials to product. Strictly speaking, fermentation is microorganism metabolism on a carbon.
A Bachelor of Science degree program in Fermentation Sciences has been developed at Appalachian State University and was approved by the UNC General Administration in June 2012. Students at Appalachian State University now have the option to pursue a BS degree in Fermentation Sciences (FER).