It also contains aspects which, according to some, are deviations from Marxism, such as  socialism in one country . Marxism–Leninism was the ideology of the most clearly visible communist movement. As such, it is the most prominent ideology associated with communism. The core principle of council communism is that the government and the economy should be managed by workers' councils composed of delegates elected at workplaces and recallable at any moment.
State socialism can be used to classify any variety of socialist philosophies that advocates the ownership of the means of production by the state apparatus, either as a transitional stage between capitalism and socialism, or as an end-goal in itself. The varieties of socialism differ in the type of social ownership they advocate, the degree to which they rely on markets or planning, how management is to be organised within productive institutions, and the role of the state in constructing socialism.
The Hammer and sickle, the symbol of communism and workers' power. Communism is a way of running an economy and a government, in which the means of production (factories, equipment, the things which allow other things to be produced) are commonly owned, and which has no state, money, or social classes. 
Noun. 1. Communist-a member of the communist party. Communist Party-a political party that actively advocates a communist form of government; in Communist countries it is the sole political party of the state. pol, political leader, politico, politician-a person active in party politics. 1. a. A member of a movement or political party that advocates Communism. b. A supporter of such a party or movement. 2. A Communard. 3. often communist A radical viewed as a subversive or revolutionary.
SOCIALIST MOVEMENT. Socialism is a closely intertwined set of liberating ideas and social movements that emerged in the aftermath of the French Revolution. No single definition encompasses the many socialist variants that took root in Europe and America, but socialism enfolds certain key ideas. The absorption of the Socialist organisations into the Communist movement is generally seen as the...active part played by the Socialist movement in the period following...The demise of the Polish Socialist Party cannot be compared...rival and hostile party, the ...
Council communism is a far-left movement originating in Germany and the Netherlands in the 1920s. Its primary organization was the Communist Workers Party of Germany (KAPD). The core principle of council communism is that the government and the economy should be managed by workers' councils composed of delegates elected at workplaces and recallable at any moment.
The Communist International, abbreviated as Comintern and also known as the Third International (1919–1943), was an international communist organization that advocated world communism. 
Communism. Any ideology based on the communal ownership of all property and a classless social structure, with economic production and distribution to be directed and regulated by means of an authoritative economic plan that supposedly embodies the interests of the community as a whole.
noun. The government of Cuba is an example of communism. The government of Cuba is an example of communism. The definition of communism is a system where all property is public and people work and are given things by the government according to their needs. An example of communism is the governing system in Cuba where the government controls everything and doles out benefits such as money, health care and food. (uncountable). 1  The ideology of political parties that use the term Communist in their names, usually Marxist and Leninist. 2  The socio-economic system based on such parties' ideologies. ( 3 US, informal) A state of affairs perceived as oppressive, overly arbitrary, or totalitarian. 4  Link/Cite.
Wiktionary (3.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: communism (Noun). Any political philosophy or ideology advocating holding the production of resources collectively. communism (Noun). Any political social system that implements a communist political philosophy. communism (Noun). The international socialist society where classes and the state no longer exist. 