Normal rabbit urine is usually pale yellow in color, but upon exposure to the atmosphere, compounds in the urine may oxidize to darker yellow, orange, red, or even dark brown. This isn't unusual, and--by itself--is not necessarily a sign of a health problem.
What colour is rabbit wee? yellow   if there is a change in the color of the urine consult a vet ASAP. If its brown it could be diarrhea if so change its diet and see if there is any change (don't … take too long experimenting) if no change acures take it to The vet as soon as possible.
It is probably caused by a plant pigment and does not affect the health of the animal.. Red urine is a descriptive term for the condition where a rabbit's urine varies in color from the normal pale yellow to dark yellow, carrot orange, brown, or bright red. Red urine is not a medical problem.
The normal color of urine from rabbits is yellow. Sometimes the urine can become red, pink, brown, or orange. This condition, often simply called red urine, can occur in healthy rabbits as well as those who are ill.
When my rabbits were babies their wee was ordinary wee colour...:D However i was very shocked one day to find that their wee was red!! i asked some friends about it who also had rabits and they said they asked the vet about the same thing.
Normal rabbit urine can range from light yellow to dark reddish brown. But when bladder sludge is present, you'll see a staining of the sludge itself with the urine color. It tends to look more brown. I brought a couple of samples today to give you an impression of what it looks like.
You want to be aware of what normal urine is for your rabbit. The same thing with poop. Normal poop for your rabbit (as I said, you can find poop in the litter box to find what is normal). Also, there's a condition that we in the rabbit world call string-of-pearls poop.
It is not necessary to panic when you observe a change in color of your rabbit's urine. However, hematuria can occur due to disease anywhere in the urogenital system. An unspayed female rabbit might show a bloody discharge from her vulva, or drops of blood after urination, which could be confused with urine.
Best Answer: It is normal for rabbit's urine to be a really dark colour. If he isn't showing any other symptoms then you won't need to worry. The cause is almost certainly that he has a lot of calcium in his diet. Rabbit pellets are rich in calcium, as is lucerne (alfalfa) and clover hay.