[ 3 syll. a-ma-ri, am-ari ] The baby boy name Amari is sometimes used as a girl name. It is pronounced as aa-M AA-R-iy- †. Amari is used chiefly in the English language, and it is derived from Sanskrit and African-Yoruban origins. African-Yoruban origin: It is derived literally from the word 'amari' which means strength. In addition, Amari is a variant of the name Amar (Arabic, English, and Indian). Amarea, Amaree, Amarey, Amarie, Amarri, and Amary are variants of Amari. Amari is fairly popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as fairly trendy
Meaning of Amari. American name. In American, the name Amari means-a miracle from god.The name Amari originated as an American name. The name Amari is most often used as a girl name or female name. American Name Meaning-a miracle from god. Origin-America. 
Amari /am-ari/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Amari's root is Hebrew, and Amari means promised by God. Amari is an alternate spelling of Amaris (Hebrew). Compare surname Amaru. 
Amari Name Meaning. The meaning of Amari is “Immortal”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. The first thing you should know if you are considering Amari for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Amari is a unisex name, used as a boy name and a girl name.
What does Amari mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Amari is of Greek origin. The meaning of Amari is eternally lovely. It is also of African origin, where its meaning is strong. It ranked 340 in popular baby names for boys with 970 occurrences. View the Amari Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Amari has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Amari to other names.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Amaris is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Amaris is: Given by God. American Meaning: The name Amaris is an American baby name. 
It is used mainly in English. African-Yoruban origin: It is derived literally from the word amari with the meaning 'strength'. In addition, Amari is a form of the English Amara. Forms of Amari include the names Amare, Amaree, Amarie, and Amarri. Amari is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only irregular use. 
Meaning of the name Amari, analysis of the name Amari and so much more… What does Amari mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Amari. 2  Prononciation Of Amari. 3  The Meaning Of The Name Amari. 
Amari is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-ma-ri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 524 in baby name popularity for girls with 585 occurrences. It ranked 340 in popular baby names for boys with 970 occurrences. View the Amari Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Amari has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Amari to other names.