Phlebotomy is used for many reasons in the medical field. A physician may need to test the blood of a patient or a patient may be donating blood to help another person. The physician is not the one to take the blood from the patient. The phlebotomist does this as part of their job role. The phlebotomist takes blood by entering the veins, usually through the middle arm or wrist. These are the arteries easiest to access without causing pain to the patient
Additional Phlebotomists Duties. Some phlebotomists duties, for example those that conduct home care visits, will also include being responsible for transportation of fluid samples between the sample site and the laboratory. Phlebotomists' duties and services are usually scheduled, rather than performed under emergency situations. Given this fact, phlebotomists usually have the benefit of shift hours that match regular office hours, which is a luxury not typically found in the medical profession.
Phlebotomists can work for a doctor's office, a hospital, or a blood lab. Depending on where you work and in which state will determine rate of pay. A phlebotomist is a person who practices phlebotomy, or a person who draws blood from a person for testing, analysis or for transfusions during surgery. See the related link for more information. Phlebotomists draw blood from patients for testing purposes. They are certified through technical or vocational schools, but some may work without certification. Phlebotomist … jobs do not require extensive training and positions are commonly available. 1 person found this useful.
Phlebotomist Job Description. Phlebotomy technicians, or simply phlebotomists, are professionals who draw blood from patients. They take these blood samples to pass to laboratory and further check for health issues, like diseases, bacteria, cholesterol, etc. All You Need to Know. Phlebotomy technicians, or simply phlebotomists, are professionals who draw blood from patients. They take these blood samples to pass to laboratory and further check for health issues, like diseases, bacteria, cholesterol, etc.
Under the direction of a physician or other licensed health care professional, phlebotomists duties includes collecting samples of blood and other fluids from patients. Prior to collection, it is the phlebotomist’s responsibility to assure that all collection instruments and environments are sterile and of first use. Phlebotomists' duties and services are usually scheduled, rather than performed under emergency situations. Given this fact, phlebotomists usually have the benefit of shift hours that match regular office hours, which is a luxury not typically found in the medical profession.
Phlebotomists collect blood for donation or for testing so the blood can be analyzed in a clinical laboratory. Blood tests are used to diagnose illness, evaluate the effectiveness of medications and determine whether a patient is receiving proper nutrition. 
A phlebotomist is a healthcare professional who is trained to draw blood from a patient in a safe and sanitary manner. Phlebotomists may draw blood samples for tests or collect blood donations. 
Phlebotomists [edit]. Phlebotomists are people trained to draw blood from a patient for clinical or medical testing, transfusions, donations, or research. Phlebotomists collect blood primarily by performing venipunctures, (or, for collection of minute quantities of blood, fingersticks). Phlebotomy (from the Greek words phlebo- , meaning pertaining to a blood vessel, and-tomy, meaning to make an incision) is the process of making an incision in a vein with a needle.