English Name for Vasambu is Sweet Flag. It is a semi-aquatic perennial herb whose scientific name is Acorus Calamus. In HIndi, it is called Bach. It is also called Bach in Bengali. i would like to know the hindi/eng name for taml herb vasambu.
Synonyms of vasambu. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word vasambu. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word vasambu and, of course, vasambu synonyms and on the right images related to the word vasambu.
The root of the calamus (Tamil vasambu வசம்பு) is cut into disc-shaped beads, and made into bracelets, which are typically worn by newborns for the first few months. A vasambu bracelet is a symbol of a newborn baby in Tamil culture. In Europe Acorus calamus was often added to wine, and the root is also one of the possible ingredients of absinthe. It is also used in bitters. In Lithuania Ajeras (Sweet flag) is added to home baked black bread.
What is vasambu: Vasanbu is medicinal plant called mooligai which is uses in the preparation of Tamil medicines called Tamil maruthuvam. Benefits of vasambu: The Vasambu uses are more in Tamil siddha and ayurvedha treatment. Vasambu plant grows more in Himalayan regions. The parts like stem and root of the plant are having more medicinal properties. It is popularly called Pillai marunthu (infant medicine) and Vasambu in Tamil language. Vasambu is cultivated in some parts if Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The dry vasambu stem and root parts are available in nattu marundhu kadai. The precaution about using this medicine: Long term use can cause nausea and vomiting. Vasambu Health Benefits: the taste of vasambu is little spicy.
Acorus is a genus of monocot flowering plants. This genus was once placed within the family Araceae (aroids), but more recent classifications place it in its own family Acoraceae and order Acorales, of which it is the sole genus of the oldest surviving line of monocots. The exact relationship of Acorus to other monocots, however, is still debated by scientists. Some studies indicate that it is placed in a lineage (the order Alismatales), that also includes aroids (Araceae), Tofieldiaceae, and several families of aquatic monocots (e.g., Alismataceae, Posidoniaceae).
Vayambu is given to small children and young students. It is believed to have a positive effect on mental development of the children. The rhizome also has sedative properties and used in the treatment of epilepsy. It is also used in the treatment of dysentery, fever, kidney problems, rheumatism, certain skin problems, etc. Vayambu is a constituent of many traditional Ayurveda medicine preparations. The English names of vayambu are sweet flag and calamus. Acorus calamus is in the family Acoraceae. 
In addition to sweet flag and calamus other common names include beewort, bitter pepper root, calamus root, flag root, gladdon, myrtle flag, myrtle grass, myrtle root, myrtle sedge, pine root, rat root, sea sedge, sweet cane, sweet cinnamon, sweet grass, sweet myrtle, sweet root, sweet rush, and sweet sedge. In Europe Acorus calamus was often added to wine, and the root is also one of the possible ingredients of absinthe. It is also used in bitters. In Lithuania Ajeras (Sweet flag) is added to home baked black bread.
Vasambu in English: sweet Flag. Vasambu is cultivated in some parts if Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The dry vasambu stem and root parts are available in nattu marundhu kadai. The precaution about using this medicine: Long term use can cause nausea and vomiting. Vasambu Health Benefits: the taste of vasambu is little spicy.
Acorus calamus (also called Sweet Flag or Calamus, among many common names) is a tall perennial wetland monocot of the Acoraceae family, in the genus Acorus. In spite of common names that include the words  rush  and  sedge , it is neither a rush nor sedge. In Europe Acorus calamus was often added to wine, and the root is also one of the possible ingredients of absinthe. It is also used in bitters. In Lithuania Ajeras (Sweet flag) is added to home baked black bread.
Definition of vasambu. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word vasambu. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word vasambu and, of course, vasambu synonyms and on the right images related to the word vasambu.