However, other excellent sources of calcium exist. Sources of well-absorbed calcium for vegans include calcium-fortified soy milk and juice, calcium-set tofu, soybeans and soynuts, bok choy, broccoli, collards, Chinese cabbage, kale, mustard greens, and okra. Our Vegan Food Guide indicates good sources of calcium from several food groups. By choosing the suggested number of servings of calcium-rich foods daily, vegans should meet calcium needs. Table 2 shows several menus that contain more than 1000 mg of calcium.
The Health Benefits of Calcium. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the human body, according to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the recommended intake is 1,000 mg a day for adults. Ninety-nine percent of the body's calcium is stored in bones and teeth for structural support. Pin. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the human body, according to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the recommended intake is 1,000 mg a day for adults.
Spinach is one of the best food sources of calcium there is (and other leafy greens are a close second). To compensate, your body will take calcium from your bones to keep your blood calcium levels where they need to be. Over time, this can weaken your bones and lead to osteoporosis. The Best Food Sources of Calcium. Contrary to popular belief, dairy foods are not the only sources of calcium. Here are some of the best food sources of calcium out there, including not only dairy foods but a range of others as well: 1  Spinach. 2  Turnip greens. 3  Mustard greens. 4  Collard greens. 5  Blackstrap molasses. 6  Swiss chard.
Foods that provide vitamin D include: 1  Fatty fish, like tuna, mackerel, and salmon. 2  Foods fortified with vitamin D, like some dairy products, orange juice, soy milk, and cereals. 3  Beef liver. 4  Cheese. Other foods that are high in calcium include: 1  Spinach. 2  Kale. 3  Okra. 4  Collards. 5  Soybeans. 6  White beans. 7  Some fish, like sardines, salmon, perch, and rainbow trout.
Summary of Food Sources. Currently, an estimated 72% of calcium in an average American's diet comes from dairy foods. Vegetables (7%), grains (5%), legumes (4%), and meat/fish (3%) also contribute to total calcium intake. Many foods that contain calcium also contain vitamin D. For example, two of our top calcium-containing WHFoods (sardines and cow's milk) also belong to our top vitamin D-containing WHFoods.
Food. Milk, yogurt, and cheese are rich natural sources of calcium and are the major food contributors of this nutrient to people in the United States [ 1 ]. Nondairy sources include vegetables, such as Chinese cabbage, kale, and broccoli. Spinach provides calcium, but its bioavailability is poor. 
Many people don't. The best way to get more calcium is from your diet. You probably already know that dairy products -- such as milk, cheese, and yogurt -- provide calcium. Other foods that are high in calcium include: 1  Spinach. 2  Kale. 3  Okra. 4  Collards. 5  Soybeans. 6  White beans. 7  Some fish, like sardines, salmon, perch, and rainbow trout.
Plain, nonfat yogurt is the top source of calcium. Eight ounces provide 452 mg of calcium and 127 calories. Low-fat plain yogurt (415 mg of calcium and 143 calories) and fruit yogurt (345 mg of calcium and 232 calories) are not far behind. Pin. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the human body, according to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the recommended intake is 1,000 mg a day for adults. Ninety-nine percent of the body's calcium is stored in bones and teeth for structural support
When you have osteoporosis your bones are weak and thin from a loss of calcium. Weak bones can break more easily than strong bones. Calcium is also used in other parts of your body. It helps your muscles work and your heartbeat. *This includes sources of calcium from food and supplements. Milk and milk alternatives are excellent sources of calcium. If you do not include milk or milk alternatives in your diet, there are other foods which contain calcium as well. This table will show you which foods are a source of calcium