GMOs are bad for your body, bad for the community, bad for farmers and bad for the environment. This is why: 1  The health consequences of eating genetically modified organisms are largely unknown. 2  Genetically engineered foods have not been shown to be safe to eat and may have unpredictable consequences. 
GM foods are good. Genetically modified foods (GM foods) are foods that have been modified using biotechnology. Most known GM foods are pineapples, strawberries and potatoes. Genetically modified foods have been tested over and over again. Never revealing any problems, the test that show rats getting cancer and tumors, where frauds. The lab showed false information. GMO foods are a good chance to increase food production, because it has defenses against bugs already built in.
The way GMOs are created disrupts the plant’s DNA in unintended, potentially harmful ways. In genetic engineering, a single gene is removed from one organism and forcibly inserted into another. First, scientists identify the gene they want and analyze its sequence. The EU voiced an outcry about GMOs which reached such proportions that, in April 1999, virtually all major manufacturers publicly committed to stop using genetically modified ingredients in their European brands.
3. GMOs increase herbicide use. Most GM crops are engineered to be “herbicide tolerant”―they deadly weed killer. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs. Overuse of Roundup results in “superweeds,” resistant to the herbicide.
Over 17 million farmers around the world plant GM crops, and their numbers grow each season-they grew by 6% from 2011. In fact, 9 in 10 of these farmers run small farms, too. In addition to higher yields and higher farm income, their reasons include: Increased management flexibility. 
Numerous health problems increased after GMOs were introduced in 1996. The percentage of Americans with three or more chronic illnesses jumped from 7% to 13% in just 9 years; food allergies skyrocketed, and disorders such as autism, reproductive disorders, digestive problems, and others are on the rise. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs. Overuse of Roundup results in “superweeds,” resistant to the
A new report claims that genetically modified foods (or organisms) can damage your health and even cause cancer, but some experts say they’re an inexpensive and healthy way to put dinner on your table. 
There is a growing amount of information about GMOs in recent years that, (genetically modified organisms), appear to confirm serious health and environmental implications due to these ‘novel’ foods. The EU voiced an outcry about GMOs which reached such proportions that, in April 1999, virtually all major manufacturers publicly committed to stop using genetically modified ingredients in their European brands.
Genetically modified foods are beneficial to the environment, health, and are more durable than normal plants. By engineering the Bt toxin in the genomes of plants, scientists have reduced the need for pesticides. The Bt toxin is only toxic to the insects that eat it. That means only pests are affected. Genetically modified foods have been tested over and over again. Never revealing any problems, the test that show rats getting cancer and tumors, where frauds. The lab showed false information. GMO foods are a good chance to increase food production, because it has defenses against bugs already built in.