by ranklab. Filed under Questions. Alcohol is a depressant which is a class of drugs that inhibit the function of the central nervous system (CNS). In doing so both physical and psychological activity are impaired. Mostly due to the name, many people believe depressants cause people to feel depressed. While depressants “depress” the central nervous system, they do not cause a person to be depressed while under the influence. Depressants can initially make a person feel quite pleasant; alcohol relaxes its users and puts them at ease
Alcohol is a depressant in that it slows or depresses the actions of the heart lungs, etc. It doesn't cause a depression of mood, however. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Dangers of Depressants and Tranquilizers For Teenagers The abuse of drugs has become widespread. Yes, alcohol is a drug; it depresses various mental sensations and  inhibitions.   Yes. It just happens to be legal and easy to get. Alcohol causes  more drug-related pr … oblems, illness and deaths than any other  drug.it can cause brain damage to your brain in many ways.
A depressant, or central depressant, is a drug that lowers neurotransmission levels, which is to depress or reduce arousal or stimulation, in various areas of the brain. Depressants are also occasionally referred to as downers as they lower the level of arousal when taken. Distilled (concentrated) alcoholic beverages, often called  hard liquor , roughly eight times more alcoholic than beer. An alcoholic beverage is a drink that contains ethanol, an anesthetic that has been used as a psychoactive drug for several millennia. Ethanol is the oldest recreational drug still used by humans. Ethanol can cause alcohol intoxication when consumed
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Alcohol calms the Central Nervous System to promote sleep. It dimishes brain activity and causes a drowsy or calm feeling. Depressants can be prescribed to relieve symptoms of anxiety or insomnia. In a nutshell, it slows down your central nervous system, including your heart and breathing rate. This is in contrast to something like caffeine which is a stimulant and increases heart rate.
CNS Depressants. Depressants are a class of drug which slow down brain functioning. They do this by depressing the central nervous system (CNS) . This sedative quality of these substances means that they have many medicinal applications such as a treatment for insomnia and anxiety. How Depressants Work. All depressants work by slowing down the functioning of the central nervous system. This is usually done by enhancing the effect of a type of neurotransmitter called GABA. This is an inhibitory neurotransmitter which means that its job is to calm down operations within the CNS.
Alcohol, according to conventional wisdom, is a depressant. Yet, that doesn't fully explain alcohol's effects. People often drink to liven up a party, not mellow it out. A few drinks can spark energy, elation and excitement; it gives you a buzz. Alcohol may be more than simply a depressant. Classification of drugs can be explained by their chemical targets within the brain. Stimulants may influence dopamine or norepinephrine. Depressants target a chemical called GABA, the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter within the brain.