An adverb is a word that describes-or modifies, as grammarians put it-a verb, an adjective or another adverb. 1  A verb is an action word (jump, run, swim, ski, fish, talk). 2  An adjective is a descriptive word that describes a noun (pretty, happy, silly, sunny). For example: 1  He very quickly runs. 2  In this sentence, quickly is an adverb describing the word runs. 3  Very is another adverb, this time describing the word quickly. 4  The very pretty girl sat down. 5  In this sentence, pretty is an adjective describing the noun girl.
An adverb is a part of speech used to describe a verb, adjective, clause, or another adverb. It simply tells the readers how, where, when, or the degree at which something was done. Examples: 1  The manager accepted the challenge very nicely. 
Extremely is an adverb describing the adjective red. Very is an adverb describing the adverb slowly. This monkey is very tiny. Here is a sentence diagram and a tiny monkey. You'll learn more about sentence diagrams in a little bit! To see more examples of adverbs, click here. 
comments powered by Disqus. An adverb phrase is simply two or more words that act as an adverb. It can modify a verb, adverb, or adjective and can tell “how”, “where”, “why”, or “when.”. An adverb clause which also modifies verbs, adverbs and adjectives; but, an adverb clause also includes a subject and a verb. 
Definition. An adverb is the part of speech (or word class) that's primarily used to modify a verb, adjective, or other adverb. Adverbs can also modify prepositional phrases, subordinate clauses, and complete sentences. Adjective: adverbial
Kindly, slowly, here, often, and very are examples of adverbs. Adverbs modify verbs, adjectives, or other adverbs. Modify means to add to or change the meaning of a word. 
An adverb can be added to a verb to modify its meaning. Usually, an adverb tells you when, where, how, in what manner, or to what extent an action is performed. Many adverbs end in ly — particularly those that are used to express how an action is performed. Adverbs are used to modify verbs. They tell us when, where, how, in what manner, or to what extent an action is performed. Some examples: In these examples, the adverbs are all just one word, but they can be made up of more than one word.
This adverb may be accompanied by modifiers or qualifiers. An adverb phrase can modify a verb, an adjective, or another adverb, and it can appear in a number of different positions in a sentence. (See Examples and Observations, below.). See also: 1  Adding Adjectives and Adverbs to the Basic Sentence Unit. 2  Adverb Clause. 3  Phrase. 
Adverbs Examples. Adverbs. An adverb is a part of speech that modifies a verb, an adjective, or another adverb. Adverbs give us information like when, where, how, to what extent, or under what conditions, or in what manner. Many adverbs end in ly. So, some of them are easy to find. But, remember that not all adverbs end in ly