Bell's palsy A paralysis of the upper and lower muscles of the face on one side, due to an inflammation of the facial nerve. It results in a wider palpebral aperture and inability to close the eye on the affected size and drying of the cornea. See Bell's sign; artificial tears; crocodile tears. 
Bell's palsy is a paralysis or weakness of the muscles on one side of your face. Damage to the facial nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face causes that side of your face to droop. The nerve damage may also affect your sense of taste and how you make tears and saliva. Symptoms of Bell's palsy include: 1  Sudden weakness or paralysis on one side of your face that causes it to droop. 2  This is the main symptom. 3  It may make it hard for you to close your eye on that side of your face. 4  Drooling. 5  Eye problems, such as excessive tearing or a dry eye. 6  Loss of ability to taste.
The word cerebral refers to the area in the brain that is affected, while palsy means complete or partial muscle paralysis, frequently accompanied by loss of sensation and uncontrollable body movements or tremors. Cerebral means related to the brain or cerebrum. Cerebral palsy is a term which encompasses a set of neurological conditions that cause physical disability in human development-they affect the brain and nervous system.
Bell's palsy occurs when the nerve that controls the facial muscles is swollen, inflamed, or compressed, resulting in facial weakness or paralysis. Exactly what causes this damage, however, is unknown. The facial nerve also transmits taste sensations from the tongue. When Bell's palsy occurs, the function of the facial nerve is disrupted, causing an interruption in the messages the brain sends to the facial muscles. This interruption results
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a broad term used to describe a group of chronic palsies -- disorders that impair control of movement due to damage to the developing brain. CP usually develops by age 2 or 3 and is a nonprogressive brain disorder, meaning the brain damage does not continue to worsen throughout life. 
No sir, not I; 'tis a palsy I have still. Palsy is a medical term which refers to various types of paralysis, often accompanied by weakness and the loss of feeling and uncontrolled body movements such as shaking. The word originates from the Anglo-Norman paralisie, parleisie et al. 
Cerebral palsy, also referred to as CP, is a term used to describe a group of chronic conditions affecting body movement and muscle coordination. It is caused by damage to one or more specific areas of the brain, usually occurring during fetal development; before, during, or shortly after birth; or during infancy. 
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to the facial nerves. The facial nerve-also called the 7th cranial nerve-travels through a narrow, bony canal (called the Fallopian canal) in the skull, beneath the ear, to the muscles on each side of the face. The facial nerve also transmits taste sensations from the tongue. When Bell's palsy occurs, the function of the facial nerve is disrupted, causing an interruption in the messages the brain sends to the facial muscles. This interruption results in facial weakness or paralysis.
Knowledge center. Bell's Palsy is the paralysis or severe weakness of the nerve that controls the facial muscles on the side of the face-the facial nerve or seventh cranial nerve. Patients typically find they suddenly cannot control their facial muscles, usually on one side. 