Amit Leonard Actor, Slumdog Millionaire Amit Leonard was born in Jamshedpur,Jharkhand,India, and grew up in Ranchi,Jharkhand,India, and studied in Bishop Westcott Boy's School,Ranchi. His parents were teachers in the same school. Binota Roy Actress, Calcutta 71 Binota Basu was born in a Brahma family in 1925 on Kojagari Lakshmi Purnima Tithi and was therefore called Lakshmi. Her father Satya Sundar Basu was an advocate in Patna High court.
[prɪˈjaːŋkaː ˈtʃoːpɽaː] ; born 18 July 1982) is an Indian film actress and singer, and the winner of the Miss World pageant of 2000. Through her film career, she has become one of Bollywood's highest-paid actresses and one of the most popular and high-profile celebrities in India. Chopra is cited as the world's sexiest Asian woman, as well as one of the most fashionable Indian celebrities, by various media outlets. She has received numerous accolades, including a National Film Award for Best Actress and Filmfare Awards in four categories.
Amit Leonard Actor, Slumdog Millionaire Amit Leonard was born in Jamshedpur,Jharkhand,India, and grew up in Ranchi,Jharkhand,India, and studied in Bishop Westcott Boy's School,Ranchi. His parents were teachers in the same school. He was an above average student. 
There may be a lot of famous athletes, musicians and other famous people that were born in Jamshedpur, but this list highlights only names of actors and actresses. This list features items like Priyanka Chopra and R. Madhavan. If you're from Jamshedpur then your city's claim to fame might be that the actors and actresses listed below are from there as well.
1 Imtiaz Ali, Famous director (his works include Socha Na Tha, Jab We Met and Love Aaj Kal) and writer of Indian Cinema, born in Jamshedpur. 2  R. Madhavan, Indian Tamil cine star was born and brought up in Jamshedpur. 3  Priyanka Chopra, Miss India World 2000; Miss World 2000 and Bollywood actress was born here. This is a list of prominent people who were born or lived in Jamshedpur. 1  Jamsetji Tata, founder of the city of Jamshedpur. 2  Raghubar Das current Chief Minister of Jharkhand was born in Jamshedpur. 3  Jahar Dasgupta, artist, painter, President of the Academy of Fine Arts, Kolkata. 4  Sanjivan Lal, Film Director
Famous Film Actors From Jamshedpur. List of famous movie actors & actresses who were born in Jamshedpur, listed alphabetically with photos when available. Some of these celebrities weren't necessarily born in Jamshedpur, as in some cases Jamshedpur may only be their hometown and not necessarily their birthplace. If you're from Jamshedpur then your city's claim to fame might be that the actors and actresses listed below are from there as well.
TOp 10 Hottest &Sexiest Actresses in Bollywood. Bollywood is considered to be the world biggest movies industry. We have seen some remarkable performances by B town actors in their movies. Industry which is dominated by men we have seen some outstanding actresses as well. People are love to watch them in the movies. Their hot and bold characters always entertain audience We compiled this list of Bollywood Top 10 Hottest Actresses of Bollywood. 10. 
Follow. Bollywood the world where women glamour shines with the beauty and there is huge endorsement offers that are available for the actresses. In the past few years Indian Industry of the film is one of the highest grossing one. Here is the list of Top Ten Richest Bollywood Actress according to their wealth. 
Priyanka Chopra was born on 18 July 1982 in Jamshedpur, Bihar (now in Jharkhand), to Ashok and Madhu Chopra, both physicians in the Indian Army. Her father was a Punjabi, while her mother is from Jharkhand. She has a brother, Siddharth, who is seven years her junior. Actress Parineeti Chopra, Meera Chopra and Mannara are her cousins. Due to her parents' occupations the family relocated to a number of places in India, including Delhi, Chandigarh, Ambala, Ladakh, Lucknow, Bareilly, and Pune. Chopra is cited as the world's sexiest Asian woman, as well as one of the most fashionable Indian celebrities, by various media outlets. She has received numerous accolades, including a National Film Award for Best Actress and Filmfare Awards in four categories.