The 1861 Springfield Rifle was primarily used in the American Civil  War. It was created by the U.S. army, so there is no way to know  for sure who first came up with the id … ea. It was likely the product  of a team of army engineers working together. 
1 John Moses Browning was the prolific gun designer who invented the Winchester rifle (30/30), the pump shotgun, and the Colt 45 automatic. 2  He is best known for his automatic pistols and was the first one to invent the slide, which encloses the barrel of a pistol and the firing mechanism. 3  John Moses Browning. 1 The breech-loading rifle was invented by Captain Patrick Ferguson of Pitfours, Scotland. 2  John Moses Browning-Winchester Rifle. 3 
A musket is a muzzle-loaded, smoothbore firearm, fired from the shoulder. Muskets were designed for use by infantry. A soldier armed with a musket had the designation musketman or musketeer. The musket replaced the arquebus, and was in turn replaced by the rifle (in both cases, after a long period of coexistence). By the start of the 18th century, a lighter version of the musket had edged out the arquebus, and the addition of the bayonet edged out the pike, and almost all infantry became musketeers.
Best Answer: Hand cannons were the earliest firearms dating to China in the 1200's. Hand cannons found their way to Europe sometime during the first half of the 1300's. Matchlock muskets appeared about 1400 followed by wheel locks about 1500. The next advance was the flintlock during the early 1600's and then the cap lock was invented in 1805, but did not start gaining popularity until the 1830's. The self contained cartridge appeared during the 1850's.
Marin le Bourgeoys created the first true flintlock guns for King Louis XIII shortly after his accession in 1610. During the 17th century, flintlock muskets were produced in a wide range of models. In 1717, a flintlock musket for the French infantry was standardized. This was the first standard flintlock be issued to all infantry troops, later became known as Charleville muskets, after the armory in Charleville-Mezieres, Ardennes, France. 
The smoothbore flintlock musket was the standard infantry weapon by 1699. Previous to this, the matchlock musket, developed in Spain during the late 15th century,was the standard infantry firearm.It was first used at the battle of Ravenna (11 April 1512), during the Italian Wars between France and Spain. Matchlock muskets appeared about 1400 followed by wheel locks about 1500. The next advance was the flintlock during the early 1600's and then the cap lock was invented in 1805, but did not start gaining popularity until the 1830's. The self contained cartridge appeared during the 1850's.
The musket had a smoothbore barrel; it had no rifling grooves in the barrel. By today's standards, muskets are not accurate due to the lack of rifling. A rifle bullet will spin, allowing greater accuracy. Owing to this lack of accuracy, officers did not expect musketeers to aim at specific targets. By the start of the 18th century, a lighter version of the musket had edged out the arquebus, and the addition of the bayonet edged out the pike, and almost all infantry became musketeers.
A rifled musket or rifle musket is a type of firearm made in the mid-19th century. Originally the term referred only to muskets that had been produced as a smoothbore weapon and later had their barrels replaced with rifled barrels. The first rifled muskets, having originally been smoothbore weapons like the Model 1842 Musket, which were typically .69 caliber weapons, though smaller caliber weapons were sometimes modified as well.
It would take nearly another 200 years before the matchlock would be improved upon. The very first true flintlock firearm was developed by Frenchman Marin le Bourgeoys who designed it for King Louis VIII. Flintlock muskets, pistols and rifles were the mainstay of every European and American army from 1660 to 1840. The flintlock improved upon the matchlock in several ways. 