Nicotine is usually detectable in a blood test for 1-3 days after the consumption of a tobacco product.* However, the length of time that nicotine stays in your system may vary based on how much or how often you smoke, and may also be affected by your age and general health. In a saliva test, which is the most accurate test, nicotine can be detected for more than 10 hours or up to 2-4 days.*. There are ways to effectively clear nicotine from your system, most of which include eating a healthy diet, drinking plenty of water, and getting exercise.
2-3 days: Nicotine is a short-acting drug, and is usually metabolized into cotinine which lasts for up to 72 hours. If you give it one week, your test should be negative. Swab tests of oral fluids may remain positive for up to a week. However, far more important than passing a cotinine drug test is STAYING STOPPED. 
Blood Test. Testing for nicotine shows that nicotine is detectable for 1 to 3 days. It is common to test for cotinine instead of nicotine, as cotinine is detectable in the system for up to 10 days after nicotine has been removed from your system. When smoking only occasionally or you have a limited nicotine intake, the nicotine should be cleared out in 3 to 4 days. If you are a regular smoker, it may take 1-2 weeks; if you are a long time heavy smoker, it may take more than 20 days for a clean urinalysis test.
Most of the nicotine will be excreted from the system within twenty minutes after smoking. Nonetheless, it can be detected in the saliva for approximately 24 hours after the last smoke. Its metabolite, cotinine, can be detected for as long as 4 to 7 days depending on the amount of nicotine consumed. For heavy smokers, it may be detected up to seven to fourteen days. You are beginning to see how challenging it is to adequately answer the question of How Long does Nicotine Stay In Your System. Blood Test for Nicotine. Nicotine presence can be detected in the blood for a short period only (about 48 hours) . However, its metabolite, cotinine, can be detected up to about three weeks from the last use and the cut-off detection levels is 200 ng/ml.
Nicotine Drug Test. In order to know the fact as to how long nicotine stays in your system, you need to remember the duration of smoking and the number of cigarettes smoked per day. Usually nicotine persists in the body for 2-4 days but in some cases it may also last for a few months. However, in the case of passive smoking the nicotine remains in the body for a long time. The presence of nicotine is usually detected in the urine, blood, and hair follicle through medical tests
Report This | Share this:How long before Nicotine is out of system?Nicotine has a half-life in the human body of 2 hours (although it can range from 1 to 4 hours in different individuals). The average smoker has a blood nicotine concentration of about 40 ng/ml after an evening cigarette. 
The length of time that nicotine stays in the body and cotinine can be a reliable indicator of nicotine use depends on the amount of tobacco smoked, the number of years smoking tobacco, and the type of nicotine test performed. It can be as short as 2 days, or as long as 3 months. Both qualitative and quantitative blood tests can be used to detect nicotine use. Either blood nicotine levels or its presence or absence can be determined. Nicotine, along with its derivatives cotinine and anabasine, can be used for these blood tests.