I’m often asked by clients, “What is Rolfing therapy?”. Rolfing is posture and movement therapy for pain relief (neck and shoulder pain, lower back pain, scoliosis, sciatic nerve pain etc.). Receiving a Rolfing session is like having someone do yoga for you, with dramatic improvements in flexibility once you’re done. 
There is insufficient evidence to claim that Rolfing is effective for the treatment of any health condition and it has been characterized as a pseudoscience. The primary goal of Rolfing is to improve the alignment and movement of the body, in accordance with Ida Rolf's ideas about optimum human function. Rolfing is typically performed in a progression of 10 sessions, sometimes called the recipe, which is claimed to provide a systematic approach to address these goals.
Rolfing is a type of manipulative therapy developed by biochemist Dr. Ida Rolf in the thirties. She believed gravity and manipulation of a person’s soft connective tissues (fascia) could permanently reform the body to proper alignment. 
Rolfing® is a system of soft tissue manipulation and movement education that organizes the whole b ody in gravity. Rolfing bodywork affects the bodys posture and structure by manipulating the myofascial system (connective tissue). People seek Rolfing as a way to reduce pain and chronic muscle tension, generally resulting from physical and emotional traumas. Rolfing is used by many professional athletes to break up scar tissue, rehabilitate injuries, and increase range of motion to improve performance and avoid future injuries.
Definition. Rolfing or Rolf therapy is the manipulation or deep tissue massage of the body's connective tissue and muscles, in order to realign and balance the body's structure. This leads to improved posture, function, and general physical and emotional health. Rolfing is the popular name for Structural Integration. Rolfing is an original and scientifically validated system of body restructuring and movement education. Through the ten session Rolfing series the body is balanced in relationship to itself and within the field of gravity by working with the connective tissue.
Rolfing is a therapy system created by the Rolf Institute of Structural Integration (also referred to as “RISI”),founded by Ida Pauline Rolf in 1971. The Institute states that Rolfing is a “holistic system of soft tissue manipulation and movement education that organize(s) the whole body in gravity”. Learn More..
The Institute states that Rolfing is a holistic system of soft tissue manipulation and movement education that organize(s) the whole body in gravity . Rolfing is the most publicly known brand of Structural Integration and is essentially identical to it. The primary goal of Rolfing is to improve the alignment and movement of the body, in accordance with Ida Rolf's ideas about optimum human function. Rolfing is typically performed in a progression of 10 sessions, sometimes called the recipe, which is claimed to provide a systematic approach to address these goals.
Definition. Rolfing, also called Rolf therapy or structural integration, is a holistic system of bodywork that uses deep manipulation of the body's soft tissue to realign and balance the body's myofascial structure. Rolfing improves posture, relieves chronic pain, and reduces stress. Rolfing helps to improve posture and bring the body's natural structure into proper balance and alignment. This can bring relief from general aches and pains, improve breathing, increase energy, improve self-confidence, and relieve physical and mental stress.