An idler arm is a steering component in vehicles with parallelogram steering, i.e. those that use a center link. An idler arm assembly is not present in vehicles that use rack and pinion steering. The idler arm works in concert with the pitman arm to allow the center link to move and in turn move the tie rods and steer the wheels of the vehicle. The pitman arm is turned by the steering box and moves the center link left and right. The idler arm keeps the center link tracking correctly on the other side and keeps it parallel to the road. For this reason, the idler arm is bolted to the frame on the passenger side. It attaches to a hole in the center link via a ball joint or a tapered end
The idler arm consists of a ball joint, an arm and pivot bushing. The idler arm is on the passenger side of the frame rail. The idler arm is a component of the steering system in a vehicle. Not all cars have steering systems. Most sport utility vehicles (SUVs) and trucks have steering systems, as do some passenger models.
The idler arm connects the steering box to the center link. The center link is what turns the hubs and allows a vehicle's tires to rotate. The idler arm controls the passenger side steering in a vehicle. The idler arm is a component of the steering system in a vehicle. Not all cars have steering systems. Most sport utility vehicles (SUVs) and trucks have steering systems, as do some passenger models.
Steering Linkage: Idler Arm. An idler arm is used in a parallelogram type steering system. Today's vehicles typically have either a parallelogram or a rack and pinion steering system. Parallelogram systems use a gear box with a pitman arm connected to the center link. It’s through the pitman arm that the gear box turns and moves the steering linkage. The parts include the pitman arm, center link, idler arm, and the two tie rods. The idler arm is designed to keep the center link parallel to the road surface, while allowing the link to swivel both left and right.
It's often a good idea to replace your Pitman and your idler arms at the same time. Photo Credit: photo by Chuck. Idler Arms and Pitman Arms are part of your steering system that links your steering box to the center link, and then on to the hub assemblies. 
On an automobile or truck with a conventional Parallelogram steering linkage, the Idler Arm or idler arm assembly is a pivoting support for the steering linkage. The idler arm supports the end of the center link on the passengers side of the vehicle. The idler arm bolts to the vehicle's frame or subframe. Generally, an idler arm is attached between the opposite side of the center link from the Pitman arm and the vehicle's frame to hold the center link at the proper height
Your idler arm is the S-shaped part that connects the frame and the center link bar of your steering system. Once you've located the idler arm, remove the cotter pin from the arm using a deep socket. Step 5: With your ratchet and socket, remove the castle nut. 