The time it takes to source the limestone and create the pavers increases the cost. For a patio measuring 100 square feet, the pavers can cost around $260 to $360 for an overall cost of $2.60 to $3.60 per square foot. Factoring in the cost of sand, concrete and other materials can add an extra $40 to $50 to the project.
Their estimate for a 10 foot by 10 foot wall section without windows, doors or other special features is $43.01 per square foot using 4 inch by 8 inch by 24 inch Indiana limestone blocks. Their estimate for a 2 inch thin natural stone veneer adhered to a brick wall is $26.16 per square foot. The American Limestone Company claims their fastening system costs less, but they have not posted any square foot costs for comparison. If applying a limestone veneer to a cement block wall, the difference in cost is as little as $7 a square foot, however over the surface of an exterior wall, $7 a square foot adds up fast and should not be dismissed lightly.
According to their calculations, the cost for a brick veneer and wood stud wall is approximately $19 per square foot, ranging from a low of $18.98 in Charleston, South Carolina to a high of $21.24 in Atlanta, Georgia. These estimates include all associated materials and labor for the wall. If applying a limestone veneer to a cement block wall, the difference in cost is as little as $7 a square foot, however over the surface of an exterior wall, $7 a square foot adds up fast and should not be dismissed lightly.
2. Edit Answer (for another -36 minute). The cost to install the veneer stone has a wide range do to many factors. It can range from around $9 to $17 per square foot. It depends on the location, the stone being used, job access, skaffolding needs, wall prep and such. I would think you would be on the lower end of the scale
1 Generally, the cost is around $3.75 per square foot. 2  You can also get stone veneer at around $2 to $8 per square foot. 3  You can get a stone veneer at around $3.39 per square foot to $9.99 per piece at builddirect.com. 1 Usually, the price of the stone veneer is going to depend on the raw material price and the type of pattern. 2  Some patterns may require more stone per square foot. 3  According to answerbag.com, the price of stone veneer varies depending on the product choice and quantity.
Their estimate for a 10 foot by 10 foot wall section without windows, doors or other special features is $43.01 per square foot using 4 inch by 8 inch by 24 inch Indiana limestone blocks. Their estimate for a 2 inch thin natural stone veneer adhered to a brick wall is $26.16 per square foot. The American Limestone Company claims their fastening system costs less, but they have not posted any square foot costs for comparison. If applying a limestone veneer to a cement block wall, the difference in cost is as little as $7 a square foot, however over the surface of an exterior wall, $7 a square foot adds up fast and should not be dismissed lightly.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Stone Veneer Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Stone Veneer ranges between $9.19 - $18.88 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project:
1 You may also be paying extra money for installation of stone veneer in your home and for hiring a contractor or a professional to do the job for you. 2  Installation of stone veneer can vary anywhere from $10 to $18 per square foot. 3  This will greatly depend on the complexity of the project. 1 Usually, the price of the stone veneer is going to depend on the raw material price and the type of pattern. 2  Some patterns may require more stone per square foot. 3  According to answerbag.com, the price of stone veneer varies depending on the product choice and quantity.