The US Federal Trade Commission defines Lyocell as a fiber composed of cellulose precipitated from an organic solution in which no substitution of the hydroxyl groups takes place and no chemical intermediates are formed. It classifies the fiber as a sub-category of rayon. As of 2010, Lyocell is more expensive to produce than cotton or viscose rayon. It is used in many everyday fabrics. Staple fibres are used in clothes such as denim, chino, underwear, casual wear, and towels.
Lyocell is a form of rayon which consists of regenerated cellulose fiber made from dissolving pulp (bleached wood pulp) using dry jet-wet spinning. It was developed beginning in 1972 by a team at the now defunct American Enka fibers facility at Enka, NC. As of 2010, Lyocell is more expensive to produce than cotton or viscose rayon. It is used in many everyday fabrics. Staple fibres are used in clothes such as denim, chino, underwear, casual wear, and towels.
TENCEL® is the lyocell fiber from the house of Lenzing. It is of botanic origin, since it is extracted from the raw material wood. Fiber production itself is extremely ecofriendly, due to the closed loop system. On the day that the fiber TENCEL® was invented, a new chapter was written in the history of fibers. 
NMMO monohydrate is used as a solvent in the Lyocell process to produce Tencel fiber. 1  Lyocell is considered an eco friendly biodegradable fabric ‘ composed of cellulose precipitated from an organic solution in which no substitution of the hydroxyl groups takes place and no chemical intermediates are formed (Source). Tencel Fabric (Lyocell) from nature to your closet. Tencel fabric is an amazing eco friendly fabric that represents a milestone in the development of environmentally sustainable textiles. Tencel is a natural, man made fibre which is also referred to as Lyocell. Made with wood pulp from sustainable tree farms, tencel textiles are created though the use of nanotechnology in an award-winning closed-loop process that recovers or decomposes all solvents and emissions
Lyocell is the generic name for a biodegradable fabric that's made out of treated wood pulp. It's commonly sold under the brand name Tencel®, which is made by Lenzing AG. Known for its versatility, durability, and strength when both wet and dry, this material is used in everything from clothing to cars. The production process for lyocell begins by treating wood chips approximately the size of a coin until they form a substance similar to a thick paper, which is then sent to a fabric production factory. Once there, it is broken down into about 1 inch (2.5 cm) squares and chemically dissolved
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Tencel® is the registered trade name for a type of lyocell, a biodegradable material made from wood pulp cellulose. Fabric sold under the this brand specifically is manufactured by Lenzing AG. 
Lyocell Fabric – from nature to your closet. What is Lyocell Fabric. Lyocell fabric is an amazing eco friendly fabric that represents a milestone in the development of environmentally sustainable textiles. Lyocell is a natural, man made fibre. Made from the natural cellulose found in wood pulp. The fiber is economical in its use of energy and natural resources, and is fully biodegradable. Colour Rich. Lyocell was created with color in mind, because of the fibers' high absorbency.
Production Process. The production process for lyocell begins by treating wood chips approximately the size of a coin until they form a substance similar to a thick paper, which is then sent to a fabric production factory. Once there, it is broken down into about 1 inch (2.5 cm) squares and chemically dissolved