Fermentation is a process in which food is exposed to bacteria and yeasts, either via inoculation or naturally through the air. Beneficial microorganisms beat out the kind that can kill you, and eat up the carbohydrates in the food. The results are interesting flavors, textures, and smells. Fermented things can be the kinds of food that people refer to as “acquired tastes.” But some of the most common things we eat and drink are fermented. The words aged and cured should be your first clue.
Also known as cultured dairy foods, cultured dairy products, or cultured milk products, fermented milk products are dairy foods that have been fermented with lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, and Leuconostoc. Pictured is matzoon, a fermented milk product of Armenian origin. A mesophilic fermented milk product that is made by fermenting cow's milk with a variety of bacteria from the species Lactococcus lactis and Leuconostoc mesenteroides.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Fermented cheese is a food found around the world. The fermentation process allows dairy products to be kept at room temperature for long periods of time, which was essential in the days before refrigeration. This process is often called aging, but it is actually a type of fermentation. Cheeses can be fermented for anywhere from weeks to months. Ad. Historically, cheese was fermented in caves. Caves provided an area that was cool, moist, and away from the sun, which could damage the fermented cheese and render it inedible.
Most cheeses are variations of fermented cheese. The cultures added to the cheese and the conditions under which it is aged account for the many different flavors and textures of cheese. All of the bacteria added to cheese to ferment are safe to consume. This process is often called aging, but it is actually a type of fermentation. Cheeses can be fermented for anywhere from weeks to months. Ad. Historically, cheese was fermented in caves. Caves provided an area that was cool, moist, and away from the sun, which could damage the fermented cheese and render it inedible.
Fermented foods are a special group of foods that have gone through a fermentation process, creating a deliciously pickled or strongly flavored condiment, food or drink. Some of the most commonly known food ferments include wine, cheese and pickles. 
A staple of the Middle Eastern diet for thousands of years, yogurt is a fermented food that holds the same level of protein and fat as the milk from which it is produced. It is also a source of calcium and vitamins B2, B6 and B12. Kefir. Kefir is a fermented yogurt-like drink that dates back centuries to the shepherds of the Caucasus Mountains. The word kefir is derived from the Turkish word “Keif,” which means good feeling; a benefit this drink is said to provide for those who consume it.
Cheeses are fermented by adding different types of bacteria to dairy products and allowing the bacteria to eat the lactose. Both hard and soft cheeses are made by fermenting milk by adding live cultures to it. There are two main types of cheese — fermented and non-fermented. This process is often called aging, but it is actually a type of fermentation. Cheeses can be fermented for anywhere from weeks to months. Ad. Historically, cheese was fermented in caves. Caves provided an area that was cool, moist, and away from the sun, which could damage the fermented cheese and render it inedible.
Cheese is a food derived from milk that is produced in a wide range of flavors, textures, and forms by coagulation of the milk protein casein. 
Fermenting Process. The processes used to turn milk into different fermented foods involves adding lactic-acid-producing microorganisms, such as bacteria and yeast, which ingest lactose, or milk sugar, and release lactic acid as waste. Kefir. Kefir is a fermented yogurt-like drink that dates back centuries to the shepherds of the Caucasus Mountains. The word kefir is derived from the Turkish word “Keif,” which means good feeling; a benefit this drink is said to provide for those who consume it.