Hepatitis is a serious inflammation of the liver, usually due to a virus. It can also be caused by an overactive immune system, and from drugs, alcohol, chemicals, and environmental toxins. You can get hepatitis B through contact with infected blood and body fluids. Having chronic hepatitis B increases your chance of permanent liver damage, including cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) and liver cancer. There is a vaccine to prevent hepatitis B.
Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C are diseases caused by three different viruses. Although each can cause similar symptoms, they have different modes of transmission and can affect the liver differently. Most people with chronic Hepatitis C do not have any symptoms. However, if a person has been infected for many years, his or her liver may be damaged. In many cases, there are no symptoms of the disease until liver problems have developed.
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness that attacks the liver. It results from infection with the Hepatitis C virus (HCV), which is spread primarily through contact with the blood of an infected person. Most people with chronic Hepatitis C do not have any symptoms. However, if a person has been infected for many years, his or her liver may be damaged. In many cases, there are no symptoms of the disease until liver problems have developed.
The hepatitis A virus can be killed by temperatures of 185 de … grees and higher. Chlorine bleach will inactivate the hepatitis A virus, as will any chemical with a pH of greater than 10, but the object or surface will need to be soaked or cleaned for more than 30 seconds to ensure it is inactivated. 6 people found this useful.
1 Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 3  Almost everyone recovers fully from hepatitis A, but very small proportions die from fulminant hepatitis. 1 The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 2
Hepatitis is a virus that attacks the liver. There are different forms of Hepatitis and each is unique. You can get Hepatitis A, B, or C from sex. Find out more about the different types of Hepatitis and how to prevent them below. 
Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C are diseases caused by three different viruses. Although each can cause similar symptoms, they have different modes of transmission and can affect the liver differently. Hepatitis A appears only as an acute or newly occurring infection and does not become chronic. The Hepatitis A vaccine is a shot of inactive Hepatitis A virus that stimulates the body's natural immune system. After the vaccine is given, the body makes antibodies that protect a person against the virus. An antibody is a substance found in the blood that is produced in response to a virus invading the body.
Hepatitis E is a viral hepatitis (liver inflammation) caused by infection with a virus called hepatitis E virus (HEV). It is one of five known human hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D, and E. HEV is a positive-sense single-stranded RNA icosahedral virus with a 7.5 kilobase genome. HEV has a fecal-oral transmission route
“Hepatitis” means inflammation of the liver. Toxins, certain drugs, some diseases, heavy alcohol use, and bacterial and viral infections can all cause hepatitis. Hepatitis is also the name of a family of viral infections that affect the liver; the most common types are Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C. Most people with chronic Hepatitis C do not have any symptoms. However, if a person has been infected for many years, his or her liver may be damaged. In many cases, there are no symptoms of the disease until liver problems have developed.
The hepatitis A virus can be killed by temperatures of 185 de … grees and higher. Chlorine bleach will inactivate the hepatitis A virus, as will any chemical with a pH of greater than 10, but the object or surface will need to be soaked or cleaned for more than 30 seconds to ensure it is inactivated. Not even bleach will kill the Hep C virus most of the time. Hepatitis C can live at least 3 days outside the body (up to a week in some cases) - heat inactivation (autoclave) … will kill the virus. You are much better off washing your hands with soap and water.