Cardiac muscle cells are not as long as skeletal muscles cells and often are branched cells. Cardiac muscle cells may be mononucleated or binucleated. In either case the nuclei are located centrally in the cell. Cardiac muscle is also striated. Skeletal muscle cells are elongated or tubular. They have multiple nuclei and these nuclei are located on the periphery of the cell. Skeletal muscle is striated. That is, it has an alternating pattern of light and darks bands that will be described later.
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated
It forms all of the skeletal muscles, such as the biceps brachii and gluteus maximus, and is found in the eyes, throat, diaphragm, and anus.... Click to read more below. Muscle tissue, one of the four major tissue types, plays the vital role of providing movement and heat generation to the organs of the body. Within muscle tissue are three distinct groups of tissues: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Each of these tissue groups is made of specialized cells that give the tissue its unique properties. Four characteristics define cardiac muscle tissue cells: they are involuntary and intrinsically controlled, striated, branched, and single nucleated. Cardiac muscle is considered to be an involuntary tissue because it is controlled unconsciously by regions of the brain stem and hypothalamus.
Four characteristics define skeletal muscle tissue cells: they are voluntary, striated, not branched, and multinucleated. Skeletal muscle tissue is the only muscle tissue under the direct conscious control of the cerebral cortex of the brain, giving it the designation of being voluntary muscle. Four characteristics define cardiac muscle tissue cells: they are involuntary and intrinsically controlled, striated, branched, and single nucleated. Cardiac muscle is considered to be an involuntary tissue because it is controlled unconsciously by regions of the brain stem and hypothalamus.
Muscle function: 1. contraction for locomotion and skeletal movement. 2. contraction for propulsion. 3. contraction for pressure regulation. Muscle classification: muscle tissue may be classified according to a morphological classification or a functional classification. Skeletal muscle cells are elongated or tubular. They have multiple nuclei and these nuclei are located on the periphery of the cell. Skeletal muscle is striated. That is, it has an alternating pattern of light and darks bands that will be described later.
Characteristics of Smooth Muscle. The normal characteristics of smooth muscle: Smooth muscle is found in many different places in the human body: Unlike skeletal muscle, smooth muscle is generally not identifiable from gross observation of the body. You have to know where to look where to find it.
muscle. the contractile tissue that effects the movement of and within the body. Muscle tissue in the higher animals is classified as striated, smooth, or cardiac, according to its structure and function. Striated, or skeletal, muscle forms the bulk of the body's muscle tissue and gives the body its general shape. All types of muscles consist of muscle fibers. Striated muscle fibers in skeletal muscles form bundles joined together by layers of connective tissue. The ends of muscle fibers are intertwined with tendon fibers, and through this combination muscular tension is transmitted to the skeletal bones.
Skeletal muscle is an example of muscle tissue, one of the four types of basic tissue. The essential characteristic of muscle tissue is that it shortens or contracts. There are three kinds of muscle tissue, skeletal, cardiac and smooth. In the next two lectures we will focus only on skeletal muscle physiology and anatomy.
Each skeletal muscle fiber is a single cylindrical muscle cell. An individual skeletal muscle may be made up of hundreds, or even thousands, of muscle fibers bundled together and wrapped in a connective tissue covering. Each muscle is surrounded by a connective tissue sheath called the epimysium. Fascia, connective tissue outside the epimysium, surrounds and separates the muscles. Structure of Skeletal Muscle. A whole skeletal muscle is considered an organ of the muscular system. Each organ or muscle consists of skeletal muscle tissue, connective tissue, nerve tissue, and blood or vascular tissue.