COZAAR is a prescription medicine called an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB). It is used: 1  alone or with other blood pressure medicines to lower high blood pressure (hypertension). 2  to lower the chance of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and a heart problem called left ventricular hypertrophy. 3  COZAAR may not help Black patients with this problem.
Losartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Losartan keeps blood vessels from narrowing, which lowers blood pressure and improves blood flow. Losartan is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It is also used to lower the risk of stroke in certain people with heart disease. Losartan is used to slow long-term kidney damage in people with type 2 diabetes who also have high blood pressure. Losartan may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Losartan (rINN) /loʊˈsɑrtən/ is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist drug used mainly to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It was the first angiotensin II antagonist to be marketed. Losartan potassium is marketed by Merck & Co. Inc. under the trade name Cozaar, and is available in generic form. 
Losartan is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. Losartan is also used to decrease the risk of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and enlargement of the heart. It is also used to treat kidney problems in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. Proper Use For Cozaar.
Uses For Cozaar. Losartan is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Losartan is also used to decrease the risk of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and enlargement of the heart. It is also used to treat kidney problems in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. Proper Use For Cozaar.
Losartan, sold under the brand name Cozaar, is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It's also used to lower the risk of stroke in some patients with heart disease. Losartan is an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) that blocks a substance that causes blood vessels to tighten. By relaxing blood vessels, losartan helps a person maintain a lower blood pressure, increasing the supply of oxygen and blood to the heart. Losartan is also used to slow long-term kidney damage for people with type 2 diabetes, and it is sometimes used to treat congestive heart failure. Losartan was the first angiotensin receptor blocker to be sold following its approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1995. It's made by Merck & Co. under the trade name Cozaar, and is also available in generic form.
Side effects of Cozaar include diarrhea, stomach pain, muscle cramps, leg or back pain, dizziness, headache, sleep problems (insomnia), tiredness, and cold or flu symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, sore throat, fever, and cough. Our Cozaar Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Uses. Losartan is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and to help protect the kidneys from damage due to diabetes. It is also used to lower the risk of strokes in patients with high blood pressure and an enlarged heart. Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problem