Soil Pollution   Soil pollution involves the contamination of soil by the release of harmful substances into the soil. Unlike air pollution, which has a direct affect on human lives, soil pollution causes an indirect damage to humans and other animals. But common pollution is caused by fumes emitted for factories, cars, burning of fossil fuels; throwing waste on roads, beaches; releasing harmful chemicals into the water bodies, etc. It is caused by people, animals and natural events. Industries or too much smoke in the air or the environment being a mess or disaster.
The two chief sources of water pollution can be seen as Point and Non Point. Point refer to the pollutants that belong to a single source. An example of this would be emissions from factories into the water. Non Point on the other hand means pollutants emitted from multiple sources. Pollution of water occurs when substances that will modify the water in negative fashion are discharged in it. This discharge of pollutants can be direct as well as indirect. Water pollution is an appalling problem, powerful enough to lead the world on a path of destruction.
Some of the major causes of pollution are littering, smoke from factories and trucks, things that could be recycled but aren't, etc. But common pollution is caused by fumes emitted for factories, cars, burning of fossil fuels; throwing waste on roads, beaches; releasing harmful chemicals into the water bodies, etc. It is caused by people, animals and natural events. Industries or too much smoke in the air or the environment being a mess or disaster.
Air pollution is also a cause of global warming andacid rain.   Causes Of Air PollutionBasically the air pollution is caused by the burning of fuel that directly releases hazardous chemicals into the air. For example the burning of coal releases sulphur dioxide, a poisonous gas which is responsible for acid rain. But common pollution is caused by fumes emitted for factories, cars, burning of fossil fuels; throwing waste on roads, beaches; releasing harmful chemicals into the water bodies, etc. It is caused by people, animals and natural events. Industries or too much smoke in the air or the environment being a mess or disaster.
Chemical water pollution. Industrial and agricultural work involves the use of many different chemicals that can run-off into water and pollute it. 1  Metals and solvents from industrial work can pollute rivers and lakes. 2  These are poisonous to many forms of aquatic life and may slow their development, make them infertile or even result in death
See more related lessons here. Industrial causes of water pollution. Industrial waste. Industries cause huge water pollution with their activities. These come mainly from: Sulphur – This is a non-metallic substance that is harmful for marine life. Asbestos – This pollutant has cancer-causing properties.
Soil degradation. Understand how the quality of soil declines and what causes this decline. Soil degradation is the decline in soil quality caused by its improper use, usually for agricultural, pastural, industrial or urban purposes. Soil degradation is a serious global environmental problem and may be exacerbated by climate change. It encompasses physical, chemical and biological deterioration. 
Causes of Water Pollution. Let us now study the causes of water pollution. 1. Industrial waste: Industries produce huge amount of waste which contains toxic chemicals and pollutants which can cause air pollution and damage to us and our environment. They contain pollutants such as lead, mercury, sulphur, asbestos, nitrates and many other harmful chemicals. Pollution of water occurs when substances that will modify the water in negative fashion are discharged in it. This discharge of pollutants can be direct as well as indirect. Water pollution is an appalling problem, powerful enough to lead the world on a path of destruction.