American Meaning: The name Marilyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Marilyn is: Blend of Marie or Mary and Lyn. Hebrew Meaning: The name Marilyn is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Marilyn is: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
[ 4 syll. ma-ri-lyn, mar-il-yn ] The baby girl name Marilyn is pronounced as M EH R-iy-LiyiyN †. Marilyn is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Hebrew origins. The name is a 20th-century elaboration of Mary by combining it with the suffix '- lyn ' or the name Lynn. Marilyn is a classic favorite. Currently it is still a rather popular baby girl name, but to a lesser degree than it was in the past. The name's popularity jumped from the 1910s up to the 1930s. Its usage peaked in 1936 with 1.027% of baby girls being given the name Marilyn.
Meaning of Marilyn. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Marilyn means-Variant of Mary: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter.. Other origins for the name Marilyn include-Hebrew, Israeli, English.The name Marilyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Variant of Mary: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. Origin-Hebrew.
The name Marilyn is of American origin, and it means Combination of Mary and Lynn . It's a name commonly given to girls. Marilyn Monroe is an actress, model, singer, and film producer with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1945 to 1962. 
Marilyn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ma-ri-lyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 405 in baby name popularity for girls with 791 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Marilyn in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Marilyn in Nautical Flags page.
It is of English and Latin origin, and the meaning of Marilyn is  star of the sea . Modern blend of Mary and the-lyn ending (see Lynn). Actresses Marilyn Miller, Marilyn Monroe; author Marilyn French; opera celebrity Marilyn Horne. Kreatif forms: Malrilyn, Marilynia, Myrilyn. Marilyn is a very popular first name for females (#80 out of 4276, Top 2%) but a rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Marilyn for girls