Intermittent PTH promotes osteoblast differentiation, in part, by its ability to promote exit from the cell cycle, to activate Wnt signaling in osteoblasts, and to inhibit the Wnt antagonist sclerostin in osteocytes. Insulin-like growth factor-1 is also required for the actions of PTH to increase osteoblast numbers. 
Prostate carcinoma frequently metastasizes to bone where the microenvironment facilitates its growth. Inhibition of bone resorption is effective in reducing tumor burden and bone destruction in prostate cancer. However, whether drugs that inhibit osteoclast function inhibit tumor growth independent of inhibition of bone resorption is unclear. Drugs which inhibit osteoclast function suppress tumor growth through calcium reduction in bone. Li X(1), Liao J, Park SI, Koh AJ, Sadler WD, Pienta KJ, Rosol TJ, McCauley LK. Author information: (1)Periodontics and Oral Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA
Individual cells cannot make bone, and the group of organized osteoblasts together with the bone made by a unit of cells is usually called the osteon; the basis of this is discussed in Organization and ultrastructure of osteoblasts below. During active bone formation, the surface layer of osteoblasts consists of cuboidal cells, called active osteoblasts. When the bone-forming unit is not actively synthesizing bone, the surface osteoblasts are flattened and are called inactive osteoblasts. Osteocytes remain alive and are connected by cell processes to a surface layer of osteoblasts
An osteoclast (from the Greek words for bone (ὀστέον), and broken (κλαστός)) is a type of bone cell that breaks down bone tissue. This function is critical in the maintenance, repair, and remodelling of bones of the vertebral skeleton. The osteoclast disassembles and digests the composite of hydrated protein and mineral at a molecular level by secreting acid and a collagenase, a process known as bone resorption. This last hormone, IL-6, is one of the factors in the disease osteoporosis, which is an imbalance between bone resorption and bone formation. Osteoclast activity is also mediated by the interaction of two molecules produced by osteoblasts, namely osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand.
Activation of hedgehog signaling inhibits osteoblast differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells. Plaisant M, Fontaine C, Cousin W, Rochet N, Dani C, Peraldi P. Mesenchymal stem cells within the bone are responsible for the generation of osteoblasts, chondrocytes, and adipocytes. In rodents, Indian hedgehog has been shown to play a role in osteoblast differentiation. However, evidence for a direct function of hedgehog (Hh) in human osteoblastic differentiation is missing. Using different models of human mesenchymal stem cells we show that Hh signaling decreases during osteoblast differentiation.
An osteoclast is a large multinucleated cell and human osteoclasts on bone typically have five nuclei and are about 150-200 µm in diameter. Giant osteoclasts can occur in some diseases, including Paget's disease of bone and bisphosphonate toxicity. This last hormone, IL-6, is one of the factors in the disease osteoporosis, which is an imbalance between bone resorption and bone formation. Osteoclast activity is also mediated by the interaction of two molecules produced by osteoblasts, namely osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand.
Osteoblast (from the Greek combining forms for  bone , ὀστέο-, osteo-and βλαστάνω, blastanō germinate) are cells with single nuclei that synthesize bone. During active bone formation, the surface layer of osteoblasts consists of cuboidal cells, called active osteoblasts. When the bone-forming unit is not actively synthesizing bone, the surface osteoblasts are flattened and are called inactive osteoblasts. Osteocytes remain alive and are connected by cell processes to a surface layer of osteoblasts
Components of the bone marrow that are essential for osteoblast bone formation include mesenchymal stem cells, the precursors of osteoblasts, and blood vessels which supply oxygen and nutrients for bone formation. During active bone formation, the surface layer of osteoblasts consists of cuboidal cells, called active osteoblasts. When the bone-forming unit is not actively synthesizing bone, the surface osteoblasts are flattened and are called inactive osteoblasts. Osteocytes remain alive and are connected by cell processes to a surface layer of osteoblasts