Stefan originally returned to town to get to know Elena after saving her from a car accident. They instantly fell in love and began a romantic relationship in season 1, which became strained when Damon fell in love with Elena and Katherine returned to win Stefan back. Stefan kept a watchful eye on Elena and Isobel at The Grill where Isobel told Elena to get the device from Damon. After renewing her friendship with Bonnie, Elena managed to get the device from Damon and had Bonnie remove the spell cast upon it.
Later, with the help of Bonnie and Kai, Elena and Damon travel to 1903 prison world. Bonnie and Kai go to find the ascendant while Elena and Damon visit his mother. They are in Damon's childhood home and looking around when his mother shows up and is shocked to see him. In The Departed, Elena calls Damon and tells him she's going back, not just for Stefan, but also for Caroline and Tyler. Damon asks if it was just between him and Stefan, who would get the goodbye. Elena tells him: I love him, Damon. He came into my life at a time when I needed someone and I fell for him instantly.
In A Bird in a Gilded Cage, Elena tells Damon that they have to find a way to get Stefan's humanity back. She convinces Damon to save his mother, Lily Salvatore, so that they can trigger Stefan's humanity. Elena, Damon, Kai, and Bonnie travel to the 1903 Prison World to rescue Lily. Stefan kept a watchful eye on Elena and Isobel at The Grill where Isobel told Elena to get the device from Damon. After renewing her friendship with Bonnie, Elena managed to get the device from Damon and had Bonnie remove the spell cast upon it.
At the start of Season Four, Damon is with Elena and Stefan in Elena's room, explaining to her that she died with vampire blood (Damon's blood) in her system and that she is now a vampire. He talks to them harshly and tells Elena to feed or die. In The Departed, Elena calls Damon and tells him she's going back, not just for Stefan, but also for Caroline and Tyler. Damon asks if it was just between him and Stefan, who would get the goodbye. Elena tells him: I love him, Damon. He came into my life at a time when I needed someone and I fell for him instantly.
What would you say to Elena about her experience with Eugene?WHAT D THEY MEAN BY THIS. In the short story American History by Judith Ortiz Cofer, the character of Elena is very shy, withdrawn, and innocent just as her new friend Eugene seems to be. In American History, why do you think Elena's mother doesn't stop her from going to Eugene's... This is an interesting observation to make. Surely we would think that any parent would want to stop their children from experiencing humiliation and pain, and yet the text tells us that Elena's...
Yes, though it depends on what you mean by each other.. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Rise And Fall Of Elena Ceausescu: Romania's Most Hated Woman Elena Ceausescu was best known as the wife of Nicolae Ceausescu, the much-maligned ex-communist dictator of Romania. Answer I agree with the first part are … the first answer that of talking to each other. Find out about each others interests, likes and dislikes. Observe their mannerisms as these at times speak louder than words. Have a break from each other and see how you feel after a few days away.
Elena later chooses between Damon and Stefan for the second time, this time choosing Damon, since she had fallen out of love with Stefan. She confirms her love for Damon during a heartfelt confession from them both, and they kiss. In The Departed, Elena calls Damon and tells him she's going back, not just for Stefan, but also for Caroline and Tyler. Damon asks if it was just between him and Stefan, who would get the goodbye. Elena tells him: I love him, Damon. He came into my life at a time when I needed someone and I fell for him instantly.
Talk to each other, or failing that stalk them or if you can afford it, hire a Private Investigator and/or get a background check done. Answer. I agree with the first part are the first answer that of talking to each other. Find out about each others interests, likes and dislikes. Observe their mannerisms as these at times speak louder than words. Have a break from each other and see how you feel after a few days away
Later in the episode, Elena and Stefan play charades with Caroline and Damon. Elena and Stefan are on the same team. Elena acts out Skull and Bones while Stefan tries to guess. Stefan guesses correctly, and they beat Caroline and Damon 5-0. Stefan kept a watchful eye on Elena and Isobel at The Grill where Isobel told Elena to get the device from Damon. After renewing her friendship with Bonnie, Elena managed to get the device from Damon and had Bonnie remove the spell cast upon it.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Annie Saavedra. Confidence votes 13. Eugene moves into the house right next to Elena's. They also go to the same school. She can see into his house from a fire escape, and she is intrigued by him so she talks to him. Answer I agree with the first part are … the first answer that of talking to each other. Find out about each others interests, likes and dislikes. Observe their mannerisms as these at times speak louder than words. Have a break from each other and see how you feel after a few days away.