Patients may feel some stretching of the muscles on the side of the neck that go down to the collarbone. These are the scalene muscles. These muscles along with the muscles at the top of the neck at the base of the skull are generally the tight muscles. The muscles in the front of the neck and muscles of the upper back are generally the weak muscles that need to be strengthened.
Neck muscles are bodies of tissue that produce motion in the neck when stimulated. The muscles of the neck run from the base of the skull to the upper back and work together to bend the head and assist in breathing. The motion of the muscles of the neck are divided into four categories: rotation, lateral flexion, flexion, and hyperextension. It is important to keep the muscles of neck strong to maintain proper function and avoid injuries and neck pain. The main function of the muscles of neck is head movement, but they also contribute to the maintenance of blood flow to the brain and holding the head upright.
When neck pain and muscle soreness has been present for some time, often it can be traced to factors which strain muscle such as poor posture. Correcting such factors along with appropriate pain medication, self massage and heat directed to specific areas of the neck muscles may provide relief. Sometimes cooling the strained neck muscle and stretching it can relieve symptoms in a procedure called spray and stretch. If this fails, injections are sometimes used. The Levator Scapula is often noted as the “stiff neck” muscle where it is difficult and painful to turn the head and neck.
The most common causes of neck pain are strain or tension in the muscles of neck. Most neck pain can be relieved by applying heat or ice, reducing physical activity, stretching the aching area through slow range-of-motion exercises, massage, or by taking over-the-counter pain relievers. Back to Neck. It is important to keep the muscles of neck strong to maintain proper function and avoid injuries and neck pain. The main function of the muscles of neck is head movement, but they also contribute to the maintenance of blood flow to the brain and holding the head upright.
Click to read more below. The muscles of the head and neck perform many important tasks, including movement of the head and neck, chewing and swallowing, speech, facial expressions, and movement of the eyes. Even the middle ear takes part in the muscular system of the head and neck. In fact, the smallest muscle of the skeleton is the stapedius, which measures around 1 millimeter (1/20th of an inch) in length. The muscles of the middle ear contract to dampen the amplitude of vibrations from the eardrum to the inner ear
Muscles of the Head and Neck. The muscles of the head and neck perform many important tasks, including movement of the head and neck, chewing and swallowing, speech, facial expressions, and movement of the eyes. Even the middle ear takes part in the muscular system of the head and neck. In fact, the smallest muscle of the skeleton is the stapedius, which measures around 1 millimeter (1/20th of an inch) in length. The muscles of the middle ear contract to dampen the amplitude of vibrations from the eardrum to the inner ear
Click to read more below. The platysma muscle is a broad sheet of muscle arising from the pectoral (chest) and deltoid (shoulder) muscles and rises over the collarbone (clavicle), proceeding upward in a slanting manner along the sides of the neck. Platysma Muscle. The platysma muscle is a broad sheet of muscle arising from the pectoral (chest) and deltoid (shoulder) muscles and rises over the collarbone (clavicle), proceeding upward in a slanting manner along the sides of the neck.