Species interactions within ecological webs include four main types of two-way interactions: mutualism, commensalism, competition, and predation (which includes herbivory and parasitism). Because of the many linkages among species within a food web, changes to one species can have far-reaching effects. The keystone species concept is one of the best-known ideas in community ecology. Although it is true that many species potentially interact with one another in a food web such as depicted in Figure 1, in nature there are big players and little players. The biggest players of all are referred to as keystone species.
Mutualism is the way two organisms of different species exist in a relationship in which each individual benefits from the activity of the other. Similar interactions within a species are known as co-operation. Mutualism can be contrasted with interspecific competition, in which each species experiences reduced fitness, and exploitation, or parasitism, in which one species benefits at the expense of the other. Mutualism is a type of symbiosis. 
The Five Types Of Species Interactions Competition Competition is a common interaction among many organisms. 1. Competition is described as a relationship in which different individuals or populations attempt to use the same limited resource. As time passes, species may also coevolve, where a species may evolve certain adaptations that reduce the harm of or can benefit the relationship, such as chameleons which have evolved the ability to change color and blend into their environment, which they also use as a source of communication.
In ecology, biological interactions can involve individuals of the same species (intraspecific interactions) or individuals of different species (interspecific interactions). These can be further classified by either the mechanism of the interaction or the strength, duration and direction of their effects. Limited supply of at least one resource (such as food, water, and territory) used by both usually facilitates this type of interaction, although the competition may also exist over other 'amenities', such as females for reproduction (in case of male organisms of the same species).
Symbiosis is an interaction characterized by two or more species living purposefully in direct contact with each other. The term symbiosis includes a broad range of species interactions but typically refers to three major types: mutualism, commensalism and parasitism. Mutualism is a symbiotic interaction where both or all individuals benefit from the relationship. As a result, ecological interactions between individual organisms and entire species are often difficult to define and measure and are frequently dependent on the scale and context of the interactions (Harrison & Cornell 2008; Ricklefs 2008; Brooker et al. 2009).
The various types of symbosis include: 1  parasitism-one species (parasite) benefits more than the other species (host). 2  commensalism-one species benefits while a second species is neither helped nor injured. 3  mutualism-both species benefit from the interaction. 
Summary. The species interactions discussed above are only some of the known interactions that occur in nature and can be difficult to identify because they can directly or indirectly influence other intra-specific and inter-specific interactions. As a result, ecological interactions between individual organisms and entire species are often difficult to define and measure and are frequently dependent on the scale and context of the interactions (Harrison & Cornell 2008; Ricklefs 2008; Brooker et al. 2009).
5.Commensalism (Canis aureus) the golden jackal closely resembles a wolf and is known to steadily follow a tiger in track of prey. Symbiosis and Coevolution Many species interactions involve a relationship in which two organisms live in close association with one another, also known as symbiosis. As time passes, species may also coevolve, where a species may evolve certain adaptations that reduce the harm of or can benefit the relationship, such as chameleons which have evolved the ability to change color and blend into their environment, which they also use as a source of communication.
Interactions between Species. To soil ecologists, understanding the interactions between species is just as important as understanding the species themselves. One of the most important types of interactions between species is which species eat other species; this interaction is known as the food web. You are probably familiar with the food webs of above-ground species. In a food web for above-ground species, the source of energy is the sun