Sanded Grout is used for any size grout lines 1/8″ and wider. Although the specifications state unsanded grout be used in grout lines that are exactly 1/8″, you really should use sanded for them. It will ensure proper adhesion to your tile and guard against too much shrinkage. No, not Seinfeld shrinkage, grout shrinkage.
Grout is available in four types: sanded, unsanded, acrylic latex or epoxy. Choose the correct type of grout based on the width of your tile joints and where the repair is being done. 1  Measure the space between the tiles. 2  If the space is larger than 1/8 of an inch, use a sanded grout. 3  If the width is 1/8 of an inch or smaller, use an unsanded, acrylic latex or epoxy grout. 
Whether you're tiling your kitchen floor or the backsplash, choosing the grout color is as important as selecting the tiles. The grout color helps determine whether the tiled surface fades into the background, becomes a focal point of the kitchen or visually lies somewhere in between. To make the tile surface a focal point, use grout in a contrasting color to the tile color. Black and white grout are dependable choices to contrast against light and dark colored tiles respectively, but also consider complementary colors, as these provide the most dramatic contrast.
Pin it. When tiling a kitchen or bathroom floor many people spend days agonizing over the choice of tiles: What kind of tile (e.g., ceramic or glass); what shape (e.g., hex or penny round); and what color (neutral or colorful). Selecting the grout that will divide and frame the tiles is often a mere afterthought. Sanded grout should be used if the spaces between the tiles (known as joints) are greater than 1/8 inch. Sealing Grout: This is particularly important with light-colored grout and for floors in high-traffic and moisture-prone areas.
Adding sand to grout makes it more resistant to cracking or shrinking. Sanded grout should be used if the spaces between the tiles (known as joints) are greater than 1/8 inch. Sealing Grout: This is particularly important with light-colored grout and for floors in high-traffic and moisture-prone areas.
1 Use unsanded grout for stone tiles; sanded grout is used for most other installations. 2  Follow the manufacturer's instructions on the package for your tile type. 3  Use unsanded grout in narrow joints measuring 1/8 inch wide or less. 4  Sanded grout adds stability to joints wider than 1/8 inch. All About Tile Grout. Tile makes a striking design statement on floors, on kitchen backsplashes, and in bathrooms. Tile grout is an essential part of a tile installation. Learn the tips and tricks for using grout to give your tile job a finished, professional look.
Tools for grouting floor tiles. In order to grout the floor tiles like a pro, you need to use the following tools. On one hand, you need a small bucket and a trowel to mix the grout thoroughly. On the other hand, you need a grout float to fill the gaps between tiles with compound. Floor tiles. If you like the appearance of the grout lines, you should use the cable. On the other hand, if you prefer the regular aspect of grout, you should skip directly to wiping off the excess with a dump sponge. Cleaning grout of floor tiles. First, you could use a dry cloth to remove the large residues of grout.
SANDED GROUT. Sanded grout is the most common grout used for ceramic tile, stone, and any tile with a grout joint 1/8 inch or larger. Sanded grout is made of Portland cement, sand, and other additives. When installed, it is mixed with water and toweled into the grout joint. It takes approximately 24 hours for the grout to dry. UNSANDED OR WALL GROUT. Un-sanded grout, commonly called wall grout, is similar to sanded grout without the sand. Wall grout is used on ceramic tile, and polished marble, with grout joints smaller than 1/8 inch.