Report Abuse. It's not in a county, it is its own county. The City and County of Kingston Upon Hull. Humberside (North and South) were abolished a while ago and replaced with East Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingston_up... 
Hull was originally part of Suffolk County, and when the southern part of the county was set off as Norfolk County in 1793, it included the towns of Hull and Hingham. In 1803 those towns opted out of Norfolk County and became part of Plymouth County. Lifesaving has been an important part of Hull history. The town is bordered by Hingham Bay to the west, Massachusetts Bay to the north and east, and the towns of Cohasset and Hingham to the south. Hull is located almost 20 miles (32 km) by land from Boston, although by water it is just 5 miles (8.0 km) from Pemberton Point in Hull to City Point in Dorchester.
Following the Local Government Act 1888, Hull became a county borough, a local government district independent of the East Riding of Yorkshire. This district was dissolved under the Local Government Act 1972, on 1 April 1974 when it became a non-metropolitan district of the newly created shire county of Humberside. Hull is also a rugby league hub, having two clubs who play in the Super League competition. Hull F.C. , alongside the city's football club Hull City, play at the KC Stadium while Hull Kingston Rovers play at Craven Park in East Hull.
It lies upon the River Hull at its junction with the Humber estuary, 25 miles (40 km) inland from the North Sea, with a population of 257,710 (mid-2014 est.). The town of Hull was founded late in the 12th century. The monks of Meaux Abbey needed a port where the wool from their estates could be exported. Hull is also a rugby league hub, having two clubs who play in the Super League competition. Hull F.C. , alongside the city's football club Hull City, play at the KC Stadium while Hull Kingston Rovers play at Craven Park in East Hull.
Hull (GNIS FID: 294260) is a populated place located in DeSoto County at latitude 27.119 and longitude -81.942. The elevation is 39 feet. Hull appears on the Fort Ogden U.S. Geological Survey Map. DeSoto County is in the Eastern Time Zone (UTC -5 hours). DeSoto County: Cities & Towns | ZIP Codes | Schools | Features (airports, churches, hospitals, etc.
Welcome to the Town of Hull Web Site. On behalf of the citizens of the Town of Hull, I'd like to welcome you to our web site. The Town of Hull is located in central Wisconsin approximately 107 miles north of Madison, 34 miles south of Wausau, 89 miles west of Green Bay and 116 mile east of Eau Claire. Weight Limits. The roads in the Town of Hull are “ALL” Class B roads. What this means is that if any given axle on a vehicle weights 12,000# or more, a permit is required from the Town of Hull to travel Hull roads. The one exception is Granite Ridge Road North.
Hull, officially Kingston upon Hull (/ˌkɪŋstən əpɒn ˈhʌl/ KING-stən ə-pon HUL, local /ˈhʊl/), is a city and unitary authority in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England. Hull is also a rugby league hub, having two clubs who play in the Super League competition. Hull F.C. , alongside the city's football club Hull City, play at the KC Stadium while Hull Kingston Rovers play at Craven Park in East Hull.
Hull is a peninsula town in Plymouth County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 10,293 at the 2010 census. Hull is the smallest town by land area in Plymouth County and the fourth smallest in the state. However, its population density is within the top thirty towns in the state. Hull has been the summer home to several luminaries throughout the years, including Calvin Coolidge and former Boston mayor John F. Fitzgerald (also known as Honey Fitz), the father of Rose Kennedy and father-in-law of Joseph Kennedy, Sr. . The town is bordered by Hingham Bay to the west, Massachusetts Bay to the north and east, and the towns of Cohasset and Hingham to the south. Hull is located almost 20 miles (32 km) by land from Boston, although by water it is just 5 miles (8.0 km) from Pemberton Point in Hull to City Point in Dorchester.
Report Abuse. Kingston-upon-Hull is a unitary authority, meaning it is not governed by the East Riding County Council. However, it is geographically located within the East Riding of Yorkshire. It used to be in Humberside, one of the counties that was abolished in 1996. Kingston-upon-Hull is a unitary authority, meaning it is not governed by the East Riding County Council. However, it is geographically located within the East Riding of Yorkshir