APPROVED USES. Dymista Nasal Spray is a prescription medicine used to treat symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in people 6 years of age and older, who need treatment with both azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate. Antihistamines treat 3 of the 4 allergy symptoms: sneezing, itchy nose, and runny nose. However, the most bothersome symptom is stuffy nose, but antihistamines do not help this symptom. That’s when a medicine that reduces inflammation, like a corticosteroid, come into play.
Dymista Nasal Spray is a prescription medicine used to treat symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in people 12 years of age and older, who need treatment with both azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate. Antihistamines treat 3 of the 4 allergy symptoms: sneezing, itchy nose, and runny nose. However, the most bothersome symptom is stuffy nose, but antihistamines do not help this symptom. That’s when a medicine that reduces inflammation, like a corticosteroid, come into play.
Dymista Coupons and Discounts. Dymista is a prescription nasal spray used to treat allergy symptoms. It comes in a 23g spray bottle, and the price of Dymista is usually around $180-$210 per bottle if the medication isn’t covered by an insurance provider. Other antihistamine sprays that work in a similar way to Dymista include Astelin, Astepro, and Patanase. If your doctor prescribes any of these medications, check IDC for up-to-date manufacturer discounts and exclusive coupons.
AZELASTINE; FLUTICASONE is a combination of a histamine blocker and a corticosteroid. This medicine is used to treat the symptoms of allergies like sneezing, itching, and runny or stuffy nose. 
Dymista. AZELASTINE; FLUTICASONE is a combination of a histamine blocker and a corticosteroid. This medicine is used to treat the symptoms of allergies like sneezing, itching, and runny or stuffy nose.
INDICATIONS. DYMISTA contains an H1-receptor antagonist and a corticosteroid, and is indicated for the relief of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 6 years of age and older who require treatment with both azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate for symptomatic relief. 1  about dymista. It helps reduce the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the lining of the nose), such as runny nose, stuffy nose, itching, and sneezing. It is not known if Dymista Nasal Spray is safe or effective in children under 12 years of age.
Flonase. This product is used to relieve seasonal allergy symptoms of the nose such as stuffy/runny nose, itching, sneezing, and post-nasal drip. It contains 2 drugs. Azelastine is an antihistamine that works by blocking certain natural substances called histamines that are responsible for allergic symptoms. Fluticasone belongs to a class of drugs known as corticosteroids. It works by reducing swelling (inflammation) in the nasal passages. Fluticasone is used to relieve seasonal and year-round, allergic and non-allergic nasal symptoms such as stuffy/runny nose, itching, and sneezing. This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as corticosteroid
Uses. This product is used to relieve seasonal allergy symptoms of the nose such as stuffy/ runny nose, itching, sneezing, and post-nasal drip. It contains 2 drugs. Azelastine is an antihistamine that works by blocking certain natural substances called histamines that are responsible for allergic symptoms. How to use Dymista nasal. Read the Patient Information Leaflet provided by your pharmacist before you start using azelastine/fluticasone nasal spray and each time you get a refill. Follow the instructions on how to properly use this medication. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
home drugs a-z list dymista (azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate) side effects drug center dymista (azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate) drug-overdosage and contraindications. Acute azelastine hydrochloride overdosage by adults with this dosage form is unlikely to result in clinically significant adverse events, other than increased somnolence, since one (1) 23 g bottle of DYMISTA contains approximately 23 mg of azelastine hydrochloride.