The Peninsular Campaign was, to all intents, a side show in the Napoleonic Wars. It was held together by a small British/Portuguese army, the only one Britain could afford and supply as most of its available money and manpower was in the Royal Navy. The Union's objective in the Peninsular Campaign was to capture the Confederate capital of Richmond and end the war. Unfortunately, it was a failure.
Part of the American Civil War. The Peninsula Campaign (often referred to as Peninsular Campaign) was a major Union operation during the Civil War, which commenced in southeastern Virginia. The operation started from March through July 1862, and was the first major offensive in the Eastern Theater. In this campaign, the Union army was led by Major General George McClellan. It was a major turning point against the Confederacy in Northern Virginia and was intended to capture Richmond, the capital of the Confederate.
The Peninsula Campaign (also known as the Peninsular Campaign) during the American Civil War was a major Union operation launched in southeastern Virginia from March through July 1862, and it was the first large-scale offensive in the Eastern Theater. Description: The Seven Days Battles were fought southeast of the Confederate capital of Richmond in the summer of 1862, and it was the first campaign in the Civil War in which Robert E. Lee led the Army of Northern Virginia.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Well the first significance was that General Joseph E. Johnston was wounded at the battle of Seven Pines/Fair Oaks. This allowed Jefferson Davis to replace him with Robert E. Lee in command of what he would later re-christen the Army of Northern Virginia. 
The Peninsula Campaign of 1862 was a Union attempt to capture Richmond, Virginia, from March to early August 1862. Despite coming close to their goal, Union troops were stopped by Confederate General Robert E. Lee. In the summer of 1862, Union forces made a bold move to capture Richmond, Virginia, and win the Civil War. This offensive is known as the Peninsular Campaign, and it was a major turning point in the American Civil War. 
The Peninsula (or Peninsular) Campaign was a major Union offensive against the Confederate capital of Richmond led by Major General George B. McClellan in the spring and summer of 1862, during the American Civil War. A year after the failure of the Peninsula Campaign, George McClellan led the Union to the brink of victory at Antietam, but his failure to pursue Robert E. Lee's defeated army there led Lincoln to relieve him of command. In 1864, antiwar Democrats backed McClellan in a failed run for president.
Contributed by Brian Burton. The Peninsula Campaign, fought during the spring and summer of 1862, was an attempt by Union general-in-chief George B. McClellan to capture the Confederate capital at Richmond from the southeast during the American Civil War (1861–1865). Pressured by United States president. Johnston was wounded in the two-day battle, and Robert E. Lee took command of Confederate forces, attacking McClellan three weeks later and, in the Seven Days' Campaign, driving him off the Peninsula and saving Richmond.
The Battle of Williamsburg was the first pitched battle of the Peninsula Campaign, in which nearly 41,000 Union and 32,000 Confederates were engaged. Brig. Gen. Joseph Hooker 's 2nd Division of the III Corps was the lead infantry in the Union Army advance. As McClellan's army reached the outskirts of Richmond, a minor battle occurred at Hanover Court House, but it was followed by a surprise attack by Johnston at the Battle of Seven Pines or Fair Oaks. The battle was inconclusive, with heavy casualties, but it had lasting effects on the campaign.
Peninsular Campaign. The Peninsular Campaign was the plan was to hasten the end of the Civil War and the two men behind the military mission were President Lincoln and General McClellan. The goal was to take the capital city of the Confederacy, Richmond. 
McClellan was initially successful against the equally cautious General Joseph E. Johnston, but the emergence of the aggressive General Robert E. Lee turned the subsequent Seven Days Battles into a humiliating Union defeat. McClellan landed his army at Fort Monroe and moved northwest, up the Virginia Peninsula. As McClellan's army reached the outskirts of Richmond, a minor battle occurred at Hanover Court House, but it was followed by a surprise attack by Johnston at the Battle of Seven Pines or Fair Oaks. The battle was inconclusive, with heavy casualties, but it had lasting effects on the campaign.