For example, if you write a cheque to John Smith, he can endorse the cheque on the back and give it to Jane Doe in payment of a debt. Jane can then endorse the back of the cheque and deposit it into her account. This is called counter-signing of cheques and it is permitted in Canada. Here’s how that works. When you deposit a cheque into your account, your bank will send the cheque to the bank of the person who wrote the cheque. That bank makes sure that the cheque is legitimate and there are enough funds in the cheque-writer’s account to cover the cheque, and then sends the funds to your bank.
If you make a deposit after the cut-off time, the bank or credit union can treat your deposit as if it was made on the next business day. A bank or credit union’s cut-off time for receiving deposits can be no earlier than 2:00 p.m. at physical locations and no earlier than noon at an ATM or elsewhere. 1 If you have a new account or if your account has been overdrawn too many times in the past six months; 2  If you make a deposit over $5,000; 3  If you make a deposit at an ATM owned by someone other than your bank or credit union; or. 4  If the bank or credit union reasonably believes the deposited check may be uncollectible.
If you paid a deposit you have to sue to get back, but did not get a check-in list, a written lease, a statement of where the deposit is held, or anything else the law requires, tell the judge your landlord should not be able to charge you for any damages you disagree with. Before moving in, get a written rental agreement (lease), condition check-in list, and a receipt for your deposit from the landlord, landlord's agent, or manager. Before moving out, give the landlord or manager proper written notice and your forwarding address.
1 Enter the amount of the cheque. 2  Sign and write For deposit only and the Account number on the back of the cheque. 3  Take a photo of the front and back of the cheque with your smartphone or tablet. 4  You also have the option to add a short description in the Personal Memo field. 1 Sign and write For deposit only and the Account number on the back of the cheque. 2
If you make the deposit at an ATM at your bank, you can withdraw or use the full amount on the second business day. It may take longer for you to access your deposit for a few reasons: 1  If you have a new account or if your account has been overdrawn too many times in the past six months; 1 If you have a new account or if your account has been overdrawn too many times in the past six months; 2  If you make a deposit over $5,000; 3  If you make a deposit at an ATM owned by someone other than your bank or credit union; or. 4  If the bank or credit union reasonably believes the deposited check may be uncollectible.
Each bank or credit union has its own rules as to when it will let you access money after you deposit a check, but federal law establishes the maximum length of time a bank or credit union can make you wait. 1 If you have a new account or if your account has been overdrawn too many times in the past six months; 2  If you make a deposit over $5,000; 3  If you make a deposit at an ATM owned by someone other than your bank or credit union; or. 4  If the bank or credit union reasonably believes the deposited check may be uncollectible.
If your deposit is cash, a money order, a certified check, a check from an account at the same or another branch of your bank or credit union, or a check from the government, you can withdraw or use the full amount on the next business day if you make the deposit in person to a bank employee. 1 If you have a new account or if your account has been overdrawn too many times in the past six months; 2  If you make a deposit over $5,000; 3  If you make a deposit at an ATM owned by someone other than your bank or credit union; or. 4  If the bank or credit union reasonably believes the deposited check may be uncollectible.
You still have similar rights to get your security deposit back. And you can sue in small claims court for return of your deposit. But the court is not required to order your landlord to return twice the deposit amount plus payment of your lawyer fees. If you are a tenant at will (no written lease), your landlord must give back the deposit or send you the letter within 21 days after you move out and return the key. If you have a lease, check to see what it says.
You can contact the bank and ask if there is now enough money in the account for the check to clear and try to cash the check in person at the bank branch. A last resort is to take legal action to get payment. I suggest you stop accepting shaky checks. Since you have $4,000 or more of funds on deposit, the bank may have been willing to expedite the funds availability on the deposit. That doesn't mean you're home free. If the check bounces, the bank will reverse the deposit and you will lose the funds.
Deposit a check using the camera on your smartphone or tablet and the Mobile Banking app. Footnote1 Snap a picture of the front and back of the check, choose your account and amount and send. For your protection, check images are stored securely at the bank and never on your device. 