Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more crit•i•cize /ˈkrɪtəˌsaɪz/USA pronunciation v., -cized, -ciz•ing. 1  to find fault (with); judge unfavorably or harshly: [~ + object]criticizes her students instead of encouraging them.[~ + object + for + object]criticized me for not caring about my work.[no object]always criticizing and never has anything good to say.
criticise-find fault with; express criticism of; point out real or perceived flaws; The paper criticized the new movie; Don't knock the food--it's free. criticize, pick apart, knock. censure, reprimand, criminate-rebuke formally. On Sundays, he never fails to criticise the sermon to the young clergyman's face: always informing Mr. Oliver Twist Or The Parish Boy's Progress by Dickens, Charles View in context. As a rule, the place to criticise the South, when criticism is necessary, is in the South--not in Boston.
verb. To criticize something is to find and point out fault or problems. An example of criticize is when your mother-in-law comments your meatloaf is dry.. 
1 The expression of disapproval of someone or something on the basis of perceived faults or mistakes: he received a lot of criticism [count noun]: he ignored the criticisms of his friends. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Indeed, readers have written to the Evening Press expressing these very criticisms. 
Use criticise in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. The definition of criticise is another spelling of criticize, which means to find fault or scold. When you tell someone that the food he prepared is very bad, this is an example of when you criticise the food.
criticize-find fault with; express criticism of; point out real or perceived flaws; The paper criticized the new movie; Don't knock the food--it's free. criticise, pick apart, knock. censure, reprimand, criminate-rebuke formally. vt → kritisieren; to criticize somebody for something → jdn fuer für etw; Kritisieren i criticized her for always being → late ich kritisierte sie, dafuer dafür dass sie immer zu. [spaet] spät → kommt. ˈkrɪtɪsaɪz vt criticare
criticize verb. B2 [I, T often passive] to ​express ​disapproval of someone or something: The ​government is being ​widely criticized in the ​media for ​failing to ​limit ​air ​pollution. We'll get ​nowhere if all you can do is criticize. criticize verb [I/T]. › to ​express ​disagreement with or ​disapproval of something or someone: [I/T] It’s a lot ​easier to criticize (a ​plan) than to ​offer ​useful ​suggestions. (Definition of criticize from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).