Uses of Xenon. Xenon is used in photographic flashes, in high pressure arc lamps for motion picture projection, and in high pressure arc lamps to produce ultraviolet light. It is used in instruments for radiation detection, e.g., neutron and X-ray counters and bubble chambers. 
Xenon is only commercially obtained by industrial liquid-air plants that can extract the gas. Uses of xenon. Xenon is used in photographic flash lamps, stroboscopic lamps, bactericidal lamps, high-intensive arc-lamps for motion picture projection and high-pressure arc lamps to product ultraviolet light. In nuclear energy, xenon is used in bubble chambers, probes and other applications. Properties of xenon. Xenon is one of the inert or noble gases. It’s odorless, colorless, tasteless and chemically non-reactive. [See Periodic Table of the Elements ]. Prior to 1962, scientists believed that xenon and other noble gases were unable to form compounds.
Xenon is used in Electron tubes, bactericidal lamps, strobe lamps, xenon lamps for surgery, and vehicle headlights (more so in planes and boats). Xenon is used for making el … ectron tubes, stroboscopic lamps, lamps used to excite ruby lasers for generating coherent light. Xenon is also used in the nuclear energy field in bubble chambers, probes, and other applications where a high molecular weight is of value. Xenon can also be used in flash cameras and high-intensity lamps for projecting movies. Xenon is also used in instruments to detect radiation. Xenon may be used for medicinal purposes as an experimental anesthetic.
Xenon is one of the heaviest gases; one liter of xenon weighs 5.842 grams. Uses: Xenon gas is used in electron tubes, bactericidal lamps, stobe lamps, and lamps used to excite ruby lasers. Xenon is used in applications where a high molecular weight gas is needed. The perxenates are used in analytical chemistry as oxidizing agents. Xenon-133 is useful as a radioisotope. 
Xenon is a chemical element with symbol Xe and atomic number 54. It is a colorless, dense, odorless noble gas, that occurs in the Earth's atmosphere in trace amounts. The first excimer laser design used a xenon dimer molecule (Xe 2) as its lasing medium, and the earliest laser designs used xenon flash lamps as pumps. Xenon is also being used to search for hypothetical weakly interacting massive particles and as the propellant for ion thrusters in spacecraft.
Xenon is also used in the aerospace industry, particularly in the process of making propellants for the iron thrusters of space ships or vehicles. This noble gas is also one of many gases used in the manufacture of plasma television sets. If you like this article or our site. Please spread the word. Xenon was discovered along with other noble gases like Neon and Krypton back in the 1898 with the experiments done by Morris William Travers and William Ramsay. It was through their studies that they chanced upon other gases present in air other than oxygen and nitrogen.
1 The first use for Xenon was in flash lamps used in photograph and it is still used for this purpose today. 2  It is also used in strobe lights and some bactericidal lamps. 3  This same technology also led to the invention of the first solid-state laser in 1960. 1 Xenon is also used in sodium vapor lamps as a starter gas. 2  A mixture of xenon and neon is used in the cells of plasma televisions. 3  Xenon gas, mixed with oxygen and air, is also used as a general anesthetic and is administered with an anesthesia machine.
Let’s take a look at some of the most common applications of Xenon. Uses of Xenon. 1  The first use for Xenon was in flash lamps used in photograph and it is still used for this purpose today. 2  It is also used in strobe lights and some bactericidal lamps. 3  This same technology also led to the invention of the first solid-state laser in 1960. 1 Xenon is also used in sodium vapor lamps as a starter gas. 2  A mixture of xenon and neon is used in the cells of plasma televisions. 3  Xenon gas, mixed with oxygen and air, is also used as a general anesthetic and is administered with an anesthesia machine.
Xenon is used in flash lamps and arc lamps, and as a general anesthetic. The first excimer laser design used a xenon dimer molecule (Xe 2) as its lasing medium, and the earliest laser designs used xenon flash lamps as pumps. Xenon is also being used to search for hypothetical weakly interacting massive particles and as the propellant for ion thrusters in spacecraft.
It is used specifically in lighting. Xenon can also be used in flash cameras and high-intensity lamps for projecting movies. Xenon is also used in instruments to detect radiation. Xenon may be used for medicinal purposes as an experimental anesthetic.