MEDICAL TERMINOLOGY. The Language of the Health Profession. ORIGIN OF MEDICAL TERMS Hippocrates was a Greek physician and is known as the “father of medicine.” 75% of medical terms are based on either Greek or Latin words. ROOT WORDS A root is the foundation or basic meaning of a word. Often indicates the procedure, condition, disorder, or disease. -itis-suffix means inflammation-ology-suffix means the study of-ectomy-suffix means surgical removal-plast-suffix means surgical repair Cardiology Cardi-root means heart. -ology-suffix means the study of. Cardiology-the study of the heart.
Lumbar Radiculopathy. Lumbar radiculopathy refers to disease involving the lumbar spinal nerve root. This can manifest as pain, numbness, or weakness of the buttock and leg. Sciatica is the term often used by lay people. Lumbar radiculopathy is typically caused by a compression of the spinal nerve root. This causes pain in the leg rather than in the lumbar spine, which is called refered pain..
Diabetes can cause a painful thoracic or extremity radiculopathy by causing ischemia of the nerve root. Infectious disorders, such as those due to mycobacteria (eg, TB), fungi (eg, histoplasmosis), or spirochetes (eg, Lyme disease, syphilis), sometimes affect nerve roots. Nerve root disorders (radiculopathies) are precipitated by acute or chronic pressure on a root in or adjacent to the spinal column. The most common cause is. A herniated intervertebral disk. Bone changes due to RA or osteoarthritis, especially in the cervical and lumbar areas, may also compress isolated
Nerve root disorders result in segmental radicular deficits (eg, pain or paresthesias in a dermatomal distribution, weakness of muscles innervated by the root). Diagnosis may require neuroimaging, electrodiagnostic testing, and systemic testing for underlying disorders. Nerve root disorders (radiculopathies) are precipitated by acute or chronic pressure on a root in or adjacent to the spinal column. The most common cause is. A herniated intervertebral disk. Bone changes due to RA or osteoarthritis, especially in the cervical and lumbar areas, may also compress isolated nerve roots.
Nerve Root Definition. Spine Anatomy Video. The nerve root is the portion of the nerve that runs through the bony canal and exits at each vertebral segment of the spinal cord. The spinal cord can be divided into segments according to the nerve roots that branch off of it. Nerve roots along the cord consist of 8 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 1 coccygeal nerves. Back pain arises from radiculopathy when the nerve roots in the regions of the spine are irritated as a result of direct pressure from a disc or inflammation of the nerve roots due to disc or spinal joint disease
(neuroplasty) THE END MEDICAL TERMINOLOGY The Language of the Health Profession ORIGIN OF MEDICAL TERMS Hippocrates was a Greek physician and is known as the “father of medicine.” 75% of medical terms are based on either Greek or Latin words. ROOT WORDS A root is the foundation or basic meaning of a word. Often indicates the procedure, condition, disorder, or disease. -itis-suffix means inflammation-ology-suffix means the study of-ectomy-suffix means surgical removal-plast-suffix means surgical repair Cardiology Cardi-root means heart. -ology-suffix means the study of. Cardiology-the study of the heart.
Radiculopathy: Any disease of the spinal nerve roots and spinal nerves. Radiculopathy is characterized by pain that seems to radiate from the spine, extending outward to cause symptoms away from the source of the spinal nerve root irritation. 
Suspect a nerve root disorder in patients who have segmental deficits such as sensory abnormalities in a dermatomal distribution (eg, pain, paresthesias) and/or motor abnormalities (eg, weakness, atrophy, fasciculations, hyporeflexia) at a nerve root level. Nerve root disorders (radiculopathies) are precipitated by acute or chronic pressure on a root in or adjacent to the spinal column. The most common cause is. A herniated intervertebral disk. Bone changes due to RA or osteoarthritis, especially in the cervical and lumbar areas, may also compress isolated nerve roots.
Most medical terms are compound words made up of root words which are combined with prefixes (at the start of a word) and suffixes (at the end of a word). Thus medical terms that may at first seem very complex can be broken down into their component parts to give you a basic idea of their meaning. All medical terms have a root word. They may also have a prefix, a suffix, or both a prefix and a suffix. Prefixes have a droppable o, which acts to connect the prefix to root words which begin with a consonant.
The pain of TN is from the trigeminal nerve. The trigeminal nerve is a paired cranial nerve that has three major branches: the ophthalmic nerve (V 1), the maxillary nerve (V 2), and the mandibular nerve (V 3). One, two, or all three branches of the nerve may be affected. Trigeminal neuralgia (TN, or TGN), also known as prosopalgia, tic doloureux, or Fothergill's disease is a neuropathic disorder characterized by episodes of intense pain in the face. It has been described as among the most painful conditions known.