There are four types of tapeworms in dogs. Tapeworms hook onto a dog's small intestine with its mouth. Tapeworms can be as long as 8 inches to 2 feet long. One unique characteristic of these worms is that they are made up of 1/8 inch segments that break off over time and end up in your dog's stool.
Those of most concern are roundworms, tapeworms, heartworms, hook and whipworms. Whilst each type of worm has a slightly different life cycle, the dog’s symptoms can be consistent with different types of worm infections.
The adult roundworms live in the dog's intestines. Their eggs are shed in the dog's stool and develop into larvae. The life-cycle is repeated. Symptoms of roundworm infection include diarrhea, vomiting, pot-bellied appearance, coughing (dogs may cough up or vomit worms), weight loss and dull hair coat.
Look for distinctive features of worm types. If worms or worm parts are visible in the dog’s feces or vomit, you may be able to identify the type of worms. While many worms look similar, each has some distinguishing characteristics that may allow you to pinpoint the worm variety.
Roundworms are usually 2 - 4 inches long, tan or white “spaghetti-like” creatures with tapered ends. They are the most common type of worm to infect pets, and can cause vomiting, diarrhea, and a generally unhealthy appearance. Cats with heavy infestations might vomit or pass whole worms in their stools.
If you suspect you have tapeworms, you should see your doctor. Because there are different types of worms and tapeworms that can infect people, diagnosing a tapeworm infection may require a stool sample to identify the type of worm. If worms are not detected in the stool, your doctor may order a blood test to check for antibodies produced to fight tapeworm infection.
Save to mypetMD. Learn about the different types of worms in dogs (and cats) here ... roundworms, tapeworms, hookworms, whipworms. Your veterinarian can check your pet's stool sample to be certain pets do not harbor intestinal parasites such as you see here.