Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) MIP, also known as negative inspiratory force (NIF) , is the maximum pressure that can be generated against an occluded airway beginning at functional residual capacity (FRC). It is a marker of respiratory muscle function and strength. Maximum inspiratory pressure is an important and noninvasive index of diaphragm strength and an independent tool for diagnosing many illnesses. Typical maximum inspiratory pressures in adult males can be estimated from the equation, M IP = 142 - (1.03 x Age) cmH 2 O, where age is in years.
P max is the asymptotically maximal pressure that can be developed by the respiratory muscles at any lung volume and P i is the maximum inspiratory pressure that can be developed at specific lung volumes. This measurement also requires pressure transducers in addition. Maximum inspiratory pressure is an important and noninvasive index of diaphragm strength and an independent tool for diagnosing many illnesses. Typical maximum inspiratory pressures in adult males can be estimated from the equation, M IP = 142 - (1.03 x Age) cmH 2 O, where age is in years.
Introduction. Respiratory Muscle Training (RMT) can be defined as a technique that aims to improve function of the respiratory muscles through specific exercises. It consists of a series of exercises, breathing and other, to increase strength and endurance of the respiratory muscles and therefore improve respiration. Assessment of respiratory muscle function may utlise: 1  maximal respiratory pressures (MIP) - provides a surrogate measure of strength and is the most widely used measure of IMT-induced changes in insiratory muscle function.
The MIP reflects the strength of the diaphragm and other inspiratory muscles, while the MEP reflects the strength of the abdominal muscles and other expiratory muscles. An alternative or additional test of inspiratory muscles strength is maximal sniff nasal inspiratory pressure (SNIP). 
maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) the inspiratory pressure generated against a completely occluded airway; used to evaluate inspiratory respiratory muscle strength and readiness for weaning from mechanical ventilation. A maximum inspiratory pressure above −25 cm H 2 O is associated with successful weaning. Called also auto-PEEP and intrinsic PEEP. maximal expiratory pressure maximum expiratory pressure. maximal inspiratory pressure the pressure during inhalation against a completely occluded airway; used to evaluate inspiratory respiratory muscle strength and readiness for weaning from mechanical ventilation.
Common procedures used to evaluate the respiratory muscles are maximum inspiratory pressure and maximum expiratory pressure. However, there is little consensus concerning these methods. 
Little outcome data are available on respiratory muscle strength training in the healthy elderly in either an inspiratory or expiratory direction, and use of respiratory muscle strength training may be beneficial for prevention or treatment of normal age-related respiratory muscular weakness [25]. Watsford et al. Chen and Kuo indicated that respiratory muscle strength and endurance decreases by approximately 20 percent in persons by the age of 70 years [22]. The respiratory muscles include the inspiratory and expiratory muscle groups. The diaphragm, internal intercostals of the parasternal region, external intercostals, and other accessory muscles mainly constitute the inspiratory muscles
Abbreviations: EMST = expiratory muscle strength training, ERV = expiratory reserve volume, FEV 1 = forced expiratory volume in 1 second, FVC = forced vital capacity, IMST = inspiratory muscle strength training, MEP = maximum expiratory pressure, MIP = maximum inspiratory pressure. Chen and Kuo indicated that respiratory muscle strength and endurance decreases by approximately 20 percent in persons by the age of 70 years [22]. The respiratory muscles include the inspiratory and expiratory muscle groups. The diaphragm, internal intercostals of the parasternal region, external intercostals, and other accessory muscles mainly constitute the inspiratory muscles