1 The total cost of attendance at Yale for 2014-2015 is $63,250, which includes tuition ($45,800), room ($7,800), board ($6,200), and books and personal expenses ($3,450). 2  Total cost of attendance (not just tuition) is used to calculate a student's need-based financial aid award. 
We are eligible for application fee waiver due to economic hardship. At app time, the school sent the appropriate form to the college. Now, incredibly, I see that it actually costs $25 (or is it a fixed $9 and $16 per school?) per school to send this ... css profile FORM to the school. • The PROFILE fee waiver program applies the USDA reduced price lunch income guidelines to the CSS Institutional Methodology (IM) definition of total parent income. Total parental income includes both taxable and untaxed income, with the exception of the Earned Income Credit.
A: The College Board waives PROFILE fees for a limited number of first-year, first-time college applicants from families with incomes below the poverty level. The fee waiver covers the PROFILE application and reporting fees for up to six colleges or programs. Dependent students whose parents report net assets in the excess of $33,8202 are not eligible for a fee waiver.  The fee waiver covers the application and six total school reports. First-time students file an average of three PROFILE reports; thus the fee waiver process meets the needs of most entering students.
PROTECT YOURSELF FROM FINANCIAL AID FRAUD. You should never pay a fee to file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), or to have someone fill out the FAFSA for you. The College Board collects a fee to process the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE® (PROFILE). You should only submit a PROFILE if your college or scholarship program instructs you to do so. 
When to Register and File. You should register at CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE at least two weeks before the earliest college or scholarship priority filing date you need to meet. This date is the college or program’s deadline for submitting a completed PROFILE application. The College Board’s CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE® is an online application that collects information used by almost 300 colleges and scholarship programs to award financial aid from sources outside of the federal government.
Dependent students whose parents report net assets in the excess of $34,1202 are not eligible for a fee waiver. • The fee waiver covers the application and six total school reports. First-time students file an average of three PROFILE reports; thus the fee waiver process meets the needs of most entering students. • The PROFILE fee waiver program applies the USDA reduced price lunch income guidelines to the CSS Institutional Methodology (IM) definition of total parent income. Total parental income includes both taxable and untaxed income, with the exception of the Earned Income Credit.
I do know that the College Board will grant a limited number of fee waivers based on the financial data you report. So based on your profile, if you qualify as a low income student, then the college board will automatically grant you a fee waiver. You might also want to ask your counselor, and see if they can provide a fee waiver for you, if you meet the criteria. Source(s): http://www.collegeboard.com/student/pay/... This Site Might Help You. RE: Can I get a CSS/Profile fee waiver? Can I get a CSS/Profile fee waiver if I contact the Admissions Office of the school I&#39;m applying to?
There are no codes to waive the fee on the CSS profile. The PROFILE fee waiver program applies the USDA reduced price lunch income guidelines. parents report net assets in the excess of $34,1202 are not eligible for a fee waiver. • The PROFILE fee waiver program applies the USDA reduced price lunch income guidelines to the CSS Institutional Methodology (IM) definition of total parent income. Total parental income includes both taxable and untaxed income, with the exception of the Earned Income Credit.
Unlike the FAFSA, the CSS Profile application has fee involved when it is submitted to schools. The current fees for the profile are a $25 application fee and $16 for each school you are sending it to. The fees cover the cost of your application, the processing of the application and the initial $25 includes sending it to one school. You may be eligible for a fee waiver if your family has few assets. You are not charged for your css profile application until the end of the process, so if you are eligible for a fee waiver from the Collegeboard, it will be shown on your payment page. If you are eligible for the waiver, you will not have to pay for the application and having it sent to up to six schools. The vast majority of students who are filling out the CSS Profile application are not going to be eligible for a fee waiver. There are some select schools and programs that offer students special codes they can enter at the end of the application to get the fee waived for that particular school or program.
About Fee Waivers. For students from low-income backgrounds, fees will be waived for the application and reporting for up to eight colleges. First time domestic students who used an SAT fee waiver will also receive a PROFILE fee waiver. Fee waivers are granted upon application completion. This interactive presentation will give you useful tips and help you prepare to apply for financial aid using CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE.