Honey is composed of mainly of carbohydrates and lesser amounts of water with a number of minor ingredients. The graph below gives a good breakdown of honey ingredients by showing types and amounts.
Honeybees use nectar to make honey. Nectar is almost 80% water with some complex sugars. In fact, if you have ever pulled a honeysuckle blossom out of its stem, nectar is the clear liquid that drops from the end of the blossom.
Honey is produced by bees as a food source. To produce about 500 g of honey, foraging honey bees have to travel the equivalent of three times around the world. In cold weather or when fresh food sources are scarce, bees use their stored honey as their source of energy.
Carbohydrates are described by the number of sub-units they contain. Fructose and glucose are monosaccharides, that is, simple sugars. Sucrose, which is composed of fructose and glucose linked together, is a disaccharide; it comprises a little over 1% of the composition of honey. Honey contains other disaccharides which make up over 7% of its composition.
The healing properties of honey were demonstrated in a study comparing honey treatment to that of silver sulfadiazine, the standard treatment, for burn victims. The results show that honey treatments result in a much greater sterility of the wounds, a faster rate of healing, and a faster onset of healing.
There is one more carbohydrate found in honey called Sucrose. Sucrose is a disaccharide and is made from the combination of fructose and glucose. In addition, there are about 25 other sugars that have been identified in honey.
Honey /ˈhʌni/ is a sweet food made by bees using nectar from flowers. The variety produced by honey bees (the genus Apis) is the one most commonly referred to, as it is the type of honey collected by most beekeepers and consumed by people.
Once the bees make the honey, the honey is then placed in one of the cells of the comb, and then it is sealed with wax. Honeycomb. The wax of the honey comb is often used to make many things, such as candles. The actual comb is considered a gourmet treat.