1 Sign into your Chrome account and click the wrench icon in the top right corner of the screen. 2  Select Settings and click Show Advanced Settings at the bottom of the page. 3  Scroll down to Passwords and Forms and click Manage Saved Passwords. Password managers are convenient, easy-to-use tools that take a lot of the pain out of surfing the web. Google's Chrome features a built-in password manager that allows you to save credentials for all of your favorite websites.
If you have saved a password for a website in Google's Chrome you can easily enough remove that password (or all saved passwords) if you no longer want it saved on your computer. This video shows how to do this. 
Having said that, to change a saved password go to chrome://settings/passwords#passwords in your omnibox/address bar, click on the site you'd like to change the password of and edit the password. Woot! 
1 Click Manage saved passwords in the “Passwords and forms” section. 2  Windows, Linux, and Chrome devices: In the Passwords dialog that appears, hover over the site whose password you’d like to remove and click the X that appears. 3  Mac OS X: Remove the site passwords in the Keychain Access dialog that appears. 1 Click Show advanced settings at the bottom of the page. 2  Click Manage saved passwords in the “Passwords and forms” section. 3
1 Touch Yes if you want Chrome to remember your sign-in credentials. 2  Chrome will automatically complete the sign-in fields for you when you visit the websites again. 3  Touch Never if you don’t want Chrome to save your username and password for the website you’re on. Manage password prompts. If you let Chrome save your passwords, you’ll get a prompt every time when you sign in to a new website. 1  Touch Yes if you want Chrome to remember your sign-in credentials. 2  Chrome will automatically complete the sign-in fields for you when you visit the websites agai
1 If you click Never for this site, the bar will never again show up when logging into that site. 2  If you click Save password by accident, you can always delete the saved password by following the above steps. 3  You can also the Personal Stuff page to manage whether Google Chrome saves passwords in the first place. 1 Alternately, you could just put chrome://settings/passwords into the address bar for a shortcut to the password management page. 2  When you log into a website, a bar like this should pop up at the top of the screen. 3  If you click Never for this site, the bar will never again show up when logging into that sit
Tips. 1  Alternately, you could just put chrome://settings/passwords into the address bar for a shortcut to the password management page. 2  When you log into a website, a bar like this should pop up at the top of the screen. 3  If you click Never for this site, the bar will never again show up when logging into that site. 1 Alternately, you could just put chrome://settings/passwords into the address bar for a shortcut to the password management page. 2  When you log into a website, a bar like this should pop up at the top of the screen.
How to remove a saved password in Google Chrome. Click the triple bar icon which appears to the right of the address bar as shown by the first red arrow in the screenshot below; this is similar to the icon that appears in mobile apps. Then select the Settings menu option which is highlighted with the second red arrow. The preferences will open in a new tab. Scroll down to the bottom and click the link labelled Show Advanced Settings. Scroll down and locate the Passwords and Forms section and click the Manage saved passwords link as shown in the screenshot below.