Valerie /va-ler-ie/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced VAL-er-ee. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Valerie is strong, healthy . Feminine of Valerius, a Roman family clan name; the French form of an early Christian name, Valeria. Also the name of a fourth-century Spanish saint. Actresses Valerie Harper, Valerie Bertinelli, Valerie Perrine. Valerie is a very prominent first name for women (#149 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#61058 out of 150436, Top 41%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Valerie for girls.
Valerie is almost always a feminine given name in English, derived directly from the French Valerie (valérie a-female only) name and ultimately from The Latin. Valeria valerie is also used as a nickname For. valeria Valerie is also used as a nickname for Valeria. Both are often shortened to Val. Valery valéry Or valery is a masculine given name in parts Of (europe particularly In france And), russia as well as a common surname In francophone. countries
Valerie is also used as a nickname for Valeria. Both are often shortened to Val. Valery valéry Or valery is a masculine given name in parts Of (europe particularly In france And), russia as well as a common surname In francophone. Countries, another much, Rarer french masculine form can Be. valėre Valerie is also used as a nickname for Valeria. Both are often shortened to Val. Valery valéry Or valery is a masculine given name in parts Of (europe particularly In france And), russia as well as a common surname In francophone. countries
Origin of the name Valerie: Borrowed from the French, Valerie is from the Latin Valerius, an old Roman family name derived from valere (to be strong, healthy). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
[ 3 syll. va-le-rie, val-er-ie ] The baby girl name Valerie is pronounced as V AA-L-eriy- †. Valerie is primarily used in English, French, and German. Its language of origin is Latin. Valerie is a form of the English, German, and Italian name Valeria. Valerie is a popular baby girl name. The name increased in popularity from the 1900s up to the 1950s; prior to that, it was of modest use only. At the peak of its usage in 1959, 0.351% of baby girls were named Valerie. It was #60 in rank then. The baby name has experienced a fall in frequency since then.
The name Valerie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Valerie is: Brave. American Meaning: The name Valerie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Valerie is: Brave. English Meaning: The name Valerie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Valerie is: Strong; valiant. Feminine of the Roman family clan name Valerius. Latin Meaning: The name Valerie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Valerie is: Strong; healthy. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony
Valerie is of french origin meaning strength, valor and courage. Valerie comes from the name Valeria. This was the name of a 2nd-century Roman saint and martyr. 
Meaning: Valerie means The Strong it is strength. Which can be both a blessing and a curse. Meaning you can handle anythang that comes your way and strength gets you throught it! Curse ALLOT comes your way to much at times, because, you can handle it an to much becomes over whelming. Valerie is a very sophisticated name.