An arm lift is a cosmetic procedure that removes excess skin and fat from the arms, tightening and lifting arm tissue. It typically is performed when there is too much excess skin, or not enough skin elasticity, for arm liposuction alone to produce desired results.
Depending on your individual situation, a Brachioplasty will cost between $6,500-$7,500. This includes the doctor’s fee, the cost of the surgical suite, anesthesiology, and all follow-up care.
A Brachioplasty, or Arm Lift, is a surgical procedure designed to dramatically improve the appearance of the upper arm by removing loose or lax skin and tissue. The upper arm is sculpted to an aesthetically pleasing look, correcting arm shape in a manner that cannot be achieved through exercise alone.
A Brachioplasty, otherwise known as an Arm Lift, is a surgical procedure to reshape the soft, flabby, inner portion of the upper arm. From the axilla (underarm area) to the elbow, a Brachioplasty allows a doctor to remove the excess skin and fatty tissue that can form as we age or may occur after a large weight loss.
The average cost of an arm lift is $3,936, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Arm Lift surgery (Brachioplasty) is the surgical removal of the loose skin, or bingo wings, that often develop on the upper arms, as a natural part of the aging process and particularly as a result of weight-loss.
1 For example, at the Institute of Cosmetic and Reconstructive Surgery in California, an arm lift costs about $5,000 to $6,000. 2  At Youthful Images in Connecticut, it costs $6,000 to $8,000.
An arm lift (also known as brachioplasty) is a procedure designed to reduce upper arm fat and skin that hangs down (‘batwing’ arms). If the arm has fat present, but no loose skin, liposuction alone may be performed. For those with loose skin and fat, liposuction is performed and then the loose skin trimmed and sutured.
An arm lift, or brachioplasty, is a surgical procedure that: 1  Reduces excess sagging skin that droops downward. 2  Tightens and smoothes the underlying supportive tissue that defines the shape of the upper arm. 3  Reduces localized pockets of fat in the upper arm region.
Arm Lift Cost. The cost of arm lift surgery includes the surgeon's fee, anesthesia fee and operating room fee. According to statistics from the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, the national average for plastic surgeon fees for an upper arm lift is around $3,900.