- Jackie Joyner-Kersee. Jackie Joyner-Kersee was born in 1962 in East St. Louis, Illinois. She is the second child and eldest daughter of Alfred and Mary Joyner. Her teen parents struggled to make ends meet for their growing family. In 2000 the Jackie Joyner-Kersee Foundation opened the Jackie Joyner-Kersee Center in Joyner-Kersee's hometown of East St. Louis, Ill. The JJK Center provides services to thousands of families and youth in metropolitan St. Louis.
Jackie Joyner-Kersee (1962-), one of the world's greatest female athletes, won three gold, one silver and two bronze medals over four consecutive Olympic games. She was a heptathlete who holds the world record at 7,291 points and Olympic and national records in the long jump. Jackie Joyner-Kersee, through her athletic achievements has earned the title of the world's greatest female athlete (Sports Stars USA 2003). Among many notable accomplishments, she
Born on March 3, 1962, Joyner-Kersee grew up in East St. Louis, Illinois, a poverty-stricken city on the Mississippi River. Her parents, Alfred and Mary Joyner, were barely in their teens when they got married. Mary was only 14 when her first child, Al, was born and just 16 when she gave birth to Jackie, in 1962. Jackie Joyner-Kersee Facts. Multitalented athlete Jackie Joyner-Kersee (born 1962) was one of the top American track stars of the 1980s and 1990s, winning numerous Olympic medals and setting or tying records in several events.
EAST ST. LOUIS, MO (KTVI)-- In the sports world, she's a living legend. To many in the St. Louis area, she is known simply as JJK. Fox 2`s April Simpson sat down with Jackie Joyner-Kersee as she talks about growing up in East St. Louis, her Olympic medals and why she chose to stay in her home town. Filed in: News. Report a typo. 
Jackie was born in East St. Louis, Illinois on March 3, 1962. Growing up in East St. Louis, Jackie spent a lot of time at the Mary Brown Center. She tried any kind of activity and sports including dance and volleyball. Jackie and her brother Al both went into track and field and trained together.
More About Jackie Joyner-Kersee: Jackie Joyner-Kersee was born in 1962 in East St. Louis, Illinois. She is the second child and eldest daughter of Alfred and Mary Joyner. Her parents were still in their teens at the time, and struggled to provide for their growing family. 
Jackie Joyner-Kersee was a track and field athlete who excelled in the heptathlon and the long jump. She is widely regarded as one of the top female athletes of all time and was voted the Greatest Female Athlete of the 20th Century by Sports Illustrated for Women. Growing up in East St. Louis, Jackie spent a lot of time at the Mary Brown Center. She tried any kind of activity and sports including dance and volleyball. Jackie and her brother Al both went into track and field and trained together.
Jackie Joyner-Kersee. Many people feel Jackie Joyner-Kersee is the greatest all around athlete ever. She was born in East St. Louis, Illinois on March 3, 1962. Jackie lived in a poor neighborhood. When Jackie was 10 she started to compete in track meets and winning