In addition to moving the arm and pectoral girdle, muscles of the chest and upper back work together as a group to support the vital process of breathing. The diaphragm is a strong, thin, dome-shaped muscle that spans the entire inferior border of the rib cage, separating the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity. These important muscles control many motions that involve moving the arms and head – such as throwing a ball, looking up at the sky, and raising your hand. Breathing, a vital body function, is also controlled by the muscles connected to the ribs of the chest and upper back....
Muscles of the Chest and Upper Back. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders. These important muscles control many motions that involve moving the arms and head – such as throwing a ball, looking up at the sky, and raising your hand. Breathing, a vital body function, is also controlled by the muscles connected to the ribs of the chest and upper back....
The dominant muscle in the upper chest is the pectoralis major. This large fan-shaped muscle stretches from the armpit up to the collarbone and down across the lower chest region on both sides of the chest. The two sides connect at the sternum, or breastbone. The major muscles in the upper torso include: 1  Trapezius: This muscle extends across the neck, shoulder, and back. 2  It allows for movement of the shoulders and shoulder blades. 3  Rhomboid major: Attached to the shoulder blade, this muscle is one of many that aids shoulder movement.
Pectoralis Major. These are the two large chest muscles primarily the pushing muscles of the upper body. It makes up most of the upper body. As you raise and lower your body during a push-up, the pectoralis major is doing most of the work to raise and lower your body. Deltoids. 
Now that we know how the muscle of the chest are put together and what it is they do for us in terms of movement, we can weed through the smoke and mirrors and pick out the most effective exercise. The first exercise on the list is the king of chest exercises, the flat barbell bench press. O f all the various muscle groups that make up the human body, the chest is one of them that seem to consume more bodybuilders than any other. People come to me asking how they can work the upper chest, the lower chest, the inner chest, the outer chest, the upper middle and the lower outer.
With any big muscle move such as a chest press, you will bring other muscles into play. In this case, you will work the triceps, the muscles in the back of your upper arm, which help you push the weight away from your body, and the deltoids, which are the muscles in your shoulder. At home, you can do a flat chest press with hand weights while lying on the floor. For a more challenging version, you can lie on a stability ball. By adjusting the angle of your upper back on the ball, you can focus more on your upper or lower chest.
Chest Muscles Move the Shoulders. The chest muscles are used in the flexion and adduction of the shoulder as well as inward shoulder rotation. Since the basic function of the chest muscles is to pull the arm and shoulder in front of the body it is critical for many athletes to focus on this body part while working out. 
If your fitness goals include sculpting a more lithe, sinewy physique, add the chest press to your workout routine. Do the chest press if you play sports that require explosive upper body power, for example, golf, tennis, softball, swimming, maybe even the martial arts. At home, you can do a flat chest press with hand weights while lying on the floor. For a more challenging version, you can lie on a stability ball. By adjusting the angle of your upper back on the ball, you can focus more on your upper or lower chest.
Pectoralis Major. Decline bench presses work your pectoralis major muscles, or pecs. The pectoralis major, the large muscle of your chest, consists of two divisions, an upper and a lower head. The upper portion is called the clavicular head and runs from the collarbone to the upper arm bone. 