The first thing you should know if you are considering Lakin for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Lakin is a unisex name, used as a boy name and a girl name. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lakin and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lakin is fascinating, learn more about it.
Meaning of Lakin. American name. In American, the name Lakin means-sim lakia, found treasure.The name Lakin originated as an American name. The name Lakin is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). American Name Meaning-sim lakia, found treasure. Origin-America. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
The name Lakin is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lakin and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lakin is fascinating, learn more about it.
[ 2 syll. la-kin, lak-in ] The baby boy name Lakin is pronounced as L AE KihN †. The origin of Lakin is English. Lakin is a variation of the name Lake. Lakin is not frequently used as a baby boy name. It is listed outside of the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Lakin include Lachunn, Lagan, Lagen, Lagin, Lagon, Lagun, Lagyn, Lahthan, Laiken, Laikin, Lakan, Laken, Lakon, Lakshan, Lakshman (Indian), Lallam, Lamaan, Lamaann, Lamee, and Lameh.
Recorded as Lacon, Lakin, Laken, and possibly others, this is an English surname, but possibly in some cases of foreign origins. The English origination is said to be from the very popular medieval personal name Lawrence, a name introduced into England by returning Crusaders from the Holy Land in the 12th century. 
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Lakin. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Lakin, spread the love and share this with your friends. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lakin and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lakin is fascinating, learn more about it.
Lakia, Found Treasure”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lakin and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lakin and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lakin is fascinating, learn more about it.
The name Lakin is of American origin, and it means From the Lake . It's a name commonly given to girls. The highest recorded use of the name Lakin was in 1996 with a total of 94 babies. According to the 2003 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Lakin is not a popular baby girl's name in Kansas. Imagine that, only 7 babies in Kansas have the same name as you in 2003.