If the printer shows replace or install the waste toner tank, follow the steps below to remove it and reinstall it. To replace or reinstall the waste toner tank: 1  Open the front cover. 2  Pull on the handles to remove the toner cartridge. 3  Pull the waste toner tank out by the handle. 4  With a dry, lint free cloth, clean the inside wall of the printer and clean the waste toner tank.
1 Remove the new waste toner container out of its package. 2  Insert the new container into position and then push it into your printer. 3  Insert the Toner cartridges matching the colors on the waste toner tank with the toner cartridges.
1 Do not replace the waste toner container before the message prompting you to replace it appears on the touch panel display. 2  When attaching the waste toner container, make sure to push it in all the way. 3  If the container is not pushed in all the way when you remove it, it may come out with its shutter open.
You can replace the waste toner container immediately by pressing [ ]. When the waste toner container is full, a screen with instructions on how to replace the waste toner container appears on the touch panel display.
1 If the container is not pushed in all the way when you remove it, it may come out with its shutter open. 2  Since this may cause toner to fly out, close the shutter with your hand. 3  Complete instructions on how to replace the waste toner container can be accessed by pressing [Previous] or [Next] on the touch panel display.
CLP-365W How To Replace The Waste Toner Container. To remove and replace your waste toner container, follow the steps below: 1  Turn your printer off. 2  Open your printer’s front cover. 3  Pull the toner cartridges straight out by the handles. 4  Pull the waste toner container out of the machine using its handle.
To replace the waste toner bottle: 1  Pull the front door release latch (A) towards the front of the printer. 2  Open the front door. 3  Important: The toner inside the waste toner bottle can soil clothing. 4  Do not clean clothing soiled with toner in hot water; this causes the toner to adhere permanently to the clothing.