Gall wasps, also called gallflies, are a family (Cynipidae) of the order Hymenoptera and are classified with the Apocrita suborder of wasps in the superfamily Cynipoidea. Features [edit]. Like all Apocrita, gall wasps have a distinctive body shape, the so-called wasp waist. The first abdominal tergum (the propodeum) is conjoined with the thorax, while the second abdominal segment forms a sort of shaft, the petiole.
It can be caused by mechanical injury or by several species of insects, mites, nematodes, fungi and bacteria. In fact, there are more than 2,000 species of gall-making insects in the United States. The association between the gall-making organism and the host plant is usually quite specific. Different organisms produce galls of characteristic size, shape and color. Hackberry trees host several species of gall psyllids. They form 1/8- to 1/4-inch galls on the leaves and petioles. The insects overwinter as adults in bark crevices and other sheltered locations (including home siding and window frames). After mating in the spring, the females lay eggs on the undersides of leaves.
Most species attack oak trees. Gall wasps should not be confused with gall midges, a family of gall-making flies. Most species of gall wasps attack specific tissues of the host plant, forming galls, a type of defense response, on roots, stems, twigs, leaves, buds, or flowers. The adults are large for gall wasps, 3 to 4 mm (0.12 to 0.16 in) long, and brownish-red. The large galls can be seen on trees year-round. Oak apples are green when they form in the spring, and they resemble an apple: smooth outside and spongy inside.
The wool sower gall is caused by secretions of grubs of a small gall wasp, Callirhytis seminator. The wool sower gall is specific to white oak and only occurs in the spring. The galls contain seed-like structures. The gall wasps develop inside these structures. Gouty oak gall wasps emerge from the stem galls in winter. Many of the wasps from leaves and succulent stem gall emerge in late spring or early summer. When the gall wasps emerge, spray the tree thoroughly. Sevin (carbaryl) pesticide is labeled for gall wasp control on shade trees and park trees.
Gall Wasp, common name for a group of stinging wasps that parasitize plants, causing the plants to form a variety of strangely shaped and colored galls. Gall wasps are found throughout the world, but most occur in northern temperate regions. The adults are large for gall wasps, 3 to 4 mm (0.12 to 0.16 in) long, and brownish-red. The large galls can be seen on trees year-round. Oak apples are green when they form in the spring, and they resemble an apple: smooth outside and spongy inside.
There are a variety of gall-forming species of small wasps that commonly infest oak, Quercus spp ., trees in Pennsylvania. Most leaf galls on oak cause little or no harm to the health of a tree. However, twig or branch galls may cause injury or even death to a heavily infested tree. Two common species of twig gall-producing insects are the horned oak gall wasp, Callirhytis cornigera, and the gouty oak gall wasp, C. quercuspunctata. The life cycles of the various gall-forming wasps are highly variable. Two or more years are required for gall wasps that develop in woody twig galls to reach maturity. Gall-forming wasps usually overwinter as adults in protected places away from the host tree.
Gall wasps produce species-specific and generation-specific galls on several species of oaks. In some species, the adults and galls are similar in the first and third generations, while very different in the second and fourth generations. Hackberry trees host several species of gall psyllids. They form 1/8- to 1/4-inch galls on the leaves and petioles. The insects overwinter as adults in bark crevices and other sheltered locations (including home siding and window frames). After mating in the spring, the females lay eggs on the undersides of leaves.
Most galls are formed by three kinds of insects or mites: gall wasps, gall midges, and gall mites. Other less common gall producing insects are aphids, psyllids, and gall flies. Since most galls seem to do no permanent damage to their host plants, limited research has been done on the biology or control. Gouty oak gall wasps emerge from the stem galls in winter. Many of the wasps from leaves and succulent stem gall emerge in late spring or early summer. When the gall wasps emerge, spray the tree thoroughly. Sevin (carbaryl) pesticide is labeled for gall wasp control on shade trees and park trees.
Like all cynipids, they make galls on plants and are specific with regard to host species and tissue. Four plant genera, all asteraceous, are used by the wasps, of which Chrysothamnus, Lygodemnia, and Microseris are known to host one Antistrophus species each whereas Silphium host the remaining seven species. 
Most species of gall wasps live as gall-formers on oaks. One of the most well-known of these oak gall wasps is the common oak gall wasp (Cynips quercusfolii), which induces characteristic, 2-cm in diameter, spherical galls on the undersides of oak leaves. Features [edit]. Like all Apocrita, gall wasps have a distinctive body shape, the so-called wasp waist. The first abdominal tergum (the propodeum) is conjoined with the thorax, while the second abdominal segment forms a sort of shaft, the petiole.