Geneticists use maps to describe the location of a particular gene on a chromosome. One type of map uses the cytogenetic location to describe a gene’s position. The cytogenetic location is based on a distinctive pattern of bands created when chromosomes are stained with certain chemicals. Another type of map uses the molecular location, a precise description of a gene’s position on a chromosome. The chromosome on which the gene can be found. The first number or letter used to describe a gene’s location represents the chromosome. Chromosomes 1 through 22 (the autosomes) are designated by their chromosome number.
A gene is a segment of DNA that encodes function. A chromosome consists of a long strand of DNA containing many genes. A human chromosome can have up to 500 million base pairs of DNA with thousands of genes. The total complement of genes in an organism or cell is known as its genome, which may be stored on one or more chromosomes. A chromosome consists of a single, very long DNA helix on which thousands of genes are encoded. The region of the chromosome at which a particular gene is located is called its locus.
This address is made up of several parts: The chromosome on which the gene can be found. The first number or letter used to describe a gene’s location represents the chromosome. Chromosomes 1 through 22 (the autosomes) are designated by their chromosome number.
Example of bands. A locus (plural loci) is the specific location or position of a gene, DNA sequence, on a chromosome, in the field of genetics. Each chromosome carries many genes; humans' estimated ' haploid ' protein coding genes are 20,000-25,000, on the 23 different chromosome
Genes. The gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. It consists of a specific sequence of nucleotides at a given position on a given chromosome that codes for a specific protein (or, in some cases, an RNA molecule). Individual codons code for specific amino acids. A gene is a sequence of nucleotides along a DNA strand-with 'start' and 'stop' codons and other regulatory elements-that specifies a sequence of amino acids that are linked together to form a protein.
gene Units of information about specific traits, passed from parents to offspring. Each gene has a specific location (locus) on a chromosome and may come in several forms (alleles). genotype The actual genes for a trait present in an individual. genotypic ratio The expected numbers of different genotypes produced by a particular cross. A single (before replication) or double (after replication) strand of DNA with only a single centromere. Chromosomes contain the loci for alleles of different genes. The illustration below shows a chromosome with the parts labeled before (on the left) and after (on the right) replication.
homozygous Both alleles of a gene in a homologous pair are identical. linked genes Genes that appear on the same chromosome and that do not sort independently during meiosis. locus The physical location of the alleles of a gene on it's chromosome (See the definition for chromosome for an image). A single (before replication) or double (after replication) strand of DNA with only a single centromere. Chromosomes contain the loci for alleles of different genes. The illustration below shows a chromosome with the parts labeled before (on the left) and after (on the right) replication.
What name is given to the specific location of a gene on a chromosome? locus Which of these events occurs during anaphase? centromeres divide. the location is called a LOCUS (or LOCI plural) Centromeres divide during anaphase.. nucleoli reappear during telophase, chromosomes align at equator during METAPHASE, tetrads form during prophase, and cytokinesis is during telophase. Good luck!
X-linked inheritance means that the gene causing the trait or the disorder is located on the X chromosome. Females have two X chromosomes; males have one X and one Y. Genes on the X chromosome can be recessive or dominant. Their expression in females and males is not the same. Genes on the Y chromosome do not exactly pair up with the genes on the X chromosome. X-linked recessive genes are expressed in females only if there are two copies of the gene (one on each X chromosome). 