Boil: Introduction. A boil is a large infection of a hair follicle, the tiny opening in the skin from which a hair grows. Boils are due to an invasion of bacteria that enter the follicle and cause a bacterial infection of the follicle and nearby skin. Boils are also called skin abscesses or furuncles. Symptoms of a boil include a lump or swelling that forms under the skin. The lump and nearby area is also painful, swollen, red, and inflamed and can feel hot to the touch. The swelling or lump eventually pushes to the skin's surface and comes to a head of pus.
Signs and symptoms [edit]. Boils are bumpy, red, pus-filled lumps around a hair follicle that are tender, warm, and very painful. They range from pea-sized to golf ball-sized. A yellow or white point at the center of the lump can be seen when the boil is ready to drain or discharge pus.
Symptoms of Boil: Introduction. Symptoms of a boil include a lump or swelling that forms under the skin. The lump and nearby area is also painful, swollen, red, and inflamed and can feel hot to the touch. The swelling or lump eventually pushes to the skin's surface and comes to a head of pus. Symptoms of a boil include a lump or swelling that forms under the skin. The lump and nearby area is also painful, swollen, red, and inflamed and can feel hot to the touch
Symptoms of Boils. A boil starts as a hard, red, painful lump usually less than an inch in size. Over the next few days, the lump becomes softer, larger, and more painful. Soon a pocket of pus forms on the top of the boil. Signs of a more advanced infection are. 1  the skin around the boil becomes red, painful, and swollen; 2  more boils may appear around the original one; 3  a fever develops; and. 4  the lymph nodes near the boil become swollen
A boil, also called a furuncle, is a deep folliculitis, infection of the hair follicle. It is most commonly caused by infection by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus, resulting in a painful swollen area on the skin caused by an accumulation of pus and dead tissue. Boils are bumpy, red, pus-filled lumps around a hair follicle that are tender, warm, and very painful. They range from pea-sized to golf ball-sized. A yellow or white point at the center of the lump can be seen when the boil is ready to drain or discharge pus.
A boil is a common, painful infection of a hair follicle and the surrounding skin. It begins as a red lump, then fills with pus as white blood cells rush in to fight the infection. Good home care can often clear up a single boil, also known as a skin abscess. 
191 Followers. A. A boil is a localized infection in the skin that generally starts as a reddened, tender area. Over time, the area becomes firm, hard, and tender. Eventually, the center of the boil softens and becomes filled with infection-fighting white blood cells from the bloodstream to eradicate the infection. Pus enclosed within tissue is referred to as an abscess. A boil is also referred to as a skin abscess. There are several different types of boils: 1  Furuncle or carbuncle: This is an abscess in the skin usually caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus.
A boil, also known as a skin abscess or furuncle, is a painful, pus-filled lump that develops on the surface of the skin. Boils can be as small as a pea or as large as a golf ball and can develop on any part of the body. They are usually caused by the infection of a hair follicle or oil gland in the skin. 