Emission nebulae are usually red, because hydrogen, the most common gas in the universe, most commonly emits red light. Reflection nebulae are clouds of dust that simply reflect the light of a nearby star or stars. Reflection nebulae are usually blue, because blue light scatters more easily. 
Reflection nebula are simply nebula that shine due to the preferred scattering of blue light from a nearby star. The scattering is now called Raleigh Scattering from the discoverer of the phenomenon. This scattering is the same affect that we see in Earth's atmosphere and which causes the blue sky and blue oceans. Diffuse nebula are the clouds of material formed from the explosions of population three, population two stars, and the left over hydrogen and helium from the Big Bang. As a galaxy rotates like the Milky way, large densities of gas and dust build up in the spiral arm
This causes the nebula to glow. Emission nebulae tend to be red in color because of the abundance of hydrogen. Additional colors, such as blue and green, can be produced by the atoms of other elements, but hydrogen is almost always the most abundant. A fine example of an emission nebula is the Orion Nebula (M42). Reflection Nebula-A reflection nebula differs from an emission nebula in does not emit radiation of its own. It is a cloud of dust and gas that reflects the light energy from a nearby star or group of stars. 
Emission nebulae are usually red, because hydrogen, the most common gas in the universe, most commonly emits red light. Reflection nebulae are clouds of dust that simply reflect the light of a nearby star or stars. Reflection nebulae are usually blue, because blue light scatters more easily. Emission and reflection nebulae are often seen together and are sometimes both referred to as diffuse nebulae. In some nebulae, the star formation regions are so dense and thick that light cannot get through.
Emission nebula contain some of the same gasses and dust that diffuse nebula do. Here though, ultraviolet light from a nearby blue star heat up the gas and ionize it so it gives off light at different wavelengths. Without the star providing the energy, these nebula would not glow. Diffuse nebula are the clouds of material formed from the explosions of population three, population two stars, and the left over hydrogen and helium from the Big Bang. As a galaxy rotates like the Milky way, large densities of gas and dust build up in the spiral arms
The Eagle Nebula is a diffuse emission nebula. A nebula is a region of interstellar gas and dust. Emission nebulae are clouds of ionized gas. The ionization comes from an extr … emely hot star that sends high-energy photons to the nebula. These nebulae usually appear reddish. Reflection nebula are clouds of dust which are simply reflecting the light of a nearby star or stars. Such as the Witch Head Nebula. Emission nebula is a cloud of ionized gas (plasma) emitting light of various colors.
A diffuse nebula also may occur near a cool star. In this case, the ultraviolet light from the star is too weak to make the nebula's gas atoms give off light. But the dust particles in the diffuse nebula reflect the starlight. Astronomers refer to this kind of diffuse nebula as a reflection nebula. If a diffuse nebula occurs in an area that has no nearby stars, it neither emits nor reflects enough light to be visible. In fact, its dust particles blot out the light from the stars behind them. 
A nebula (Latin for cloud; pl. nebulae, nebulae, nebulæ or) nebulas is an interstellar cloud of, dust, hydrogen helium and other ionized. Gases, originally nebula was a name for any diffuse astronomical, object including galaxies beyond The Milky. way A nebula (Latin for cloud; pl. nebulae, nebulae, nebulæ or) nebulas is an interstellar cloud of, dust, hydrogen helium and other ionized. gases