Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase. The DNA double helix showing base pairs. The sides are sugar and phosphate molecules. The rungs are pairs of chemicals called 'nitrogenous bases', or 'bases' for short.
Report Abuse. The difference between a gene, a chromosome and DNA is that DNA is the nucleic acid contained within chromosomes located in the nucleus of cells. In addition, genes are located on cells and they control the production of proteins. Source(s): I am taking AP biology and Anatomy/Physiology Honors. DNA is the molecular code that codes for all proteins which make up life, a gene is a piece of dna that codes for one protein. A chromosome is a strand of DNA, this is where a number of genes are located, humans have 23 types of chromosomes and have two of each type. Erfie · 9 years ago.
Genes contain DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). DNA is the chemical basis of heredity. Think of it this way: DNA is in genes, genes are on chromosomes. When mapping all genes on all human chromosomes was first seriously conceived, it was called the Human Genome Project-a combination of gene and chromosome. DNA is the molecular code that codes for all proteins which make up life, a gene is a piece of dna that codes for one protein. A chromosome is a strand of DNA, this is where a number of genes are located, humans have 23 types of chromosomes and have two of each type. Erfie · 9 years ago.
A gene is a stretch of DNA on a chromosome that has the instructions for making a protein. Each chromosome has many genes with humans having over 22,000 genes in all. A gene's instructions for a protein are written in the three letter code I referred to before. A protein is a molecular machine that does a specific job. DNA is the chemical that chromosomes and genes are made of. DNA itself is made up of four simple chemical units that are abbreviated as A, G, C, and T. These letters are used to form three letter words that cells can read. A chromosome is simply a very long piece of DNA that cells can easily copy
Genes are made of a chemical called DNA, which is short for 'deoxyribonucleic acid'. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase. The DNA double helix showing base pairs. The sides are sugar and phosphate molecules. The rungs are pairs of chemicals called 'nitrogenous bases', or 'bases' for short.
Every factor in inheritance is due to a particular gene. Genes specify the structure of particular proteins that make up each cell. Gene comes from the Greek word genea meaning generation, origin, beginning, kin, or sometimes race. Gene was shortened from pangene which means all-generation. Genes contain DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). DNA is the chemical basis of heredity. Think of it this way: DNA is in genes, genes are on chromosomes. When mapping all genes on all human chromosomes was first seriously conceived, it was called the Human Genome Project-a combination of gene and chromosome. 