Bone Density Tests. Click for more information. The test used to diagnose osteoporosis is called a bone density test. This test is a measure of how strong -- or dense -- your bones are and can help your doctor predict your risk for having a fracture. Bone density tests are painless, safe, and require no preparation on your part. Bone density tests compare your bone density to the bones of an average healthy young adult. The test result, known as a T-score, tells you how strong your bones are, whether you have osteoporosis or osteopenia (low bone mass that is not low enough to be diagnosed as osteoporosis), and your risk for having a fracture.
Bone density tests use X-rays or sound waves to measure how strong your bones are. Bone density tests are used to definitively diagnose bone loss and osteoporosis. The most widely recognized bone mineral density test is dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, commonly known as a DEXA scan. A DEXA scan uses low levels of X-rays and is quick and painless. 
DEXA Scan (Dual X-ray Absorptiometry). The most common osteoporosis test is dual X-ray absorptiometry -- also called DXA or DEXA. It measures people’s spine, hip, or total body bone density to help gauge fracture risk. Read more.
DEXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry). The most common test for diagnosing osteoporosis is called dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). In this procedure, x-rays are used to take a picture of the insides of your bone and to determine if they have become porous due to osteoporosis. For most women, your doctor will be able to diagnose your condition without additional tests. However, where appropriate, your doctor may use special equipment to conduct a bone mineral density test (BMD).
Other tests used to measure bone density mass include conventional x-rays, and quantitative computed tomography (QCT), quantitative ultrasound, and measurement of bone thickness in the peripheral skeleton (i.e. away from the spine, like your wrist, heel, or finger). For most women, your doctor will be able to diagnose your condition without additional tests. However, where appropriate, your doctor may use special equipment to conduct a bone mineral density test (BMD).
Non-Laboratory Tests. The bone mineral density (BMD) test is the primary test used to identify osteoporosis and low bone mass. One of the preferred and most accurate ways to measure BMD is Dexa-Scan (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry or DXA). It uses a low energy X-ray to evaluate bone density in the hip and/or spine. While the BMD test is used to identify low bone density that is indicative of osteoporosis and is non-invasive, a bone scan is a nuclear medicine test used to rule out other serious conditions of the bones.
Almost 80% of bone density is determined by heredity, and 20% by lifestyle. Bone mineral density tests (BMD) shows how dense bones are and whether you have osteoporosis. The most common osteoporosis test is dual X-ray absorptiometry -- also called DXA or DEXA. It measures people’s spine, hip, or total body bone density to help gauge fracture risk. Read more.
A bone mineral density (BMD) test is the best way to determine your bone health. BMD tests can be used in diagnosing osteoporosis by determining your risk for fractures (broken bones) and measuring your response to osteoporosis treatment. The most widely recognized bone mineral density test is called a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, or DEXA test. 