The English words  world  and  earth  are different words and have distinct, separate conceptual meanings in the Holy Bible and the English language. The old world was the first generation of the heaven and the Earth (Genesis 1:1). The heavens and Earth  which are now  are the second generation of the heavens and the Earth. It is the same planet Earth but different worlds upon the face of the same planet.
World vs Earth. There is a difference between the two words world and earth when it comes to their usage though there are people who use world and earth as two words with similar meaning. We cannot blame that belief because these two words, world and earth, are used in an overlapping context at present. • The word world is used as a noun and an adjective. As an adjective world means relating to the world or involving the entire world. For example, the world food crisis. • The word earth is used as a noun and a verb. As a verb earth means to connect a circuit or a device to earth.
Understanding the Biblical Difference between the Words World and Earth. The King James Authorized Version of the Holy Bible has its own internal set of words and definitions which are self-interpreting in their specific meaning and context. The old world was the first generation of the heaven and the Earth (Genesis 1:1). The heavens and Earth  which are now  are the second generation of the heavens and the Earth. It is the same planet Earth but different worlds upon the face of the same planet.
Universe means all existing matter and space considered as a whole; it is also used with the meaning of a particular sphere of activity, interest, or experience. The front parlor was the hub of her universe. World means: ( 1 usually the world) the earth, together with all of its countries, peoples, and natural features. ( 2 the world) all of the people, societies, and institutions on the earth. [ 3 as adjective] denoting one of the most important or influential people or things of its class.
Best Answer: Earth is a term that was primarily used for surface or ground. Earth in other words also means mud or something that you grow things in this is applied to all the languages. So Earth is the surface of the planet. Today Earth is used as name for our planet. World on the other hand isn't exactly Earth, you could have your personal world, like Dream world, this is the domain where we live in. If we move our bases to Mars, it will be part of our world, but Mars will not become Earth. Don't know about seven year olds, but if he knows the difference between the name of something (like Mike) and the designation of it (like Man) then earth is the name of the world we live on and world and planet are pretty much the same.
Not a lot of difference, really. 'The Earth' (note capital) is generally the formal name of the world we live on. The word 'world' (no capital) can also be used to describe other planets or ideas of living. Earth refers to the entire planet, the third planet from the sun. ' World ' means the entire structure, flora and fauna that is found within the planet Earth. Okay first of all mars does not have life 2ndly mars is the 4th planet earth is the 3rd planet mars is mostly red and earth is mostly blue there is some but there are alot mor … e The difference between them is that Earth is larger and Mars does not have qualities for life to sprout. 71% of Earth's surface is water.
Heaven vs Earth. According to religion, there is a distinct difference between heaven and earth. However, everyone knows that the difference between heaven and earth, in the physical sense, can only be discussed in a theoretical sense because, in reality, no one knows what heaven is really like. In fact, heaven exists only in religion. 
The  Earth  is a planet. It is a spherical-shaped mass of matter in time and space. The  world  is the specific set of conditions prevailing upon the face of the planet Earth at a specific point in Biblical time. The old world was the first generation of the heaven and the Earth (Genesis 1:1). The heavens and Earth  which are now  are the second generation of the heavens and the Earth. It is the same planet Earth but different worlds upon the face of the same planet.
well Earth is the name of a planet. earth is soil or dirt. World is a label class synonymous to planet. Earth happens to be one of the many worlds in the universe. Our World refers to Earth as a whole and when used as such, means the same thing. You live on this world, Earth.
• World is used to indicate a place or the area within the planet earth. World can indicate a place or area that is outside planet earth too if humans happened to live there. World is also used to refer to physically non-existent places such as the dream world. • The word earth indicates the planet called the Earth. • The word world is used as a noun and an adjective. As an adjective world means relating to the world or involving the entire world. For example, the world food crisis. • The word earth is used as a noun and a verb. As a verb earth means to connect a circuit or a device to earth.