This leaflet gives a brief overview of the spleen and its functions. The spleen is an organ about the size of a clenched fist found on the left-hand side of your upper abdomen. Its main functions are to filter your blood, create new blood cells and store platelets. It is also a key part of your body's immune system. The spleen is found on the left side of your body, behind the stomach on a level with the 9th to 11th ribs. It is similar in structure to a lymph node, and is the largest lymphatic organ in the body. The spleen contains two main types of tissue-white pulp and red pulp
The spleen (from Greek σπλήν — splḗn) is an organ found in virtually all vertebrates. Similar in structure to a large lymph node, it acts primarily as a blood filter. The spleen plays important roles in regard to red blood cells (also referred to as erythrocytes) and the immune system. It removes old red blood cells and holds a reserve of blood, which can be valuable in case of hemorrhagic shock, and also recycles iron. 
http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_does_spleen_do_for_your_body. The spleen is a gland that works closely with the circulatory system. The spleen produces, monitors, destroys and stores red blood cells. The spleen also has two other functions, the red and white pulp. The spleen also helps your body fight infection. You can live without your spleen, if something happens and it has to be removed, then your liver and lymph nodes will be able to step in and take over the spleen's functions.
The spleen plays multiple supporting roles in the body. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.
Your spleen, an organ located in the upper left side of your abdomen, helps your body resist infection. Sometimes, the spleen stops working properly as a result of an accident or other health problems. In certain cases, a person's spleen has to be taken out. This surgical procedure is called a splenectomy. 
The human spleen is an organ that creates lymphocytes for the destruction and recycling of old red-blood cells. The spleen is also a blood reservoir. It supplies the body with blood in emergencies such as a bad cut. The spleen is also the location where white blood cells trap organisms. The spleen is shaped like a loose fist and is tucked under the left side of the diaphragm. The average weight of an adult spleen is 0.44 lbs. During and after digestion, the size of the spleen increase
The spleen is a blood filled organ located in the upper left abdominal cavity. It is a storage organ for red blood cells and contains many specialized white blood cells called “macrophages” (disease fighting cells) which act to filter blood... The spleen also helps your body fight infection. You can live without your spleen, if something happens and it has to be removed, then your liver and lymph nodes will be able to step in and take over the spleen's functions.
It is also an important organ in the immune system, producing the white blood cells that fight infection and synthesize antibodies. Although the spleen is important for many functions in the body, the spleen is not vital to survival and it is possible to live without a spleen. Without the spleen, other organs in the body (particularly the liver) adapt and increase their ability to fight infection and remove redundant red blood cell
The spleen sits under your rib cage in the upper left part of your abdomen toward your back. It is an organ that is part of the lymph system and works as a drainage network that defends your body against infection. The spleen also maintains healthy red and white blood cells and platelets; platelets help your blood clot. The spleen filters blood, removing abnormal blood cells from the bloodstream. A spleen is normally about the size of your fist.