[ 2 syll. dai-sy, da-isy ] The baby girl name Daisy is pronounced D EY-Ziy- †. Daisy's origin is Old English and Old Greek, and its use, English and German. Old English origin: It is from daisy; daeg meaning 'day' ; eage 'eye'. As 'marguerite' is the French name for the daisy, the first name was in early times used as a pet form of Margaret. The given name was first adopted by English speakers in the 19th century during an interest in plant and flower names.
Look up Daisy in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Daisy is a feminine given name, commonly thought to be derived from the name of the flower. The flower name comes from the Old English word daegeseage, dægeseage meaning'day s. Eye the Name daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this. source The name Daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this source. Daisy is also a nickname for Margaret, used because Marguerite, the French version of that name, is also a French name for the oxeye daisy.
In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Daisy is: The day's eye. American Meaning: The name Daisy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Daisy is: The day's eye. English Meaning: The name Daisy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Daisy is: Day's eye, from the old English. Also a flower name. Also a translation of the French Marguerite, and used as a pet form of Margaret. 
The flower name comes from the Old English word daegeseage, dægeseage meaning'day s. Eye the Name daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this. Source daisy is also a nickname For, margaret used Because, marguerite The french version of that, name is also A french name for the oxeye. daisy The name Daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this source. Daisy is also a nickname for Margaret, used because Marguerite, the French version of that name, is also a French name for the oxeye daisy.
Daisy is a feminine given name, commonly thought to be derived from the name of the flower. The flower name comes from the Old English word daegeseage, dægeseage meaning'day s. eye The name Daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this source. Daisy is also a nickname for Margaret, used because Marguerite, the French version of that name, is also a French name for the oxeye daisy.
Meaning of Daisy. English name. In English, the name Daisy means-Days eye, from the old English. Also a flower name. Also a translation of the French Marguerite, and used as a pet form of Margaret. The use of Daisy in the chorus of the song A bicycle built for two made the name Daisy famous.. Other origins for the name Daisy include-English, American.The name Daisy is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Days eye, from the old English. Also a flower name.
Hello, Guest. Daisy, fresh, wholesome, and energetic, is one of the flower names that burst back into bloom after a century's hibernation. Originally a nickname for Margaret (the French Marguerite is the word for the flower), Daisy comes from the phrase day's eye, because it opens its petals at daybreak. 
Daisy /dai-sy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced DAY-zee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Daisy is day's eye. A flower name. Often used as a nickname for Margaret, where in France, the flower is called a marguerite. Literary: Henry James named the typical American girl in Europe as Daisy Miller in his story. Daisy is a very prominent first name for women (#295 out of 4276, Top 7%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#34114 out of 150436, Top 23%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Daisy for girls.
Origin of the name Daisy: Derived from the name of the daisy flower, which is derived from the Old English daeges dæges (eage'day s) eye in reference to its round yellow center-re sembling the. Sun From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman 