A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
The two types of single gene mutations are point mutation, where a single point in the DNA sequence is affected, and FRAMESHIFT MUTATION, where a single gene or nitrogen base … is deleted or added from the mRNA (messenger RNA) sequence causing a shift in the reading frame of the genetic message. a gene mutation can be acquired throughout life or it is genetic ex sickle cell anemia chromsome mutations have more pronounced effects and are due to a change in the number … of chromosomes or a change in the structural effect that are inherited..
If this type of mutation occurs in the sequence of DNA molecule or exon, then the protein sequence changes present in that gene. If the mutation occurs in the intron region which is also the non coding region of the DNA molecule, then changes occur in the RNA effecting the coding of gene. Sickle cell anemia is caused by the point mutations. Changes occur in the beta hemoglobin.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A gene mutation is a permanent change in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene. Mutations range in size from a single DNA building block (DNA base) to a large segment of a chromosome. A chromosomal mutation is a mutation involving a long segment of DNA, it is a any change in the structure or arrangement of the chromosomes
1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons. Altering nucleotide sequences most often results in nonfunctioning proteins. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation. Also called a base-pair substitution, this type of mutation changes a single nucleotide base pair
Article Summary: Mutations are the changes in the structure of the DNA molecule or the changes in the gene sequences. There are many types of mutations which cause the defect in the genetic information.... When the DNA molecule in the cell replicates, several chemical changes occur during this process. If the mutation occurs in the intron region which is also the non coding region of the DNA molecule, then changes occur in the RNA effecting the coding of gene. Sickle cell anemia is caused by the point mutations. Changes occur in the beta hemoglobin.
Report Abuse. Chromosomal mutations include deletions or amplifications of large areas of a chromosome as well as inversions and translocations. Since chromosomes have many genes, a mutation to a chromosome could affect more genes than would a mutation to a single gene. bradlepe · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Chromosomal mutations affect large regions of the chromosome, which may contain hundreds or thousands of genes. A gene mutation affects one gene. Thus, a chromosomal mutation will affect more genes.
The two types of single gene mutations are point mutation, where a single point in the DNA sequence is affected, and FRAMESHIFT MUTATION, where a single gene or nitrogen base … is deleted or added from the mRNA (messenger RNA) sequence causing a shift in the reading frame of the genetic message. a gene mutation can be acquired throughout life or it is genetic ex sickle cell anemia chromsome mutations have more pronounced effects and are due to a change in the number … of chromosomes or a change in the structural effect that are inherited..