In the Majilis there are two mandates of the party. Democratic party of Kazakhstan. The party is headed by Narikbayev Maksyt Sultanovich. The party was registered the 14th of June 2004. There are 60 thousand members. The party has its branches in all regions
POLITICAL STRUCTURE OF KAZAKHSTAN Republic of Kazakhstan as per its 1995 Constitution (amended in 1998) is a democratic, secular, law-abiding and social state the supreme values of which are an individual, his life, rights and freedoms. Kazakhstan is the unitary state with the presidential form of power.
A new political party in Kazakhstan is calling for making business people the engine for democratic and market reform in this energy-rich Central Asian state.
He graduated from the Kazakh State University with a major in Law in 1981. In 1990 Mami became a member of the Supreme Court, and from 1993 to 1995 he was the Chairman of the Almaty city court. From September 2000 till April 2009 Mami was the Chairman of the Supreme Court of Republic of Kazakhstan.
Basic principles of civil society in Kazakhstan are the recognition of ideological and political pluralism and separation of state and public institutions. Citizen's rights to establish political, public and professional organizations are legally protected.
The party, as yet unnamed, is headed by Yerzhan Dosmukhamedov, an official of the Atameken National Union of Entrepreneurs and Employers of Kazakhstan and an advisor to Timur Kulibayev, son-in-law of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, a former first vice president of state energy company KazMunaiGaz.
Republic of Kazakhstan as per its 1995 Constitution (amended in 1998) is a democratic, secular, law-abiding and social state the supreme values of which are an individual, his life, rights and freedoms. Kazakhstan is the unitary state with the presidential form of power.
The party was registered in 2002 after a dissident group of the disbanded political party Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan founded the Ak Zhol movement. The party goals are the creation of an independent, prosperous and free Kazakhstan, and the fundamental values of democracy, independence, freedom and justice.