The Bachelor of Applied Science (BAS) degree is designed to grow professional management skills of the learner and meet the demand for leadership of highly technical professionals in the workplace. However, in the United States it is also considered a highly specialized professional technical degree; the Bachelor of Applied Science is an applied baccalaureate, typically containing advanced technical training (e.g. military training) in sciences combined with liberal arts that traditional degrees do not have.
The Bachelors of Applied Science, B.A.S. is a degree that allows individuals to apply previous technical and vocational training or work experience as credit toward an toward an associate of applied science or a liberal arts degree for career advancement. The Bachelor of Applied Science Online offers students the benefits and education from an accredited university with the flexibility of class schedules. Students that need to balance a job and school now have the opportunity to continue academia while working. Majors in Applied Science.
Whether a student of a particular subject is awarded a Bachelor of Science degree or a Bachelor of Arts degree can vary between universities. For example, an economics degree may be given as a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) by one university but as a B.Sc. by another, and some universities offer the choice of either. B.S. redirects here. For other uses of BS, see BS. A Bachelor of Science (B.S. , BS, B.Sc. , BSc or Bc. ; less commonly, S.B. , SB, or Sc.B. from the Latin Scientiae Scientiæ) baccalaureus or A Science degree is an undergraduate academic degree awarded for completed courses that generally last three to five. years
The Bachelor of Applied Science (BAS) degree is limited to students with an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree. The degree allows the transfer of an accredited (AAS) degree into a baccalaureate degree, counting the AAS credits much as credits in a major are counted. 
Description. The Bachelor of Applied Science degree is designed to provide a four-year degree in a true 2+2 manner for students who already have an Associate of Applied Science degree and are ready to take on more technical responsibility. This is a popular option for workforce development and advancement. 
The applied science (BAS) bachelor's degree is a degree meant for someone who has already completed an associate's degree program in applied science and is looking to move into management or advance his or her career. Applied Science (BAS) Bachelor's Degree. An applied science (BAS) bachelor's degree is a 4-year degree program for those seeking entry or advancement into more technical careers. Keep reading to see characteristics of BAS programs, including common admission requirements, areas of study and distance learning options.
Admission Requirements. The Bachelor of Applied Science is a degree-completion program, and all incoming students should have an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree from a regionally accredited community college. This degree is not available for traditional freshmen. 
In Canada, the Netherlands and other places the Bachelor of Applied Science (BASc) is equivalent to the Bachelor of Engineering, and is classified as a professional degree. In Australia and New Zealand this degree is awarded in various fields of study and is considered a highly specialized professional degree. However, in the United States it is also considered a highly specialized professional technical degree; the Bachelor of Applied Science is an applied baccalaureate, typically containing advanced technical training (e.g. military training) in sciences combined with liberal arts that traditional degrees do not have.
The Associate of Applied Science (AAS) is historically considered a technical degree in the United States. An accredited AAS degree is a 2 to 3-year degree that articulates well with advanced academics and/or approved technical programs. A high school diploma and entry level testing is necessary for college acceptance. However, in the United States it is also considered a highly specialized professional technical degree; the Bachelor of Applied Science is an applied baccalaureate, typically containing advanced technical training (e.g. military training) in sciences combined with liberal arts that traditional degrees do not have.