1 All three sides of an equiangular triangle are congruent (same length). 2  The area of an equiangular triangle can be calculated in the usual way, but in this special case of an equilateral triangle, it is also given by the formula: 3  where S is the length of any one side. Because the interior angles of any triangle always add up to 180°, each angle is always a third of that, or 60°. The sides of an equiangular triangle are all the same length (congruent), and so an equiangular triangle is really the same thing as an equilateral triangle. See Equilateral Triangles.
In Euclidean geometry, an equiangular polygon is a polygon whose vertex angles are equal. If the lengths of the sides are also equal then it is a regular polygon. For prime p, every integer-sided equiangular p-gon is regular. Moreover, every integer-sided equiangular p-gon has p-fold rotational symmetry. An equiangular polygon that is also equilateral (has all sides of equal length)
A polygon whose vertex angles are equal are called equiangular polygon, for example equilateral triangle is an equiangular triangle, each angle is of measure 60 degrees. Also all the regular polygons (polygons having all the sides equal)are always equiangular. The end points are called the vertices of the polygon. These line segments called the sides of the polygon, define the polygon along with the angles they made at the vertices. While the side lengths determine the size and stretch of the polygon, the shape of the polygon is determined by the angle measures.
An equilateral triangle is also equiangular (by SSS), and vice versa. The two properties do not necessarily come together if the number of sides (and, therefore, angles) exceeds 3. A polygon which is both equiangular and equilateral is regular. Viviani's theorem is easily extended to regular and, in fact, equilateral polygons. A Property of Equiangular Polygons. The applet suggests a generalization of Viviani's theorem : The sum of distances from a point to the side lines of an equiangular polygon does not depend on the point and is that polygon's invariant.
In geometry, an equilateral polygon is a polygon which has all sides of the same length. All regular polygons and isotoxal polygons are equilateral. An equilateral triangle is a regular triangle and 60 degree internal angles. A tangential polygon (one that has an incircle tangent to all its sides) is equilateral if and only if the alternate angles are equal (that is, angles 1, 3, 5, ... are equal and angles 2, 4, ... are equal).
An equilateral polygon which is cyclic (its vertices are on a circle) is a regular polygon (a polygon that is both equilateral and equiangular). A tangential polygon (one that has an incircle tangent to all its sides) is equilateral if and only if the alternate angles are equal (that is, angles 1, 3, 5, ... are equal and angles 2, 4, ... are equal). Thus if the number of sides n is odd, a tangential polygon is equilateral if and only if it is regular
Some but not all equilateral dodecagons may be tiled by a combination of unit squares and equilateral triangles; the rest may be tiled by these two shapes together with rhombi with 30 and 150 degree angles. A cyclic polygon is equiangular if and only if the alternate sides are equal (that is, sides 1, 3, 5, ... are equal and sides 2, 4, ... are equal). Thus if n is odd, a cyclic polygon is equiangular if and only if it is regular. For prime p, every integer-sided equiangular p-gon is regular. Moreover, every integer-sided equiangular p-gon has p-fold rotational symmetry. An equiangular polygon that is also equilateral (has all sides of equal length) is a regular polygon.
A polygon cannot be equilateral but not equiangular because in the definiton of a regular polygon which is a polygon that is both equiangular and equilateral you see that you … cannot have one without the other. As long as a polygon is equilateral it is also equilangular and vice versa. A rhombus if i remember my geometry its a rhombus A rhombus is NOT equiangular. A square is the only quadrilateral with equal sides and equal angles. An equilateral triangle i … s also equiangular. Polygons that are equilateral and equiangular are called regular. 2 people found this useful.
Define Equilateral and Equiangular Polygons: If the sides of a polygon have the SAME LENGTH the polygon is EQUILATERAL. If THE ANGLES of a polygon have the same measure, then polygon is called EQUIANGULAR. 