Both iSTAR Fusion and Pulsar have a “live preview” function that allows an operator to see a preview of the full 360 degree scene at up to 25fps. iSTAR Pulsar has the ability to stream the live preview to an external HD for recording and playback. To connect to the iSTAR using an iOS device, please carry out the following steps: 1  Turn on iSTAR, access network settings and turn on AdHoc Mode. 2  Return to the main menu to validate. 3  You will hear a short audio sound indicating successful validation.
For other uses, see istar (disambiguation) . ISTAR stands for information, surveillance, target acquisition, and reconnaissance. In its macroscopic sense, ISTAR is a practice that links several battlefield functions together to assist a combat force in employing its sensors and managing the information they gather. Information is collected on the battlefield through systematic observation by deployed soldiers and a variety of electronic sensors. Surveillance, target acquisition and reconnaissance are methods of obtaining this information.
iStar finances, invests in and develops real estate and real estate related projects as part of its fully-integrated investment platform. Building on over two decades of experience and more than $35 billion of transactions, iStar brings uncommon capabilities and new ways of thinking to commercial real estate and adapts its investment strategy to changing market conditions.
New Mexico Users: If your school does not have an account on iSTAR and you wish to use the iStar Inventory System please click here. This site is designed for use with the latest version of Microsoft Internet Explorer. If you do not have the latest version, you may download it by clicking here. 
Ishtar (English pronunciation /ˈɪʃtɑːr/ ; Transliteration: IšTAR; Akkadian : 𒀭𒈹 ; Sumerian 𒀭) is the East Semitic Akkadian, Assyrian and Babylonian goddess of fertility, love, war, and sex. She is the counterpart to the Sumerian Inanna, and the cognate for the Northwest Semitic Aramean goddess Astarte. Ishtar was the goddess of love, war, fertility, and sexuality. Ishtar was the daughter of Anu. She was particularly worshipped in northern Mesopotamia, at the Assyrian cities of Nineveh, Ashur and Arbela (Erbil).
iSTAR Door Controllers. The suite of iSTAR door controllers, including iSTAR Edge, iSTAR Pro, iSTAR eX and iSTAR Ultra, and iSTAR Ultra SE, provides powerful, network-ready solutions for enterprise-wide access control. 
Purpose. The purpose of an alternate assessment is to measure student achievement in the subject areas of English/Language Arts (ELA) and Mathematics for grades 3-8 and 10, Science (Grades 4, 6 and 10), Social Studies (Grades 5 and 7) based on alternate academic achievement standards. Indiana Standards Tools for Alternate Reporting (ISTAR). The ISTAR test design will provide teachers and students the flexibility of incorporating assessment into ongoing instruction by utilizing three administration windows throughout the year.
Ease of use and zero setup time. The iSTAR 360 degree panoramic camera rugged, lightweight and has a small footprint making it easy to transport and deploy. With zero setup time, iSTAR does not require photographic experience to operate. With one-button capture, it’s fast and easy-to-use either indoors or outdoors. A key feature of iSTAR is it's high dynamic rage capabilities (HDR) with an impressive EV range of 27 f-stops. This enables iSTAR to capture the true colours and a light variant in a scene ensuring no data is lost.
General Dynamics UK is a leading provider of ISTAR capability. The company delivers a family of ISTAR capabilities to domestic and export customers, which range from integrated systems through to the provision of specific technologies, products and sub-systems. 1  ISTAR Capabilities.
ISTAR is the process of integrating the intelligence process with surveillance, target acquisition and reconnaissance tasks in order to improve a commander’s situational awareness and consequently their decision making. Information is collected on the battlefield through systematic observation by deployed soldiers and a variety of electronic sensors. Surveillance, target acquisition and reconnaissance are methods of obtaining this information.