In a rotator cuff disorder, tendons that make up the rotator cuff get squeezed and rub against bone. They become damaged and irritated. This causes bleeding and inflammation. The tendons can develop scar tissue, which is not as strong and flexible as normal tendon tissue. 
1 Repetitive stress. 2  Repeating the same shoulder motions again and again can stress your rotator cuff muscles and tendons. 3  Baseball, tennis, rowing, and weightlifting are examples of sports activities that can put you at risk for overuse tears. 4  Many jobs and routine chores can cause overuse tears, as well. If you have a degenerative tear in one shoulder, there is a greater risk for a rotator cuff tear in the opposite shoulder -- even if you have no pain in that shoulder. Several factors contribute to degenerative, or chronic, rotator cuff tears. 1 
DESCRIPTION. The rotator cuff is the group of four muscles and tendons that surround the shoulder joint, providing strength and stability. Above the rotator cuff there is a bursa, or sac of tissue, that co-vers and protects the rotator cuff as it comes into close contact with bones around the shoulder (Figure 1). When the rotator cuff is injured or damaged, it can lead to inflammation of the bursa, called bursitis, which causes pain and loss of motion. CAUSES. While some rotator cuff injuries occur as a result of an accident, most result from aging and dete-rioration of the cuff. 
186. Rotator cuff disorders are one of the most common causes of shoulder pain. There are three common conditions that can affect the rotator cuff: rotator cuff tears, subacromial impingement and calcific tendonitis. 
The following factors may increase your risk of having a rotator cuff injury: 1  Age. 2  As you get older, your risk of a rotator cuff injury increases. 3  Rotator cuff tears are most common in people older than 40. 4  Certain sports. Risk factors. 
Rotator Cuff Injury Overview. The rotator cuff is made up of four muscles that help move and stabilize the shoulder joint. Damage to any or all of the four muscles and the ligaments that attach these muscles to bone can occur because of acute injury, chronic overuse, or gradual aging. Other muscles that help move and stabilize the shoulder include the deltoid, teres major, corachobrachialis, latissimus dorsi, and pectoralis major. When the rotator cuff is damaged, a variety of issues arise: 1  Pain and spasm limit the range of motion of the shoulder.
Rotator cuff tears are more common in the dominant arm. If you have a degenerative tear in one shoulder, there is a greater risk for a rotator cuff tear in the opposite shoulder -- even if you have no pain in that shoulder. Several factors contribute to degenerative, or chronic, rotator cuff tears. 1  Repetitive stress.
Too much stress -- or too many fastballs -- can cause partial tears and swelling in the tendons of the rotator cuff. Abrupt stress may even cause one of the tendons to pull away from the bone or tear in the middle of the tendon. Most rotator cuff tears develop gradually. But they also can happen suddenly -- you might feel a pop, intense pain, and weakness in the arm. To diagnose a rotator cuff tear, your doctor will give you a thorough physical exam. He or she will want you to move your arm in different directions to see what causes pain.
Print. The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that surround the shoulder joint, keeping the head of your upper arm bone firmly within the shallow socket of the shoulder. A rotator cuff injury can cause a dull ache in the shoulder, which often worsens when you try to sleep on the involved side. Rotator cuff injuries occur most often in people who repeatedly perform overhead motions in their jobs or sports. Examples include painters, carpenters, and people who play baseball or tennis.