Full Definition of MAIDEN NAME. : the surname of a woman before she marries. See maiden name defined for English-language learners. See maiden name defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. maiden name. noun. : a woman's last name before she is married.
A maiden name is the last name used by a woman before changing her name upon marriage. Some people prefer to use the term “birth name.” As a general rule, a woman's maiden name is her father's last name, reflecting the patrilineal system of descent which dominates many cultures. A maiden name is the last name used by a woman before changing her name upon marriage. The practice of adopting the husband's surname after marriage is less common than it once was.
The mother's maiden name is her surname by birth (the last name of her parents.) Example: A woman's name would be 'Jane Mary Doe' when born and she keeps that name until she m … arries and then she changes her last name to that of her husbands who is John Smith and her name would be Jane Mary Smith. Your mother's maiden name is her surname before she got married for the first time and took her husband's surname. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Dodi Tov. 275,914 Contributions. Old ladies are dangerous. Always remember that. I'm an old lady. Follow the logic.
No, your gf is correct. Your maiden name is only referred to a female, of course. Your mother's maiden name is her last name before she married or birth name given. deedee · 6 years ago. · just now. Report Abuse. Maiden name is your mother first name, middle name and last name when she was single or not married with your father, it is her complete birth name recorded in her birth certificate.
(June 2014). When a person (traditionally the wife in many cultures) assumes the family name of his or her spouse, that name replaces the person's birth name, which in the case of the wife is called the maiden name. Birth name is also used as a gender-neutral or masculine substitute for maiden name.. A married name is a family name or surname adopted by a person upon marriage. In some jurisdictions, changing one's name requires a legal procedure.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a maiden name is the surname or birth name a woman has before she marries and takes her husband's last name. An example of maiden name is Jones for a woman who was named Sarah Jones before she married and became Sarah Stein. Words near maiden name in the dictionary. 1  maiden-auntish. 2  maiden-flight. 3  maiden-flights. 4  maiden-grass. 5  maiden name. 6  maiden-names. 7  maiden-of-honor. 8  maiden over. 9  maiden-over. 10  maiden-overs.
Traditionally in the English-speaking world, a child uses the family name of the father. Also traditionally, when a woman marries, she takes the family name of her husband. At that point the family name she used to use, the family name of her father, is called her maiden name because it was her name when she was a maiden. Your mother's maiden name is her surname before she got married for the first time and took her husband's surname. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Dodi Tov. 275,914 Contributions. Old ladies are dangerous. Always remember that. I'm an old lady. Follow the logic.
If a woman is born with the name “Jane Smith” and she chooses to marry “John Jones,” she might choose to change her last name to Jones, becoming “Jane Jones.” In this scenario, “Smith” would be Jane's maiden name. A maiden name is the last name used by a woman before changing her name upon marriage. The practice of adopting the husband's surname after marriage is less common than it once was.
When a person (traditionally the wife in many cultures) assumes the family name of his or her spouse, that name replaces the person's birth name, which in the case of the wife is called the maiden name. A married name is a family name or surname adopted by a person upon marriage. In some jurisdictions, changing one's name requires a legal procedure.