Much of this diversity is found in the world's tropical areas, particularly in the forest forest,a dense growth of trees, together with other plants, covering a large area of land. The science concerned with the study, preservation, and management of forests is forestry...... or. the number of species in a given habitat. Scientists have variously estimated that there are from 3 to 30 million extant species, of which 2.5 million have been classified, including 900,000 insects, 41,000 vertebrates, and 250,000 plants; the remainder are invertebrates, fungi, algae, and microorganisms.
The number and variety of plants, animals and other organisms that exist is known as biodiversity. It is an essential component of nature and it ensures the survival of human species by providing food, fuel, shelter, medicines and other resources to mankind. Biodiversity is not evenly distributed, rather it varies greatly across the globe as well as within regions. Among other factors, the diversity of all living things (biota) depends on temperature, precipitation, altitude, soils, geography and the presence of other species.
1 Have students read “What is biological diversity?” in Biodiversity, food and farming for a healthy planet. 2  If reading in class, students can take turns reading out loud. 3  Explain new vocabulary as the section is read in class or when the reading is assigned. 1 Have students create a word wall to put on the wall for the duration of the biodiversity module. ( 2 See appendix 1(b).). 3  In small groups (or as a class), have students brainstorm examples of food chains, identify the component microorganisms, plants and animals and explain the relationships among the components.
The number of species of plants, animals, and microorganisms, the enormous diversity of genes in these species, the different ecosystems on the planet, such as deserts, rainforests and coral reefs are all part of a biologically diverse Earth. 
The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), known informally as the Biodiversity Convention, is a multilateral treaty. The Convention has three main goals: 1  conservation of biological diversity (or biodiversity); 2  sustainable use of its components; and. The convention recognized for the first time in international law that the conservation of biological diversity is a common concern of humankind and is an integral part of the development process. The agreement covers all ecosystems, species, and genetic resources.
Biodiversity is the variety of different types of life found on Earth and the variations within species. It is a measure of the variety of organisms present in different ecosystems. This can refer to genetic variation, ecosystem variation, or species variation (number of species) within an area, biome, or planet. Biodiversity is not evenly distributed, rather it varies greatly across the globe as well as within regions. Among other factors, the diversity of all living things (biota) depends on temperature, precipitation, altitude, soils, geography and the presence of other species.
2010 was the International Year of Biodiversity. The Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity is the focal point for the International Year of Biodiversity. At the 2010 10th Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity in October in Nagoya, Japan, the Nagoya Protocol was adopted. The convention recognized for the first time in international law that the conservation of biological diversity is a common concern of humankind and is an integral part of the development process. The agreement covers all ecosystems, species, and genetic resources.
Also called biodiversity, biological diversity is often used to refer to the total number of different species on Earth. A collection of this biodiversity would include human beings, Bengal tigers, sugar maples, oyster mushrooms, bacteria, and the millions of other living organisms found on Earth. Conservative estimates of the number of species on Earth range from 5 to7 million but some scientists estimate as many as 30 million!
1. biodiversity-the diversity of plant and animal life in a particular habitat (or in the world as a whole); a high level of biodiversity is desirable. diverseness, diversity, multifariousness, variety-noticeable heterogeneity; a diversity of possibilities; the range and variety of his work is amazing. Translations. The number and variety of species found within a specified geographic region. 2. The variability among living organisms on the earth, including the variability within and between species and within and between ecosystems.