On a driving test you can only miss 30 points in the state of florida! On the written test you can only miss five questions!
1 73% - How many can a person miss on a behind the wheel drivers test? 2  75% - How many can you miss on the californial behind the wheel drivers test? 3  63% - How many question can you miss behind the wheel for the driving test california? 4  34% - My daughter just passed her behind the wheel test in ca, with only 3 points off.
You want to know that what brings on behind the wheel test, its depends on your state of living. search yahoo answers for your states dmv and they will have a section saying what to bring..if not you can also check it on that link http://www.dmv.state.ri.us/licenses/new.
You can only take the test 1 time each day if you are 18 or older, and you have to wait one week before next attempt if you are a minor. The fee for your California drivers license is $31 and is good for 3 tests (either written or behind the wheel) during a 12 month period as well as the physical license.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. On the written exam you can miss no more than 8 out of the 46 questions. On the behind the wheel, you can miss up to 2-3 on the pre-driving questions and you can miss up to 15 points on the driving test as long as they are not critical errors. Pre-driving questions include: your hand signals, location of you headlights, blinker, emergency break, hazard lights, etc.
The road test—also referred to as a driving test, behind-the-wheel exam, road exam, and others—is a behind-the-wheel driving skills test administered by your state DMV or related agency. In most cases, you must successfully pass a road test in order to get your driver's license.
1 63% - How many question can you miss behind the wheel for the driving test california? 2  34% - My daughter just passed her behind the wheel test in ca, with only 3 points off.
Get ready for the ‘behind the wheel’ part of your DMV permit test with this free 30-question practice test that covers everything you need to know, including starting and stopping, merging, intersections, lane changes, parallel parking, critical errors, and more.