In the Airport. If you believe you lost an item in the terminal at HNL, please contact the Lost and Found Department. Lost and Found is located on the ground level of Parking Lot D (Overseas Parking Garage) opposite the Main Overseas Terminal. Phone: (808) 836-6683. Hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., HST, Monday through Friday. 
Seattle-Tacoma International (SEA) Airport Map. Contemporary art is showcased in the main terminal of the Sea-Tac Airport, so take time to peruse during layovers. If you're in a hurry, however, take the shuttle train to get around. Click here for more information on traveling to Seattle-Tacoma.
Advanced Search. If you are traveling with a child under the age of 2, please call us at 1-800-800-1504 for reservations. You may apply a Delta Vacations promo code or an eCertificate to receive a discount or special offer towards your vacation package. 
Delta Home SkyTeam. REPORT LOST ITEMS If you lost an unchecked item onboard a Delta flight, in the Delta gate area, or in a Delta Sky Club, we will make every effort to return it to you as quickly as possible. 
The most reliable way to report lost items is to complete this lost items form. Please provide a detailed description, including brand, color, size and distinguishing features, of the lost item. For example if you’ve lost an electronic item, please provide the device's serial number or login and password combination. 
Contact Seattle-Tacoma Airport: Find below customer service details of Seattle-Tacoma Airport, including phone and address. You can reach the below contact for flight status, cancellation, special assistance, baggage claim, car parking, airport transportation, hotels, taxis or other queries on Seattle-Tacoma services. 
Lost & Found at Seattle Tacoma SEA Airport. For items lost onboard your airplane or in the boarding area, contact your airline's lost & Found department. The Lost and Found office is located in the central part of the Main Terminal, up on the Mezzanine Level, Room 6016. Items found in the passenger terminal, parking garage, or drive areas are stored for 30 days only. If you report an item lost more than two weeks ago, call (206) 787-5312. Otherwise, complete the Lost Property Report by visiting: www.portseattle.org/Sea-Tac/Passenger-Services/Pages/apps/Lost-Found.aspx.
Your reference number and proper identification must be presented. Fed Ex http://www.fedex.com Fed Ex Phone Number: 1-800-463-3339 With a valid FedEx account number, the Lost and Found Office can prepare items for shipment MONDAY through FRIDAY by 12:00 PM (Noon). Back to Top 4. A reference number and proper identification must be presented. Fed Ex http://www.fedex.com Fed Ex Phone Number: 1-800-463-3339 With a valid FedEx account number, the Lost and Found Office can prepare items for shipment MONDAY through FRIDAY
Airline Lost and Found. Airlines operate their own lost and found offices. Please contact your airline if you believe you may have lost your item during your flight. Some airlines' lost and found offices require that you leave a voice mail message with your name, phone number and a detailed description of the lost item. An airline representative will return your call. If your airline has found your item, airline staff will provide options for its return
The Port of Seattle Lost and Found office is located in the central part of the Main Terminal at Sea-Tac Airport, up on the Mezzanine Level, Room 6016. Items found in the airport terminal, rental car facility bus, parking garage or drive areas are stored securely for 30 days before disposition. For items lost or left on an airplane, please contact your airline. The YWCA provides Lost and Found management. ​. 1  reporting lost Items. 2  Claiming &Returning Items. 3  Items left on Aircraft. 4  Contact Lost and Found.