Neuroglia are helper cells in the nervous system. They produce products that help support and protect the neurons so they can do their work transmitting impulses, also called action potentials. 
Neuroglia is the collective term for glial cells, specialized cells that protect and regulate the functioning of neural cells in the brain. In addition to promoting electrical communication between nerve synapses, some of these cells physically protect neural cells by surrounding them to form an insulating barrier. Brain size also determines the number of cerebral neuroglia. Therefore, different species of animals contain varying concentrations of glial cells. The brain of a fruit fly, for example, is composed of 24 percent glia, compared to 90 percent in a human and 97 percent in an elephant.
Noun. 1. neuroglia-sustentacular tissue that surrounds and supports neurons in the central nervous system; glial and neural cells together compose the tissue of the central nervous system. glia. interstitial tissue-tissue between the cells of a structure or part in plant or animal. n. The supportive tissue of the nervous system, including the network of branched cells in the central nervous system (astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes) and the supporting cells of the peripheral nervous system (Schwann cells and satellite cells). Also called glia
Neuroglia are non-neuronal cells of the nervous system. It is also called glial cells or glia, which is a Greek work meaning glue. The name comes from what appears to be the function of neuroglia, which is to act as a glue to neurons. Neuroglia are seen in nervous tissues as cells surrounding the neurons. Definition. noun, plural: neuroglia. A cell that surrounds a nerve cell that is responsible for providing mechanical and physical support, supplying nutrients and oxygen to the neuron, providing electrical insulation between neurons, and maintaining homeostasis.
Neuroglia. Your central and peripheral nervous systems depend on certain cells that are sort of the unsung heroes in the nervous system. These cells that form myelin, protect, support, and maintain equilibrium in your nervous system are called glial cells. Another type of glial cell in the central nervous system are oligodendrocytes, which creates myelin sheaths around the axons of neurons. The myelin sheath helps your neurons conduct signals more quickly between one another and other cells. Finally, star-shaped glial cells in the CNS are collectively known as astrocytes.
• NEUROGLIA (noun). The noun NEUROGLIA has 1 sense: 1. sustentacular tissue that surrounds and supports neurons in the central nervous system; glial and neural cells together compose the tissue of the central nervous system. Familiarity information: NEUROGLIA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
neuroglia. the supporting structure of nervous tissue, consisting, in the central nervous system, of astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia; called also glia. adj., adj neurog´lial. (nū-rog'lē-ă), This word is grammatically singular. Avoid the mispronunciation neurogli'a. Etymology: Gk, neuron + glia, glue. the supporting or nonneuronal tissue cells of the central and peripheral nervous system. They perform the less specialized functions of the nerve network. Kinds of neuroglia include astrocytes, oligodendroglia, and microglia. Compare neuron. neuroglial, adj