Lifeguard certification includes a CPR certificate and a first aid certificate. It is valid for two to three years from the issue date, depending on the state where it is issued.
You do not need to go to a Red Cross Institution to learn and get certification of CPR, there are many institutions throughout the length of the country that will take the same amount as Red Cross for how long does CPR certification last and provide you with equivalent knowledge.
However, because CPR is a crucial part of being a lifeguard, your lifeguard certification will automatically expire when your CPR certificate expires, even if your first aid certificate is still valid. In some states, lifeguards must renew their CPR certificates annually to keep their lifeguard certificates valid.
The first thing to know is that the time for how long does CPR certification last varies from state to state or from province to province and you are advised to check with your local institutes to confirm the time period your state has allowed.
The answer to how long does CPR certification last is that it varies from place to place but an average of 2 years is the time for how long does CPR certification last. You can also learn about other first aid techniques along with CPR and become a thoroughly accomplished First Aid doctor!
Becoming a Lifeguard. Becoming a lifeguard does require an initial investment of time and money. Certification courses cost anywhere from $150 to $500, and take upwards of 30 hours to complete. If you have a specific facility where you would like to work, check with the manager to see what type of lifeguard certification they prefer.
People who are taking this class at De Anza to get a lifeguard certification will have time to practice the prerequisite test as we will mostly concentrate on first aid and CPR at the start of the quarter. The full swim test will not be officially given until at least two weeks into
1 Your CPR Certification Card will be Valid for 2 years. 2  The average completion time for our CPR class is between 1 and 2 hours. 3  You may stop and re-start the CPR course at any time without loss of continuity. 4  Every student has unlimited access to the online CPR class material for 60 days from date of registration.