(c) 2012 Elizabeth LaBau, licensed to About.com, Inc. Definition: Edible gold leaf is a gold product that can be used to decorate food. In candy-making it can be used to cover whole candies like chocolates or truffles, or applied sparingly as a small decorative touch. 
Jaime & Jacinda share an easy and affordable way to add modern shine to anything you own using gold leaf. Learn how to gold leaf with Prudent Baby, then create a beautiful DIY table setting, gild custom gifts, or just add a touch of gold to anything that needs a little shine. 
I did a piece I call Runway with gold and silver leaf. You do have to put it between layers of glass but don't try to make the leaf laid out in one layer. The gold leaf looks better in layers or scrunched up. If I could ever figure out how to upload my photos to my album you could see what the effect looks like. I have just tried gold leaf as well. I find that you have need 3 or 4 layers of leaf, a lot more than I started out with, before it really shows up or doesn't burn away. I have been covering it with clear glass. With gold & copper leaf more is the answer!
Write a guide. You can apply gold leaf to almost anything. Making jewelry with gold leaf kits serves as an inexpensive way to make luxurious jewelry while unleashing your creativity. Luckily, you can get materials for making gold leaf jewelry at your local crafts store, as well as from online sources like eBay. Starting with a prudent mindset is a good way to make your initial investment worthwhile if you feel like dabbling in gold leaf jewelry mak
I have been using gold leaf in some of my kilnformed work for a while now. I sandwich it between two layers of glass with success as well as letting it fuse into the top layer. I use small pieces (about the size of a finger nail or less) and sometimes sprinkle some colored frit on top. it works nicely...try it! I have just tried gold leaf as well. I find that you have need 3 or 4 layers of leaf, a lot more than I started out with, before it really shows up or doesn't burn away. I have been covering it with clear glass. With gold & copper leaf more is the answer!
4. Apply the gold leaf. Carefully peel the leaf from the paper backing and apply it to the item. Or, you can lay the leaf and backing on the surface, burnish it with a brush or your fingers, and carefully pull the paper backing away. 1  After laying a sheet of gold leaf on a surface, blow on it to encourage it to lay flat enough to work with. Edit Article. Gold leaf is gold that's been hammered into a thin foil so it can be used to decorate art work, picture frames, books, and even food and drink. Applying gold leaf is called gilding, and the process requires several specialized tools and supplies, including primer, sizer, brushes, knives, and pads.
Does anyone have sucessful experience with using gold leaf in fusing. I know that people use it sucessfully in lampwork. My experience is it burns out. Anyone have any other experience with it. I have just tried gold leaf as well. I find that you have need 3 or 4 layers of leaf, a lot more than I started out with, before it really shows up or doesn't burn away. I have been covering it with clear glass. With gold & copper leaf more is the answer!