Pumice sometimes forms a color that is best described as reddish-black. This color may occur when the pumice has formed with the presence of sulfur. Multiple colors of pumice can occur when one type mixes with another at the time of hardening, creating streaks of color. pumice stone image by Avesun from Fotolia.com. Pumice is the solid form of lava that erupts from a volcano. When rapid depressurization and cooling occur, the liquid lava becomes a solid. Pumice is used as a stone carving tool, an additive for cement, and a plaster-like concrete. It is also used as an abrasive in erasers, exfoliants, and to fade stone-washed jeans
Pumice /ˈpʌmɨs/ , called pumicite in its powdered or dust form, is a volcanic rock that consists of highly vesicular rough textured volcanic glass, which may or may not contain crystals. It is typically light colored. Scoria is another vesicular volcanic rock that differs from pumice in having larger vesicles, thicker vesicle walls and being dark colored and denser. Pumice is created when super-heated, highly pressurized rock is violently ejected from a volcano. It is commonly, but not exclusively of silicic or felsic to intermediate in composition (e.g., rhyolitic, dacitic, andesite, pantellerite, phonolite, trachyte), but basaltic and other compositions are known. Pumice is commonly pale in color, ranging from white, cream, blue or grey, to green-brown or black. It forms when volcanic gases exsolving from viscous magma form bubbles that remain within the viscous magma as it cools to glass
Pumice is a light-colored, extremely porous igneous rock that forms during explosive volcanic eruptions. It is used as aggregate in lightweight concrete, as landscaping aggregate, and as an abrasive in a variety of industrial and consumer products. 
Details. Our pumice is a near-white, milled volcanic glass that has many uses in fine arts. Add pumice to paint to make it appear mat when dried, to add texture and to increase body without tinting the color. Pumice can also be added to grounds to give it tooth and as an abrasive to smooth and polish substrates and grounds. 
Brown and Black. Additional pumice colors are determined by the other types of microcrysts and groundmasses associated with the stone. Brown pumice is formed when a mixed groundmass of brown and opaque microcrysts occur in the solidified lava. Black pumice is caused by submicroscopic microcrysts of magnetite. pumice stone image by Avesun from Fotolia.com. Pumice is the solid form of lava that erupts from a volcano. When rapid depressurization and cooling occur, the liquid lava becomes a solid. Pumice is used as a stone carving tool, an additive for cement, and a plaster-like concrete. It is also used as an abrasive in erasers, exfoliants, and to fade stone-washed jeans
Pumice is a form of volcanic glass that is rich in silica. There  are also fairly high amounts of aluminum oxide, sodium oxide, and  potassium oxide. The holes or vesicles a … re the remnants of gas  bubbles that formed when the pumice was still molten. 1 person found this useful. Pumice is a very light weight rock-it floats in water. It is part of the ejecta of a andesite volcano. It may be found in streams or on coastlines nearby to andesite volcano … es.
1 See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 2  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 3  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 4  Send: E-mail your color to others. 5  Print: Print your color. 6  Add to Favorites: Add your color to your Favorites folder. 1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 5  Send: E-mail your color to others.