Aug. 5, 2010 -- How soon until we can try again? This is one of the first questions that women who have experienced a miscarriage will ask their doctor. And a new study suggests that there is no reason for many women to delay getting pregnant after a miscarriage.
Miscarriage is usually a one-time occurrence. Most women who miscarry go on to have a healthy pregnancy after miscarriage. Less than 5 percent of women have two consecutive miscarriages, and only 1 percent have three or more consecutive miscarriages.
1 Vaginal bleeding, similar to a menstrual period, may last up to a week after a miscarriage. 2  Light bleeding, or spotting. 3  Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks. 4  Lower abdominal pain similar to menstrual cramps may last up to 2 days after the
Specifically, women who conceive within six months after a miscarriage are less likely to miscarry again or experience other pregnancy-related complications when compared with women who wait for longer periods of time. The findings appear in the journal BMJ.
Getting pregnant after having a miscarriage can be a scary thing for some women, especially if there were complications during and after the miscarriage. In most cases, it’s safe for women to try getting pregnant after miscarrying, as long as certain conditions are met first.
Many women wonder about the right time to try to conceive again after miscarriage. From a purely physical point of view, the body heals rapidly from a miscarriage, and menstrual periods usually return within 4 to 6 weeks, meaning that it is possible for many women to become pregnant right away if they choose.
Give yourself time to heal before attempting to get pregnant again. Physical recovery from miscarriage in most cases will take only a few hours to a couple of days. Your periods will likely return within four to six weeks, and it's possible to become pregnant during the menstrual cycle immediately after a miscarriage.
If a woman is over 30 years old, waiting six months before trying to conceive again can actually reduce the odds of pregnancy. Age increases the chances of miscarriage and decreases the odds of conception, so older women should not wait for an extended period of time to try and get pregnant again.
Exactly how long a woman should wait to conceive after a miscarriage is controversial. Some doctors suggest trying again as soon as possible, while guidelines from the World Health Organization (WHO) call for waiting for at least six months, and others suggest waiting for as long as 18 months.