Generic lisinopril is sold under the name Lisinopril tablets and is available in several strengths, ranging from 2.5 mg to 40 mg. Generic lisinopril comes in several strengths, including: 1  Lisinopril 2.5 mg tablets. 2  Lisinopril 5 mg tablets. 3  Lisinopril 10 mg tablets. 4  Lisinopril 20 mg tablets. 5  Lisinopril 30 mg tablets. 6  Lisinopril 4
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Lisinopril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor used for treating high blood pressure, heart failure and for preventing kidney failure due to high blood pressure and diabetes. Other ACE inhibitors include: 1  enalapril (Vasotec), 2  quinapril (Accupril), 3  captopril (Capoten), 4  fosinopril (Monopril), 5  benazepril (Lotensin), 6  ramipril (Altace), 7  moexipril (Univasc) and. 8  trandolapril (Mavik).
Lisinopril is part of a class of drugs called ACE inhibitors -- ACE stands for angiotensin-converting enzyme. Lisinopril helps to block this enzyme, which is normally part of a reaction in the body that causes blood vessels to narrow (constrict). By blocking this enzyme, lisinopril causes blood vessels to relax, which can lower blood pressure. Generic lisinopril comes in several strengths, including: 1  Lisinopril 2.5 mg tablets. 2  Lisinopril 5 mg tablets. 3  Lisinopril 10 mg tablets. 4  Lisinopril 20 mg tablets. 5  Lisinopril 30 mg tablets. 6  Lisinopril 4
Lisinopril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. It works by blocking a substance in the body that causes blood vessels to tighten. As a result, lisinopril relaxes the blood vessels. This lowers blood pressure and increases the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide combination is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly.
Generic Prinivil is sold under the name Lisinopril tablets and is available in several strengths, including: 1  Lisinopril 2.5 mg tablets. 2  Lisinopril 5 mg tablets. 3  Lisinopril 10 mg tablets. 4  Lisinopril 20 mg tablets. 5  Lisinopril 30 mg tablets. 6  Lisinopril 40 mg tablets. Prinivil ® (lisinopril) is a prescription medication that has been licensed to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and congestive heart failure, as well as to improve survival following a heart attack. Prinivil is part of a class of drugs called angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or ACE inhibitors for short.
Last reviewed on RxList 2/20/2015. Prinivil (lisinopril) is a synthetic peptide derivative, is a long-acting angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, used to treat hypertension, heart failure, and supportive treatment in patients that suffer a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Lisinopril is the generic name for the drug. Lisinopril is also found in combination with other drugs such as hydrochlorothiazide for hypertension treatment. Prinivil (Lisinopril) side effects that are common include the following: 1  Cough. 2  Headache. 3  Dizziness. 4  Depressed mood. 
Drug Lisinopril. The generic Lisinopril is manufactured by 19 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. 
Generic for Lisinopril-Hydrochlorothiazide: An Overview. Lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide (available as a generic or under the brand names Prinzide ® or Zestoretic ®) is a prescription medication that has been licensed to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of two medicines -- Prinivil ® and hydrochlorothiazide. It is also known as Lisinopril HCTZ. Generic lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide is available in several strengths, including: 1  Lisinopril HCTZ 10 mg/12.5 mg -- which has 10 mg of lisinopril and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 2  Lisinopril HCTZ 20 mg/12.5 mg -- which has 20 mg of lisinopril and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide.
As with the brand-name version, any medicine that is generic for Prinivil is designed to control high blood pressure and manage symptoms of congestive heart failure. Prinivil ® (lisinopril) is a prescription medication that has been licensed to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and congestive heart failure, as well as to improve survival following a heart attack. Prinivil is part of a class of drugs called angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or ACE inhibitors for short.