The five main latitude regions of the Earth's surface comprise geographical zones, divided by the major circles of latitude. The differences between them relate to climate. They are as follows: 1  The North Frigid Zone, north of the Arctic Circle, 4.12% of Earth's surface. 
On a map, the circles of latitude may or may not be parallel, and their spacing may vary, depending on which projection is used to map the surface of the Earth onto a plane. On an equirectangular projection, centered on the equator, the circles of latitude are horizontal, parallel, and equally spaced. Unlike circles of longitude, which all are great circles with the centre of Earth in the middle, the circles of latitude get smaller as the distance from the Equator increases. Their length can be calculated by a common sine or cosine function.
Five major circles of latitude. Tropics. Also referred to as the torrid zone or tropical zone, all the water and land of the earth between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. The tropics experience at least one day per year in which the sun passes directly overhead. Tropic of Cancer. A line of latitude located at 23.5° north of the equator. The Sun is directly overhead the Tropic of Cancer on the summer solstice in the Northern Hemisphere (June 20 or 21).
sydeen/iStock/Getty Images. The five major lines of latitude, more commonly referred to as the five major circles of latitude, are lines that mark specific points on Earth. Four of the lines are either north or south of the equator and also run parallel to the equator. The Antarctic Circle. The Antarctic Circle is located at approximately 66.5 degrees south latitude, or 66.5 degrees south of the equator. This line, or circle, of latitude marks the start of the southern area known as the Antarctic. The circle consists of only one continent, Antarctica.
The Sun is directly overhead the Tropic of Capricorn on the summer solstice in the Southern Hemisphere (Dec. 20 or 21). It marks the southernmost point of the tropics. Arctic Circle. A line of latitude located at 66.5° north, delineating the Northern Frigid Zone of the Earth. Antarctic Circle. A line of latitude located at 66.5° south, delineating the Southern Frigid Zone of the Earth. There are five major circles of latitude, listed below from north to south. The tropics experience at least one day per year in which the sun passes directly overhead. Tropic of Cancer. A line of latitude located at 23.5° north of the equator. The Sun is directly overhead the Tropic of Cancer on the summer solstice in the Northern Hemisphere (June
Arctic Circle marked in blue. The Arctic Circle is a region on Earth that is marked as one of the five major circles of latitude on maps of our planet. It is located between the Arctic to its north and the Northern Temperate Zone to its south. Its counterpart in the Southern Hemisphere is known as the Antarctic Circle. In addition to the Antarctic Circle, the other three major latitude lines are the Tropic of Cancer, the Tropic of Capricorn, and the Equator. The Arctic Circle is the farthest southern region that experiences polar day and polar night
The Arctic Circle. The Arctic Circle is located at approximately 66.5 degrees north latitude, or 66.5 degrees north of the equator. This circle of latitude stretches through eight countries, including the United States, Canada, Greenland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. The Antarctic Circle. The Antarctic Circle is located at approximately 66.5 degrees south latitude, or 66.5 degrees south of the equator. This line, or circle, of latitude marks the start of the southern area known as the Antarctic. The circle consists of only one continent, Antarctica.
The five major lines of latitude, more commonly referred to as the five major circles of latitude, are lines that mark specific points on Earth. The Antarctic Circle. The Antarctic Circle is located at approximately 66.5 degrees south latitude, or 66.5 degrees south of the equator. This line, or circle, of latitude marks the start of the southern area known as the Antarctic. The circle consists of only one continent, Antarctica.
The latitude of the circle is approximately the angle between the equator and the circle, with the angle's vertex at the Earth's centre. The equator is at 0°, and the North and South Pole are at 90° north and 90° south respectively. Unlike circles of longitude, which all are great circles with the centre of Earth in the middle, the circles of latitude get smaller as the distance from the Equator increases. Their length can be calculated by a common sine or cosine function.