1 Some of the nerves in the body are specialized for carrying information in only one direction, similar to a one-way street. 2  Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves. Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium.
In the peripheral nervous system, an afferent nerve fiber is the nerve fiber (axon) of an afferent neuron (sensory neuron). It is a long process (projection) extending far from the nerve cell body that carries nerve impulses from sensory receptors or sense organs toward the central nervous system. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons). A touch or painful stimulus, for example, creates a sensation in the brain only after information about the stimulus travels there via afferent nerve pathways.
The nervous system consists of the brain, spinal cord, sensory organs, and all of the nerves that connect these organs with the rest of the body. Together, these organs are responsible for the control of the body and communication among its parts. Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium.
The sensory nerves carry general sensory information from the pharynx and the soft palate. Sensory neurons also convey information from taste and general sense receptors in the posterior one-third of the tongue, and from receptors in the carotid sinus that convey information about pressure and blood gases. It provides sensory information from the orbit and the forehead. 2. Maxillary branch (sensory) This branch passes through the foramen rotundum. It provides sensory information from the upper lip, cheeks and nose and the gums and teeth of the upper jaw.
They carry sensory information from glands, organs and muscles to the spinal chord and send motor impulses to the glands, organs and muscles in the different regions of the body. Of the 12 pairs of cranial nerves 2 pairs emerge from the brain and 10 pairs emerge from the brain stem. Report Abuse. Sensory nerves carry impulses toward the brain and most of them actually reach the brain (some sensory nerves will connect to other nerves first that will then carry the information on to the brain). As others have said this is an afferent system. Axons are NOT nerve cell bodies
1 Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves. 2  Other neurons, known as efferent nerves, carry signals only from the central nervous system to effectors such as muscles and glands. Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium.
The posterior root is the afferent sensory root and carries sensory information to the brain. The anterior root is the efferent motor root and carries motor information from the brain. The spinal nerve emerges from the spinal column through an opening (intervertebral foramen) between adjacent vertebrae. A spinal nerve is a mixed nerve, which carries motor, sensory, and autonomic signals between the spinal cord and the body.
Olfactory Nerve (N I). The olfactory nerve is a special sensory cranial nerve that is responsible for the sense of smell. The receptors of these neurons are found in the olfactory epithelium and the axons pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. These neurons synapse within the olfactory bulb which lies directly above the cribriform plate. Information concerning olfaction goes directly to the cerebrum in the olfactory tract. It provides sensory information from the orbit and the forehead. 2. Maxillary branch (sensory) This branch passes through the foramen rotundum. It provides sensory information from the upper lip, cheeks and nose and the gums and teeth of the upper jaw.