The mean stamens per flower varies from 5 for Chorisia insignis to 1,087 for the right-spiralled flowers of Adansonia digitata. The number of stamens of a left-spiralled flower does not differ significantly from that of its counterpart in these cases with the exceptions of Salmalia insignis and Ceiba rosea. Frequency distribution of wet pollen grains of Bombax ceiba. average size of pollen grains soaked in water over the dry ones and the number of stamens per flower was found to be negative, being -0.776. However, this value at the 5~ level is not significant.
PalynoL, 3 (1967) 133-139 135 TABLE r[[ SIZE OF DRY POLLEN (.]RAINS ,AN[) NUMBER OF STAMENS PER FLO~,VER OF BOMBACACEAE Species Size (1,) of dry pollen grains Number of Left-Right-Mean of stamens per spiralled spiralled left-and flower right-spiralled 53.0 53.6 53.3 5.0 43.9 43.2 43.6 5. Frequency distribution of wet pollen grains of Bombax ceiba. average size of pollen grains soaked in water over the dry ones and the number of stamens per flower was found to be negative, being -0.776. However, this value at the 5~ level is not significant.
The correlation coefficient between the size of dry pollen grains and the number of stamens per flower is not significant. INTRODUCTION The number of stamens per flower in Bombacaceae varies very widely with species, the range among the species examined in India being from 5 to 1,071. Frequency distribution of wet pollen grains of Bombax ceiba. average size of pollen grains soaked in water over the dry ones and the number of stamens per flower was found to be negative, being -0.776. However, this value at the 5~ level is not significant.
You can find exceptions to many of the general characteristics described. Exact numbers of petals, stamen and … pistils, depends on the specie. (There are, in addition, an unknown number of cultivars.) Naturally evolved roses generally have five sepals, five petals and many spirally arranged stamens. The bases of the sepals, petals, and stamens are fused together to form a cup-like structur
Rose leaflets. The leaves are borne alternately on the stem. In most species they are 5 to 15 centimetres (2.0 to 5.9 in) long, pinnate, with (3–) 5–9 (–13) leaflets and basal stipules; the leaflets usually have a serrated margin, and often a few small prickles on the underside of the stem. Species, cultivars and hybrids are all widely grown for their beauty and often are fragrant. Rose plants range in size from compact, miniature roses, to climbers that can reach seven meters in height. Different species hybridize easily, and this has been used in the development of the wide range of garden roses.
Key Results and Conclusions It is shown that in the Arabidopsis flower a correlation exists between positions of petals and sepals, as well as between positions of stamens and carpels, whereas the position of carpels does not seem to depend on number and position of petals and stamens. In particular, the mutant ptl, which exhibits a reduction of most of the petals, sometimes with the formation of stamens or filaments in their positions (Griffith et al., 1999), was also found to be characterized by a stable number and position of gynoecium organs (Table 1 and Fig. 2).
The number of petals in a flower may hold clues to a plant's classification. For example, flowers on eudicots (the largest group of dicots) most frequently have four or five petals while flowers on monocots have three or six petals, although there are many exceptions to this rule. 
In order to find out whether the number of stamens of a flower and the size of its pollen grains are correlated, all the stamens from 5,288 flowers of 11 species of this family were counted, and pollen samples ranging from 50 to 10,800 per species measured. Frequency distribution of wet pollen grains of Bombax ceiba. average size of pollen grains soaked in water over the dry ones and the number of stamens per flower was found to be negative, being -0.776. However, this value at the 5~ level is not significant.
Common Carrionflower, Smilax herbacea Sepals, petals, and carpels 3; stamens 6, per Vascular Flora of the Carolinas. Little Sweet Betsy, Trillium cuneatum Ovary purplish, about the same length as stamens and 1/3 that of petals, per Trilliums of Georgia. Tipularia (Patrick, 2007). Mexican-tea, Dysphania ambrosioides Each flower with 5 sepals, 5 stamens, and 2-3 stigmas; petals absent, per Vascular Flora of the Carolinas. Lambsquarters, Chenopodium album