Each NDB is identified by a one, two, or three-letter Morse code callsign. In Canada, privately owned NDB identifiers consist of one letter and one number. North American NDBs are categorized by power output, with low power rated at less than 50 watts, medium from 50 W to 2,000 W and high being over 2,000 W. A bearing is a line passing through the station that points in a specific direction, such as 270 degrees (due West). NDB bearings provide a charted, consistent method for defining paths aircraft can fly. In this fashion, NDBs can, like VORs, define  airways  in the sky.
An NDB or Non-Directional Beacon is a ground-based, low frequency radio transmitter used as an instrument approach for airports and offshore platforms. The NDB transmits an omni-directional signal that is received by the ADF or Automatic Direction Finder, a standard instrument onboard aircraft. To navigate using the ADF, the pilot enters the frequency of the NDB and the compass card (or arrow) on the ADF will indicate the heading to the station. The signal is transmitted on an uninterrupted 24/7 basis.
A non-directional (radio) beacon (NDB) is a radio transmitter at a known location, used as an aviation or marine navigational aid. A bearing is a line passing through the station that points in a specific direction, such as 270 degrees (due West). NDB bearings provide a charted, consistent method for defining paths aircraft can fly. In this fashion, NDBs can, like VORs, define  airways  in the sky.
In the case that your NDB file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit NDB file extensions. If your PC opens the NDB file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. In other words, Windows is associating NDB file extensions with the wrong software program. Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a NDB file related error message. Before you can open a NDB file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the NDB file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect NDB file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating syste
The New Development Bank (NDB) , formerly referred to as the BRICS Development Bank, is a multilateral development bank operated by the BRICS states (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) as an alternative to the existing American and European-dominated World Bank and International Monetary Fund. 
The ADF/NDB navigation system is one of the oldest air navigation systems still in use today. It works from the most simple radio navigation concept: a ground-based radio transmitter (the NDB) sends an omnidirectional signal that an aircraft loop antenna receives. Pilots have found the ADF/NDB system to be reliable in determining position, but for such a simple instrument, an ADF can be very complicated to use. To begin, a pilot selects and identifies the appropriate frequency for the NDB station on his ADF selector.
The pilot uses the ADF to determine the direction to the NDB relative to the aircraft. To navigate using the ADF, the pilot enters the frequency of the NDB and the compass card (or arrow) on the ADF will indicate the heading to the station. The signal is transmitted on an uninterrupted 24/7 basis. An audible Morse Code call sign of one or more letters or numbers is used to identify the NDB being received
Every day thousands of users submit information to us about which programs they use to open specific types of files. While we do not yet have a description of the NDB file format and what it is normally used for, we do know which programs are known to open these files. Program has been verified to work with NDB files. Every day, thousands of users submit information to us about which programs they use to open certain types of files. Our users primarily use the above programs to open
1 If an NDB has a problem, e.g. lower than normal power output, failure of mains power or standby transmitter is in operation, the NDB may be programmed to transmit an extra 'PIP' (a Morse dot), to alert pilots and others that the beacon may be unreliable for navigation. A bearing is a line passing through the station that points in a specific direction, such as 270 degrees (due West). NDB bearings provide a charted, consistent method for defining paths aircraft can fly. In this fashion, NDBs can, like VORs, define  airways  in the sky.