This article is about the Myers-Briggs personality type. For the Socionics ESTj, see Logical Sensory Extrovert. ESTJ (Extraversion, Sensing, Thinking, Judgment) is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) to refer to one of sixteen personality types. The MBTI assessment was developed from the work of prominent psychiatrist Carl G. Jung in his book Psychological Types. The MBTI preferences indicate the differences in people based on the following: 1  How they focus their attention or get their energy (extraversion or introversion). 2  How they perceive or take in information (sensing or intuition).
ESTJ. ESTJ is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator to refer to one of sixteen personality types. The MBTI assessment was developed from the work of prominent psychiatrist Carl G. Jung in his book Psychological Types
For example your code, ESTJ, indicates your stronger preferences are Extroversion [E], Sensing [S], Thinking [T] and Judging [J]. The counselor you met with probably administered the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator(MBTI) , a self assessment instrument used to discover an individuals personality type. He or she did a self assessment in order to help you learn more about yourself. One of the things you found out is that your personality type is ESTJ. Now you want to learn more about it because, according to the counselor, you can use that information to help you choose a career and make other career-related decisions.
The Guardian. As an ESTJ, your primary mode of living is focused externally, where you deal with things rationally and logically. Your secondary mode is internal, where you take things in via your five senses in a literal, concrete fashion. ESTJs live in a world of facts and concrete needs. They live in the present, with their eye constantly scanning their personal environment to make sure that everything is running smoothly and systematically. The ESTJ is usually a model citizen, and pillar of the community. He or she takes their commitments seriously, and follows their own standards of good citizenship to the letter. ESTJ enjoys interacting with people, and likes to have fun.
ESTJ. ESTJ is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator to refer to one of sixteen personality types. The MBTI assessment was developed from the work of prominent psychiatrist Carl G. Jung in his book Psychological Types. ESTJ is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator to refer to one of sixteen personality types
This article is about the Myers-Briggs personality type. For the Socionics ENTJ, see Logical Intuitive Extrovert. ENTJ (extraversion, intuition, thinking, judgment) is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) to refer to one of sixteen personality types. 