Evangelista Torricelli 's parents were Gaspare Torricelli and Caterina Angetti. It was a fairly poor family with Gaspare being a textile worker. Evangelista was the eldest of his parents three children, having two younger brothers at least one of whom went on to work with cloth.
Evangelista Torricelli (āvaenjālē´āvänjālē stae-stä´tōr) , rēchĕl–lē, 1608 47 italian physicist. And mathematician He'was galileo (s–secretary) 1641 42 and his successor as professor of philosophy and Mathematics. At florence he invented (the), barometer 1643 Called the, torricelli tube and, a microscope and he improved. the telescope
An encyclopedia entry for Italian mathematician and physicist Evangelista Torricelli is presented. He was the one who discovered that the atmosphere exerts pressure. He demonstrated that this pressure affected the level of mercury in a tube, thereby inventing the mercury barometer. 1  1643.
Evangelista Torricelli was born October 15th, 1608 in what is now known as Faenza, Italy. Little information is known about his early years of life. In 1624 he entered the Jesuit College of Faenza, then moved on to the Collegio Romano in Rome.
By Mary Bellis. Barometer-Pronunciation: [b u rom´ u t u r] - a barometer is an instrument for measuring atmospheric pressure. Two common types are the aneroid barometer and the mercurial barometer (invented first). Evangelista Torricelli invented the first barometer, known as the Torricelli's tube.
The Barometer. Evangelista Torricelli became the first scientist to create a sustained vacuum and to discover the principle of a barometer. Torricelli realized that the variation of the height of the mercury from day to day was caused by changes in the atmospheric pressure. Torricelli built the first mercury barometer around 1644.
Early Life: Evangelista Torricelli, an Italian man, and a physicist by occupation, initially studied at Jesuit schools in Faenza, near Ravenna. He was so good as a Physicist and a Mathematician that he was sent to Rome for further studies under Benedetto Castelli’s direction.