In contrast, some waves (such as sound) are longitudinal. In a longitudinal wave the particles vibrate parallel to the direction the wave is travelling in...not at 90 degrees as for waves on a string.
In longitudinal waves the displacement of the medium is parallel to the propagation of the wave. A wave in a slinky is a good visualization. Sound waves in air are longitudinal waves.
And the essential characteristic of a longitudinal wave that distinguishes it from other types of waves is that the particles of the medium move in a direction parallel to the direction of energy transport.
Mechanical Waves are waves which propagate through a material medium (solid, liquid, or gas) at a wave speed which depends on the elastic and inertial properties of that medium. There are two basic types of wave motion for mechanical waves: longitudinal waves and transverse waves. The animations below demonstrate both types of wave and illustrate the difference between the motion of the wave and the motion of the particles in the medium through which the wave is travelling.
Longitudinal Waves. But not all waves are transverse waves. Sometimes, the wave medium oscillates parallel to the wave's direction. In these cases, the wave is called a longitudinal wave. Longitudinal waves are a bit challenging to imagine, so let's use a slinky for reference.
1 For longitudinal wave the vibration of the particles of the medium are in the direction of wave propagation while in transverse waves the particles of the medium vibrate in a direction perpendicular to the direction of propagation of wave.
Categorizing waves on this basis leads to three notable categories: transverse waves, longitudinal waves, and surface waves. A transverse wave is a wave in which particles of the medium move in a direction perpendicular to the direction that the wave moves.
~ Both transverse and longitudinal waves are spread with vibrations. Transverse waves vibrate in a perpendicular direction, while longitudinal waves vibrate in a parallel direction to the direction of the wave.
For transverse waves the displacement of the medium is perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the wave. A ripple on a pond and a wave on a string are easily visualized transverse waves.