Knowledge center. Complex regional pain syndrome, also known as CRPS is a rare, chronic (long-term) and progressive condition characterized by severe pain, inflammation and changes in the skin. Patients commonly describe the pain as a burning sensation, which affects one of the arms, legs, hands or feet. 
CPRS may refer to: 1  Canadian Pacific Railway is a Canadian Class I railway operated by Canadian Pacific Railway Limited. 2  Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme is a proposed emissions trading scheme in Australia. 1 Canadian Pacific Railway is a Canadian Class I railway operated by Canadian Pacific Railway Limited. 2  Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme is a proposed emissions trading scheme in Australia. 3  Central Policy Review Staff was a government think-tank in the British Cabinet Office, 1971-1983.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) formerly reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD),  causalgia , or reflex neurovascular dystrophy (RND) is an amplified musculoskeletal pain syndrome (AMPS). It is a chronic systemic disease characterized by severe pain, swelling, and changes in the skin. CRPS often worsens over time. Complex regional pain syndrome's cause is unknown. Nerve damage is considered to be the cause in many cases. Evidence of nerve damage as the trigger for CRPS is supported by observations that the disruption of certain nerve relationships to pain signaling result in improvements for patients.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a chronic pain condition most often affecting one of the limbs (arms, legs, hands, or feet), usually after an injury or trauma to that limb. CRPS is believed to be caused by damage to, or malfunction of, the peripheral and central nervous systems. The pain may spread to include the entire arm or leg, even though the precipitating injury might have been only to a finger or toe. Pain can sometimes even travel to the opposite extremity. There is often increased sensitivity in the affected area, such that even light touch or contact is painful (called allodynia).
Instructions: Make sure you have the most up-to-date version of CPRS. Note: New updated release is available 2/16/12. If you have installed a previous version of the CPRS Web Demo you can use the “Add or Remove Programs” option under “Control” Panel to uninstall it. Contact Us to report any problems or ask any questions.
You can print most reports, notes, and detailed displays from within the CPRS GUI. To print graphics and charts, you will need to print to a Windows printer. To print text. documents, you can print to either a Windows printer or a VistA printer. To display view definition, users do this: 1. Highlight the view name. 2. Select View Definition from the pop-up menu. The definition with them display in a pane below View list.
Complex regional pain syndrome is an uncommon form of chronic pain that usually affects an arm or a leg. Complex regional pain syndrome typically develops after an injury, surgery, stroke or heart attack, but the pain is out of proportion to the severity of the initial injury. 
This installs the CPRS Client executable, which connects to a VistA® System on the Internet. The user will automatically be logged on to the system randomly as one of 10 doctors. Select a patient and then explore VA's Computerized Patient Record System. The electronic signature code for each user is DOCTOR1. Note: New updated release is available 2/16/12. If you have installed a previous version of the CPRS Web Demo you can use the “Add or Remove Programs” option under “Control” Panel to uninstall it. Contact Us to report any problems or ask any questions.
When the user select a PRF progress note title, CPRS displays this list of note actions only if sites have done the correct set up as described earlier. The user must then pick the action (new assignment, inactivate, activate, continue, or entered in error) that the note is redocumenting. To display view definition, users do this: 1. Highlight the view name. 2. Select View Definition from the pop-up menu. The definition with them display in a pane below View list.
The Client Profile Registration System (CPRS) is one of the Internet-enabled applications being developed under the e2m-Customs Project that facilitates an automated process of accreditation or registration including renewal and/or amendments of all BOC stakeholders by appropriate accrediting offices. 