1 Plaques and Frames emphasing the family crest for the name Chase. 2  Surname Histories for the name Chase. 3  Symbolism proudly displaying the Chase coat of arms. 4  Travel Mugs with a Chase coat of arms. 1 Coat of Arms for the name Chase. 2  Digital Products emphasing the family crest for the name Chase. 3  Family Crest for the name Chase. 4  Family Tree featuring the family crest for the sur
Chase is a given name and surname in the English language, especially in the United States. 
Meaning of Chase. English name. In English, the name Chase means-hunter.The name Chase originated as an English name. The name Chase is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-hunter. Origin-England. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., doing business as Chase, is a national bank that constitutes the consumer and commercial banking subsidiary of the multinational banking corporation JPMorgan Chase. The bank was known as Chase Manhattan Bank until it merged with J.P. Morgan & Co. in 2000. 
Chase is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Chase. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 78 in baby name popularity for boys with 5322 occurrences. It ranked 2476 in popular baby names for girls with 72 occurrences. View the Chase Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Chase has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Chase to other names. Chase falls into the occupational name category. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Origin of the name Chase: Transferred use of the English surname meaning “dweller at the hunting ground,” which is derived from the Old French chacier, chasser (to hunt, to chase). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Chase: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Chase: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Chase: | Edit. Chasey. Chaseypoo. Chaseybear. Casey. Chasers.
Chace (#983 a year ago) is the only other popular varying form of Chase (#78 a year ago) . Adoption of these boy names reached its highest in the year 2009 (usage of 0.7055%) and has become much less since (usage 0.4695%, down 33.5%), with the version Chace becoming less fashionable. Chase is a very popular first name for men (#542 out of 1220, Top 44%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#606 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Chase for boys. Chase entered the list in 1970-1979 and reached its highest position of #61 in the U.S. in the year 2009, and is at #78 presently
English Meaning: The name Chase is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Chase is: Huntsman. American Meaning: The name Chase is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chase is: Huntsman. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.