People with type O Rh D negative blood are often called universal donors. O Rh D negative is the universal donor because it does not contain any antigens (markers). When you … get donated blood that has antigens that are not the same as those of the recipient the blood will clot in the body. AB is a universal acceptor because RBC (red blood cells) contain the A and B antigen (simply put, it is a marker on the cell) so the body a … ccepts any blood type because it recognizes the antigens. O is the universal donor because it contains no antigens, so no immune system will attack it.
AB isn't the universal donor, O is. AB is a universal acceptor because RBC (red blood cells) contain the A and B antigen (simply put, it is a marker on the cell) so the body a … ccepts any blood type because it recognizes the antigens. O is the universal donor because it contains no antigens, so no immune system will attack it.
1 Donors with blood type AB... 2  can donate to recipients with blood type AB only. 3  Donors with blood type O... 4  can donate to recipients with blood types A, B, AB and O (O is the universal donor: donors with O blood are compatible with any other blood type). 1 Recipients with blood type AB... 2  can receive a kidney from blood types A, B, AB and O (AB is the universal recipient: recipients with AB
A universal donor is someone who can donate blood to anyone else, with a few rare exceptions. People with the O-blood type have traditionally been considered universal blood cell donors. Conversely, a universal recipient can safely take blood from anyone, again with a few exceptions. 
In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB blood type. 
Report Abuse. Type O-negative blood is called the universal donor type because it is compatible with any blood type and doesn't have any antigens. This is basically just saying that a person with O negative blood could donate their blood to a needy person because it it is universal. I hope this helped. Giggles · 8 years ago.
Blood is also classified by rhesus (Rh) factor, which refers to a specific red blood cell antigen in the blood. If your blood has the antigen, you're Rh positive. If your blood lacks the antigen, you're Rh negative. Ideally, blood transfusions are done with donated blood that's an exact match for type and Rh factor. Even then, small samples of the recipient's and donor's blood are mixed to check compatibility in a process known as crossmatching. In an emergency, however, type O negative red blood cells may be given to anyone — especially if the situation is life-threatening or the matching blood type is in short supply.
At one time, type O negative blood was considered the universal blood donor type. This implied that anyone — regardless of blood type — could receive type O negative blood without risking a transfusion reaction. Even then, small samples of the recipient's and donor's blood are mixed to check compatibility in a process known as crossmatching. In an emergency, however, type O negative red blood cells may be given to anyone — especially if the situation is life-threatening or the matching blood type is in short supply.
Type O blood is called the universal donor because an individual with any other blood type can receive it. The the problem is, individuals with Type O blood can only recei … ve type O blood. This combination makes demand for this blood very high. AB is a universal acceptor because RBC (red blood cells) contain the A and B antigen (simply put, it is a marker on the cell) so the body a … ccepts any blood type because it recognizes the antigens. O is the universal donor because it contains no antigens, so no immune system will attack it.
Their red blood cells can be given to a patient with any ABO or Rh blood type, because there are no A, B, or Rh factor antigens on the donor's red blood cells for the antibodies of a patient with a different blood type to react with. . A universal recipient is a person who has an AB blood type and is Rh positive. 