The first layover was in Atlanta, Georgia (will not answer their phone either) and the second would have been Detroit, MI to Flint, MI. Greyhound is totally unprofessional and has no info to give. Most of their stations do not answer the phones. The only call that was answered was to the 800 number and they could not help. The bus station in Flint tried to help, but could only give me the route of the bus in question. This missing person is very sick and has heart problems. I will never travel on a greyhound and neither will any of our family or friends after this fiasco.
Greyhound-Not ONE bus station in Atlanta Georgia answers. Not ONE bus station in Atlanta Georgia answers their phones. Boloxi, Miss does not even give you the option to speak to a real person. There is a missing person who traveled from Boloxi, Miss to Mobile, Ala ........ on his way to Flint, Michigan. The bus station in Flint tried to help, but could only give me the route of the bus in question. This missing person is very sick and has heart problems. I will never travel on a greyhound and neither will any of our family or friends after this fiasco.
Travel to New York in comfort and style with the largest intercity bus service. New buses, premium amenities and convenient boarding make Greyhound the best bus service in New York. Find a Greyhound bus station near you and purchase your bus tickets online today! Earn Destination Points each time you travel
Travel to New York in comfort and style with the largest intercity bus service. New buses, premium amenities and convenient boarding make Greyhound the best bus service in New York. Find a Greyhound bus station near you and purchase your bus tickets online today! Earn Destination Points each time you travel. 5. Find other bus station locations in Buffalo or New York. Locations marked with a (C) are Curbside bus stops. These are pick up and/or drop off points only (you won’t able to buy tickets or get assistance at these stops).
Buffalo Greyhound Adoption, Inc. spays or neuters and provides for a variety of vaccinations and other preventative measures prior to placement. However, we suggest that you discuss the special needs of greyhounds with your veterinarian. Buffalo Greyhound Adoption, Inc exists for the purpose of finding suitable homes for retired racing greyhounds. If you are interested in providing for one of these extraordinary creatures, please assist us in optimizing the placement process by furnishing the following information as honestly and completely as possible.
Burlington, Ontario. L7L6W1. If you'd like the address, phone number and hours of operation for a specific location, please visit the Locations page. If you have a specific customer service issue other than baggage or refunds, use our online form to send an e-mail to our Passenger Sales Centre. Marketing/Media Proposals. Each year, Greyhound Canada receives hundreds of requests to review proposals from Marketing and Media agencies as well as worthy charitable causes. Given this volume, we ask that you call 214-849-6275 and contact the agency that best meets your needs.
Greyhound-I paid for a 12 hr. bus trip from Nashville TN, to. I paid for a 12 hr. bus trip from Nashville TN, to KCMO. Boarding was to be at 11:45 pm on 3-1-15 in Nashville TN. It was delayed 2 hours. A 3 hour stop in St Louis, and arrival time scheduled for 11:55am, KCMO on 3-2-15. The bus station in Flint tried to help, but could only give me the route of the bus in question. This missing person is very sick and has heart problems. I will never travel on a greyhound and neither will any of our family or friends after this fiasco.
Buffalo Greyhound Adoption generates approximately $28,133 in annual sales. The phone number for Buffalo Greyhound Adoption is (716) 873-1165. Buffalo Greyhound Adoption is located at 149 Keller Ave, Buffalo, NY 14217. The website (URL) for Buffalo Greyhound Adoption is www.b-g-a.org. A Weinert is the Representative at Buffalo Greyhound Adoption. You can contact A at (716) 873-1165. Buffalo Greyhound Adoption is estimated to generate $28,133 in annual revenues, and employs approximately 2 people at this location. Buffalo Greyhound Adoption has approximately 2 employees at this location.