A covalent compound is a compound in which the atoms that are bonded share electrons rather than transfer electrons from one to the other. While ionic compounds are usually formed when metals bond to nonmetals, covalent compounds are formed when two nonmetals bond to each other. 
A covalent bond is formed between two non-metals that have similar electronegativities. Neither atom is strong enough to attract electrons from the other. For stabilization, they share their electrons from outer molecular orbit with others. An ionic bond is formed between a metal and a non-metal. Non-metals(-ve ion) are stronger than the metal(+ve ion) and can get electrons very easily from the metal. These two opposite ions attract each other and form the ionic bond.
· just now. Report Abuse. There are a lot of different metal and non-metal elements that can make up an ionic bond but usually Alkaline and Halide elements are good elements for ionic compounds. Tablet salt (Sodium chloride, NaCl) is a very common ionic compound that you may be familiar with. 
A covalent bond forming H 2 (right) where two hydrogen atoms share the two electrons. A covalent bond is a chemical bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms. Covalent bonds are also affected by the electronegativity of the connected atoms which determines the chemical polarity of the bond. Two atoms with equal electronegativity will make nonpolar covalent bonds such as H–H.
a chemical bond. The two extreme cases of chemical bonds are: Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding. Covalent chemical bonds involve the sharing of a pair of valence electrons by two atoms, in contrast to the transfer of electrons in ionic bonds.
Covalent bonds form when two atoms have a very small (nearly insignificant) difference in electronegativity. The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. Polar Covalent Bonds. Polar covalent bonds fall between ionic and covalent bonds. They result when two elements bond with a moderate difference in electronegativity moderately to greatly, but they do not surpass 1.7 in electronegativity difference.
Covalent bonding is a form of chemical bonding between two non metallic atoms which is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms and other covalent bonds. An ionic bond is formed between a metal and a non-metal. Non-metals(-ve ion) are stronger than the metal(+ve ion) and can get electrons very easily from the metal. These two opposite ions attract each other and form the ionic bond.
About Covalent and Ionic Bonds. The covalent bond is formed when two atoms are able to share electrons whereas the ionic bond is formed when the sharing is so unequal that an electron from atom A is completely lost to atom B, resulting in a pair of ions. Each atom consists of protons, neutrons and electrons. An ionic bond is formed between a metal and a non-metal. Non-metals(-ve ion) are stronger than the metal(+ve ion) and can get electrons very easily from the metal. These two opposite ions attract each other and form the ionic bond.
A covalent bond is a strong bond between two non-metal atoms [atoms: An atom is the smallest part of an element that still has the properties of that element, comprising electrons surrounding a nucleus of protons and neutrons. Sharing electrons. You will need to understand what covalent bonding is, and to remember some of the properties of molecules molecules: a collection of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds.