Your FICO Scores only look at information in your credit report. Your credit score is calculated from your credit report. However, lenders look at many things when making a credit decision such as your income, how long you have worked at your present job and the kind of credit you are requesting. FICO ® Scores are calculated from many different pieces of credit data in your credit report. This data is grouped into five categories as outlined below. The percentages in the chart reflect how important each of the categories is in determining how your FICO Scores are calculated.
A Public Interest (PI) Score applies to every company and close corporation, and has to be calculated at the end of each financial year in terms of Regulation 26. (a) A number of points equal to the average number of employees of the company during the financial year; (b) One point for every R1 million (or portion thereof) in third party liability of the company, at the financial year end;
R26 goes on to say that: For the purposes of regulations 27 to 30, 43, 127 and 128, every company must calculate its “public interest score” at the end of each financial year, calculated as the sum of the following: (a) A number of points equal to the average number of employees of the company during the financial year; (b) One point for every R1 million (or portion thereof) in third party liability of the company, at the financial year end;
Your debt-to-income ratio can be a valuable number -- some say as important as your credit score. It's exactly what it sounds: the amount of debt you have as compared to your overall income. 
On the same day, the Companies Regulations 2011 was published in the Government Gazette, to be effective from 1 May 2011. The documents attached beloe will assist you in calculating the public interest score of an entity, and determining the form of reporting required. 
Regulation 26 (2): Public interest score. Tweet. (2) For the purposes of regulations 27 to 30, 43, 127 and 128, every company must calculate its 'public interest score' at the end of each financial year, calculated as the sum of the following:—. (a) a number of points equal to the average number of employees of the company during the financial year;
The times interest earned ratio, sometimes called the interest coverage ratio, is a coverage ratio that measures the proportionate amount of income that can be used to cover interest expenses in the future. The times interest earned ratio is calculated by dividing income before interest and income taxes by the interest expense. Both of these figures can be found on the income statement. Interest expense and income taxes are often reported separately from the normal operating expenses for solvency analysis purposes
How to calculate the Public Interest Score (PIS) of a company or close corporation. 1  a number of points equal to the average number of employees of the company during the financial year; 2  one point for every R1 million (or portion thereof) in third party liability of the company, at the financial year end; 1 in the case of a profit company, to directly or indirectly have a beneficial interest in any of the company's issued securities; or. 2  in the case of a non-profit company, to be a member of the company, or a member of an association that is a member of the company.
Chron.com Local Directory. How much you can borrow is often determined by the bank based on internal qualifiers, such as credit score, debt-to-income ratio, interest rate and the type of loan you need. These qualifiers will vary between banks and may not be publicized. 