Oliguria is defined as a urine output that is less than 1 mL/kg/h in infants, less than 0.5 mL/kg/h in children, and less than 400 mL or 500 mL per 24h in adults-this equals 17 or 21 mL/hour. Oliguria or hypouresis (both names from roots meaning not enough urine) is the low output of urine. In humans, it is clinically classified as an output more than 80 ml/day but less than 400ml/day.
Confidence votes 334. The expected urine output for an adult is 0.5ml/kg/hr. This roughly equates to 30-40ml per hour in an average sized adult. For children, it is closer to 1ml/kg/hr. Text books recomend an adult should be 0.5 - 1 ml/kg/hr. What is the normal daily urine output of a 4 year old? The normal daily urine output for a 4 year old child is 600-700 ml.  This output can change in conditions where a child is dehydrated,  or drank extra fluids.
Normal Urinary Output. The normal range for an adult urinary output is between 400 to 2,000 mL of urine daily -- with a normal fluid intake of about 2 liters per day. Values for normal urinary output may vary slightly between laboratories. A urine output of 500 mL per day is generally considered adequate for normal function. Factors other than kidney disease that can influence how much you urinate in a day include how much water you consume, the amount of fluid lost in perspiration, your caffeine and alcohol intake and any medications you've taken.
The expected urine output for an adult is 0.5ml/kg/hr. This roughly equates to 30-40ml per hour in an average sized adult. For children, it is closer to 1ml/kg/hr. What is the normal daily urine output of a 4 year old? The normal daily urine output for a 4 year old child is 600-700 ml.  This output can change in conditions where a child is dehydrated,  or drank extra fluids.
Normal Urine Output. Normal urine output is 800-2000 mm each day if you take in around 2 liters of fluid throughout the day. However, normal values can vary in different laboratories. Some testing facilities will use different test samples or measurements to reach their conclusions. Excessive urine output means that you are producing more than 2.5 liters of urine each day. In general, it is considered normal to urinate around 2 liters of liquid every day, but this will vary based on your gender, age and other factors.
For a male OR female, drinking about 2 liters of fluid a day, the normal urine output should be 800 to 2,000 milliliters a day. Urine output below 500 milliliters a day is c … onsidered a low urine output and is a sign of disease. What is the normal daily urine output of a 4 year old? The normal daily urine output for a 4 year old child is 600-700 ml.  This output can change in conditions where a child is dehydrated,  or drank extra fluids.
If we were to base the normal urine output to an average adult person, then we could expect to have a result that is 0.5ml/kg/hr. This would give us a rough estimation of about 30 to 40 ml per hour. For children, the output rate is about 1ml/kg/hr. As for adults, some references do consider the same rate of urine output with children. This is because the rate 0.5ml/kg/hr is already considered the low normal amount.
It should be clear, with no debris or odour (Smith and Roberts, 2011). In dehydrated patients the kidneys conserve water, producing urine that is dark, concentrated and reduced in volume (Scales and Pilsworth, 2008). Normal urine output is around 1ml/kg of body weight per hour, in a range of 0.5-2ml/kg per hour. The minimum acceptable urine output for a patient with normal renal function is 0.5ml/kg per hour. 
If we were to total the urine output in a day, then we could expect to have at least 1.5 liters per day. Nevertheless, it is more advisable to have more fluid intake in order to increase the volume of our output. As for women, an output of 2 liters is considered normal while men can even go as much as 3 liters per day. This would give us a rough estimation of about 30 to 40 ml per hour. For children, the output rate is about 1ml/kg/hr. As for adults, some references do consider the same rate of urine output with children. This is because the rate 0.5ml/kg/hr is already considered the low normal amount.