About Heineken. Heineken is one of the world's leading brewers, with a wide international presence through a global network of distributors and breweries. Heineken owns and manages one of the world's leading portfolios of beer brands and is one of the world's leading brewers in terms of sales volume and profitability. Principal international brands are Heineken and – more... Amstel, but the group brews and sells more than 170 international premium, regional, local and specialty beers, including Cruzcampo, Tiger, Zywiec, Birra Moretti, Ochota, Murphy's and Star.
Heineken's Dutch breweries are located in Zoeterwoude, 's-Hertogenbosch and Wijlre. The original brewery in Amsterdam, closed in 1988, is preserved as a museum called Heineken Experience. The Heineken Experience is a museum about Heineken Pilsener and the Heineken brewery, based in the original brewery in Amsterdam. The building was built in 1867, and was in use as a brewery until 1988.
The art of brewing beer. Brewing beer is a 100% natural process. HEINEKEN got its start when its founder fundamentally improved the process by which beer was made in a brewery that had existed for 251 years. Barley is the major raw material used in brewing beer. Before it can be used for brewing, the barley grain must be malted. Malting helps make the starch and protein (by its natural enzymes) in barley available for brewing by breaking down the natural cell wall that surrounds the starch.
[ˈɦɛinəkə(n)]) is a Dutch brewing company, founded in 1864 by Gerard Adriaan Heineken in Amsterdam. As of 2015, Heineken owns over 165 breweries in more than 70 countries and employs approximately 76,000 people. The Heineken Experience is a museum about Heineken Pilsener and the Heineken brewery, based in the original brewery in Amsterdam. The building was built in 1867, and was in use as a brewery until 1988.
Gerard Adriaan Heineken bought De Hooiberg (The Haystack) brewery in Amsterdam on February 15, 1864. In 1873, the HBM (Heineken's Bierbrouweij Maatschapij) was established, and the first beer is brewed, with the brewery's name being changed from Haystack to Heineken. 1 In 2014, Heineken celebrated its 150th anniversary. 2  In 2015, Heineken won the Creative Marketer of the Year Award, becoming the second company to win the award twice. 3  The original brewery where Gerard Adriaan Heineken first started making Heineken is now a museum.
Heineken Lager Beer (Dutch: Heineken Pilsener), or simply Heineken (. [ˈɦɛinəkən]), is a pale lager beer with 5% alcohol by volume produced by the Dutch brewing company Heineken International. Heineken is well known for its signature green bottle and red star. 1 In 2014, Heineken celebrated its 150th anniversary. 2  In 2015, Heineken won the Creative Marketer of the Year Award, becoming the second company to win the award twice. 3  The original brewery where Gerard Adriaan Heineken first started making Heineken is now a museum.
heineken. 1.) A form of beer (US English) or lager (British) that is brewed in and around Amsterdam, the Netherlands. It is currently the world's most exported beer. The name comes from its inventor, Heineken. 2.) A member of the Heineken family, a very rich family of beer brewers from the Netherlands. Most famous is Freddy Heineken, once chairman of Heineken breweries, who was abducted in the 1980s. 1.) I'll have a Heineken please. 2.) I'll have a Heine
After prohibition was lifted in 1933, Heineken was the first European beer to be imported to the United States. In Heineken's early years, the beer won four awards: 1  Medaille d'Or (Gold Medal) in Paris in 1875. 2  Diplome d'Honneurs (Honorary Diploma) at the International Colonial Exposition in Amsterdam in 1883. 3  Grand Prix (Grand Prize) at the Exposition Universelle in Paris in 1889. 1 In 2014, Heineken celebrated its 150th anniversary. 2  In 2015, Heineken won the Creative Marketer of the Year Award, becoming the second company to win the award twice. 3  The original brewery where Gerard Adriaan Heineken first started making Heineken is now a museum.
1 The Rugby World Cup 2015 has kicked off! 2  On Friday 18th September, the Rugby World Cup 2015 kicked off with England vs Fiji at Twickenham, London. 3  This was the first of the tournament’s 48 matches. 4  The Heineken® Rugby Studio also opened its doors for the first time at the match. 5  Find out more. The Spectre campaign is Heineken®’s largest global marketing platform of 2015. Find out more. 1  HEINEKEN partners with U.S. Craft Brewer Lagunitas HEINEKEN has acquired a 50% share in Lagunitas-a leading U.S. Craft Brewer. 2  It marks the company’s first investment in the growing and dynamic craft category.