The Globe is better known as the location for the performance of many of Shakespeare's plays (Hamlet, As You Like it, etc.), and it has been reconstructed in its original location, on London's South Bank. purplepenguin | (Level 2) Adjunct Educator. Posted on. Shakespeare started writing plays in about 1590, but the Globe was not built until almost ten years later. During that time, his plays were performed in a number of playhouses, but between 1594 and 1599 only at the Theatre and the Curtain. After 1608, they were performed at the indoor Blackfriars as well.
Shakespeare's plays were performed in the Globe theatre. The Globe Theatre was constructed in 1599. There were two primary parts of the globe theatre: the outer stage and the inner stage. The outer stage was a rectangular platform and the inner stage was at the very back of the outer stage. Shakespeare started writing plays in about 1590, but the Globe was not built until almost ten years later. During that time, his plays were performed in a number of playhouses, but between 1594 and 1599 only at the Theatre and the Curtain. After 1608, they were performed at the indoor Blackfriars as well.
THE GLOBE Many of Shakespeare’s plays were first performed at the Globe, although his plays were performed at other theatres and many playwrights wrote for the Globe.Who built the first Globe?The first Globe was built by the company Shakespeare was in – the Lord Chamberlain’s Men. Richard Burbage was the company’s leading actor. They had played at the Theatre, built by the Burbage family on land leased from a Mr Allen. In 1597, Allen refused to renew the lease. However the Burbages owned the Theatre because the lease said they owned anything built on the land.
The Globe, which opened in 1599, became the playhouse where audiences first saw some of Shakespeare's best-known plays. In 1613, it burned to the ground when the roof caught fire during a performance of Shakespeare's Henry VIII. A new, second Globe was quickly built on the same site, opening in 1614. 
Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. The Globe was the primary home of Shakespeare's acting company beginning in late 1599, and it is a possibility that As You Like It was written especially for the occasion. On June 29, 1613, during a performance of Henry VIII, a misfired canon ball set the Globe's thatched roof on fire and the whole theatre was consumed. The lease for the land on which the Globe stood was co-owned by Burbage and his brother Robert, and by a group of five actors -- Will Kempe, Augustine Phillips, John Heminge, Thomas Pope, and William Shakespeare. Much of Shakespeare's wealth came from his holdings in the Globe.
… quite a feat since he only wrote 36 …. The Shakespeare's Globe Theatre that we all know and love was actually built in 1997. All of Shakespeare's plays have been played there since it was built. The original Globe was destroyed in a fire in 1613 during a performance of Henry the Eighth, and the second Globe was closed in 1642. Assuming that you are talking about the Globe Theatre that was built in 1599 and not one of the many subsequent theatres of that name, many scholars think that Julius Caesar m … ay have been the first play performed there.
Many of his early plays would have been performed at The Theatre – the building that would eventually become the infamous Globe Theatre in 1598. It was here that Shakespeare made his name as a budding young writer and penned such classics as Romeo and Juliet, A Midsummer Night’s Dream and The Taming of the Shrew. 
What plays were performed at the Globe?Probably the first Shakespeare play to be performed at the Globe was Julius Caesar, in 1599. Some other Shakespeare plays first performed there are: As You Like It; Hamlet; Measure for Measure; Othello; King Lear; Macbeth and Antony and Cleopatra. Other playwrights wrote for the Globe, including Ben Jonson, Thomas Dekker and John Fletcher. What happened to the first Globe?Disaster struck the Globe in 1613. On 29 June, at a performance of Shakespeare’s Henry VIII, some small cannons were fired. Richard Burbage was the company’s leading actor. They had played at the Theatre, built by the Burbage family on land leased from a Mr Allen. In 1597, Allen refused to renew the lease. However the Burbages owned the Theatre because the lease said they owned anything built on the land.
After the plagues of 1592–3, Shakespeare's plays were performed by the Lord Chamberlain's Men, a new company of which Shakespeare was a founding member, at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch, north of the Thames. At the Restoration in 1660, Shakespeare's plays were divided between the two newly licensed companies: the King's Company of Thomas Killigrew and the Duke 's Men of William Davenant. The licensing system prevailed for two centuries; from 1660 to 1843, only two main companies regularly presented Shakespeare in London.
well i think about 132............   … quite a feat since he only wrote 36 …    The Shakespeare's Globe Theatre that we all know and love was  actually built i … n 1997. All of Shakespeare's plays have been played  there since it was built. Shakespeare's plays were also played at the Blackfriars after 1608. Many people do not understand that Shakespeare had already completed one-third of his career before the Globe Theatre was even built.