1 Credit card companies want customers to try to work out the dispute with you first. 2  If you can prove in writing that the goods did arrive, or you made every attempt to satisfy your customer’s problem, you have a better case. 3  If you serve the customer by telephone, type up an email message summarizing the conversation. 1 In case of a Trick #1 dispute, you can prove the goods were received. 2  You’ll also want to require returns be shipped in the same manner back to you should your customer desire a refund. 3  This way, you can prove to a credit card company that the goods never came back should customer pull Trick #2.
Before you start considering your options about how to deal with your coworker, it's important for you to understand your workplace's policies. Some companies have detailed instructions on how to handle problems in the work environment. You shouldn't ignore any behavior that could lead to bigger problems, but if it's just a matter of hearing one fish story after another, removing yourself from the conversation may be your best option. But if you can't ignore or avoid the dishonest coworker, you may have to decide upon a course of action.
“There are only two kinds of men in this world: Honest men and dishonest men. ...Any man who says the world owes him a living is dishonest. The same God that made you and me made this earth. And He planned it so that it would yield every single thing that the people on it need. But He was careful to plan it so that it would only yield up its wealth in exchange for the labor of man.
1 Hang on to customer support tickets and email correspondence. 2  Credit card companies want customers to try to work out the dispute with you first. 3  If you can prove in writing that the goods did arrive, or you made every attempt to satisfy your customer’s problem, you have a better case. 1 In case of a Trick #1 dispute, you can prove the goods were received. 2  You’ll also want to require returns be shipped in the same manner back to you should your customer desire a refund. 3  This way, you can prove to a credit card company that the goods never came back should customer pull Trick #2.
Confront the employee. Tell him you know about the dishonest behavior and that you will not accept it. In minor cases of dishonesty, such as taking small amounts of office supplies home from work, confrontation alone may stop the behavior. Poor economic times can also lead employees to lie to get ahead, says O.C. Ferrell et al. in Ethical Business.. Dishonest behavior in the workplace can pose a serious threat to a company; you should not tolerate even minor transgressions.
1 If you are not sure of the condition of your car and/or its market value, you may want to take it to a few dealerships. 2  Tell them that you are thinking of trading in your car and see what they offer you for it. 3  This amount may be a more accurate estimate of your car’s market value. Number 5: Financing Fraud – Lying about credit scores. Another common scam used by dishonest dealers is to trick customers into believing that you have bad credit. They may tell you that your credit score is too low and you don’t qualify for a low interest rate.
But they will give them a quote to find out why, usually somewhere between $400 to $600. They may or may not tell their customers that the transmission will be removed and disassembled to give them their quote. Once they have your car torn apart, they can charge you whatever they want. 
Satisfied customer. First of all, it will help to satisfy the customer, so you will get repeat business or referrals. In fact, in some cases, effectively dealing with a customer complaint can lead to a more loyal customer than others who may not complain or have problems. Unfortunately, there are dishonest customers who will make false claims to get some bonus. Some people will use a product or piece of clothing and then return it, saying they weren't satisfied. High-end women's clothing stores often will have expensive gowns returned after some important event.
1 If a customer pulls Trick #3 or #4, your return policy should state that you will happily provide refunds upon return of the merchandise. 2  Because shipping product as soon as possible is good customer service, you should remind customers upon order confirmation about your cancellation policies and time limits. 1 In case of a Trick #1 dispute, you can prove the goods were received. 2  You’ll also want to require returns be shipped in the same manner back to you should your customer desire a refund. 3  This way, you can prove to a credit card company that the goods never came back should customer pull Trick #2.
Dishonest customers. Unfortunately, there are dishonest customers who will make false claims to get some bonus. Some people will use a product or piece of clothing and then return it, saying they weren't satisfied. High-end women's clothing stores often will have expensive gowns returned after some important event.