It will be necessary for a patient to undergo a physical examination in this situation. Causes. Heart failure is a common cause of jugular vein distention. Failure of the heart can also cause anxiety, cyanosis, weakness, weight gain, confusion, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and hepatomegaly. Anorexia might occur due to visceral edema. 
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Jugular vein distention: The following list of conditions have ' Jugular vein distention ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom. List of 6 causes of Jugular vein distention. This section shows a full list of all the diseases and conditions listed as a possible cause of Jugular vein distention in our database from various sources.
JVD is therefore caused by right heart failure. (Of course, the most common cause of right heart failure is left heart failure, so that doesn’t mean it’s an isolated event.) If JVD isn’t the heart’s fault, then we look to fluid levels. JVD is simply the visible “bulging” of the external jugular veins on either side of the neck. These are large veins that drain blood from the head and return it directly to the heart. Since they’re located near the surface, they provide a reasonably good measure of systemic venous pressure.
It can also be caused by constrictive pericarditis (infection of the lining that surrounds the heart) and cardiac tamponade (filling of the sac around the heart with blood or other fluid), both of which restrict the volume of the heart. Right-sided heart failure is another cause of elevated jugular vein distention. The height of the bulge measured from the top of the clavicle, or collar bone, is an indirect indicator of the central venous pressure, the pressure in the right atrium (the heart chamber that receives blood returning from the body). Jugular vein distention is affected by the position of your body.
Jugular vein distention: The bulging distention of the jugular vein. See detailed information below for a list of 6 causes of Jugular vein distention, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Causes of Jugular vein distention: The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Jugular vein distention. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Cardiac tamponade. 2  Heart failure. 3  Hypervolemia. 4  Chronic constrictive pericarditis. 5  Superior vena cava obstruction. 6  more causes...»
Causes of Similar Symptoms to Jugular vein distention. Research the causes of these symptoms that are similar to, or related to, the symptom Jugular vein distention: 1  Neck pain (148 causes). 2  Jugular vein symptoms. 3  Bulging veins (3 causes). 4  Cardiac tamponade (29 causes). Causes of Jugular vein distention: The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Jugular vein distention. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Cardiac tamponade. 2  Heart failure. 3  Hypervolemia. 4  Chronic constrictive pericarditis. 5  Superior vena cava obstruction. 6  more causes...»
The jugular venous pressure (JVP, sometimes referred to as jugular venous pulse) is the indirectly observed pressure over the venous system via visualization of the internal jugular vein. It can be useful in the differentiation of different forms of heart and lung disease. A man with congestive heart failure and marked jugular venous distention. External jugular vein marked by an arrow; however, JVP is not measured by looking at the external jugular vein even but is instead measured by pulsations of the skin from the internal jugular vein, which is not visible in this image.
The jugular veins carry blood from the head to the superior vena cava (the main vein of the upper body), which empties into the heart. The external jugular vein is closest to the skin and can sometimes be seen as a rope-like bulge on the side of the neck. The height of the bulge measured from the top of the clavicle, or collar bone, is an indirect indicator of the central venous pressure, the pressure in the right atrium (the heart chamber that receives blood returning from the body). Jugular vein distention is affected by the position of your body.
For example, jugular vein distention may be raised by a narrowing or blockage of the superior vena cava, which can interfere with blood return to the heart. The height of the bulge measured from the top of the clavicle, or collar bone, is an indirect indicator of the central venous pressure, the pressure in the right atrium (the heart chamber that receives blood returning from the body). Jugular vein distention is affected by the position of your body.