Broken up into three distinct areas, a holiday to Albufeira could see you staying in western, central or eastern Albufeira. Many of the resorts are found around the centre of the town, right beside the long sandy beach, top attractions and lively restaurants.
Albufeira Hotels. Albufeira is one of the most popular and liveliest resorts in the Algarve. As well as the many great beaches on offer, there are some beautiful churches and pretty cobbled streets that are well worth a visit. There is a large selection of bars and restaurants to suit all tastes.
A small family run hotel situated in the lively centre of Albufeira, in a pedestrian precinct just 100m from the beach. Due to it's location, it is not suitable for those seeking a quiet holiday....
The modern Albufeira Sol Hotel & Spa Portugal is a fun and lively complex of studios and apartments with full board option and extensive amenities for a relaxing and carefree ... Continue reading.
Fort Sao Joao is a pleasant small holiday resort in The Algarve with a good sandy beach, between the resorts of Praia d'Oura and Albufeira.
Nightlife. Albufeira is a lively resort that is sure to give families, groups and couples entertaining nights. The old town is filled with boutique cafes, cafés restaurants and bars that deliver excellent food and entertainment until the early. hours
Quinta Pedra Dos Bicos can be found in the popular beach resort of Albufeira in Algarve, just a short walk from the Oura beach. There is a mile long strip of bars and restaurants only 200 metres from the Quinta Pedra Dos Bicos.
The modern Albufeira Sol Hotel & Spa Portugal is a fun and lively complex of studios and apartments with full board option and extensive amenities for a relaxing and carefree holiday in the popular Portuguese resort of Albufeira.
With a rich variety of things to do in Albufeira, hotels here are really geared up to making your stay as comfortable and fun as possible. Whether you are looking for a small boutique hotel in a quiet corner, or a central location to explore the town and nightlife from, there is something here for you.