1 To change the size of the preview window, drag a corner of the Image Size dialog box and resize it. 2  To view a different area of the image, drag within the preview. 3  To change the preview magnification, Ctrl-click (Windows) or Command-click (Mac OS) in the preview image to increase magnification. (Optional) From the Fit To menu: 1  Choose a preset to resize the image. 2  Choose Auto Resolution to resize the image for a specific printing output. 3  In the Auto Resolution dialog box, specify the Screen value and select a Quality.
Here's a photo I have open in Photoshop CC (kids in leaves photo from Shutterstock): The original photo. To resize (or resample) an image, we use Photoshop's Image Size command. To get to it, go up to the Image menu in the Menu Bar along the top of the screen and choose Image Size. 
You can resize your images in several ways using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Photoshop Elements. Each way to resize an image has advantages and drawbacks. To get the best result when you resize images, you should understand the concepts behind and the results of each method of resizing. If you resize and crop images without being aware of the concepts involved, then you may see unexpected results. Image sizes on the screen and in print. The size of an image when you view it on the screen is different from the size of an image when you print it.
Entering new Width and Height values for the image. To change the Width and Height values, simply double-click inside one of the two boxes (either Width or Height), which will highlight the number currently showing in the box, and then type a new value. When you're done, click the OK button and Photoshop will resize your image to the new dimensions you've specified. I'll click OK in the top right corner of the Image Size dialog box, at which point Photoshop closes the dialog box and resizes my image. Since I made both the width and height smaller by 50 percent, the photo is now one fourth of its original size: The image after resizing the width and height by 50 percent.
Change the size of an image. Step 1 of 3. Open an image in Photoshop. Select. Step 2 of 3. Do any of the following: 1  To change image size, enter values for Width and Height. 2  To maintain the original ratio of width and height, select the Constrain Proportions () option. 3  Deselect this option to adjust the width or height independently. 
It's easy. To resize an image in Photoshop, we use the Image Size command which we can get to by going up to the Image menu in the Menu Bar along the top of the screen and choosing Image Size : This will bring up the Image Size dialog box, as shown below: The Image Size dialog box. I'll click OK in the top right corner of the Image Size dialog box, at which point Photoshop closes the dialog box and resizes my image. Since I made both the width and height smaller by 50 percent, the photo is now one fourth of its original size: The image after resizing the width and height by 50 percent.
5. To change the locked proportions, simply uncheck the box next to Constrain Proportions.  Once unchecked, you should be able to type in separate values for both the width and the height. 6. If you'd like to resize an image by a certain percent, click the percent option beside the width and height dimensions. Changing from pixel to percent will allow you to adjust the size in proportion to what it was before. Produce a duplicate of the file just in case the resized image is not what you intended. Select Image → Duplicate in the menu bar, or just select File → Save As and save the file under a new name. 3. Go to Image → Image Size. At this point, a screen will pop up indicating your image's current size. 1  You'll see two boxes in the Image Size window: Pixel Dimension and Document Siz
Resize images. Choose Image Image Size. Do any of the following to modify the image preview: 1  To change the size of the preview window, drag a corner of the Image Size dialog box and resize it. 2  To view a different area of the image, drag within the preview. (Optional) From the Fit To menu: 1  Choose a preset to resize the image. 2  Choose Auto Resolution to resize the image for a specific printing output. 3  In the Auto Resolution dialog box, specify the Screen value and select a Quality.
2 Image Size dialog box To resize an image, open the Image Size dialog box. In Photoshop or Photoshop Elements, open a sample image. From the menu bar, select (In Photoshop Elements, select) and the following dialog box will appear. When you use the above dialog box to resize your images, four aspects of your image can change: a. The pixel dimensions, which is the width and height of the image in pixels and is shown in the Pixel Dimensions section.