1 Irreversible Pulpitis. 2  This is a severe inflammation from which the pulp is unlikely to recover. 3  The swelling inside the tooth is so great that it essentially strangles itself, cutting off its own blood supply. 4  The tooth is likely to die and therefore will require either a root canal treatment or an extraction. Pulpitis is where the living part of your tooth aka the dental pulp becomes inflammed.
Pulpitis is a general term for inflammation of the tooth pulp, which consists of the blood vessels, nerve tissue, and living cells that occupy the hollow interior of teeth (Figure 1). Pulpitis is characterized by tooth sensitivity that arises from excess blood flow (hyperemia) to the tooth. Pulpitis is generally divided into two types: Irreversible and Reversible. Irreversible pulpitis is generally characterized by prolonged sensitivity to cold and/or heat, and sometimes to sweets. It is often accompanied by a continuous low-grade ache, which is aggravated by these stimuli.
Pulpitis is a pathological condition of the tooth wherein the pulp becomes inflamed which cause pain and pressure. Once the tooth pulp becomes inflamed, it irritates the nerves and connective tissue in the tooth, and in severe cases, the pain is felt referred to areas other than the direct source of the inflammation. Pain referral can be felt in the face and the mouth.
Discolored Teeth (Pulpitis). Pulpitis by definition is inflammation of the tooth pulp. The pulp is the inner part of the tooth that consists of blood vessels, nerve endings, lymphatics, and connective tissues. In pets the most common reason for pulpitis is traumatic force to a tooth, either from blunt trauma or chewing on items that are too hard. 
One of the more common reasons is called pulpitis. Pulpitis is an inflammation of the dental pulp. Dental pulp is the portion of your tooth that has blood vessels and nerves in it. It is the core of your tooth that nourishes the hard parts of the tooth. Pain in pulpitis is due to an inflammation of the pulp. If you have pulpitis, you should see your dentist as soon as possible to have it diagnosed and to figure out the CAUSE of the pulpitis. Once you figure out the cause, you can eliminate that and hopefully keep your tooth healthy.
Pulpitis result from an inflammatory reaction of the pulp inside the tooth. The pulp belongs to the interior of the tooth containing cells and nerves. Just like many bacterial infections, the human body response with raised blood flow and enlarge blood vessels. A toothache typically comes after damage to the tooth. 
pulpitis. inflammation of dental pulp. irreversible pulpitis severe pulpitis with minimal chance of spontaneous recovery, accompanied by an exudate and often pain. reversible pulpitis pulpitis in which the pulp may recover spontaneously; it is usually asymptomatic until pain is caused by some external stimulus.
Glossary. PULPITIS (TOOTHACHE) Overview Pulpitis is an inflammation of the pulp. The pulp is a spongy soft tissue of nerves and blood vessels encased by tooth structure. In the crown, the enamel and dentine encases the pulp. PULPITIS (TOOTHACHE). Pulpitis is an inflammation of the pulp. The pulp is a spongy soft tissue of nerves and blood vessels encased by tooth structure. In the crown, the enamel and dentine encases the pulp. When the integrity of the enamel and dentine is compromised eg through decay, the pulp is exposed to irritants
Pulpitis is inflammation of dental pulp tissue. The pulp contains the blood vessels the nerves and connective tissue inside a tooth and provides the tooth’s blood and nutrients. Pulpitis is mainly caused by bacteria infection which itself is a secondary development of caries (tooth decay). Reversible pulpitis [edit]. This is the condition where the pulp is inflamed and is actively responding to an irritant. This may include a carious lesion that has not reached the pulp. Symptoms include transient pain or sensitivity resulting from many stimuli, notably hot, cold, sweet, water and touch.