For a straightforward tub insert, the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner should be on the lower end of the price scale.
New Shower Costs. The actual cost of a new shower depends on your location, the materials used, the complexity of the installation, and other factors. 1  A basic shower enclosure may cost as little as $400 to $600, while a combination bath/shower unit or a top-of-the-line surround could cost $1,500 to $3,000 or more.
1 For tile shower installation, you’re probably looking at a minimum cost of at least $1,500, although intricate, labor-heavy designs and add-ons (such as new faucets and a tub) could easy bring the price up to $5,000 or more.
There is a wide range of bathtub liners to choose from, and that will ultimately affect the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner. You can find liners in a ton of different colors or styles to match your bathroom's current style, or a new style if you're remodeling or redecorating your space.
Granite shower tile is available at an average of $3.49 per square foot to $6.99 per square foot. Polished stone wall tile comes in many choices, including pebble stone that costs about $10 per square foot and $12 per square foot for a smooth surface polished stone tile.
1 The total cost for a new shower surround should average $1,200 to $2,000. 2  For tile shower installation, you’re probably looking at a minimum cost of at least $1,500, although intricate, labor-heavy designs and add-ons (such as new faucets and a tub) could easy bring the price up to $5,000 or more.
The national average for a new shower installation project, when performed by a capable contractor, is $2,689. At the low-end of the normal cost range, homeowners are paying $1,109, and at the high end of the average range they’re spending $2,459. More luxurious showers can cost in excess of $10,000 to install.
tile shower versus shower insert. Depends on how hard you want to work. You can't beat a tile shower for value, and classy looks, but you can't beat the ease of installation of a fiberglass shower floor. There are a lot of critical steps in the installation of a tile shower floor. Definately right and wrong ways to do it.