As a rule of thumb, meat can usually be frozen up to a year and vegetables up to 6 months. Most, if not all food items are dated. If older than 1 year, I would pitch it. According to the US FDA, food will keep indefinitely in the freezer, provided it is kept at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18C) or lower. The quality may be affected however, but it is not unsafe to use. http://www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/fttstore.html. In addition to what Amuck suggests, if it's not too old rinse and drain well. Try a bite and if it happens to have a bit of freezer burn taste use it in a recipe or eat it as shrimp cocktail. Once you thaw it be sure to use it within a day !!! Here's a cocktail sauce that will definitely spice it up ;-)
If you've bought frozen shrimp in their original packaging, the packaging will often have a Use-by or Best before date on it. That's the vendor's estimate of how long your shrimp will retain their best flavor and quality. Usually it will be 4 to 6 months for uncooked shrimp, or about half that for cooked. You can still eat them after that time -- they'll be safe for as long as they stay properly frozen -- but their texture will suffer, they'll begin to acquire off-flavors from the freezer, and eventually they'll succumb to freezer burn. How to Do It. 1  For the best storage life, divide the frozen shrimp into meal-sized portions as soon as you get home. 2  Use a vacuum-sealer, if you have one, to extract as much air as possible. 3  Otherwise, use regular freezer bags but suck out as much air as you can, through a straw, before sealing.
ANSWER:Unless frozen, shrimp breaks down rather rapidly. If you peel and de-vein, and soak in salted water, you can keep shrimp in a 34.5 degree refrigerator for up to 4 days. … After that the shrimp will spoil. Fresh shrimp and fresh seafood should have no odor when purchased fresh and the eyes should be clear and not clouded
You can help shrimp keep fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator immediately after purchase. Once prepared, shrimp should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. For a long-term option, you can freeze your shrimp while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container. Of course, shrimp lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that shrimp, like a lot of other proteins, usually has a sell by date and not a use by date or expiration date.
Yes you can eat them as I've had them for longer than that. The only thing about keeping items for a long, long time in the freezer is they start to sort of shrink and lose body so that when you defrost them they don't look as nice as when they were fresh. At 6 months they will be fine but don't keep them any longer. fleefly · 2 years ago. Thumbs up. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sounds a bit long, but frozen prawns don't last more than a month at our place... The supreme test is to defrost them a bit by putting a serving size into a bowl and covering them with cool tap-water. Wait 20 minutes and do the 'sniff' test. If they smell like garbage, that's where they belong!
For the longest storage life, keep your shrimp in a chest freezer rather than a refrigerator freezer. The relatively small freezer compartment in your fridge warms up quickly whenever you open it and takes time to return to its usual 0 degrees Fahrenheit. How to Do It. 1  For the best storage life, divide the frozen shrimp into meal-sized portions as soon as you get home. 2  Use a vacuum-sealer, if you have one, to extract as much air as possible. 3  Otherwise, use regular freezer bags but suck out as much air as you can, through a straw, before sealing.
Shrimp Cindy 2015-04-21T07:21:57+00:00. How long does shrimp last? The shelf life of shrimp depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how they were stored. Of course, shrimp lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that shrimp, like a lot of other proteins, usually has a sell by date and not a use by date or expiration date.
Most things frozen can last awhile, but....once you start to see lots of ice crystals on your frozen food, or places on the shrimp that might have dried out with some discoloration then it's probably freezer burnt and been in there too long. A couple months..... If you peel and de-vein, and soak in salted water, you can keep shrimp in a 34.5 degree refrigerator for up to 4 days. … After that the shrimp will spoil.