Click on a place to view Sissel immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Sissel families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Sissel census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Sissel ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
You can find out when most of the Sissel families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI). Sissel census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Sissel ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
Origin of the name Cecilia: Feminine form of Cecil, which is derived from Caecilius, an old Roman family name, which has its root in the Latin caecus (blind, dim-sighted). The name was borne by a 3rd-century Christian who founded a church in the Trastevere section of Rome. Comments and insights on the name Sissel: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Sissel: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Sissel: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Sissel : | Edit. Norwegian form of Cecilia.
Norse Meaning: The name Sissel is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Sissel is: Without sight. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition. People with this name tend to be quiet, cooperative, considerate, sympathetic to others, adaptable, balanced and sometimes shy.
Origin of the name Cecilia: Feminine form of Cecil, which is derived from Caecilius, an old Roman family name, which has its root in the Latin caecus (blind, dim-sighted). The name was borne by a 3rd-century Christian who founded a church in the Trastevere section of Rome. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Sidsel: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Sidsel: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Sidsel : | Edit. Danish and Norwegian form of Cecilia, meaning blind. Other forms are Sissel, Sissela, and Sizel.
Sissel is of Latin origin and it is used mainly in Scandinavian. Sissel is a variant form of the English, Finnish, German, Italian, Scandinavian, and Spanish Cecilia in the Scandinavian language. Sissel is also a familiar form of the English Cicely in the Scandinavian language. Sissel is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Web Sites. Meaning of Sissel. Sissel Meaning: The meaning of Sissel has not been submitted. If you have the meaning of Sissel, please submit it with along with any reference pages referring to the meaning of Sissel. ©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Sissel Last Name-Surname-Family Name Sissel.
Meaning of Sissel. Norwegian name. In Norwegian, the name Sissel means-without sight.The name Sissel originated as an Norwegian name. The name Sissel is most often used as a girl name or female name. Norwegian Name Meaning-without sight