The authors proposed that this protein, Exd, alters the specificity of the selector proteins by forming heterodimers with specificity distinct from those of the individual homeodomain proteins. Intriguingly, the Exd homeodomain is related to the yeast α 2 homeodomain, which dimerizes with MATa product a 1 [5] . The existence of a closely related protein in humans, called Pbx, showed the potential generality of such a mechanism [12] and [13] .
Commentary. Although the homeodomain is the most conspicuous and widely used of the motifs that characterize families of developmental regulatory proteins, the question of how each homeodomain protein achieves its specific function remains largely a mystery. Intriguingly, the Exd homeodomain is related to the yeast α 2 homeodomain, which dimerizes with MATa product a 1 [5] . The existence of a closely related protein in humans, called Pbx, showed the potential generality of such a mechanism [12] and [13] .
Homeodomain proteins of the Paired class also achieve enchanced specificity by dimerization, but the situation in this case is rather different. Using random oligomer selection to define the preferred binding site for the homeodomain protein encoded by the paired gene. The exd gene has recently been cloned by Rauskolb et al. [9] , and, intriguingly, turns out to encode a homeodomain protein with some indications of having a particular sequence relationship to the yeast a1 gene product.
Heterodimer formation by these two homeodomain proteins may enhance the DNA-binding specificity of mec-3 by allowing unc-86 to act as a coupling protein that recruits mec-3 to sites where unc-86 is already bound. The exd gene has recently been cloned by Rauskolb et al. [9] , and, intriguingly, turns out to encode a homeodomain protein with some indications of having a particular sequence relationship to the yeast a1 gene product.
Many classes and subfamilies of homeobox genes have been described, although these groupings are used inconsistently. Homeobox genes contain a particular DNA sequence that provides instructions for making a string of 60 protein building blocks (amino acids) known as the homeodomain. In humans, the homeobox gene family contains an estimated 235 functional genes and 65 pseudogenes (structurally similar genes that do not provide instructions for making proteins).
Homeodomain proteins provide a system with a highly conserved sequence of 60 amino acids spanning across most eukaryotic organisms that fulfill a basic regulatory function. This high degree of conservation makes them an ideal model system for studies attempting to elucidate specific protein-DNA interactions. DNA binding proteins have been extensively studied, but even today there exist no established rules for predicting DNA sequence specificity based upon the amino acid sequence of a protein.
The homeodomain is the part of the protein that attaches (binds) to specific regulatory regions of the target genes. Genes in the homeobox family are involved in a wide range of critical activities during development. In humans, the homeobox gene family contains an estimated 235 functional genes and 65 pseudogenes (structurally similar genes that do not provide instructions for making proteins).
A good precedent for such a role of protein–protein interactions is provided by the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the mating-type genes of which encode the homeodomain proteins a1 and α 2. These two proteins recognize similar contact sites on DNA. The exd gene has recently been cloned by Rauskolb et al. [9] , and, intriguingly, turns out to encode a homeodomain protein with some indications of having a particular sequence relationship to the yeast a1 gene product.
Abstract. The product of the Drosophila extradenticle gene interacts cooperatively with homeodomain proteins encoded by homeotic selector genes, and may account in part for their distinct regulatory properties. Intriguingly, the Exd homeodomain is related to the yeast α 2 homeodomain, which dimerizes with MATa product a 1 [5] . The existence of a closely related protein in humans, called Pbx, showed the potential generality of such a mechanism [12] and [13] .
Homeodomain DNA Binding Proteins. DNA binding proteins have been extensively studied, but even today there exist no established rules for predicting DNA sequence specificity based upon the amino acid sequence of a protein.