Pneumonia is a serious lung infection caused by either bacteria, a virus, or fungi. It is characterized by fever, cough, shortness of breath. Sputum (thick mucous) ranging fr … om clear to yellow to dark green may be coughed up. Diagnosis of the type is by sputum sample, blood tests and chest x-ray. Viral pneumonia and aspiration pneumonia are treated with anti-viral medications and treatment for any secondary opportunistic bacterial infections with antibiotics. Anti-fungal medications are given for the fungal pneumonias, and secondary bacterial infections can also accompany these types. The rare parasitic pneumonia is usually treated with antibiotics. The most common cases of this are among the immunocompromised, like those with HIV/AIDS
About four million people get this form of pneumonia each year. About one out of every five people who has community-acquired pneumonia needs to be treated in a hospital. There are more than 100 types of germs (bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites) known to cause community-acquired pneumonia. Bacteria and viruses are believed to cause the majority of cases
1 Community-acquired pneumonia is the most common type of pneumonia. 2  You can catch it in public areas (such as work, school, the grocery store or the gym). 3  Bacteria, a virus, fungi or irritants in the air can cause community-acquired pneumonia. 1 Hospital-acquired pneumonia (also called institution-acquired pneumonia) is a type of pneumonia that you can catch while you are staying in the hospital, especially if you are staying in an intensive care unit (ICU) or are using a ventilator to help you breathe.
Pneumonia is an infection of one or both of the lungs. It's caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or chemical irritants. Pneumonia is a serious infection or inflammation in which the air sacs fill with pus and other liquid. Lobar pneumonia affects one or more sections (lobes) of the lungs. Bacterial pneumonia. This type is caused by various bacteria, the most common of which is streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus). It usually occurs when the body is weakened in some way, such as by illness, malnutrition, old age, or impaired immunity, and the bacteria are able to work their way into
When people think of pneumonia, they often think of one condition in particular. What they do not realize is that there are actually different types of pneumonia, and each type has a unique cause, When people think of pneumonia, they often think of one condition in particular. What they do not realize is that there are actually different types of pneumonia, and each type has a unique cause, symptoms, and treatment. Pneumonia is a serious health condition that needs to be treated by a medical professional. 
Confidence votes 40.5K. There are many types of pneumonia such as Bactiral Pneumonia, Viral Pneumonia and many more types. There are MANY types of pneumonia, take my word for it, I've had pneumonia before in my life There are many names but really only a few basic types. Viral pneumonia and aspiration pneumonia are treated with anti-viral medications and treatment for any secondary opportunistic bacterial infections with antibiotics. Anti-fungal medications are given for the fungal pneumonias, and secondary bacterial infections can also accompany these types. The rare parasitic pneumonia is usually treated with antibiotics. The most common cases of this are among the immunocompromised, like those with HIV/AIDS
There are 4 types of pneumonia: 1  Community-acquired pneumonia is the most common type of pneumonia. 2  You can catch it in public areas (such as work, school, the grocery store or the gym). 3  Bacteria, a virus, fungi or irritants in the air can cause community-acquired pneumonia. 1 Hospital-acquired pneumonia (also called institution-acquired pneumonia) is a type of pneumonia that you can catch while you are staying in the hospital, especially if you are staying in an intensive care unit (ICU) or are using a ventilator to help you breathe.
Pneumonia is an infection in one or both lungs. The infection may be caused by fungi, bacteria, or viruses. Pneumonia causes inflammation in your lung’s air sacs, also referred to as alveoli. The alveoli fill with fluid or pus, making it difficult to breathe. Many additional types of pneumonia affect immune-compromised individuals. Tuberculosis and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) generally affect persons with AIDS. In fact, PCP can be one of the first signs of illness in people