Conversely, when TSH levels are low, rates of thyroid hormone synthesis and release diminish. The thyroid gland is part of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis, and control of thyroid hormone secretion is exerted by classical negative feedback, as depicted in the diagram. Thyroid-releasing hormone (TRH) from the hypothalamus stimulates TSH from the pituitary, which stimulates thyroid hormone release. As blood concentrations of thyroid hormones increase, they inhibit both TSH and TRH, leading to shutdown of thyroid epithelial cells. 
Thyroid-stimulating hormone, also known as thyrotropin, is secreted from cells in the anterior pituitary called thyrotrophs, finds its receptors on epithelial cells in the thyroid gland, and stimulates that gland to synthesize and release thyroid hormones. Its basic sequence is glutamic acid-histidine-proline, although both ends of the peptide are modified. Secretion of thyroid-releasing hormone, and hence, TSH, is inhibited by high blood levels of thyroid hormones in a classical negative feedback loop. Additional information about TSH and its effects and control are presented in the section on the thyroid gland
The TSH, in turn, stimulates the thyroid to produce thyroid hormone until levels in the blood return to normal. Thyroid hormone exerts negative feedback control over the hypothalamus as well as anterior pituitary, thus controlling the release of both TRH from hypothalamus and TSH from anterior pituitary gland. As its name suggests, it depends upon the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland, and the thyroid gland. The hypothalamus senses low circulating levels of thyroid hormone (Triiodothyronine (T3) and Thyroxine (T4)) and responds by releasing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH).
TSH is released from the pituitary in response to the release of TRH (thyroid releasing hormone) from the hypothalamus (also in the brain). In a negative feedback loop, thyroid hormone sends a regulatory signal to the hypothalamus to decrease TRH levels. Pituitary and Hypothalamus The pituitary and hypothalamus are part of the brain. A rare pituitary tumor (pituitary adenoma) can create too much TSH. A thyroid scan and thyroid tests identify the cause. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is a protein hormone released from the pituitary gland in the brain that stimulates the thyroid to produce thyroid hormone, which regulates body metabolism.
http://www.handwrittentutorials.com-This tutorial explores the feedback action of thyroxine on the Hypothalamus and Pituitary gland. It is the sequel to the video: 'Thyroid Hormone 1 - Control'. For more entirely FREE tutorials and accompanying PDFs visit http://www.handwrittentutorials.com. 
When temperature drops back below the set point, negative feedback is gone, and the furnace comes back on. Feedback loops are used extensively to regulate secretion of hormones in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. An important example of a negative feedback loop is seen in control of thyroid hormone secretion. The thyroid hormones thyroxine and triiodothyronine (T4 and T3) are synthesized and secreted by thyroid glands and affect metabolism throughout the body. 1 When blood concentrations of thyroid hormones increase above a certain threshold, TRH-secreting neurons in the hypothalamus are inhibited and stop secreting TRH. 2  This is an example of negative feedback.
TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) is part of a feedback loop controlling levels of thyroid hormone. TSH levels are high when parts of this feedback loop do not function properly. The commonest cause is a problem in the thyroid resulting in hypothyroidism, treated with thyroid hormone. A tumor in the pituitary gland or the hypothalamus can also cause high TSH levels and hyperthyroidism. A thyroid scan and thyroid tests identify the cause. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is a protein hormone released from the pituitary gland in the brain that stimulates the thyroid to produce thyroid hormone, which regulates body metabolism.
This hormone production system is regulated by a negative feedback loop so that when the levels of the thyroid hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine increase, they prevent the release of both thyrotropin-releasing hormone and thyroid stimulating hormone. The production and release of thyroid hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine, is controlled by a feedback loop system which involves the hypothalamus in the brain and the pituitary and thyroid glands.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body. The concentration of thyroid hormones (T 3 and T 4) in the blood regulates the pituitary release of TSH; when T 3 and T 4 concentrations are low, the production of TSH is increased, and, conversely, when T 3 and T 4 concentrations are high, TSH production is decreased. This is an example of a negative feedback loop.