The highest point in the region is Kinder Scout in the Peak District near Glossop, at 2,088 ft (636 m). The centre of the East Midlands area lies roughly between Bingham and Bottesford. The geographical centre of England lies in Higham on the Hill in west Leicestershire, close to the boundary between the East and West Midlands. 88% of the land is rural, although agriculture accounts for less than three percent of the region's jobs.
East Midlands Airport in North West Leicestershire is situated between the three cities of Derby, Nottingham and Leicester. The airport is the region’s biggest public airport, used by over 4 million passengers per year. The geographical centre of England lies in Higham on the Hill in west Leicestershire, close to the boundary between the East and West Midlands. 88% of the land is rural, although agriculture accounts for less than three percent of the region's jobs.
The town is home to many people who commute to the city of Nottingham (around 20 miles (32 km) away) and to London and other cities such as Leicester, Leeds, Doncaster and York. Newark is home of Newark Rugby Union Football Club, which has produced past players such as Dusty Hare, John Wells, Greig Tonks and Tom Ryder. The Newark Castle railway station lies on the Leicester – Nottingham – Lincoln line providing cross-country regional links. These two lines cross on the level, which is the last flat crossing in Britain. A grade separation has been proposed by Network Rail. There are several main roads around Newark
Permitted Use: Viewers of this Information are granted permission to access this Crown copyright material and to download it onto electronic, magnetic, optical or similar storage media provided that such activities are for private research, study or in-house use only. This material was last updated on 29 September 2015. It covers the period from 03 January 1995 to 28 August 2015. © Crown copyright material is reproduced with the permission of Land Registry under delegated authority from the Controller of HMSO.
An Anglo-Saxon pagan cemetery, used from the early 5th to the early 7th centuries, has been found in Millgate, in Newark, close to both the Fosse Way and the River Trent in which cremated remains were buried in pottery urns. The Newark Castle railway station lies on the Leicester – Nottingham – Lincoln line providing cross-country regional links. These two lines cross on the level, which is the last flat crossing in Britain. A grade separation has been proposed by Network Rail. There are several main roads around Newark
The region has an area of 15,627 km² (6,033 sq mi), and is home to over 4.5 million people (2011). East Midlands contains four cities: Derby, Leicester, Lincoln, Nottingham, though other major settlements include Boston, Loughborough, Mansfield, Northampton and Skegness. The geographical centre of England lies in Higham on the Hill in west Leicestershire, close to the boundary between the East and West Midlands. 88% of the land is rural, although agriculture accounts for less than three percent of the region's jobs.
Source acknowledgement: House price data produced by Land Registry. This material was last updated on 29 September 2015. It covers the period from 03 January 1995 to 28 August 2015. © Crown copyright material is reproduced with the permission of Land Registry under delegated authority from the Controller of HMSO.
Newark-on-Trent or Newark /ˈnjuːək/ is a market town in Nottinghamshire in the East Midlands of England. It stands on the River Trent, the A1 (on the route of the ancient Great North Road), and the East Coast Main Line railway. The Newark Castle railway station lies on the Leicester – Nottingham – Lincoln line providing cross-country regional links. These two lines cross on the level, which is the last flat crossing in Britain. A grade separation has been proposed by Network Rail. There are several main roads around Newark
Gardeners Walk Nottingham Postcode Finder-Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, NG5 1PQ. 0.1 miles from Naseby Close. Pulborough Close Nottingham Postcode Finder-Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, NG5 1HU. 0.11 miles from Naseby Close. 