This destiny was not explicitly territorial, but O'Sullivan predicted that the United States would be one of a Union of many Republics sharing those values. Six years later, in 1845, O'Sullivan wrote another essay titled Annexation in the Democratic Review, in which he first used the phrase manifest destiny. The 19th-century belief that the United States would eventually encompass all of North America is known as continentalism. An early proponent of this idea was John Quincy Adams, a leading figure in U.S. expansion between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the Polk administration in the 1840s.
Now, with territory up to the Mississippi River claimed and settled and the Louisiana Purchase explored, Americans headed west in droves. Newspaper editor John O'Sullivan coined the term  manifest destiny  in 1845 to describe the essence of this mindset. A symbol of Manifest Destiny, the figure Columbia moves across the land in advance of settlers, replacing darkness with light and ignorance with civilization. The religious fervor spawned by the Second Great Awakening created another incentive for the drive west. Like the Massachusetts Puritans who hoped to build a city upon a hill, courageous pioneers believed that America had a divine obligation to stretch the boundaries of their noble republic to the Pacific Ocean. Independence had been won in the Revolution and reaffirmed in the War of 1812.
Newspaper editor John O'Sullivan coined the term Manifest Destiny in 1845 to describe the essence of this mindset, which was a rhetorical tone. It was used by Democrats in the 1840s to justify the war with Mexico and it was also used to divide half of Oregon with the United Kingdom. The 19th-century belief that the United States would eventually encompass all of North America is known as continentalism. An early proponent of this idea was John Quincy Adams, a leading figure in U.S. expansion between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the Polk administration in the 1840s.
The phrase Era of Good Feelings was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following Monroe's visit to Boston, Massachusetts, as part of his good-will tour of America. The most perfect expression of the Era of Good Feelings was Monroe's country-wide good-will tour in 1817 and 1819. His visits to New England and to the Federalist stronghold of Boston, Massachusetts, in particular, were the most significant of the tour.
The term manifest destiny was first used by journalist John O'Sullivan in the New York Democratic Review in 1845. O'Sullivan wrote in favor of the U.S. annexing Texas, a region that the U.S. recognized as independent of any other nation. 
Stephen Douglas took a leadership role in the fight for passage. It was Douglas who coined the term “popular sovereignty” and it was his idea to abandon Clay’s idea of putting the compromise in one bill. Instead, he introduced each idea one at a time and was able to garner enough votes for each part individually. Ask a question. We’ve answered 395,608 questions. Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, and Stephen Douglas all played an important role in the passage of the Compromise of 1850. Henry Clay, known as “The Great Compromiser”, came up with the plan which he hoped would save the nation from being torn apart.
The designation of the period by historians as one of good feelings is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive, especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party. The most perfect expression of the Era of Good Feelings was Monroe's country-wide good-will tour in 1817 and 1819. His visits to New England and to the Federalist stronghold of Boston, Massachusetts, in particular, were the most significant of the tour.
Introduction. Manifest Destiny is a term for the attitude prevalent during the 19th century period of American expansion that the United States not only could, but was destined to, stretch from coast to coast. This attitude helped fuel western settlement, Native American removal and war with Mexico. It was, O’Sullivan claimed, ‘our manifest destiny to overspread the continent allotted by Providence for the free development of our yearly multiplying millions.’ The term and the concept were taken up by those desiring to secure Oregon Territory, California, Mexican land in the Southwest, and, in the 1850s, Cuba.
#3 Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr were candidates for president of the United States in 1800. #4 In the War of 1812, the United States fought on the side of England. #5 James Monroe coined the phrase Era of Good Feeling to describe his term as president of the United States. #6 Chief Justice John Marshall's Supreme Court decisions helped strengthen the national government. #7 The Missouri Compromise of 1820 allowed Maine to be admitted to the Union as a slave state. 
Wilson's version of manifest destiny was a rejection of expansionism and an endorsement (in principle) of self-determination, emphasizing that the United States had a mission to be a world leader for the cause of democracy. The 19th-century belief that the United States would eventually encompass all of North America is known as continentalism. An early proponent of this idea was John Quincy Adams, a leading figure in U.S. expansion between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the Polk administration in the 1840s.