The current retirement age for top level referees is 45. Is this too low? What is the optimum age for a referee? We get the opinions of Swedish man in the middle Peter Frodjfeldt and UEFA's former Head of Refereeing Yvan Cornu.
After a 25-year career on the field, Premier League referee Howard Webb is retiring to become a technical director overseeing and educating other officials.
Refereeing in England is organised into 10 levels, which correspond to the level of match you can referee. Trainee is level nine, with Football League and Premier League referees at level one.
Dowd, celebrated his 50th birthday two weeks ago to join 51-year-old Chris Foy and Halsey, 51, in the over-fifties gang who are defying the years to continue refereeing at the very top level. Select few: Phil Dowd (right) has turned 50-years-old, one of just three Premier League referees who are over-50.
In a case that could set an important precedent, Walton and his Premier League colleague Uriah Rennie, along with Football League official Paul Taylor, appealed to the referees' body after they were initially told they would not be retained beyond the 'retirement age' of 49.
In a surprise announcement, the 43-year-old confirmed he was quitting barely a week before the start of the Premier League season as well as accepting the newly-created role of technical director at Professional Game Match Officials Limited.
He has an individual style and is one of the few referees still prepared to ‘have a go’ back at players who question his authority. Monday 11th February 2013 – Kick off 8.00pm. Liverpool v West Bromwich Albion – Referee: Jon Moss G13 YC37 RC1.
All the referee in premier legue referees panel for a season get a retainer fee of £38,500 to £42,000 a year depending on the experience plus a standard £1,150 match fee for every game they officiate throughout the season.
Retirement in the Premiership is 48 years of age while the FIFA retirement age is 45 years old. report this answer. Updated on Thursday, February 02 2012 at 10:17PM GMT. Source: www.google.co.uk/...