Photo © Creative Crop / Getty Images. Definition: A filbert is a type of tree nut similar to hazelnuts. In practice, the word filbert is sometimes used interchangeably with the word hazelnut, although technically they each grow on two different (though closely related) species of trees. 
Ripe hazelnuts. Hazelnut is the nut of the hazel and therefore includes any of the nuts deriving from species of the genus Corylus, especially the nuts of the species Corylus avellana. It is also known as cobnut or filbert nut according to species. 
HAZELNUT Dosing. The appropriate dose of hazelnut depends on several factors such as the user’s age, health, and several other conditions. At this time there is not enough scientific information to determine an appropriate range of doses for hazelnut. HAZELNUT Side Effects & Safety. Hazelnut seems to be safe for most people in food amounts. But some people are allergic to hazelnuts and have had serious allergic reactions including life-threatening breathing problems (anaphylaxis).
Description. The most-planted European variety in America! This popular tree is a favorite among home growers, and it’s the nut of choice for commercial growers. Heavy bearer, produces big, bumper crops of rich and flavorful nuts. 
The Common Hazel in the forest near Kyiv in winter. Corylus avellana, the common hazel, is a species of hazel native to Europe and western Asia, from the British Isles south to Iberia, Greece, Turkey and Cyprus, north to central Scandinavia, and east to the central Ural Mountains, the Caucasus, and northwestern Iran. 
About Filbert Hazelnut Trees. Because of their smaller size, Filbert trees (also called Hazelnut trees) are ideal nut trees for home growers. These trees can be grown naturally as large shrubs with many trunks, or grown as small trees through selective pruning. 
Prepare it. Hazelnuts in their shells can be opened using a nut cracker. To remove the dark skin, place the nuts on a baking sheet in a single layer and bake on a medium heat for 10-12 minutes. They are ready when the skins begin to split and the kernels turn golden. 
About Hazelnuts. The hazelnut is the hard-shelled fruit of the hazelnut tree. Hazelnuts, also known as filberts from European folklore, are believed to have originated over 5000 years ago in prehistoric China. Currently, the world's top three producers of hazelnuts are Turkey, Italy, and the United States. 
filbert. n. 1. (Plants) any of several N temperate shrubs of the genus Corylus, esp C. maxima, that have edible rounded brown nuts: family Corylaceae. 2. (Plants) Also called: hazelnut or cobnut the nut of any of these shrubs. 