White piedra. White piedra is a superficial cosmetic fungal infection of the hair shaft caused by Trichosporon beigelii. Infected hairs develop soft greyish-white nodules along the shaft. Essentially no pathological changes are elicited. Email
Black piedra and white piedra. Piedra, meaning stone in Spanish, is an asymptomatic fungal infection of the hair shaft, resulting in the formation of nodules of different hardness on the infected hair. White and black piedra should be distinguished from each other. It can be noted that black piedra as compared to white piedra, presents a harder nodule that adheres to the hair shaft. Piedra can often be confused with pediculosis or lice infestation.
White piedra is a superficial cosmetic fungal infection of the hair shaft caused by Trichosporon beigelii. Infected hairs develop soft greyish-white nodules along the shaft. Email. White piedra is a superficial cosmetic fungal infection of the hair shaft caused by Trichosporon beigelii. Infected hairs develop soft greyish-white nodules along the shaft. Essentially no pathological changes are elicited.
Print. Piedra, also known as trichomycosis nodularis is a common asymptomatic fungal infection of hair shaft. Two types of piedra have been described namely black piedra and white piedra. Both types of hair fungus ultimately may lead to hair breaking because the shaft is weakened by cuticular penetration.
Description: Black piedra is a superficial fungal infection of the hair shaft caused by Piedra hortae, an ascomycetous fungus forming hard black nodules on the shafts of the scalp, beard, moustache and pubic hair. It is common in Central and South America and South-East Asia. Email. Black piedra is a superficial fungal infection of the hair shaft caused by Piedra hortae, an ascomycetous fungus forming hard black nodules on the shafts of the scalp, beard, moustache and pubic hair.
Transmission of White piedra from Person to Person. White piedra is considered infectious but is not transmitted from person to person. Generally, a disease like this is caused by an infectious agent and not spread between people. White piedra, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. About contagion and contagiousness: Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of White piedra is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability.
Abstract. White piedra is a chronic, superficial mycosis of the hair shaft caused by yeast form of the fungus Trichosporon spp. that may affect all areas of the body. Over the last decade a rising number of cases of scalp white piedra affecting children have been reported. p.1135-6. White piedra is a chronic, superficial mycosis of the hair shaft caused by yeast form of the fungus Trichosporon spp. that may affect all areas of the body.