Flaxton Manor. Offering luxurious accommodation and wedding venue in a peaceful rural setting, Flaxton Manor is located very close to Ohoka, a short drive north of Christchurch City in Canterbury, New Zealand. Overnight grazing can be provided for horses and other animals in transit. Set in a picturesque rural region, Flaxton Manor is close to Ohoka and to the country town of Rangiora, which has restaurants and shops. It is just 20 minutes’ drive from Christchurch and within easy reach of the Waipara wineries. As a wedding venue Gay can assist you to reach your vision for your magical day
Campsite. This campsite, set amongst ferns, is on the Sunshine Coast Hinterland Great Walk. It offers simple facilities for up to 48 hikers. Boil or treat the water provided before drinking, and bring a gas/fuel stove, as fires are prohibited. Flaxton camping area is 16.5 km from the walk’s trailhead at Baroon Pocket Dam and 13.1 km from Ubajee camping area in Mapleton National Park.
Flaxton. Flaxton is a tiny village where you will find lovely arts and crafts and excellent Devonshire teas and lunches. Surrounding the many avocado orchards is a town of restaurants, guesthouses, art and craft galleries and private dwellings. It is an ideal place to picnic and enjoy life. Flaxton is sometimes considered the prettiest of the Blackall Range settlements. It offers a wide variety of beautiful mountain accommodation.
Located on the Sunshine Coast Hinterland region between Montville and Mapleton. Part of Le Bressan Complex linked to Le Relais Bressan Cafe & Deli. 
Flaxton is a rural locality in the Sunshine Coast Region, Queensland, Australia. At the 2011 Australian Census the locality recorded a population of 884. The locality is named after Flaxton Hall Farm in the fens of Eastern England. Joseph Dixon, who originally grew sugarcane at Buderim, selected land at Flaxton in 1882. From 1892 the land was cleared so bananas and citrus fruit could be farmed.
Weddings. Set in a beautiful country location, Flaxton Manor is the perfect accommodation or base to prepare for weddings at wineries and other wedding venues in the Ohoka, Rangiora or Kaiapoi regions. The beautiful park-like grounds of Flaxton Manor include a picturesque lake, providing the ideal setting for wedding photos. Flaxton Manor is also a wonderfully romantic place for newly-weds to spend a very special wedding night.
Main Dinning Area and kitchen. Offering luxurious accommodation and wedding venue in a peaceful rural setting, Flaxton Manor is located very close to Ohoka, a short drive north of Christchurch City in Canterbury, New Zealand. Flaxton Manor is set in 10 acres of tranquil park-like grounds with a lake and trees. Overnight grazing can be provided for horses and other animals in transit. Set in a picturesque rural region, Flaxton Manor is close to Ohoka and to the country town of Rangiora, which has restaurants and shops. It is just 20 minutes’ drive from Christchurch and within easy reach of the Waipara wineries. As a wedding venue Gay can assist you to reach your vision for your magical day
detailed map of Flaxton and near places. Welcome to the Flaxton google satellite map! This place is situated in North Yorkshire County, Yorkshire and Humberside, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 54° 2' 0 North, 0° 57' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Flaxton. Flaxton hotels map. The location of each Flaxton hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Flaxton hotel map is available where all hotels in Flaxton are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.