Climate for Houston, Texas. Houston's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 41.2°F. In July, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 93.6°F. The driest month in Houston is February with 2.98 inches of precipitation, and with 5.35 inches June is the wettest month.
CityRating.com offers the average Houston temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for Houston and dozens of other cities. Average temperature is the most popular factor that people take into consideration when looking for the best city to live in. CityRating.com offers the average Houston temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for Houston and dozens of other cities. Average Annual Temperature.
Rainfall is the most common form of precipitation in Houston. The wettest month is June, with 5.93 inches (151 mm) of rain. Houston normally receives 49.77 inches (1,264 mm) of precipitation on 104.0 days annually. The most precipitation to fall in one year was 72.86 inches (1,850.6 mm) which occurred in 1900. Houston has received less than 20 inches (510 mm) of rain only once: 17.66 inches in 1917. While the average high in January, the coldest month, is 62.9 °F (17.2 °C) and the low 43.2 °F (6.2 °C), George Bush Intercontinental Airport sees an average of 9.6 days per year of freezing temperatures. Cold fronts during the winter drop nighttime lows into the 30s but usually above freezing.
To find out how often it rises over 70, 80 or 90 °F each month in Houston, scroll down farther. There are also counts of nights with warm temperatures and days with cold weather. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered from 1981 to 2010. Houston Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Houston, Texas during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below by month and annually for Houston, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature
This report describes the typical weather at the William P. Hobby Airport (Houston, Texas, United States) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. View indashboard. The daily average low (blue) and high (red) temperature with percentile bands (inner band from 25th to 75th percentile, outer band from 10th to 90th percentile). The warm season lasts from May 22 to September 26 with an average daily high temperature above 86A°86â. f
Texas Weather Averages. Select a link for the average weather, by month or year, in cities, towns and parks throughout Texas. The links take you to data for normal temperatures, precipitation, sunshine, humidity and snowfall.
The highest average temperature in Houston is July at 85 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Houston is December at 53.5 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Houston occurs in January with 0 inches. The Houston weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Houston, TX air quality index is 0.8% less than the Texas average and 4.6% greater than the national average. The Houston, TX pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds.
Winter (I use the term lightly) falls between January and March and usually requires nothing heavier than a pea coat and scarf. Summers (April through December) are hot, humid and often rainy. If planning to travel to Houston during these months, sunscreen and shorts are a must. Here you'll find a month-by-month listing of average temperatures Houston, Texas. 