Most fibroids do not cause any symptoms, but some women with fibroids can have: 1  Heavy bleeding (which can be heavy enough to cause anemia) or painful periods. 2  Feeling of fullness in the pelvic area (lower stomach area). 3  Enlargement of the lower abdomen. 4  Frequent urination.
Most women with uterine fibroids have no symptoms or just mild symptoms and do not need treatment. In one study, almost 80% of women who chose “watchful waiting” for their fibroids had no major changes in their bleeding, pain, bothersome symptoms, mental health, general health or activity after one year.
Fibroids can range from the size of a walnut to the size of a cantaloupe or even larger. Doctors measure the size of fibroids in relationship to the size of uterus during pregnancy. A large fibroid tumor, for example, might cause the uterus to become the size of a six-or seven-month
Fibroids After Menopause. Fibroids are usually noncancerous growths in the uterus that can cause abnormal bleeding, according to UCLA Health. The hormones estrogen and progesterone stimulate their growth. When fibroids are large, they can cause discomfort and pain as well.
Some have pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. Fibroids also can put pressure on the bladder, causing frequent urination, or the rectum, causing rectal pressure. Should the fibroids get very large, they can cause the abdomen (stomach area) to enlarge, making a woman look pregnant.
Symptoms. Uterine fibroids tumors can be asymptomatic or cause a variety of symptoms. The larger the tumors grow, the more discomfort. Pain is often associated with tumor growth. Tumors can press on the bladder causing frequent urination and constipation when they rest on the rectal area.
Symptoms. Some women experience no symptoms. Women sometimes underestimate the impact of their symptoms because they have gotten used to the excessive bleeding, pain and the pressure that fibroids can cause. When there are symptoms, they vary depending on the location and size of the fibroid tumors.