A Dr. Ellen Marmur, MD, Dermatology, answered. Antioxidants are found in blueberries, green tea, red kidney beans, olive oil, artichokes, pomegranates, dark chocolate, and red wine. These are indeed the superheroes of the nutrient family. Antioxidants are among the natural defense mechanisms that protect skin against additional oxidative (aging) processes. Antioxidant creams help to combat potentially harmful wrinkle-causing free radicals, which are often generated after sun exposure.
Your skin is your largest organ, so it is important to take care of it. Antioxidants protect skin by limiting the production of free radicals, which can damage skin cells. Antioxidants in skin care products can do a lot for the health and appearance of your skin, including reducing the signs of aging. From calming inflamed skin to tightening and toning, antioxidants offer great benefits from natural sources. One of the most desirable benefits of antioxidants in skin-care products is the calming of inflammation. Antioxidants, such as alpha lipoic acid and others found in pine bark and green tea, produce valuable anti-inflammatory results by increasing circulation and cell metabolism.
If you're like most people, you want smooth, healthy skin, but maybe you don't want to wade through hundreds of chemically laden products to get it. That's where antioxidants can help. Incorporating the right antioxidants into your diet and skin care routine can have a positive effect on your skin. Antioxidants are nutrients (vitamins and minerals) and enzymes (proteins inside your body) that can help to prevent and repair damage to your body's tissue. In most cases, all you need to fulfill your body's quota for antioxidants is a healthy and balanced diet. In fact, it's a good idea to talk to your doctor before increasing your intake of any supplement. To learn more about antioxidants and skin care, look over the links on the next page.
A diet rich in antioxidants may improve the quality of the skin. Skin water content and fat levels increase (the more the better in the skin). The antioxidants lutein, alpha lipoic acid, vitamins C and E, carotenoids, and polyphenols improve the skin, whether they are eaten or applied in cream form. Antioxidants are among the natural defense mechanisms that protect skin against additional oxidative (aging) processes. Antioxidant creams help to combat potentially harmful wrinkle-causing free radicals, which are often generated after sun exposure.
Another top benefit of antioxidant skin care is skin firming. Antioxidants may actually reverse the effects of aging by improving skin health and rejuvenating its appearance. Coenzyme Q-10, or CoQ-10, is a common skin-firming antioxidant and is great for use in eye creams and products that are meant to tone the skin. One of the most desirable benefits of antioxidants in skin-care products is the calming of inflammation. Antioxidants, such as alpha lipoic acid and others found in pine bark and green tea, produce valuable anti-inflammatory results by increasing circulation and cell metabolism.
The polyphenol antioxidants in green tea have also been shown to help prevent certain skin cancers and protect skin against sunburns. Antioxidants found in red wine and green tea are being studied for their possible cancer-fighting potential, but so far the results aren't conclusive. Antioxidants are among the natural defense mechanisms that protect skin against additional oxidative (aging) processes. Antioxidant creams help to combat potentially harmful wrinkle-causing free radicals, which are often generated after sun exposure.
Antioxidants do this by slowing or preventing the effect of free radicals, which start oxidation -- a process that causes damage from oxygen that can lead to cell dysfunction. If you've seen a peeled apple turn brown, you've seen oxidation in action. In most cases, all you need to fulfill your body's quota for antioxidants is a healthy and balanced diet. In fact, it's a good idea to talk to your doctor before increasing your intake of any supplement. To learn more about antioxidants and skin care, look over the links on the next page.
Antioxidants benefit your health by cleaning free radicals out of your bloodstream. They have a range of health benefits; some studies have shown that antioxdants reduce the signs of aging by minimizing wrinkles and preserving the texture of the skin. 