i got myself injured during a a soccer match that cause my left ankle to be twisted 130 deg anti clockwise, i got injured on the 3rd of april and the hospital did a surgery on the 4th apr, doctors says that my fibula was broken, it broke of totally. what the doctors did was to screw back the fibula around my ankle... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An average bone fracture can take up to 2 months to fully heal-so I imagine you're stuck for the long haul. You'll need to wait for the bone to heal-then you'll need to recover from the screws being removed, which might damage some more of the bone. My guess is about 6 months, though that's only a guess-don't get your hopes up, as it might end up being longer
For a normal person without other medical problems if take a broken bone about 6 weeks to heal (so about another 4 weeks for you). After that it will probably take you another 4-6 weeks of therapy or rehab to gain full mobility and strength. The doctor has told me I should be in plaster for about another 4 weeks. However, I was wondering how long it takes for the ankle to completely heal. I'm 18 yrs old, 5 ft 6, 121lbs and have broken the fibula. If anybody (either through experience & similar stats or education) knows, could you please share.
Both for post-operative injuries and those fractures that do not require surgery, the use of an immobilizer boot will be required. Depending on the nature of the fracture you may or may not have to keep all weight off the leg as it heals. Fractures in general take six to eight weeks to completely heal. • Fibula fractures occur generally with trauma or are associated with lateral ankle sprains. • Fractures of the fibula do not always require surgery. Size, location, and stability of the fracture will determine if you are a surgical candidate. • Fractures will require immobilization and six to eight weeks to heal.
6 wks w/ proper care: Most fractures take approximately 6 weeks to heal assuming proper care. Although a non-weight bearing bone, fibula fractures can be painful with certain motions; be sure to get it properly evaluated and treated. See your doctor (family doctor, internist or orthopedic surgeon) for best results. Depends on the: fracture. IF it needs surgery it will take anywhere from 8-12 weeks. If it is a simple non-dispalced fibula fracture at the distal ankle you may be back as early as 6-8 weeks. fractures in general take 8 weeks to heal. ...Read more
show more I broke my ankle 2 weeks ago and have been in plaster ever since. The doctor has told me I should be in plaster for about another 4 weeks. However, I was wondering how long it takes for the ankle to completely heal. I'm 18 yrs old, 5 ft 6, 121lbs and have broken the fibula. If anybody (either through experience & similar stats or education) knows, could you please share.
Answers. Best Answer: The fibula is not a foot bone, it is a long bone of the lower leg. Stress fractures can take 4-6 weeks to heal completely, just as broken bones can. Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: The fibula is not a foot bone, it is a long bone of the lower leg. Stress fractures can take 4-6 weeks to heal completely, just as broken bones can.