Whether or not you are required to file a federal income tax return depends on several things: your filing status, your age, your income, your dependency status, and whether you meet a few other special requirements. Even if you're not required to file a tax return, there are reasons you may want to file a tax return.
PE per filing status x. = Prorated PE Massachusetts gross income from all sources. A taxpayer who is a Massachusetts resident for part of the year and a nonresident during the same year with Massachusetts source income in excess of $8,000 during the taxable year is required to file a Massachusetts income tax return.
The amount of taxable income after applicable deductions and adjustments determines the rate applied to your particular situation. The rate, as well as the amount, you pay changes as the amount of income does. You must file a tax return if you had net earnings from self-employment of $400 or more. This is your total self-employment income less the expenses paid in operating your trade or business, multiplied by 92.35%.
The IRS recently released the minimum income to file taxes in 2014. For the 2014 tax year, you will need to file taxes if your gross income meets the minimum income for your filing status and age. Here are the minimum income limits for the 2014 tax year.
Whether or not you are required to file a federal income tax return depends on several things: 1  your filing status, 2  your age, 3  your income, 4  your dependency status, and. 5  whether you meet a few other special requirements.
You must file a tax return if you received any amount of advance earned income credit payments from your employer during the year, or if you owe any taxes, such as: Generally, you must file a tax return if you are a nonresident alien with income from sources in the United States.
The minimum income required to file or efile a tax return for Tax Year 2014 depends on your income, age, and filing status. The minimum income levels for the various filing statuses are listed in the table below.