Angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if an area of your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The pain also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. Angina isn't a disease; it's a symptom of an underlying heart problem. Angina usually is a symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD). CHD is the most common type of heart disease in adults
Most people with angina have coronary artery disease, with narrowed arteries due to atherosclerosis. When arteries are narrowed, blood flow to the heart is reduced. There are three types of angina: stable angina, unstable angina, and variant angina, also known as Prinzmetal's angina. Stable angina and unstable angina are the most common
Angina is most often caused by narrowing of the coronary arteries because of atherosclerotic heart disease. There may be one or more arteries that are blocked and the amount of pain or other symptom severity is not necessarily related to the number of blood vessels blocked. Some causes for angina are multifactorial. For example, a patient with atherosclerotic heart disease may become acutely ill or injured, where a fever or anemia may compound the inability of narrowed blood vessels to deliver oxygen to heart muscle cells.
The list of types of Angina mentioned in various sources includes: 1  Stable angina-a regular pattern of angina; the most common type. 2  Unstable angina-a new, irregular or changed pattern of angina. 3  Needs urgent medical attention for possible heart attack or heart disease. 1
Angina is a clinical syndrome characterized by discomfort in the chest shoulder, back, jaw and arms. Symptoms of angina may aggravated by exertion or stress and relieved by administration of nitroglycerin. Angina is a type of chest pain caused by reduced blood flow to the heart muscle. People having uncontrolled hypertension, valvular heart disease, ischemic heart disease or any defect in cardiovascular system are at higher risk to acquire angina
Types of Angina. Angina usually refers to the chest pain caused by the shortage of oxygenated blood in the heart muscles. It is mainly of three types-stable, unstable, and variant angina. Find out more about these three types of angina, and what can cause them, through this Buzzle article. The most common symptoms of this condition are chest pain and discomforts like tightness, squeezing, and heaviness in the chest. Sometimes, the chest pain or discomfort is also accompanied by other symptoms, like pain in the upper abdomen, back, and the neck.
Unstable angina is the second most common angina type. This is a dangerous condition that requires emergency treatment. It occurs more often in older adults and is a sign that a heart attack could occur soon. In fact, 10 to 20 percent of people with unstable angina symptoms will likely have a heart attack. Stable angina is the most common angina type. It can also be referred to as exertional angina. With exertion, like walking up a hill or climbing stairs, the heart works harder and needs more oxygen. If it can't get enough oxygen, a person develops symptoms of angina.
Learn more: Angina is chest pain or discomfort caused when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. It may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The discomfort also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. But, angina is not a disease. 
Different types of angina Five different kinds of angina have been identified, with the two most common being stable angina and unstable angina. Stable angina occurs when the heart has to work harder than normal, during exercise, for example. 