Sugar soap as typically found in Commonwealth countries is a cleaning material of variable composition sold for use on surfaces affected by greasy or tarry deposits which are not easily removed with routine domestic cleaning materials. When in dry powder form it looks like table sugar thus causing the name. 
Sugar soap is called TSP in the US. (It's tri-sodium phosphate) Make sure it does have all 3 types of sodium phosphates, sometimes it doesn't have all of them. Dilute the powder in water according to directions. By LuvMyGingerKids [45]. 
1 An efficient liquid cleaner with a completely different composition to that of Sugar Soap Powder, but designed to work in much the same way. 2  Biodegradable. 3  It is very economical to use – a dilution of half a litre of Sugar Soap Liquid to 5 litres of hot water will clean a large area. 1 It is very economical to use – a dilution of half a litre of Sugar Soap Liquid to 5 litres of hot water will clean a large area. 2  It is a multi-purpose cleaning agent.
Sugar soap is used to clean and prepare walls for painting or wallpapering, and is very useful in cleaning nicotine stains, grease, pet odors, germs and bacteria, sanitizing the interior walls and floorboards of a desired area. Sugar is not an ingredient in sugar soap, but the dry form of some brands of this soap resembles sugar crystals, resulting in the name. In the U.S., a comparable cleaning product is TSP, also known as trisodium phosphate.
Selleys Original Sugar Soap. Selleys Original Sugar Soap is a powerful liquid household cleaner which is effective in removing grease, grime and dirt from household surfaces. It can be diluted with water or used neat. Also recommended for cleaning surfaces prior to painting and wallpapering. 1 Liquid Sugar Soap, as a phosphate based cleaner, can be used as part of lead residue abatement after lead paint removal. 2  Consult the relevant authorities on regulations, requirements and approvals prior to use for this purpose.
In the U.K., Australia, Canada and New Zealand, sugar soap describes a cleanser composed of sodium carbonate, sodium phosphate, and at times sodium silicate as an abrasive, but homemade versions may differ in composition. Sugar is not an ingredient in sugar soap, but the dry form of some brands of this soap resembles sugar crystals, resulting in the name. In the U.S., a comparable cleaning product is TSP, also known as trisodium phosphate.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Sugar soap is a generic name used to describe a popular chemical cleanser and paint priming solution, available in powder and liquid forms. Sugar is not an ingredient in sugar soap, but the dry form of some brands of this soap resembles sugar crystals, resulting in the name. In the U.S., a comparable cleaning product is TSP, also known as trisodium phosphate.