1 Plug your iPod directly to your computer speakers. 2  This method will only work with desktops. 3  Unplug the phono connector of your computer speakers off the computer (it looks like the port at the end of your iPod earphones) and plug it into your iPod. The two ways you could play iPod through you computer include: 1  Plug into a computer and iTunes. 2  With your iPod connected to a computer via the USB cable, open up iTunes and select your iPod off the main directory on the left side of iTunes.
Published on Sep 14, 2012. This Video Explains how you can connect your iPod/MP3 Player to PC Speakers/ Portable Speakers (Speakers that don't need Amplifier). We use MX 1111 EP Stereo to 2 RCA Cable to connect iPod to the speakers. Product Link. http://mdrelectronics.com/SerchResult... MX 3.5mm EP stereo plug to MX Two RCA plug cable specially made for professional RF, audio video, super VHS chrominance and luminance separated transmission. FEATURES. At one end it has MX 3.5mm EP stereo plug and other end it has MX 2 RCA plug. Connector's tip is Gold plated. The cable length is 10 ft. MX RCA cable can be used to connect a variety of audio and video devices such as televisions, satellite or cable receivers, VCR's and game console systems.
1 An iPod can be connected to a surround sound speaker system in the same manner as connecting a pair of stereo speakers, by hooking the audio cable to the main input jack on the surround sound subwoofer. 2  Adjust volume both on the iPod and the computer speakers to the desired level. Tips & Warnings. 1  An iPod can be connected to a surround sound speaker system in the same manner as connecting a pair of stereo speakers, by hooking the audio cable to the main input jack on the surround sound subwoofer. 2  Adjust volume both on the iPod and the computer speakers to the desired level.
Instructions. Plug the cable on the back of the left computer speaker into the output jack on the back of the right speaker. Connect the cable from the right speaker to the iPod phono jack by pushing the plug straight in until it clicks. The phono is located along the top edge of the iPod. Plug the DC power cord into the computer speakers and a wall outlet. The power jack is usually located on the back of the right speaker. Tips & Warnings. 1  An iPod can be connected to a surround sound speaker system in the same manner as connecting a pair of stereo speakers, by hooking the audio cable to the main input jack on the surround sound subwoofer. 2  Adjust volume both on the iPod and the computer speakers to the desired level.
1 You can control the volume through the iTunes volume control on the top-left of the iTunes screen or use your computer speakers' volume dial or buttons. 2  Using the main volume control of your computer will also work. 3  You won't be able to control the iPod or navigate the iPod when it's plugged into iTunes. The two ways you could play iPod through you computer include: 1  Plug into a computer and iTunes. 2  With your iPod connected to a computer via the USB cable, open up iTunes and select your iPod off the main directory on the left side of iTunes.
1 Plug into a computer and iTunes. 2  With your iPod connected to a computer via the USB cable, open up iTunes and select your iPod off the main directory on the left side of iTunes. The two ways you could play iPod through you computer include: 1  Plug into a computer and iTunes. 2  With your iPod connected to a computer via the USB cable, open up iTunes and select your iPod off the main directory on the left side of iTunes.
1 Control your iPod as you would with earphones. 2  Make sure your computer speakers are powered on. 3  You can adjust the volume from your iPod or the computer speakers. 4  There is no need to connect the iPod to the computer when you do this and you get full control of the iPod's menu. The two ways you could play iPod through you computer include: 1  Plug into a computer and iTunes. 2  With your iPod connected to a computer via the USB cable, open up iTunes and select your iPod off the main directory on the left side of iTunes.