A split infinitive is an infinitive that has a word or words appearing between the to and the verb that follows it. Avoid split infinitives by keeping the to and the verb together. To correct a split infinitive, move words such as modifiers to a different location in the sentence. Infinitives and infinitive phrases can function as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs in a sentence. As nouns, infinitives and infinitive phrases can act either as subjects, direct objects, or predicate nominatives.
Infinitive phrases can function as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs. Look at these examples: To finish her shift without spilling another pizza into a customer's lap is Michelle's only goal tonight. To understand the interplay of muscle and bone in the human body functions as an adverb because it explains why Kelvin is taking the class. When an infinitive phrase introduces a main clause, separate the two sentence components with a comma. The pattern looks like this: Infinitive Phrase + , + Main Clause. Read this example: To avoid burning another bag of popcorn, Brendan pressed his nose against the microwave door, sniffing suspiciously. When an infinitive phrase breaks the flow of a main clause, use a comma both before and after the interrupter
An infinitive is a verb form that typically begins with the word to. An infinitive phrase includes the infinitive, plus any modifiers and complements. Infinitives and infinitive phrases can function as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs in a sentence. As nouns, infinitives and infinitive phrases can act either as subjects, direct objects, or predicate nominatives.
Definition: A verbal construction made up of the particle to and the base form of a verb, with or without modifiers, complements, and objects. An infinitive phrase can function as a noun, an adjective, or an adverb, and it can appear in various places in a sentence. See Examples and Observations, below. See also: 1  Infinitive. 2  Infinitive Clause. 3  Catenative Verb. 4  Exercise in Identifying Infinitive Phrases. 5  Passive Infinitive. 6  Split Infinitive. 7  To-Infinitive.
(To dance is the infinitive. It functions as a noun in the sentence, acting as a subject.). To see the northern lights in person is incredible. (To see is the infinitive, and to see the northern lights in person is the infinitive phrase. Infinitives and infinitive phrases can function as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs in a sentence. As nouns, infinitives and infinitive phrases can act either as subjects, direct objects, or predicate nominatives.
An infinitive phrase is the infinitive form of a verb plus any complements and modifiers. The complement of an infinitive verb will often be its direct object, and the modifier will often be an adverb. For example: Here are some examples of infinitive phrases (shaded): An infinitive phrase can play the role of a noun, an adjective, or an adverb. Here are some infinitive phrases (shaded) used as nouns : Here are some infinitive phrases used as adjectives : Here are some infinitive phrases used as adverbs : Most infinitives are preceded by to, but after certain verbs, the to is dropped. In these examples, the infinitive phrases have a bare infinitive (in bold): Bare infinitives also follow other verbs. The main ones are feel, hear, help, let, make, see, and watch. This time, there is a direct object involved.
Actors: In these last two examples the actor of the infinitive phrase could be roughly characterized as the subject of the action or state expressed in the infinitive. It is somewhat misleading to use the word subject, however, since an infinitive phrase is not a full clause with a subject and a finite verb. 1 An infinitive is a verbal consisting of the word to plus a verb; it may be used as a noun, adjective, or adverb. 2  An infinitive phrase consists of an infinitive plus modifier(s), object(s), complement(s), and/or actor(s).
Here are some examples of infinitives that are used as nouns in sentences: 'To run a marathon was Amelia's greatest dream.' Here, the phrase 'to run' is used as the subject of the sentence. 'Monica wanted to score five goals in the soccer game.' In this sentence, 'to score' acts as a direct object. Infinitives as Adjectives. Now, we will take a look at how infinitives can be used as adjectives in sentences. Take a look at these examples: 'Terrence lacked the motivation to succeed.' In this sentence, the phrase 'to succeed' modifies the noun 'motivation' and takes the role of an adjective.
An infinitive phrase uses the to form of a verb, used as a noun (subject, object), a subject complement, an adjective, or an adverb. The infinitive phrase includes the objec … t or modifiers of the infinitive. Examples:To completely relax is often difficult for him. 