Image caption The Kurdish Peshmerga, many of them veterans, are spearheading the defence against IS militants in Iraq. The Peshmerga, whose name translates as those who face death, are the Kurdish fighters in northern Iraq. Many Kurdish fighters were defectors from Saddam Hussein's Iraqi army, and when the Peshmerga united across tribes to claim territory in Iraqi Kurdistan, Saddam Hussein decided to act.
1 Northern Kurdish (Kurmanji) is the largest dialect group, spoken by an estimated 15 to 20 million Kurds in Turkey, Syria, northern Iraq and northwestern Iran. 2  Central Kurdish (Sorani) is spoken by an estimated 6 to 7 million Kurds in much of Iraqi Kurdistan and the Iranian Kurdistan Province. They are generally classified as Northwestern Iranian languages, or by some scholars as intermediate between Northwestern and Southwestern Iranian. Martin van Bruinessen notes that Kurdish has a strong south-western Iranian element, whereas Zaza and Gurani [...] do belong to the north-west Iranian group.
Dozens of fighters-many of them ex-soldiers in the British and America armies-have volunteered to join Kurdish troops battling ISIS in Iraq and Syria in recent months. As many of the Kurdish fighters do not speak English, the foreign soldiers usually form new English-language regiments. These pseudonyms typically include the word 'Heval' which means friend in the Kurdish langauge. There is often confusion in the West about the Kurdish fighters battling ISIS, not least because the Kurdish word for a military force is 'peshmerga', which translates as 'those who confront death'.
Because Kurdish is an Indo-European language, there are many words that are cognates in Kurdish and other Indo-European languages such as Avestan, Persian, Sanskrit, German, English, Norwegian, Latin and Greek. They are generally classified as Northwestern Iranian languages, or by some scholars as intermediate between Northwestern and Southwestern Iranian. Martin van Bruinessen notes that Kurdish has a strong south-western Iranian element, whereas Zaza and Gurani [...] do belong to the north-west Iranian group.
Kurdish (کوردی, Kurdi) kurdî is a continuum Of Northwestern iranian languages spoken by The kurds In Western. asia They are generally classified as Northwestern Iranian languages, or by some scholars as intermediate between Northwestern and Southwestern Iranian. Martin van Bruinessen notes that Kurdish has a strong south-western Iranian element, whereas Zaza and Gurani [...] do belong to the north-west Iranian group.
More Kurds live in Turkey than anywhere else. They are the second-largest ethnic group in Turkey, Iraq, and Syria. They are the third-largest group (after Azerbaijanis) in Iran. Kurds also live in Lebanon, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Germany, and other places across Europe, the United States, Canada, and Australia. Kurdistan is the mountainous area where the borders of Iraq, Iran, and Turkey meet. The average altitude is 6,000 feet (1,950 meters) and much of the land is inaccessible (difficult to reach). For most of their history Kurds have been a part of the Persian and Ottoman empires. (The Persian Empire became modern Iran.
The Kurdish language is related to Persian (or Farsi), the language spoken in Iran. Kurdish, like Persian, has also borrowed many words from the Arabic language. Until 1991, it was illegal to speak Kurdish in Turkey except at home. The skillful use of language is highly valued by Kurds. Kurdistan is the mountainous area where the borders of Iraq, Iran, and Turkey meet. The average altitude is 6,000 feet (1,950 meters) and much of the land is inaccessible (difficult to reach). For most of their history Kurds have been a part of the Persian and Ottoman empires. (The Persian Empire became modern Iran.
1 Many of those who speak a foreign language at home are not immigrants. 2  Of the nearly 62 million foreign-language speakers, 44 percent (27.2 million) were born in the United States. 3  Of those who speak a foreign language at home, 25.1 million (41 percent) told the Census Bureau that they speak English less than very well. The new data show that the number of people who speak a language other than English at home reached an all-time high of 61.8 million, up 2.2 million since 2010. The largest increases from 2010 to 2013 were for speakers of Spanish, Chinese, and Arabic.
Kurdish (کوردی, Kurdi) kurdî is a continuum Of Northwestern iranian languages spoken by The kurds In Western. Asia kurdish forms three dialect groups known As Northern (Kurdish), Kurmanji Central (Kurdish), sorani And Southern (Kurdish). pehlewani They are generally classified as Northwestern Iranian languages, or by some scholars as intermediate between Northwestern and Southwestern Iranian. Martin van Bruinessen notes that Kurdish has a strong south-western Iranian element, whereas Zaza and Gurani [...] do belong to the north-west Iranian group.