Bohemian Rhapsody  is a song by the British rock band Queen. It was written by Freddie Mercury for the band's 1975 studio album A Night at the Opera. It is a six-minute suite, consisting of several sections without a chorus: an intro, a ballad segment, an operatic passage, a hard rock part and a reflective coda. As of 2004, Bohemian Rhapsody is the second most played song on British radio, in clubs and on jukeboxes collectively, after Procol Harum 's  A Whiter Shade of Pale .
This is a BBC Three documentary about the story behind the epic Queen single. The Story of Bohemian Rhapsody documentary Release When the band wanted to release the single in 1975, various executives suggested to them that, at 5 minutes and 55 seconds, it was too long and would never be a hit. In the explanation, Queen states that Bohemian Rhapsody is about a young man who has accidentally killed someone and, like Faust, sold his soul to the devil. On the night before his execution, he calls for God in Arabic, 'Bismillah', and with the help of angels, regains his soul from Shaitan.
When it was released as a single, Bohemian Rhapsody became a commercial success, staying at the top of the UK Singles Chart for nine weeks and selling more than a million copies by the end of January 1976. As of 2004, Bohemian Rhapsody is the second most played song on British radio, in clubs and on jukeboxes collectively, after Procol Harum 's  A Whiter Shade of Pale .
Bohemian Rhapsody  is a song by the British rock band Queen. It was written by Freddie Mercury for the band's 1975 album A Night at the Opera. The song has no chorus, instead consists of several sections: a ballad segment ending with a guitar solo, an operatic passage, and a hard rock section. In the explanation, Queen states that Bohemian Rhapsody is about a young man who has accidentally killed someone and, like Faust, sold his soul to the devil. On the night before his execution, he calls for God in Arabic, 'Bismillah', and with the help of angels, regains his soul from Shaitan.
Freddie Mercury wrote most of Bohemian Rhapsody at his home in Holland Road, Kensington, in west London. Guitarist Brian May says the band thought that Mercury's blueprint for the song was intriguing and original, and worthy of work. In the explanation, Queen states that Bohemian Rhapsody is about a young man who has accidentally killed someone and, like Faust, sold his soul to the devil. On the night before his execution, he calls for God in Arabic, 'Bismillah', and with the help of angels, regains his soul from Shaitan.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: NO it is not based on Freddie with AIDS he was not diagnosed until many years after. From the time Bohemian Rhapsody was released to the public, there has been speculation regarding the meaning behind the song's lyrics. Report Abuse. It's not about Freddie having AIDS, it was written way before that. Freddie was always evasive when asked that question. But, there is this: When the band released a Greatest Hits cassette in Iran a leaflet in farsi was included with translation and explanations of the lyrics. There Queen states that Bohemian Rhapsody is about a young man who has accidentally killed someone and, like Faust, sold his soul to the devil. On the night before his execution he calls for God in Arabic, Bismillah, and with the help of angels regains his soul from Shaitan. Shaitan is the Arabic word for Satan
Although critical reaction was initially mixed, Bohemian Rhapsody remains one of Queen's most popular songs and is frequently placed on modern lists of the greatest songs of all time. The single was accompanied by a promotional video, which many scholars consider ground-breaking. As of 2004, Bohemian Rhapsody is the second most played song on British radio, in clubs and on jukeboxes collectively, after Procol Harum 's  A Whiter Shade of Pale .
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Published on Sep 23, 2013. Read more about The Story and the Making of Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody on ProgRock70s blog: http://prog-rock-70s.blogspot.com/201... Read Queen's biography on ProgRock70s blog: http://prog-rock-70s.blogspot.com/201..