Hambone using your cheeks. Another common hambone technique you can incorporate into your own set of rhythms is the cheek slap, made by slapping your cheeks with the fingertips of both hands. 1  Open your mouth all the way before narrowing your lips into a narrow, rounded opening. 2  Pat your cheeks rapidly using only your fingertips. 1 In terms of the hambone song, you can think of the quarter note as one beat. 2  Strike your leg and hold steady for a mental count of one, representing one beat. 3  For the purpose of learning the basic hambone song, you should use your dominant hand to strike the thigh on the same side of the body.
What is hambone? Well here's an idea: The Juba dance or hambone, originally known as Pattin' Juba, is a style of dance that involves stomping as well as slapping and patting the arms, legs, chest, and cheeks. It is similar to clogging and the jig, and pattin' Juba would be used to keep time for other dances during a walkaround. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a hambone is the bone of a ham, or a slice of ham, or is slang for a person who overacts. An example of a hambone is the white bone in a large slice of ham. (plural hambones). 1  The bone at the center of a ham. ( 2 US slang) A ham; an eager or inferior performer. ( 3 music, dance) A certain type of dance that involves making noise with the body, especially by slapping parts of the body with one's hands.
The hambone is a musical technique that uses the human body as an instrument. While there is a hambone song with specific beats and patterns to follow, as a musical technique, hamboning can be used in other contexts, as well. Keep reading to learn more. 1 In terms of the hambone song, you can think of the quarter note as one beat. 2  Strike your leg and hold steady for a mental count of one, representing one beat. 3  For the purpose of learning the basic hambone song, you should use your dominant hand to strike the thigh on the same side of the body.
The Juba dance or hambone, originally known as Pattin' Juba (Giouba, Haiti: Djouba), is an American style of dance that involves stomping as well as slapping and patting the arms, legs, chest, and cheeks. Pattin' Juba would be used to keep time for other dances during a walkaround. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hambone (Noun). The bone at the center of a ham. hambone (Noun). A ham; an eager or inferior performer. hambone (Noun). A certain type of dance that involves making noise with the body, especially by slapping parts of the body with one's hands. hambone (Noun). 
2. Hambone. A rhythmic knee and chest slapping motion; A dance where you make your own music by slapping your hambone (outer thigh) {*1} then your chest {*2} and your inner thigh (or top thigh) {*3} on the way back down to make a 3 beat rhythm. A Hambone is a term used to describe a Fat Jelly-ass who lives off welfare, is overweight and contributes nothing to society. Ghost: The reason I made the hambone movement is so you idiots can go out and call fatasses hambones all across the world out here
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hambone is a term made up at the start of the 2007-2008 Pro Bowlers Association (USA) season on ESPN by new announcer Rob Stone. Report Abuse. it is four strikes in a row. and i believe it will become known as that rather than the junior two stike award...dont get me wrong i was once and young little kid and am still bowling in juniors...but many people have come to love rob stone and is hambone.
Top Definition. hambone. A Hambone is a term used to describe a Fat Jelly-ass who lives off welfare, is overweight and contributes nothing to society. Ghost: The reason I made the hambone movement is so you idiots can go out and call fatasses hambones all across the world out her