Cracks and fissures are breaks in your skin. They may be the result of skin that is too dry to too moist. When skin is too dry, it can become rough and flaky. A large fissue often forms at the base of the heel. When skin is too moist, you may get a bacterial or fungal infection. This can cause cracks between the toes. WHAT CAUSES CRACKS AND FISSURES Your skin is a complex organ that requires the right amount of moisture to stay healthy. It can be hard to achieve the right balance of moisture in your feet. When skin is too dry or too moist, cracks or fissures may appear.
An anal fissure is a cut or tear occurring in the anus (the opening through which stool passes out of the body) that extends upwards into the anal canal. Fissures are a common condition of the anus and anal canal and are responsible for 6% to 15% of the visits to a colon and rectal (colorectal) surgeon. Fissures usually cause pain during bowel movements that often is severe. Anal fissure is the most common cause of rectal bleeding in infancy. Anal fissures occur in the specialized tissue that lines the anus and anal canal, called anoderm. At a line just inside the anus (referred to as the anal verge or intersphincteric groove) the skin (dermis) of the inner buttocks changes to anoderm
Overview. An anal fissure is a small cut or tear in the skin lining the anus. Childbirth, straining during bowel movements, or bouts of constipation or diarrhea can all tear the anal lining. Anal fissures are usually not a cause for concern and most heal without any medical treatment
An anal fissure (fissure-in-ano) is a small, oval shaped tear in skin that lines the opening of the anus. Fissures typically cause severe pain and bleeding with bowel movements. 
An anal fissure is a cut or a tear in the thin, delicate lining of your anus. The tear often exposes the muscle around the anus, called the anal sphincter. The damage can cause that muscle to spasm, which can pull apart the edges of the fissure even more. 
Knowledge center. An anal fissure is an anal tear, crack or ulcer in the lining of the anal canal-a cut or tear in the anus that extends into the anal canal. It is a common cause of red blood in the stool (feces) and toilet paper. 
Cracked skin is a classic symptom of dry skin, but it can also occur in response to scratches or other trauma, or infection. When the skin dries, it can become rough and flaky, with small tears that can lead to deeper cracks called fissures, which can extend into the deeper layers of the skin. Cracked skin is often accompanied by other symptoms of dry skin, with one symptom often leading to another.