Indiana University Salary. Indiana University average salary is $60,062, median salary is $50,440 with a salary range from $20,136 to $900,000. Indiana University salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Indiana University salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
The salary information is for employees in the Office of the Chancellor, and Bloomsburg, California, Cheyney, Clarion, East Stroudsburg, Edinboro, Indiana, Kutztown, Lock Haven, Mansfield, Millersville, Shippensburg, Slippery Rock and West Chester universities. Unionized faculty at the 14 state-owned universities are hoping that on Wednesday the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education board ratifies its four-year contract proposal, which includes salary increases of 11.5 percent for senior faculty and 19 percent for junior faculty over the four years of the contract.
The Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education provided the following salary information for all of its employees. The data reflect base salary for this year and do not show overtime or any other compensation. Unionized faculty at the 14 state-owned universities are hoping that on Wednesday the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education board ratifies its four-year contract proposal, which includes salary increases of 11.5 percent for senior faculty and 19 percent for junior faculty over the four years of the contract.
169 CONNECT 4 TWEET 1 LINKEDIN 6 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. Search the public employee salary database below to find the total earnings (including base salary, bonuses, etc.) of state and local workers in Central Indiana in 2013. 
Find out why recruiters rank us number one in Bloomberg Businessweek. Preparation is critical to career success. We begin working with students as early as their first year so they'll be ready for the challenges of a diverse, global workplace—just one reason we are consistently highly ranked. 
If you want to sort the salaries from lowest to highest, or group the salaries by university name, click on the column headers to rearrange the data. Note: The data were obtained this week through a Right to Know request filed with the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education's Office of the Chancellor. Unionized faculty at the 14 state-owned universities are hoping that on Wednesday the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education board ratifies its four-year contract proposal, which includes salary increases of 11.5 percent for senior faculty and 19 percent for junior faculty over the four years of the contract.
Williams, MPA student, named IU student trustee. Anna M. Williams has been appointed as student trustee for Indiana University. Williams is on track to graduate in May 2017 with a Master of Public Affairs from SPEA and a Master of European Affairs from the Institute for European Studies.
To search for an employee by name, or to see salary information for just one university, click on the magnifiying glass at the top left of the database below and type in your query. Do not use the word university in the search. Unionized faculty at the 14 state-owned universities are hoping that on Wednesday the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education board ratifies its four-year contract proposal, which includes salary increases of 11.5 percent for senior faculty and 19 percent for junior faculty over the four years of the contract.