View full size image. Infrared radiation is a type of electromagnetic radiation, as are radio waves, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and microwaves. Infrared (IR) light is the part of the EM spectrum that people encounter most in everyday life, although much of it goes unnoticed. It is invisible to human eyes, but people can feel it as heat. IR radiation is one of the three ways heat is transferred from one place to another, the other two being convection and conduction. Everything with a temperature above about 5 degrees Kelvin (minus 450 degrees Fahrenheit or minus 268 degrees Celsius) emits IR radiation.
One of the advantages of IR observation is that it can detect objects that are too cool to emit visible light. This has led to the discovery of previously unknown objects such as comets, asteroids and wispy interstellar dust clouds that seem to be prevalent throughout the entire galaxy. IR radiation is one of the three ways heat is transferred from one place to another, the other two being convection and conduction. Everything with a temperature above about 5 degrees Kelvin (minus 450 degrees Fahrenheit or minus 268 degrees Celsius) emits IR radiation.
Some of the benefits for infrared rays are one, they can penetrate through organic material making you feel heat such as heating pad. Another benefit is that heat therapy where they use infrared rays can increase blood circulation without straining the heart. Another disadvantage is that the signals are short ranged unlike wired transmissions. Finally the speed of the transmission is also slower than the wired transmissions too. Future possibilities is that they want to be able to send cameras to the astonomical world and take good quality pictures using infrared rays.
Infrared (IR) is invisible radiant energy, electromagnetic radiation with longer wavelengths than those of visible light, extending from the nominal red edge of the visible spectrum at 700 nanometers (frequency 430 THz) to 1 mm (300 GHz) (although people can see infrared up to at least 1050 nm in experiments). Infrared radiation extends from the nominal red edge of the visible spectrum at 700 nanometers (nm) to 1 mm. This range of wavelengths corresponds to a frequency range of approximately 430 THz down to 300 GHz. Below infrared is the microwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum.
Infrared (IR) radiation is simply one of the many types of 'light' that comprise the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum. Infrared light is characterized by wavelengths that are longer than visible light (4000-7000 Angstroms, or 0.4 0.7 micrometers; also denoted as microns). Any form of radiation -- including visible light or radio waves -- could potentially be dangerous if highly concentrated into a narrow beam (that is the principle of lasers) of very high power. We are immersed in infrared radiation everyday. It is nothing more than heat.
Infrared light lies between the visible and microwave portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Infrared light has a range of wavelengths, just like visible light has wavelengths that range from red light to violet. Near infrared light is closest in wavelength to visible light and far infrared is closer to the microwave region of the electromagnetic spectrum. In other words, we experience this type of infrared radiation every day in the form of heat! The heat that we feel from sunlight, a fire, a radiator or a warm sidewalk is infrared. The temperature-sensitive nerve endings in our skin can detect the difference between inside body temperature and outside skin temperature.
• how are infrared waves used. Let us first know a little about infrared waves. The wave range for this wave is between 300 Giga hertz and 400 T hertz. These waves are thermal in nature. The everyday heat that we feel by sun is all due to the infrared radiation. 
Since visible imagery is produced by reflected sunlight (radiation), it is only available during daylight. One of the major advantages of visible imagery is that it has a higher resolution (about 0.6 miles) than IR images (about 2.5 miles), so you can distinguish smaller features with VIS imagery. In the infrared (IR) channel, the satellite senses energy as heat. The earths surface absorbs about half of the incoming solar energy. Clouds and the atmosphere absorb a much smaller amount. The earths surface, clouds, and the atmosphere then re-emit part of this absorbed solar
The infrared channel senses this re-emitted radiation. A major advantage of the IR channel is that it can sense energy at night, so this imagery is available 24 hours a day. This is a disadvantage of the visible channel, which requires daylight and cannot see after dark. In the infrared (IR) channel, the satellite senses energy as heat. The earths surface absorbs about half of the incoming solar energy. Clouds and the atmosphere absorb a much smaller amount. The earths surface, clouds, and the atmosphere then re-emit part of this absorbed solar