If you already use another moisturizer like Neutrogena Oil-Free Moisture for Combination Skin or Lotus Herbals Aloehydra or Aroma Magic Hydro Gel, you can use that instead of aloe vera gel in this method. Every day, mix a few drops of glycerin to your aloe vera gel in the palm of your hand and apply to the face. The Glycerin Fortified Moisturizer Method (GFM). You need some non-comedogenic aloe vera gel – Aloe Veda Aloe Vera Gel will do fine. Yes, it smells horrible, like aftershave or something, and not herbal at all, but it is non-comedogenic.
Despite the fact that it is a solvent, high concentrations of glycerin can cause clogged pores on rare occasions. This is usually due to a reaction that leaves the pores constricted and thus more prone to clog. However, glycerin is soluble in both water and alcohol, so clogging is abnormal and quite rare. This can be anything from moisturizer, cleanser, toner, makeup, to hair products and laundry detergent. Anything that touches your skin is a potential clogged pore culprit. Clogged pores can take up to 2 weeks to show up on your skin, so something you used several weeks ago (3-6 weeks) could have caused that reaction.
It was unbelievable! According to my research, it doesn't clog pores. But you must dilute it before putting it on your face! Otherwise it would feel too thick like Elmer's glue! I've been using it for three months now and my skin has gotten noticeably better overall-- the dryness AND my breakouts. 
For some people, “oil-free” moisturizers may be more beneficial, as these types of moisturizers do not contain oils that may clog pores. Glycerin is also used in other skincare products like body lotions, toners and cosmetics. Topically, this ingredient is usually safe for all types of skin. Glycerin. Glycerin is an ingredient that can be found in many beauty products because of its moisture locking properties. It is a form of sugar alcohol that is available naturally in vegetable oils and can also be the byproduct of soap making. Glycerin is a humectant, or hygroscopic in nature.
Steam: This process of cleaning the clogged pores is used mostly in the saloons. It requires you to first conduct a good massage on the entire face and then take steam for 5 minutes from any steamer. After that you can use the pore cleaning tool and get rid of all the blackheads and whiteheads. This can be anything from moisturizer, cleanser, toner, makeup, to hair products and laundry detergent. Anything that touches your skin is a potential clogged pore culprit. Clogged pores can take up to 2 weeks to show up on your skin, so something you used several weeks ago (3-6 weeks) could have caused that reaction.
-Those with normal, dry or sensitive skin can use only rose water to clean their skin. If your pores clog easily(oily skin types) or you don't want to take any risks, I recommend using a mild(gel)cleanser on that area. For those with oily+ sensitive or thin skin is necessary to use a mild cleanser. Avoid any harsh ingredients like SLS-s, fragrances etc. -Evens out skin tone and brightens complexion. 
But there are many products labeled “Non-comedogenic” and “Won’t Clog Pores” and “Hypoallergenic” that have some of the worst ingredients for clogging your pores. Pore Clogging Ingredients. You already know that if you are in the least acne-prone, you never want to put anything on your skin or in your hair that is going to clo
Benefits of glycerin. 1  Humectant – absorbs water from the atmosphere to the skin, preventing skin from drying out. 2  Non-irritant and non-toxic – suitable for sensitive skin and safe for daily use. 3  Non-comedogenic – it does not clog skin’s pores. The Glycerin Fortified Moisturizer Method (GFM). You need some non-comedogenic aloe vera gel – Aloe Veda Aloe Vera Gel will do fine. Yes, it smells horrible, like aftershave or something, and not herbal at all, but it is non-comedogenic.
dry acne prone skin glycerin, glycerin cream acne, glycerin for acne prone skin, glycerin moisturizer pimples, glycerin non-comedodgenic, glycerin safe for acne prone skin, vegetable glycerin in India. © 2015 Acne Mantra. The Glycerin Fortified Moisturizer Method (GFM). You need some non-comedogenic aloe vera gel – Aloe Veda Aloe Vera Gel will do fine. Yes, it smells horrible, like aftershave or something, and not herbal at all, but it is non-comedogenic.