WILLIAM J. DOHERTY. I want to propose a new competition for therapists: awards for the worst experiences doing couples therapy. My own entry would be in the category of worst experience as a new couples therapist in the first session.. It was 26 years ago, but as they say, it feels like yesterday.
The average is about $95. Since most marriage counselors see couples one session a week for the first three months, you can expect to pay about $1200 in that period of time if it's at about $95/hr. www.MarriageMax.com. Family and marriage counseling costs can vary widely. Rates vary from about $75 to $200 per hour, but many therapists offer sliding scale fees based on income, while some accept insurance and some do not. The average cost for marriage and family counseling is about $100 per session.
1 Therefore, if you meet with a counselor twice a week with each session lasting about an hour, your cost will be about $200 a week or $800 a month. 2  Couple’s counseling involves assessment of the issues, discussing of the primary concerns, and working together to find solutions. 1 Although there are many factors that can affect the cost of couples counseling (see below for a list of these factors), the average price ranges from as low as $25 to as much as $200 per hour.
Couple's therapy (or relationship therapy) is a subset of relationship therapy. It may differ from other forms of relationship counseling in various regards including its duration. Short term counseling may be between 1 to 3 sessions whereas long term couples therapy may be between 12 and 24 sessions. 
You want to prepare yourself to answer a few rudimentary questions during that first session. In fact, the whole process is likely similar to one-on-one therapy, which means the therapist will likely ask about your history and expect both of you to be open, somewhat talkative, and honest. Couples therapy, relationship counseling, marriage counseling; whatever name you decide to call it, is never an experience you're likely excited about. It might not be as bad as it sounds though, and if you're a little worried about what might happen, here are a few things you can expect.
It is understood that your first counseling session may be scarier than the problem that is causing you to seek counseling. The first session starts with greetings and then a discussion of confidentiality. Most everything that happens in counseling is confidential. What brought you in to counseling is usually the starting point, so you can start working on your problems right way. Your family history and past will probably be reviewed at this time. You will be asked some open ended questions and given some reflections, observations, feedback and a summary of what you said.
Some people start feeling better right away after just a few sessions, for others it takes longer. The number of sessions depends on your goals, your history, the type of problem, the quality of the client-counselor relationship, and your ability to engage in the process during session and out of the session. The goal is to facilitate the process of meeting your counseling goals. What brought you in to counseling is usually the starting point, so you can start working on your problems right way. Your family history and past will probably be reviewed at this time. You will be asked some open ended questions and given some reflections, observations, feedback and a summary of what you said.
Marriage Counseling Costs. Marriage counseling costs range from $75 for a single one-hour session to $200 or more. Where you live, the experience of the therapist, and the type of setting can all play a factor in how much counseling costs.
Like most things, you can pay a little, or a lot, for couples counseling. Typically, couples counseling costs between $90 and $150 per 45-50 minute meeting. Although there may be some lower cost options available to you if you're willing to work with someone who is still in training and not yet licensed. 