Antibiotics such as cipro 500mg is used to treat different kinds of infection caused by a wide variety of bacteria, like otitis media, sexually transmitted infections, respiratory infections, skin infections, and many others. Older people as well as younger children need to take a dosage lower than cipro 500mg. Adults will have to take cipro 500mg twice a day, for most cases, to attain optimum results.
I&#39;ve got cipro from some of my off shore business trips, and I&#39;ve got a sinus infection. I&#39;m taking over the counter symptom releivers, and rinsing/gargling with warm saltwater, and I&#39;m drinking lots of water and juice, and I&#39;m still miserable. It is becoming an infection (color... Report Abuse. Cipro at a dose of 500 mg twice daily for 10 days is among the best (and it is the best taking into account cost as there is a generic ciprofloxacin) antibiotics for a sinus infection. I get at least 1 sinus infection a year and they are miserable and it does sound as if your diagnosis is correct.
Sinusitis can be treated with cipro 500mg, however this is not generally the first line of choice for treating the infectious disease. Most sinus problems are caused by viral infections. Older people as well as younger children need to take a dosage lower than cipro 500mg. Adults will have to take cipro 500mg twice a day, for most cases, to attain optimum results.
RE: How long does Cipro take to clear up an Ear Infection? I started taking 500mg Cipro 2x daily yesterday, so it has not been 48 hours yet. Fever gone, but the throbbing ear pain has turned into a sometimes sudden stabbing pain, & more popping. I take that as the fluid moving, but when will it clear up so I can hear clearly again? Should I take a...
Remember that cipro 500mg is used to treat bacterial infections only. Although taking cipro 500mg twice a day for 10 days could do the trick, and after a week the infection should be gone. Otherwise you need to see your doctor if the symptoms persist as this could mean that the infection does is not killed with the antibiotic. Older people as well as younger children need to take a dosage lower than cipro 500mg. Adults will have to take cipro 500mg twice a day, for most cases, to attain optimum results.
I was put on cipro for 10 days for sinus infection. 10. Get help from a doctor now ›. Call your doctor: And see if they want to change your antibiotic since new fever. But continue the antibiotic till you talk to them. Get help from a doctor now ›. It depends.: For the average size adult without kidney or liver problems, the appropriate dose for an acute sinus infection (symptoms present for only a week or so) is 500mg twice a day for 7 to 10 days.
I have been taking cipro for 6 days for a sinus infection and see no relief so far. 8. Get help from a doctor now ›. Consult a physician: Sinusitis could be poly microbial. Cipro works for particular type of bacterial (gnr) only. If Cipro does not work, need evaluation by a physician. Get help from a doctor now ›. It depends.: For the average size adult without kidney or liver problems, the appropriate dose for an acute sinus infection (symptoms present for only a week or so) is 500mg twice a day for 7 to 10 days.
Read More. Hello, I have been prescribed cipro (1 a day for 7 days) for a severe sinus /ear infection. I also have a UTI and hve been prescribed macrobid(2 daily for 7 days). Can I take the two antibiotics at the same time. I was told the UTI wouldn't respond to the cipro so I need to take the macrobid for it. Have a Sinus Infection which is causing front/upper tooth pain. Was on Cipro for 3 weeks, along with a dose pak of Pred, Guaifenison & Decon and have been off for 4 days & pain is back. Have been using a Netipot with no relief. I have no insurance, so am trying to avoid another 200+ trip to the Doctor