frame shift mutation. occur as a result of either the insertion of a new base pair or the deletion of a base pair or a block of base pairs from the DNA base sequence; these, unless they occur in 3 or multiples of 3, are most serious in that the message to the right of the frame shift is garbled. point mutation a mutation resulting from a change in a single base pair in the DNA molecule. somatic mutation a genetic mutation occurring in a somatic cell, providing the basis for mosaicism. suppressor mutation the correction of the effect of a mutation at one locus by a mutation at another locus.
Mutation. Definition. noun, plural: mutations. (general). A change in or the process of changing, e.g. nature, form or quality. (genetics). (1) A permanent, heritable change in the nucleotide sequence in a gene or a chromosome; the process in which such a change occurs in a gene or in a chromosome. 
Medical Definition of MUTATION. 1. : a relatively permanent change in hereditary material involving either a physical change in chromosome relations or a biochemical change in the codons that make up genes; also: the process of producing a mutation. 2. : an individual, strain, or trait resulting from mutation
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely. Mutations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.
Mutations. Mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology  all aspects of its life. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life. Mutations are random
genetic mutation - (genetics) any event that changes genetic structure; any alteration in the inherited nucleic acid sequence of the genotype of an organism. 
Definition. A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed. Once the gene has been damaged or changed the mRNA transcribed from that gene will now carry an altered message.
Mutation-definition and types of genetic mutations. Mutation-permanent alterations in the ALLELE pairings, or genes, on the chromosomes that pass on to new cells and ultimately to offspring. Mutations are the process through which genetic change takes place. Some mutations are beneficial, some are neutral, and some are harmful.
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.