Essential Oil of Birch is steam distilled from the bark of Adirondack Birch trees. The oil, while chemically similar to Wintergreen, is definitely a specialty oil -- it is much more difficult to extract than wintergreen, as the bark must be macerated and soaked for up to 12 hours before distillation. Birch and Wintergreen essential oils have the same therapeutic actions, and virtually the same chemical compositions. Though as much of the Wintergreen oil made today is produced on a mass scale, we're offering this wonderful true Adirondack Sweet Birch Bark essential oil.
The health benefits of Birch Essential Oil can be attributed to its properties as a tonic, disinfectant, stimulant, antidepressant, analgesic, detoxifying, antirheumatic, antiarthritic, diuretic, antiseptic, astringent, febrifuge, germicide, insecticide, and depurative substance. Antirheumatic & Anti-Arthritic. Since it stimulates circulatory system and improves circulation, birch oil is very helpful in giving relief in diseases associated with improper circulation such as edema (swelling), rheumatism, and arthritis.
Modern way of producing birch bark tar in a single pot: The birch bark is heated under airtight conditions, the final product consists of tar and the ashes of the bark. Birch tar or birch pitch is a substance (liquid when heated) derived from the dry distillation of the bark of the birch tree. Birch tar oil is an effective repellent of gastropods. The repellent effect lasts about two weeks. The repellent effect of birch tar oil mixed with petroleum jelly applied to a fence lasts up to several months. Birch tar oil is also used in perfumery as a base note to impart leather, tar, smoky, and wintergreen notes.
Antidepressant & Stimulant. Birch Oil is a stimulant by nature. It stimulates the nervous, circulatory, digestive and excretory systems. It also stimulates the endocrine glands that result in more secretions of enzymes and essential hormones. Antirheumatic & Anti-Arthritic. Since it stimulates circulatory system and improves circulation, birch oil is very helpful in giving relief in diseases associated with improper circulation such as edema (swelling), rheumatism, and arthritis.
Birch essential oil (Betula lenta) is a rare and hard to produce oil created from the steam distillation of the wood of the tree. Because of the challenge to sustainably, safely, and frequently harvest, it's difficult to find a quality supplier of this oil. 
North American birch is extracted from the fragrant inner bark and twigs of the tree. Birch oil is the real source of ‘oil of wintergreen’ essential oil, used in chewing gum, breath mints and many quality medicinal products. Therapeutic birch essential oil (Betula lenta) from Be Young is sourced from the U.S.A from an indigenous, wild-crafted state. Birch Oil Benefits. 1  Powerful astringent. 2  Often used in skin tonics. 3  Counter-irritant. 4  Helpful for arthritis, sore or stiff muscles, bruises, and bone and joint pain. 5  Nervous system.
Origin of birch oil. This decorative tree is native to the northern hemisphere and grows up to 15-20 meters in height. It has slender branches, silver-white bark broken into scales and light green oval leaves. Birch oil is extracted from Betula alba (also known as B. alba var. pubescens, B. odorata, verrucosa or pendula), of the Betulaceae family and is also known as European white birch or silver birch.
Extraction. White birch oil is extracted from the leaf-buds by steam distillation. Crude birch tar is extracted by slow destructive distillation from the bark; this is subsequently steam-distilled to yield a rectified birch tar oil. Birch oil is extracted from Betula alba (also known as B. alba var. pubescens, B. odorata, verrucosa or pendula), of the Betulaceae family and is also known as European white birch or silver birch.
1 Birch-tar or Russian oil extracted from birch bark is thermoplastic and waterproof; it was used as a glue on, for example, arrows, and also for medicinal purposes. 2  Fragrant twigs of silver birch are used in saunas to relax the muscles. 
Birch bark tar is not made from the sap of birch trees like birch syrup. It is made from just birch bark heated in a oven with little air, much like charcoal. The birch bark oil, mostly betulum, will sweat out of the bark and run to the bottom of your oven. 