ORIGIN AND HISTORY. To say that the French Bulldog is a purely French breed is a bit of a misnomer. Bulldogs were at the height of their popularity in England the 1860s, and small varieties of that breed were especially popular in the lace-making region of the English midlands. 
In the USA, French bulldogs moved up to be the ninth most popular AKC registered dog breed by 2014. This new bulldog breed arrived for the first time in England in 1893, with English Bulldog breeds in uproar as the French imports did not meet the new breed standards in place by this time and wanted to prevent the English stock from cross-breeding with the French.
The French Bulldog is a small breed of domestic dog. Frenchies were the result in the 1800s of a cross between bulldog ancestors imported from England and local ratters in Paris, France. This new bulldog breed arrived for the first time in England in 1893, with English Bulldog breeds in uproar as the French imports did not meet the new breed standards in place by this time and wanted to prevent the English stock from cross-breeding with the French.
Bat-eared but oddly beautiful, the French Bulldog has a unique appeal. Aesthetically, other breeds undeniably are more glamorous and showy, but beauty is in the eye of the beholder and what many behold in the French Bulldog are the attributes that make this breed one of the best companion dogs in the world today. 1 French Bulldogs can be easy to train, but they can also be stubborn. 2  Be firm and patient when training this breed. 3  If you value cleanliness the French Bulldog may not be the dog for you, since he is prone to drooling, flatulence and some shedding. 4  He can also be difficult to housetrain.
History of the French Bulldog Breed. In discussing the history of the French Bulldog, we should note the importance of three countries: England, France and America. England provided the foundation for our modern Frenchie: the old bulldog. Most of the British wanted nothing to do with these French bulldogs so it was the French who were guardians of the breed until later in the 19th century. They developed a more uniform breed—a dog with a compact body, straight legs, but without the extreme underjaw of the English Bulldog.
The modern French Bulldog breed descends directly from the dogs of the Molossians, an ancient Greek tribe. The dogs were spread throughout the ancient world by Phoenician traders. British Molossian dogs were developed into the Mastiff. This new bulldog breed arrived for the first time in England in 1893, with English Bulldog breeds in uproar as the French imports did not meet the new breed standards in place by this time and wanted to prevent the English stock from cross-breeding with the French.
The French Bulldog is a small energetic breed. They have large, rounded, bat like ears and a square flat head, similar to that of a English Bulldog but smaller. Their skin is quite soft making them very appealing to pet. Character. The French Bulldog has a very even and pleasant temperament, which makes him a perfect candidate for a household companion. French Bulldogs are very playful, yet some males may be dog aggressive. This breed gets along well with most other animals, and does best with older children.