1 One of the best ways to keep you slate floors looking their best is to apply sealant. 2  Stone and Tile Sealant can be found at most stone/tile retailers. 3  You should apply two or three coats of the sealant, following the directions on the label, but waiting at least 30 minutes between coats. 1 Sweep floor thoroughly to remove loose debris. 2  Go over floor with a dust mop to pick up fine debris and particles, moving mop in the same direction—avoid back-and-forth sweeping motion. 3  Fill bucket with 1 gallon of warm water and add about 1/4 capful of detergent. 4  Dip mop in cleaning solution and wring thoroughly.
1 Clean a heavily soiled floor with mild detergent or slate cleaner. 2  Mix 1/8 cup (25 ml) of mild detergent in 1 gallon (3.78 liters) of water, or follow the directions on the slate cleaner container. 3  Plunge the mop into the bucket and wring the mop thoroughly to remove excess water. 1 Mix 1/8 cup (25 ml) of mild detergent in 1 gallon (3.78 liters) of water, or follow the directions on the slate cleaner container. 2  Plunge the mop into the bucket and wring the mop thoroughly to remove excess water. 3  Mop the floor, making sure to clean all areas, including along the baseboard.
Wet mop the floor with just water and no cleansers, unless the floor is badly soiled. 1  Clean a heavily soiled floor with mild detergent or slate cleaner. 2  Mix 1/8 cup (25 ml) of mild detergent in 1 gallon (3.78 liters) of water, or follow the directions on the slate cleaner container. 1 Mix 1/8 cup (25 ml) of mild detergent in 1 gallon (3.78 liters) of water, or follow the directions on the slate cleaner container. 2  Plunge the mop into the bucket and wring the mop thoroughly to remove excess water. 3  Mop the floor, making sure to clean all areas, including along the baseboard.
1 Avoid rubber-backed mats on slate floors as the rubber may stick to or damage the slate. 2  It’s okay to vacuum a slate floor, but you must use ONLY a soft brush attachment and you must be very careful not to bang or jerk the vacuum cleaner on the floor as it may cause chipping, scratches, or other damages. 1 Sweep floor thoroughly to remove loose debris. 2  Go over floor with a dust mop to pick up fine debris and particles, moving mop in the same direction—avoid back-and-forth sweeping motion. 3  Fill bucket with 1 gallon of warm water and add about 1/4 capful of detergent. 4  Dip mop in cleaning solution and wring thoroughly.
To tell if your floor needs to be resealed, put a drop or two of water on the stone; if it beads, then the seal is still intact, if it is absorbed, then you should reseal the floor. How to seal your slate floor. 
Deborah Butler, Brickwood Builders. You should go to a local tile store (take a piece of tile with you) and ask them to help you select sealers and cleaners that are intended for slate. Ask also how to maintain the floors over time (resealing, etc.) so that you can keep them looking nice. Slate is an expensive product. You absolutely need a sealer for stone and never use Murphy's oil on non varnished floors, you are going to have some trouble !..Sealer is the best, cleaning is easy with a mop and soft soap.
Synthetic Detergents. To maintain a slate floor, it should be kept clean like any other floor, scrubbing as necessary and mopping between times. To scrub a cleft floor, use a strong solution of floor detergent. Spread it over the surface and let it stand for several minutes. The Care of Slate Floors. Because Natural Slate is practically immune to all common chemicals, it is probably the least exacting of floors in the matter of maintenance. Any of the usual cleaners may be used on slate with safety, though strong alkaline solutions or acids may affect the grout joint.
Warnings. 1  Do not use rubber-backed rugs or mats on slate floors as the rubber may damage the floor. 2  Do not use cleaner with acid in it. 3  Note that vinegar is acidic. 4  Some laundry detergents are environmentally friendly and work well on slate floors. 5  Do not use an oil-based dust mop. 1 Mix 1/8 cup (25 ml) of mild detergent in 1 gallon (3.78 liters) of water, or follow the directions on the slate cleaner container. 2  Plunge the mop into the bucket and wring the mop thoroughly to remove excess water. 3  Mop the floor, making sure to clean all areas, including along the baseboard.
No matter how well you take care of your flooring, it will need regular cleaning. Cleaning slate floors is easy, however, and only takes a few simple steps. 1  Sweep the floor first to loosen any debris, or vacuum the floor with a soft bristle attachment or vacuum designed for stone floors. In most cases, however, it is not the slate that will stain, but the grout between individual tiles. How you clean that grout depends on whether it is colored or non-colored. A sealer can keep floors cleaner. For colored grout, always test cleaners in an inconspicuous area before using them on the stain.