Melbourne Region Waterwatch Program. The Melbourne Region is one of the most biologically diverse in Victoria. Located at the boundary of four of Australia's 80 major bioregions, it supports a wide variety of native plant and animal communities. The Melbourne Region is one of the most biologically diverse in Victoria. Located at the boundary of four of Australia's 80 major bioregions...
It was named Melbourne by the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard Bourke, in honour of the British Prime Minister of the day, William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne. It was officially declared a city by Queen Victoria in 1847, after which it became the capital of the newly founded colony of Victoria in 1851. The metropolis is located on the large natural bay of Port Phillip and expands into the hinterlands toward the Dandenong and Macedon mountain ranges, Mornington Peninsula and Yarra Valley. Melbourne consists of 31 municipalities. It has a population of 4,442,918 as of 2014, and its inhabitants are called Melburnians.
The City of Melbourne is a local government area in Victoria, Australia, located in the central city area of Melbourne. The city has an area of 36 square kilometres (14 sq mi) and had a population of 127,742 people in 2015. The city's motto is  Vires acquirit eundo  which means She gathers strength as she goes.. 
Melbourne Region. The city of Melbourne has a large network of railway lines, for both suburban passenger, interurban and intercity passenger, and freight services. A number of goods only lines also exist, in addition to a large number of open and closed goods sidings and branch lines. 
Play Melbourne. A packed agenda of food, wine, sports and arts is your introduction to the best of Melbourne – from its creative, exciting city centre, to its buzzing neighbourhood hubs. It's the gateway to Victoria's world-class wineries, natural springs, peninsulas, spectacular coastline and alpine villages. 
Facts about Victoria. Around 5.6 million people live in Victoria, the second largest population of any state in Australia. More than 70 percent of Victorians live in Melbourne, that state's capital city. Melbourne, the capital of Victoria, consistently ranks highly in international research on liveable cities. Victoria is Australia's smallest mainland state-so regional centres are all within easy reach
The North and West Metropolitan Region covering the northern and western suburbs of Melbourne is the most populous and diverse region spanning from the Melbourne CBD to the outer northern and western suburbs. 
Melbourne /ˈmɛlbərn/ is the capital and most populous city in the Australian state of Victoria, and the second most populous city in Australia and Oceania. The metropolis is located on the large natural bay of Port Phillip and expands into the hinterlands toward the Dandenong and Macedon mountain ranges, Mornington Peninsula and Yarra Valley. Melbourne consists of 31 municipalities. It has a population of 4,442,918 as of 2014, and its inhabitants are called Melburnians.
Melbourne's major bayside beaches are located in the south-eastern suburbs along the shores of Port Phillip Bay, in areas like Port Melbourne, Albert Park, St Kilda, Elwood, Brighton, Sandringham, Mentone and Frankston although there are beaches in the western suburbs of Altona and Williamstown. The metropolis is located on the large natural bay of Port Phillip and expands into the hinterlands toward the Dandenong and Macedon mountain ranges, Mornington Peninsula and Yarra Valley. Melbourne consists of 31 municipalities. It has a population of 4,442,918 as of 2014, and its inhabitants are called Melburnians.