Naloxone is an special narcotic drug that reverses the effects of other narcotic medicines. Naloxone is used to reverse the effects of narcotic drugs used during surgery or to treat pain. Naloxone may also be used to treat narcotic drug overdose or to diagnose narcotic drug addiction. Naloxone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
In this article. A medication called naloxone can reverse the effects of an overdose of heroin or some types of painkillers. Paramedics and emergency room doctors have used it for years to save lives. Naloxone blocks the effects of drugs made from opium, or opioids. These include: 1  heroin. 2  morphine. 3  oxycodone. 4  methadone. 5  fentanyl. 6  hydrocodone. 7  codeine. 8  hydromorphone.
Naloxone, also known as Narcan among other names, is a medication used to reverse the effects of opioids especially in overdose. Naloxone may be combined within the same pill as an opioid to decrease the risk of misuse. When given intravenously it works within two minutes and when injected into a muscle it works within five minutes. The medication may also be used in the nose. The effects of naloxone last about half an hour to an hour.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/29/2015. Narcan (naloxone) is an opioid antagonist and is used for the complete or partial reversal of opioid overdose, including respiratory depression. It is also used for diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdose and also for blood pressure support in septic shock. NARCAN (naloxone) is an opioid antagonist. Physical dependence associated with the use of NARCAN (naloxone) has not been reported. Tolerance to the opioid antagonist effect of NARCAN (naloxone) is not known to occur.
Reversal Agents and Other Sedative Agents. The advantages to using narcotics and the benzodiazapines is that there are specific reversal agents for both those classes of drugs. For the narcotics, the reversal agent is naloxone or narcan, and for the benzodiazapines the reversal agent is flumazinal or rumazicon. 
Narcan is available as a generic termed naloxone. Common side effects of Narcan are flushing, dizziness, tiredness, weakness, nervousness, restlessness, irritability, body aches, diarrhea, stomach pain, nausea, fever, chills, goosebumps, sneezing, shortness of breath, or runny nose. NARCAN (naloxone) is an opioid antagonist. Physical dependence associated with the use of NARCAN (naloxone) has not been reported. Tolerance to the opioid antagonist effect of NARCAN (naloxone) is not known to occur.
Complete or Partial Reversal of Opioid Depression. NARCAN (naloxone) prevents or reverses the effects of opioids including respiratory depression, sedation and hypotension. Also, NARCAN (naloxone) can reverse the psychotomimetic and dysphoric effects of agonist-antagonists such as pentazocine. 
Naloxone is a pure opioid antagonist. It works by reversing the depression of the central nervous system and respiratory system caused by opioids. Naloxone was patented in 1961 by Jack Fishman, Mozes J. Lewenstein, and the company Sankyo. The drug was approved for opioid overdose by Food and Drug Administration in 1971. Naloxone may be combined within the same pill as an opioid to decrease the risk of misuse. When given intravenously it works within two minutes and when injected into a muscle it works within five minutes. The medication may also be used in the nose. The effects of naloxone last about half an hour to an hour.
1 Review. Naloxone is an special narcotic drug that reverses the effects of other narcotic medicines. Naloxone is used to reverse the effects of narcotic drugs used during surgery or to treat pain. Naloxone may also be used to treat narcotic drug overdose or to diagnose narcotic drug addiction. Naloxone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Narcan™ (naloxone) is an opiate antidote. Opioids include heroin and prescription pain pills like morphine, codeine, oxycodone, methadone and Vicodin. When a person is overdosing on an opioid, breathing can slow down or stop and it can very hard to wake them from this state. If a person has taken opioids and is then given Narcan™ (naloxone), the opioids will be knocked out of the opiate receptors in the brain. Narcan™ (naloxone) can help even if opioids are taken with alcohol or other drugs.