Battle of Bushy Run: August 5-6, 1763 The defeat at Bushy Run was the beginning of the end for Pontiac's Rebellion. One Mile to Bushy Run Station by Robert Griffing. Timeline of Pontiac's Rebellion 1763-1766. Included are events that took place before Pontiac's Rebellion and might be of interest in this context.
The Path to the American Revolution ~~~~~ PONTIAC'S REBELLION. TOOK PLACE IN August 1763 in The Ohio River Valley along the Appalachian Mountains. ~~~~~. In August of 1763, after the French-Indian War, an Ottawa Indian chief named Pontiac went to other Indian chiefs along the Ohio River Valley to start a rebellion.
Pontiac’s Rebellion. 19th Century depiction of Chief Pontiac. Photo by: Jeangagnon Creative Commons. Pontiac’s Rebellion was actually a war executed by elements belonging to a loose confederation of various Native American tribes of the Great Lakes Region, the Ohio and Illinois countries back in 1763. The war was named after Pontiac, the most prominent leader among the natives.
While Pontiac and the Ottawas did win a battle against the British, they were never able take Fort Detroit. The British, eager to put an end to the rebellion, negotiated with Chief Pontiac for peace. In 1766, Chief Pontiac and Sir William Johnson, the British Superintendent of Indian Affairs, agreed to end the fighting.
Pontiac's Rebellion occured when the white settlers were preparing to travel west. In attempts to protect his land from the settlers, however, in doing this, he caught the settlers unaware and destroyed a number of British posts.
On this day in 1763, Major Henry Gladwin, British commander of Fort Detroit, foils Ottawa Chief Pontiac’s attempt at a surprise attack. Romantic lore holds that Gladwin’s Seneca mistress informed him of the western Indians’ plans for an uprising.
Pontiac’s Rebellion begins when a confederacy of Native American warriors under Ottawa chief Pontiac attacks the British force at Detroit.
King George III wanted to end Pontiac's rebellion so he issued a proclamation that gave all the land west of the Appalachians to the Indians. This proclamation helped bring peace to the Ohio River Valley.