From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bell pepper, also known as sweet pepper or a pepper (in the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland) and capsicum /ˈkaepsɨkəm/ (ˈkæpsɨkəm In, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Australia singapore And New), zealand is a cultivar group of the Species capsicum. annuum Peppers are native to Mexico, Central America and northern South America. The ribs and seeds inside bell peppers may be consumed, but some find the taste to be bitter. Pepper seeds were carried to Spain in 1493 and from there spread to other European, African and Asian countries.
Pepper(s) / Pimienta(s) / Pebre Pepper, the condiment, is a spice made by grinding the dried berry of a plant called Piper nigrum. This vine, which can grow up to ten feet tall, is indigenous to Asia, and nowadays grown mainly in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Brazil. 
The bell pepper is called パプリカ (papurika) or ピーマン (piiman, from Spanish pimento and Portuguese pimentao) pimentão In. Japan paprika also refers to the powdered spice made from the fruits in The capsicum. Genus In switzerland it is mostly called, peperoni which is The italian name of the. fruit Peppers are native to Mexico, Central America and northern South America. The ribs and seeds inside bell peppers may be consumed, but some find the taste to be bitter. Pepper seeds were carried to Spain in 1493 and from there spread to other European, African and Asian countries.
T he word pepper refers to members of the genus Capsicum, which includes hot varieties, also known as chile peppers, and sweet varieties, such as the bell pepper. Up until the arrival of Spanish and Portuguese explorers in the New World, peppers grew only in Latin America. And remember: Always protect your skin by wearing gloves when handling hot peppers. Alternate Names: Green pepper, red pepper, sweet bell pepper, capsicum. Characteristics: Relatively large in size, the bell-shaped pepper in its immature state is green with a slightly bitter flavor.
While the bell pepper is a member of the Capsicum genus, it is the only Capsicum that does not produce capsaicin, a lipophilic chemical that can cause a strong burning sensation when it comes in contact with mucous membranes. Peppers are native to Mexico, Central America and northern South America. The ribs and seeds inside bell peppers may be consumed, but some find the taste to be bitter. Pepper seeds were carried to Spain in 1493 and from there spread to other European, African and Asian countries.
Capsicum /ˈkaepsɨkəm/ (ˈkæpsɨkəm also known as) peppers is a genus of flowering plants in the nightshade Family. Solanaceae its species are native to The, americas where they have been cultivated for thousands of. Years in modern, times it is cultivated, worldwide and has become a key element in many regional. cuisines In Spanish-speaking countries, many different names are used for the varieties and preparations. In Mexico, the term chile is used for hot peppers, while the heatless varieties are called pimiento (the masculine form of the word for pepper, which is pimienta).
In British and Canadian English, the fruit is simply referred to as a pepper, or additionally by color (as in the term green pepper, for example), whereas in the United States and Malaysia, they are usually referred to as bell peppers. Peppers are native to Mexico, Central America and northern South America. The ribs and seeds inside bell peppers may be consumed, but some find the taste to be bitter. Pepper seeds were carried to Spain in 1493 and from there spread to other European, African and Asian countries.
Hello, SpanishDict Forumn! I have a question about the Spanish translation of the English word bellpepper. The dictionary on this website does not have an entry for this word, so I was wondering if you all could help me out. I have heard several words used for bellpepper, such as: 1  Chile campana. 2  Chile morron. 3  Morrón chile. 4  Dulce pimiento. 5  Dulce.  campana
The piquant (spicy) varieties are commonly called chili peppers, or simply chillies. The large, mild form is called red pepper, green pepper, or bell pepper in North America and United Kingdom and typically just capsicum in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore and India. In Spanish-speaking countries, many different names are used for the varieties and preparations. In Mexico, the term chile is used for hot peppers, while the heatless varieties are called pimiento (the masculine form of the word for pepper, which is pimienta).
A wonderful combination of tangy taste and crunchy texture, sweet bell peppers are the Christmas ornaments of the vegetable world with their beautifully shaped glossy exterior that comes in a wide array of vivid colors ranging from green, red, yellow, orange, purple, brown to black. 