That s because blood donations reduce the amount of iron in your blood. And when excess iron in the blood oxidizes, it damages artery walls and spurs the growth of tumors. It burns as many calories as an hour of Spin class. Certainly, nobody recommends blood donation as a weight-loss tool. Especially since you can only donate once every two months, because of the wear and tear on your blood-producing systems. But University of California researchers estimate that your body burns about 650 calories replacing every pint of blood you donate. 
When you donate, you’ll be losing a pint of blood, which weighs about a pound. However, don’t expect to notice any difference in the way your clothes fit. Your weight will quickly rebound as you drink the fluids recommended following a donation and nibble on a snack to keep you feeling well. If you’ve recently lost a lot of weight or you’re just naturally thin, you may not be eligible to donate blood. The American Red Cross requires donors to weigh at least 110 pounds. It notes that additional weight requirements apply to donors age 18 and younger and to all high school donors.
To ensure the safety of blood donation for both donors and recipients, all volunteer blood donors must be evaluated to determine their eligibility to give blood. The final determination will be made on the day of the donation at the blood drive or blood donation center. If you were deferred from donating in the past, you may be able to donate again. Please call 1-800-RED CROSS (1-800-733-2767) for more information. Important note to users. 
How much do you have to weigh to donate blood? The minimum weight for donating whole blood is 110 lbs. There is no maximum limit. If you are female and donating double red blood cells, you must be 5 5 tall and weigh 150 lbs. if you are a male and donating double red blood cells, you must be 5 1 tall and weigh 130 lbs. 
People burn approximately 650 calories per donation of one pint of blood, according to the University of California, San Diego. A donor who regularly donates blood can lose a significant amount of weight, but it should not be thought of as a weight loss plan by any means. To donate blood the American Red Cross requires donors to weigh at least 110 pounds and maintain healthy iron levels in the body. Whole blood donors can also donate platelets 72 hours after a whole blood donation, and vice versa. Blood donors must be 17 years old in most states, with some states lowering the limit to 16 years old with parental consent.
Very droll, doc. But let's quit the kidding. According to the American Red Cross, People in good health who weigh at least 110 pounds can donate a unit of blood as often as every eight weeks.. That means you can donate about six times per year. One pound of body weight equals 3,500 calories. Perhaps blood donation could be promoted as one way to lose a bit of unwanted weight. Taking into account the composition and energy in each component … I estimated that one unit of blood reflects about 600 cal of food intake. Hence, a single donation can off-set either 2 hamburgers, 3 donuts, or 5 granola bars.
Donating blood is often described as giving the gift of life. While you may lose a little weight and burn some calories during a donation, giving blood should not be thought of as a weight loss tool. Think of it as a chance to help others in need. You must meet certain eligibility requirements before giving, and it's important to eat well before your donation. If you’ve recently lost a lot of weight or you’re just naturally thin, you may not be eligible to donate blood. The American Red Cross requires donors to weigh at least 110 pounds. It notes that additional weight requirements apply to donors age 18 and younger and to all high school donors.
Who can donate? Generally, plasma donors must be 18 years of age and weigh at least 110 pounds (50kg). All individuals must pass two separate medical examinations, a medical history screening and testing for transmissible viruses, before their donated plasma can be used to manufacture plasma protein therapies. 
you loose as much weight as the amount of blood you donated weighed. it takes a few weeks for you to regain all (most likely about a pint) of that blood. donating blood … is not a weight loss tool. Current FDA guidelines require volunteer blood donors weigh a  minimum of 110 lbs (50 Kg). However, many blood collection centers  use Body Mass Index to determine donor eli … gibility. This is in  response to studies showing an increase in post-donation reactions  in smaller weight donors.