All of our salmon, except kippered salmon, is cold smoked. This is a slow and exacting process in which the fish is carefully infused with a secret blend of wood essences in a special oven where the temperature never rises above 83 degrees Fahrenheit. This traditional process creates the silkiness of smoked salmon. Kippered Salmon. Also called baked salmon, kippered salmon is an appetizing classic. The special hot-smoking process imparts an incredibly moist texture and rich flavor. Try kippered salmon along with any of our cold-smoked salmon for two totally different, though equally delicious, experiences. $33.00/lb
1 qt water. 2 1/4 oz applewood smoked salt. 2 oz sugar. 1 tsp cracked black peppercorns. 2 1/2 lb top-quality, fatty salmon fillet, thick part (about 1 1/2″ thick), skin on. 1  Process the water, smoked salt, sugar and peppercorns in a blender until the salt is dissolved. 1 Place the salmon fillet in a baking pan, and place that baking pan in a larger one that you fill with water. 2  Cook in a 200 F oven for 2 hours, then let cool. 3  Wipe off some of the coagulated white proteins with paper towels, and refrigerate.
Kippered salmon is traditionally prepared using a hot-smoking process, resulting in a flaky, juicy piece of fish similar to baked salmon, but with a smoky flavor. Here I propose a more urban version. 1 Place the salmon fillet in a baking pan, and place that baking pan in a larger one that you fill with water. 2  Cook in a 200 F oven for 2 hours, then let cool. 3  Wipe off some of the coagulated white proteins with paper towels, and refrigerate.
Hot-smoked salmon is cooked in the process of smoking, whereas cold-smoked salmon (like Lox) is cold-smoked, with the product never exceeding 85° F. Hot-smoking accomplishes two ends: (1) flavoring and preserving the fish with smoke, and (2) cooking it just until the flesh is denatured, or opaque. 
Kippered Salmon is smoked at a higher temperature than smoked salmon, around 180 F (82 C.). The hot smoke makes the salmon more flaky and taste more cooked. It's also called hot smoked salmon, referring to the temperature. It is eaten as sold, no further cooking is done. 
Kippered split herring. A kipper is a whole herring, a small, oily fish, that has been split in butterfly fashion from tail to head along the dorsal ridge, gutted, salted or pickled, and cold-smoked over smouldering woodchips (typically oak).
Kippered usually refers to a style of food preparation involving herring, salmon or some other fish. In most cases people are referring to a herring, which is a small oil fish. Kippered fish itself is not going to hurt you. However salmon or herring prepared this way is more susceptible to Listeria, which would be devastating to your baby. Kippered salmon or herring left out to dry is more vulnerable to Listeria than the salmon or herring kippered through smoke.
2 salmon fillets (about 2 lbs. each). 4 tsp. salt. Pepper to taste. 2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. brown sugar. 2 tbsp. liquid smoke. Place fillets skin side down, side by side, in a greased shallow baking pan. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and brown sugar; drizzle with liquid smoke. Cover and refrigerate 4-8 hours. Drain any liquid.
Pre-packed Kippered Salmon (12014). Acme’s hot smoked salmon is bursting with rich flavors steeped in tradition. Our Atlantic kippered salmon, also known as baked salmon, is ideally portioned to be the center of plate or the perfect complement to any recipe. Find this product at a store near you.