Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). Mexico is a nation with a huge linguistic diversity. Spanish is the de-facto language (meaning Mexico does not have any official language) spoken by 92.7% of the Mexican population. Panama and Mexico are two different countries. Spanish is the official language of both countries, but many other languages are spoken. Here are the 14 languages of Panama: … 1. Buglere 2. Chinese, Hakka 3. Chinese, Yue 4. Embera, Emberá northern. 5-Embera emberá. Catio catío. 6 epena 7
Another indigenous language, Kiliwa, is spoken by only 36 people. While 60 of Mexico's native tongues are at risk, 21 are critically endangered, with only a few elderly speakers left, according to a statement released recently by Mexico's Centre of Research and Higher Studies in Social Anthropology (CIESAS). 
Mexican Spanish (Spanish: espanol español) mexicano is a set of varieties of The spanish language as spoken In mexico and in some parts of The United states And, canada where there are communities Of hispanic origin influenced By North American-spanish speaking. media Mexican Spanish (Spanish: espanol español) mexicano is a set of varieties of The spanish language as spoken In mexico and in some parts of The United states And, canada where there are communities Of hispanic origin influenced By North American-spanish speaking. Media spanish was brought To mexico in the 16th. century
For the Indigenous language sometimes called Mexicano or The Mexican language, see Nahuatl. Several different languages are spoken in Mexico, with a large majority of the population fluent in Spanish while some indigenous Mexicans are monolingual in indigenous languages. German (spoken mainly in Mexico City and Puebla), Arabic, Venetian (in Chipilo), Italian, French, Occitan, Catalan, Basque, Galician, Asturian, Filipino, Chinese, Hebrew, Korean, Ladino, Plautdietsch, Armenian, Japanese, Cherokee and other languages are spoken by smaller numbers.
There are also many non-indigenous languages spoken in Mexico, the most important being English-spoken by English-speaking immigrants, many residents on the northern border states of Mexico and many people who use it on a daily basis for business and tourism activities. Panama and Mexico are two different countries. Spanish is the official language of both countries, but many other languages are spoken. Here are the 14 languages of Panama: … 1. Buglere 2. Chinese, Hakka 3. Chinese, Yue 4. Embera, Emberá northern. 5-Embera emberá. Catio catío. 6 epena 7
Shutterstock. No, Latinos don’t speak “Mexican,” and Mexicans don’t all speak Spanish. The City University of New York’s Institute of Mexican Studies is hosting a workshop today called “Mexico’s Forgotten Languages,” to educate others on the diversity of languages spoken in Mexican communities in the U.S. 
A related group of indigenous Mesoamerica languages spoken by Mexican Zapotec natives comprises the fourth most common Mexican language. Roughly 500,000 people, found primarily in the states of Oaxaca, Puebla and Guerrero, speak Zapotec, although there is no one Zapotec language. The third most common Mexican language after Nahuatl is Yucatec Maya, a Mayan language spoken by approximately 800,000 indigenous peoples in the Mexican states of Yucatan, Campeche and Quintana Roo.
Mexico is a nation with a huge linguistic diversity. In addition to Spanish, the defacto language spoken by 92.7% of the Mexican population, 63 Amerindian languages are recognized as national languages; these include Nahuatl, Yucatec Maya, Mixtec, Zapotec, Tzeltal Maya, Tzotzil Maya and Otomi. Panama and Mexico are two different countries. Spanish is the official language of both countries, but many other languages are spoken. Here are the 14 languages of Panama: … 1. Buglere 2. Chinese, Hakka 3. Chinese, Yue 4. Embera, Emberá northern. 5-Embera emberá. Catio catío. 6, Epena 7. kuna border 8
Mixtec is a language family, comprised of the Trique and Cuicatec languages, plus some variations, and is spoken by approximately 550,000 Mexican people. With this language of Mexico, speakers are found primarily in the states of Oaxaca, Puebla and Guerrero, but Mixtec can also be heard in some urban areas. The third most common Mexican language after Nahuatl is Yucatec Maya, a Mayan language spoken by approximately 800,000 indigenous peoples in the Mexican states of Yucatan, Campeche and Quintana Roo.