But on the same side the organ is an important organ in keeping the body clean and healthy. 9.Kidney. Most people know that a major function of the kidneys is to remove waste products and excess fluid from the body. These waste products and excess fluid are removed through the urine. 
Most people know that a major function of the kidneys is to remove waste products and excess fluid from the body. These waste products and excess fluid are removed through the urine. 
Function: To make urine from waste products and excess water found in your blood. Balancing your blood. For your body to work properly, the conditions inside it, such as water, pH and salt levels, need to be kept constant. Your kidneys play a vital role in keeping your blood composition constant. They filter your blood to remove excess water and waste products, which are secreted from your kidneys as urine. One quarter of your blood supply passes through your kidneys every minute. It enters your kidney and is distributed to minute filtration units known as nephrons. 
The excretory system is a system of organs that removes waste products from the body. When cells in the body break down proteins (large molecules that are essential to the structure and functioning of all living cells), they produce wastes such as urea (a chemical compound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen). Ureter: Tube that carries urine from a kidney to the urinary bladder. Urethra: Duct leading from the urinary bladder to outside the body through which urine is eliminated. The waste-containing fluid that remains in the nephrons is called urine.
Renal (kidney) failure results when the kidneys are not able to regulate water and chemicals in the body or remove waste products from your blood. Acute renal failure (ARF) is the sudden onset of kidney failure. 
The kidneys, considered the main excretory organs in humans, eliminate water, urea, and other waste products from the body in the form of urine. Other systems and organs in the body also play a part in excretion. The respiratory system eliminates water vapor and carbon dioxide through exhalation (the process of breathing out). The digestive system removes feces, the solid undigested wastes of digestion, by a process called defecation or elimination. Ureter: Tube that carries urine from a kidney to the urinary bladder. Urethra: Duct leading from the urinary bladder to outside the body through which urine is eliminated. The waste-containing fluid that remains in the nephrons is called urine.
[4] 1 Organs A, B and C remove water from the body 2 Organ A helps to control body temperature. 3. Organs B and C remove carbon dioxide from the body. 4. Urine is produced by organ A. 5. Water and salts are removed from the body by organ C. 6. 
In terms of digestion, the large intestine is the water reclamation unit. They remove water from the digestive process so that the body will have water. Kidneys also remove wa … ter, which is then discharged as urine. Answer by Saved Ur King. Confidence votes 17. The kidneys and the large intestine. The kidneys remove excess water from the bloodstream, but the large intestine removes water from food while digesting. :)
Kidney: One of a pair of organs in the abdomen. Kidneys remove waste from the blood (as urine), produce erythropoietin (a substance that stimulates red blood cell production), and play a role in blood pressure regulation. The kidneys are two reddish-brown, bean-shaped organs located just above the waist, one on each side of the spine. They are part of the urinary system. Their main function is to filter blood and produce urine to rid the body of waste. As blood flows through the kidneys, they remove waste products and unneeded water.