Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Nursing Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Nursing, College Professor-Nursing, University Professor-Nursing Categories: Education Professor-Rehabilitation Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of rehabilitation and therapy. Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Mathematics Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Mathematics, College Professor-Mathematics, University Professor-Mathematics Categories: Education Professor-Music Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of music.
In some countries, the word professor is also used in titles of lower ranks such as associate professor and assistant professor. Professors conduct original research and commonly teach undergraduate, graduate, and/or professional courses in their field of expertise. Austria, Finland, Sweden), Professor is also an honorific title that can be bestowed upon an artist, scholar, etc., by the President or by the government, completely independent of any actual academic post or assignment.
Use professor in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a professor is a teacher at a college or a university, or an instructor in a specialized field. A man who teaches English at Harvard University is an example of an English professor. 
1. professor-someone who is a member of the faculty at a college or university. prof. faculty, staff-the body of teachers and administrators at a school; the dean addressed the letter to the entire staff of the university. academic, faculty member, academician-an educator who works at a college or university. professor. n. 1. (Education) the principal lecturer or teacher in a field of learning at a university or college; a holder of a university chair. 2. (Education) US and Canadian any teacher in a university or college.
A professor, informally often known as full professor, is the highest academic rank at universities and other post-secondary education and research institutions in most countries. Austria, Finland, Sweden), Professor is also an honorific title that can be bestowed upon an artist, scholar, etc., by the President or by the government, completely independent of any actual academic post or assignment.
Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask `. Professor Layton's past catches up with him in this adventure through the carnival city of Mont d'Or. A mysterious masked man is petrifying the townsfolk, and appears to possess an artifact that was central to a dark chapter in Layton's life. 
Definition of PROFESSOR for Kids. : a teacher especially of the highest rank at a college or university. 2. a: a faculty member of the highest academic rank at an institution of higher education b: a teacher at a university, college, or sometimes secondary school c: one that teaches or professes special knowledge of an art, sport, or occupation requiring skill. — pro·fes·so·ri·al \ˌprō-fə-ˈsȯr-ē-əl, ˌprae-\ ˌprä. adjective
1 The anticipated average earnings of a professor working in Switzerland vary for example between 158,953 CHF (€102,729) to 232,073 CHF (€149,985) at the University of Zurich and 187,937 CHF (€121,461) to 247,280 CHF (€159,774) at the ETH Zurich; the regulations are different depending on the Cantons of Switzerland. Austria, Finland, Sweden), Professor is also an honorific title that can be bestowed upon an artist, scholar, etc., by the President or by the government, completely independent of any actual academic post or assignment.