Black Burton, a man evil-tempered and malicious, had been picking a quarrel with a tenderfoot at the bar, when Thornton stepped good-naturedly between. The Call of the Wild by London, Jack View in context. Only do I know he is CHECHA-QUO-what you call tenderfoot. 
Words near tenderfoot in the dictionary. 1  tenderers. 2  tenderest. 3  tendereth. 4  tenderfeet. 5  tenderfoot. 6  tenderfoots. 7  tenderhearted. 8  tenderheartedly. 9  tenderheartedness. 10  tenderheartednesses. 
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
noun (plural tenderfoots or tenderfeet). 1 chiefly North American A newcomer or novice, especially a person unaccustomed to hardship: the journey is not recommended for the tenderfoot [as modifier]: a tenderfoot Englishman who couldn’t find his way in the woods. More example sentences. We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of tenderfoot from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
Look up tenderfoot in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. A tenderfoot is slang for an inexperienced person, particularly one who is not adapted to a rural or outdoor lifestyle setting. Tenderfoot or The Tenderfoot may also refer to: 1  One of the ranks in the Boy Scouts of America. 2  A guest at a guest ranch, also known as a dude.  3 Tenderfoot, a song by Adam Young and Tom Morgan
Save. tenderfoot /ˈtɛndɚˌfʊt/ noun. plural tenderfeet /-ˌfiːt/ /ˈtɛndɚˌfiːt/ also tenderfoots /-ˌfʊts/ /ˈtɛdɚˌfʊts/. tenderfoot. /ˈtɛndɚˌfʊt/. noun. plural tenderfeet /-ˌfiːt/ /ˈtɛndɚˌfiːt/ also tenderfoots /-ˌfʊts/ /ˈtɛdɚˌfʊts/. Learner's definition of TENDERFOOT. [count] US, informal. 1. 
Full Definition of TENDERFOOT. 1. : a newcomer in a comparatively rough or newly settled region; especially: one not hardened to frontier or outdoor life. 2. See tenderfoot defined for English-language learners. 
tenderfoot. n, pl-foots or-feet. 1. a newcomer, esp to the mines or ranches of the southwestern US. 2. (Other Non-sporting Hobbies) (formerly) a beginner in the Scouts or Guides. 
This is the British English definition of tenderfoot. View American English definition of tenderfoot. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for tenderfoot. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.