Taping is a measure not practical too often for treating heel spur / plantar fasciitis, though sometimes it is reported as one of the mainly successful methods. Objective is to apply tape in such a way that the fascia cannot over-stretch, therefore preventing further damage to the fascia and it's extra to the heel. While the plantar fascia pulls away from the heel bone, calcium puts form and a bony protrusion develop, resulting in pain. Heel spur relief can be severe especially when standing or walking. Women suffer from heel spurs more often than men due to the difference in footwear.
Order Athletic Tape Too much tension in the plantar fascia causes plantar fasciitis and heel spurs. There may be pain in the heel, arch, and other areas of the bottom of the foot, especially in the morning when the calf muscles are tight. Daily tension in the plantar fascia causes re-injury and prevents healing. Tension is in the tape instead of in the plantar fascia because the tape does not stretch. This allows the fascia to rest and heal. The tape has to stick to the skin for it to work because tension is being transferred through the skin.
How to Strap Your Foot. Create support for a heel spur with athletic tape. A heel spur is the result of an abnormal growth of the heel bone. When the plantar fascia pulls away from the heel bone, calcium deposits form and a bony protrusion develops, resulting in pain. Heel spur pain can be extreme especially when standing or walking. Women suffer from heel spurs more frequently than men due to the difference in footwear. The treatment of a heel spur includes nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen, naproxen and aspirin; ice; stretching exercises; and foot taping.
Heel spur and kinesio tape. Kinesio-taping of heel spur and plantar fasciitis is based on an entirely different principle as the standard taping concept. The aim of applying kinesiotape is to stimulate the healing process by reducing inflammation and relaxing muscles, without restricting body motion. Kinesio tape for treating heel spur can be applied in different ways, it also depends whether the narrow (2cm) tape or the wider version (4cm) is used. 1  The narrow 2cm-tape is applied by cutting 4 strips of tape of around 8cm, and applying them on the heel spur, slightly stretching the tape when putting it on.
To right this, athletic tape can be applied to the foot. Since athletic tape does not stretch, the tension is transferred from the fascia to the tape, allow the fascia to rest and get well from overuse. A heel spur is the effect of an abnormal growth of the heel bone. While the plantar fascia pulls away from the heel bone, calcium puts form and a bony protrusion develop, resulting in pain. Heel spur relief can be severe especially when standing or walking. Women suffer from heel spurs more often than men due to the difference in footwear.
Although it sounds painful, the heel spur itself does not cause uneasiness. The pain people with heel spurs feel is caused by the irritation and annoyance of the plantar fascia, the thick, stretchy connective tissue that originates at the heel and runs crossways the sole of the foot, connecting to the toes. While the plantar fascia pulls away from the heel bone, calcium puts form and a bony protrusion develop, resulting in pain. Heel spur relief can be severe especially when standing or walking. Women suffer from heel spurs more often than men due to the difference in footwear.
Heel spur and tape. Taping heel spur / plantar fasciitis can be a very effective method to treat the injury (see heelspurs.com). Also it is a relatively cost-effective way of treating fasciitis.It can even be used to prevent plantar fasciitis when severe strain is expected, like in sports, or mountain walking
Athletic tape is applied to the same area as the plantar fascia and reduces tension by preventing the fascia from stretching. Like the plantar fascia, the tape is connected to the front of the foot and to the heel. Tension is in the tape instead of in the plantar fascia because the tape does not stretch. This allows the fascia to rest and heal. The tape has to stick to the skin for it to work because tension is being transferred through the skin. Only athletic tape should be used
When too much tension is placed on the plantar fascia by excessive walking, running, or heavy lifting, heel spurs and plantar fasciitis occur. To correct this, athletic tape can be applied to the foot. Instructions. Tear off a strip of athletic tape long enough to span the width of your foot at its widest place, leaving enough tape to come up over the sides of the foot. Place the tape across the foot at the toe joints so that the tape covers the ball of the foot. If you're not sure where this is, wiggle your big toe.
To tape a foot for heel pain, use a roll of athletic tape to get good compression and support along the heel. Relieve heel pain with help from a physical therapist in this free video on physical therapy treatments. Part of the Video Series: Physical Therapy Treatments. 1  How to Treat Tendonitis in the Shoulder. 