At two years old, it can be assumed that a dog will have a good, long time ahead of it. At one year of age, it's 'still a puppy,' with all of the problems and difficulties that description brings to mind. At three years old, most people assume that the animal has fewer than 10 years left and don't want to think of the heartbreak of losing it so quickly. The ultimate barrier is at age five. Puppies-The First Year (What you save when you adopt an older dog!) Veterinary Care/Laboratory Tests - $100 to $200 Immunizations - $50 to $100 Internal/External Parasite Treatment and Control - $100 to $150 Spay/Neuter - $40 to $200. The cost often depends on the dog's size and age.
We are wondering what is the best age to adopt or rescue. I don't want a dog that is too old, she doesn't want one that is too young. We both want a dog we can teach a new name to, earn the respect and loyalty that comes from a Shepherd, have the friendly demeanor but still have the guard dog image they exhibit. I don't know exactly what it the best age to adopt. Both of my GSD rescues were about 14 to 18 months old. They both did great. We got the Border Collie at 3 years old. She is now 15 years old. She acclimated just fine and has been a super dog.
Ideal Age. The best time to adopt a puppy is usually between 8 and 16 weeks. This is an ideal time to introduce him to new places and people. That is, unless you have small children. Then you may want to wait until the pooch is around 5 months old. Before taking the plunge, consider a few things. An 8- to 16-week-old puppy needs lots of attention. You can’t just lock him in a crate or small apartment all day and expect him to be happy and thrive. This is the time when he becomes house-trained and learns other household etiquette.
You adopt from a shelter or rescue. To answer your question, law in my state requires the pup be at least 8 weeks old, small breeds are better left with the mother and siblings for at least 10 weeks. rescue member · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 3. Thumbs down. 2. 
Best Answer: Most breeds are sold around 8 - 9 weeks old, with toy breeds being kept by the breeder for another couple of weeks. And puppies aren't the ones who can be cleared of health problems-its the parents who are tested by reputable breeders before breeding. Report Abuse. You should get them at 8 weeks old. That's an age where it won't be dramatic for them to be without their mother (or at least a caregiver that can take care of them 24/7) and old enough where you can start training. A lot of rescue center won't even give dogs younger than that. Silvia · 5 years ago. Thumbs up
However, people are often reluctant to adopt dogs who are older than five. A five-or six-year-old dachshund is just middle-aged. Remember that, with good care, dachshunds usually live to be 15 or 16 years old. Some live to 18 or 19, and occasionally, we hear of dachshunds who make it past 20 years of age. 
A puppy should be at least eight weeks old and weaned before taking it to its new home. you should take a puppy as soon as possible because if you take it when it is a full grown adult when you take it home you wont spend much time with it. if u adopt it as a puppy your able to play with it and spend time with it. My large crossbreed Dog cost £120 from a dog shelter when he was 6 months old. My purebred (but not KC reg.) Staffordshire Bull Terrier cost £250 from her breeder at 11 weeks of age, whilst my other Stafford cost £350 from the breeder at 8 weeks of age.
What age can puppy be adopted?   generally 8-10 weeks but 12-16 weeks for small breeds because they mature a lot slower than other breeds. My large crossbreed Dog cost £120 from a dog shelter when he was 6 months old. My purebred (but not KC reg.) Staffordshire Bull Terrier cost £250 from her breeder at 11 weeks of age, whilst my other Stafford cost £350 from the breeder at 8 weeks of age.