Gases are usually more soluble at colder temperatures. For example, oxygen is more soluble in cold water than in hot water. The decrease in oxygen solubility with increased temperature [ 1 ] has serious consequences for aquatic life. Power plants that discharge hot water into rivers can kill fish by decreasing the dissolved oxygen concentration.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx. Temperature Effect on Solubility. As the temperature of a liquid increases, the solubilities of gases in that liquid decrease. We can use the Second Law of Thermodynamics to explain why. Heating a solution of a gas enables the particles of gas to move more freely between the solution and the gas phase. 
Solubility. The definition of solubility is the maximum quantity of solute that can dissolve in a certain quantity of solvent or quantity of solution at a specified temperature or pressure (in the case of gaseous solutes). In CHM1045 we discussed solubility as a yes or no quality. 
Although the solubility of most substances increases with temperature (eg you can dissolve more sugar in water when it is hot than you can in the same amount of water when it … is cold) with gases the solubility decreases with temperature, so that cold water will hold more gas than the same amount of hot water. The solubility of CaCO3 depends on the solubility of CO2. The solubility of gases decreases in water as the … temperature rises. This behavior is discussed at http://antoine.frostburg.edu/chem/senese/101/solutions/faq/temperature-gas-solubility.shtml.
Effect of Temperature on the Solubility of Gases. The solubility of gases in liquids decreases with increasing temperature, as shown in Figure 13.10 Solubilities of Several Common Gases in Water as a Function of Temperature at Partial Pressure of 1 atm .
Henry’s law states that, at a given temperature, the solubility of a gas in a liquid is proportional to the partial pressure of the gas above the liquid. An example of Henry’s Law occurs in scuba diving. As a person dives into deep water, the pressure increases and more gases are dissolved into the blood. Solubility is the maximum amount of a substance that will dissolve in a given amount of solvent at a specific temperature. There are two direct factors that affect solubility: temperature and pressure. Temperature affects the solubility of both solids and gases, but pressure only affects the solubility of gases.
The hypothesis that as the temperature of the water increases, the amount of substance dissolved in the water also increases is proven to be true. Solubility of a substance in a solvent can be increased or reduced by adding another substance. Solubility refers to the ability of a given volume of solvent to dissolve a substance. It is normally expressed as the amount (in grams) of substance that can be dissolved in 100ml of a given solvent at room temperature (20 °C). Most substances will become more soluble when the temperature of the solution is increased.
Report Abuse. Solubility of salt in water increases with temperature. If you prepare a saturated solution of salt in water at, say 80 deg.C and allow it to cool, salt will crystallise as the solution cools down to room temperature. This is because the solubility of salt at 80 deg. C is higher than that at room
Example-sugar and water; increase temperature, sugar solubility increases. Example-oxygen and water; increase temperature, oxygen solubility decreases. The temperature doesn't determine whether a compound is soluble or not. For that you need to look at a list of solubility rules. How does the temperature affect the solubility of a substance. Edit 0 10 …. By Mason Head. The solubility of a given solute in a given solvent typically depends on temperature. For many solids dissolved in liquid water, the solubility increases with temperature up to 100 °C.
Best Answer: Generally, the hotter the water, the more of a solute will dissolve. But dissolved gases prefer cold water; when you heat water, dissolved gases will appear as bubbles long before the water boils. But the question is about salts, so let's say they get less soluble as the temperature decreases. 