Synopsis. Sacagawea, the daughter of a Shoshone chief, was born circa 1788 in Lemhi County, Idaho. At around age 12, she was captured by an enemy tribe and sold to a French-Canadian trapper who made her his wife. In November 1804, she was invited to join the Lewis and Clark expedition as a Shoshone interpreter. Lewis and Clark Expedition. In February 1805, Sacagawea gave birth to a son named Jean Baptiste Charbonneau. Despite traveling with a newborn child during the trek, Sacagawea proved to be helpful in many ways. She was skilled at finding edible plants.
Sacajawea helped Lewis and Clark on their expedition. Sacagawea was  16 or 17 when she and her husband, Toussaint Charbonneau, joined  the Lewis and Clark expedition on Nove … mber 4, 1804. Later study  suggests that through most of the journey she was not so much a  guide as a mediator. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sacajawea is a hero because she was an interpreter for Louis and Clark and she helped them get food and supplies from the Indians, and she did it all with her papoose (her baby) on her back.
Sacagawea (c.1788-1812). Sacagawea was a valuable member of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. As a teenager, she served the Expedition as interpreter, diplomat, and peace symbol. She did all this while carrying her infant son on her back. There are also mountains, lakes, and rivers named for her. In 2000, the United States Mint commemorated Sacagawea on the Golden Dollar coin. On the front of the coin is a picture of Sacagawea carrying Little Pomp. Sacagawea was a valuable member of the Lewis and Clark Expedition and a hero in our hearts.
She was then sold to a French-Canadian trapper named Toussaint Charbonneau who made her one of his wives. Sacagawea and her husband lived among the Hidatsa and Mandan Indians in the upper Missouri River area (present-day North Dakota). Lewis and Clark Expedition. In February 1805, Sacagawea gave birth to a son named Jean Baptiste Charbonneau. Despite traveling with a newborn child during the trek, Sacagawea proved to be helpful in many ways. She was skilled at finding edible plants.
Sacagawea with Lewis and Clark (http://www.californiaindianeducation.org/famous_in (N.C. Wyeth))Sacagawea is a very important hero. She is brave, puts others before herself, has perseverance and determination. According to funtrivia.com, in Hidatsa (the language of the tribe that kidnapped Sacagawea) Sacaga means bird, and wea means woman so Sacagawea means bird woman. When Sacagawea was just eleven years old, the Hidatsa riding party took her from her tribe.
The Lewis and Clark Expedition met Sacagawea at Fort Mandan. She was asked to join the Expedition because of her knowledge of the terrain and ability to speak different Native American languages. Sacagawea had just given birth to her son, Jean-Baptiste. His nickname was Little Pomp or Pompy. There are also mountains, lakes, and rivers named for her. In 2000, the United States Mint commemorated Sacagawea on the Golden Dollar coin. On the front of the coin is a picture of Sacagawea carrying Little Pomp. Sacagawea was a valuable member of the Lewis and Clark Expedition and a hero in our hearts.
Maria from St. Paul, Minnesota, writes: Sacajawea is my hero because she showed that girls can do anything, and she proved herself very tough by co-leading a 6-1/2 month, 4,000 mile journey and carrying her infant child along the way. Click here to listen to the Sacajawea story.
Sacajawea helped Meriwether Lewis and William Clark explore the West. Without Sacajawea, the Indians would probably have killed Lewis and Clark. Sacajawea is my hero because she showed that girls can do anything, and she proved herself very tough by co-leading a 6-1/2 month, 4,000 mile journey and carrying her infant child along the way.