The combine harvester, or simply combine, is a machine that harvests grain crops. The name derives from its combining three separate operations comprising harvesting— reaping, threshing, and winnowing —into a single process. The combine was invented in the United States by Hiram Moore in 1834, and early versions were pulled by horse or mule teams, ox. In 1835, Moore built a full-scale version and by 1839, over 50 acres of crops were harvested.
Since the ancient history to the life of Scientist Nikola Tesla. It was invented in the U.S. in 1834 by Hiram Moore. It was pulled by a team of horses, and the running gear was driven off of the wheels. So if it was muddy, the wheels slipped and the combine plugged up. The first harvesting machines were devised by Patrick Bell in Scotland and Cyrus Hall McCormick in the United States. McCormick invented his first reaper at the age of 22 and tested it in a neighbor's field in 1831.
Scottish inventor Patrick Bell invented the reaper in 1826. The combine was invented in the United States by Hiram Moore in 1834, and early versions were pulled by horse or mule teams, ox. In 1835, Moore built a full-scale version and by 1839, over 50 acres of crops were harvested. By 1860, combine harvesters with a cutting width of several meters were used on American farms
History. The combine harvester is quite simply a combination of a threshing machine invented by Andrew Meikle in 1784 and the reaper invented by Cyrus McCormick in 1834. Picture 1 shows a threshing machine from 1881 and picture 2 shows a McCormick reaper. Introduction. One of the most important machines in the moderen agriculture is the combine harvester. To be able to produce enough food in a rational manner it is important to be able to harvest large amount of all types of cereals very efficient.
answer 2. The combine harvester, or simply combine, is a machine that harvests grain crops. The first harvesting machines were devised by Patrick Bell in Scotland and Cyrus Hall McCormick in the United States. McCormick invented his first reaper at the age of 22 and tested it in a neighbor's field in 1831.
answer 2 The combine harvester, or simply combine, is a machine that harvests grain crops. The first harvesting machines were devised by Patrick Bell in Scotland and Cyrus Hall McCormick in the United States. McCormick invented his first reaper at the age of 22 and tested it in a neighbor's field in 1831. In the 1840s the harvesting of crops was a labour intensive task. The shortage of labour in South Australia led to the invention of a stripper harvester that mechanised … the reaping of wheat by flour miller, John Ridley, in 1843.
Another image is of a inventor is in a white coat running out of their laboratory shouting I've done it!or ive got it . These exsamples are true in most cases. The combine harvester is a machine that combines the tasks of harvesting, threshing, and cleaning grain crops all into one machine. The objective is to complete these three processes in one pass of the machine over a particular part of the field. 
The combine harvester, or combine, or thresher, is a machine that combines the tasks of harvesting, threshing, and cleaning grain crops. The objective is to complete these three processes, which used to be distinct, in one pass of the machine over a particular part of the field. 