It is a taxi service to and from Stansted Airport of an executive standard, one way or return, with optional taxi waiting service at Stansted Airport Terminal. The taxi is a comfortable modern 2014 saloon vehicle licensed to a maximum of four passengers. ... all inclusive ... those last two words for a taxi fare to Stansted Airport are quite important, and you’re not going to have to wait for strangers to find their passports or visas to share your taxi with. See other Airport Taxi Prices.
Located 35 mins to the north-east of London, approx. 60 mins to central/west London, and 30 mins taxi drive from Cambridge, London Stansted is London's third international gateway with carriers like easyJet, Ryanair, flythomascook, Air Berlin, and Thomson offering regular flights from Stansted. We believe that our cheap Stansted taxi fares offer the best value of any airport transfer operator and we would invite customers to request a bespoke quotation today. MPV7/8 vehicles also available at great rates!
Stansted Airport to Cambridge Taxi Service is provided by Onward Travel Solutions Ltd. We offer a transfer service from Cambridge to any U.K Airport, whether you need a car, people carrier, executive car, executive people carrier, minibus or indeed a coach Onward Travel Solutions Ltd are here to help. The City of Cambridge is located North of Stansted airport a distance of 31 miles that would take around 40 minutes by taxi via the M11. It is located in East Anglia on the River Cam and it estimated popultion was 130,000 according to 2010 statistics.
Stansted Cambridge taxi are the experts in providing you with a safe and reliable Stansted taxi service to and from the city of Cambridge ansd surrounding villages. Our professional drivers and immaculate fleet of vehicles are available 24 hours a day, all year round. 
Dedicated Stansted Airport Transfers offering 24 Hour Service & Great Prices. Always pre-book online before arriving at Stansted Airport for best value fares. Stansted to Cambridge fr £45.00, Heathrow fr £79.00, Gatwick fr £89.00, Central London fr £69.00. 4/6/8 Seaters Available 24/7. 24/7, 365 days a year service when you pre-book your Stansted Airport Transfer with Us! Our customers know that the best and most affordable way to book your private transfer is to pre-book in advance. We never recommend to customers that they leave this decision to chance or to when they arrrive at the airport.
Overview of Cambridge. The City of Cambridge is located North of Stansted airport a distance of 31 miles that would take around 40 minutes by taxi via the M11. It is located in East Anglia on the River Cam and it estimated popultion was 130,000 according to 2010 statistics.
The experience ... and the taxi price to Stansted Airport are from only £48. ... all inclusive ... those last two words for a taxi fare to Stansted Airport are quite important, and you’re not going to have to wait for strangers to find their passports or visas to share your taxi with. See other Airport Taxi Prices.
Stansted Airport Taxi. Stansted Airport Taxi service provided by OTS Ltd. We specialize in airport taxi transfers to and from Stansted Airport for both individuals and groups, with the accent on a courteous, professional and personal service at affordable prices. 24 hours a day. 7 days a week
Cheap Stansted Taxi-Get the Best fares From Stansted Airport Here! Great Stansted taxi prices to Cambridge fr £47.00, St Albans fr £52.00, Oxford fr £115.00, Harwich fr £70.00, Gatwick fr £94.00, Chelmsford fr £35.00, Brighton fr £118.00, Norwich fr £99.00. Book well in advance online for cheap stansted transfer rates to all UK destinations today! A taxi to central London for one to four people costs from £60.00, but you will need to book online and in advance of arrival. To book a cheap Stansted taxi in advance book online now! We always recommend that for the best fares customers Pre-Book their transfers before they arrive at the airport.