Choose your grass. Take your time selecting a grass species. Lawn care will be much easier if the grass is suited to your climate, soil type, and use patterns. Research the specific species, not just cool season or warm season grass. 1 If you hate the look of a tall lawn, you may reduce the height as low as 2 inches (5cm). 2  Some grass species handle this better than others, but all prefer 3 inches (7.5cm) or above. 3  Never remove more than ⅓ of the grass height at a time.
1 You don't have to slave over your lawn to keep it healthy. 2  Tip 1: Adjust your cutting height to the time of year (and use a sharp blade). 3  Tip 2: A few good soakings are better than lots of light sprinklings (but not in the evening). 4  Tip 3: Mow only the top one-third of the grass blade (and don't rake up the clippings). You don't have to slave over your lawn to keep it healthy. If you’re an average homeowner (and of course you’re not!), you spend 3.8 hours a week on yard work and mow your lawn 30 times a year.
1 As autumn turns to winter, make the most of any dry days and rake the lawn to keep it free of leaves. 2  A thick layer of leaves will smother a lawn and weaken the grass, and it also provides winter shelter for unwelcome garden pests. 3  Avoid walking on your lawn if it's frosted, as this can also damage the grass. Your lawn can get worn out, compacted and full of weeds during the summer months. Find out what to do to give it a seasonal boost. In this video Toby Buckland reveals some top tips on repairing lawns.
Leave the grass clippings on the lawn after mowing to return the nutrients to your lawn. 1  Never mow a wet lawn. 2  The slippery grass could cause an accident, and some mowers will not work as efficiently. 3  Sharpen your mower blade after about 10 hours of mowing, or if fresh-mowed grass looks ragged with brown tips. 1 If you hate the look of a tall lawn, you may reduce the height as low as 2 inches (5cm). 2  Some grass species handle this better than others, but all prefer 3 inches (7.5cm) or above. 3  Never remove more than ⅓ of the grass height at a time.
It gives you a place to play croquet. And the healthier your lawn is, the better it keeps up its end of the bargain. The good news is, you don’t have to slave over your lawn to keep it healthy. In fact, to a great extent, it’s not the amount of work you put into your lawn—it’s when and how you do it. The following five “ingredients” are essential for a healthy lawn. You don't have to slave over your lawn to keep it healthy. If you’re an average homeowner (and of course you’re not!), you spend 3.8 hours a week on yard work and mow your lawn 30 times a year.
If you fertilize in the fall it can keep the grass satiated during the winter as well. • Aeration – Aeration is not going to keep your grass as green this year, but if your grass isn’t that green by fall it can help you maintain your grass next year. Aeration (plus seeding) gives your lawn’s roots way more room to grow. That’s why we have several services that will help you maintain your green grass in fall and beyond. But if you want to handle keeping a green lawn yourselves, consider the following: • Continue with Basic Lawn Care – You will need to continue to mow your lawn.
Apply Grass Seed to Bare Spots. Apply grass seed to fill in bare spots around the lawn. For an even application of seed over the lawn, use a broadcast seed spreader. Water the seed to help it establish. Apply Grass Seed to Bare Spots. In early spring or early fall, overseed a lawn with cool-season grass seed such as rye, fescue or Kentucky bluegrass, and overseed a warm-season lawn with Bermuda or Zoysia grass in early summer. For an even application of seed over the lawn, use a broadcast seed spreader
Tips. 1  Instead of raking leaves in the fall, run over them with the lawn mower. 2  A mulching mower works best. 3  Pelletized lime costs more but is vastly easier to apply. 4  In the spring, put down crabgrass preventer without fertilizer. 5  Rake your dead grass. 1 If you hate the look of a tall lawn, you may reduce the height as low as 2 inches (5cm). 2  Some grass species handle this better than others, but all prefer 3 inches (7.5cm) or above. 3  Never remove more than ⅓ of the grass height at a time.
If you raised the height of your lawn mower in summer to reduce heat stress to your lawn, return the mower deck to its normal mowing height (about 2 inches tall is best for most grasses) in fall. Cutting your lawn slightly shorter in autumn helps prevent the grass from matting down under leaves and snow. Overseed warm-season lawns with ryegrass each autumn. This type of grass provides a lush, green carpet through the cool winter months. Prepare the lawn for overseeding by mowing it 1/2 inch shorter than usual and removing the clippings. Sow grass seed over the mowed area, making two passes at right angles to each other.