Wyatt Earp summary: Wyatt Earp was born in Monmouth, Illinois. He had a half-brother Newton and a half-sister Mariah Ann from his father’s first marriage. In March of 1849 the whole family started to move to California. Wyatt Earp moved to Tombstone, Arizona with his common law wife in 1879. By 1880, several of his brothers and their wives, including his good friend Doc Holiday and his common law wife, all lived in Tombstone. He was elected deputy sheriff in part of Pima County and later became a U.S. Marshall.
Morgan was laid out in a blue suit belonging to Doc Holliday. The Earps took his body by wagon the next day to the New Mexico and Arizona railroad station in Contention. From there, his older brother James Earp accompanied Morgan's body to Colton, California where Morgan's wife and parents were waiting. Morgan was first buried in the old city cemetery of Colton, near Mount Slover. When the cemetery was moved in 1892, Morgan's body was reburied in the Hermosa Cemetery in Colton. During early 1882, Morgan was appointed to the federal position of Deputy U.S. Marshal, an office subservient to Wyatt Earp, who had been given the position by the U.S. Marshal C. Dake, after Virgil was wounded, and had authority to deputize.
In 1875, Morgan departed the Earp clan living in Wichita, Kansas, and became a deputy marshal under Charlie Bassett at Dodge City. In late 1877, Morgan took his common-law wife Louisa A. Houston to Montana, where they lived until March, 1880. During early 1882, Morgan was appointed to the federal position of Deputy U.S. Marshal, an office subservient to Wyatt Earp, who had been given the position by the U.S. Marshal C. Dake, after Virgil was wounded, and had authority to deputize.
Morgan Seth Earp (April 24, 1851 – March 18, 1882) was the younger brother of Deputy U.S. Marshals Virgil and Wyatt Earp. Morgan was a deputy of Virgil's and all three men were the target of repeated death threats made by outlaw Cowboys who were upset by the Earps' interference in their illegal activities. During early 1882, Morgan was appointed to the federal position of Deputy U.S. Marshal, an office subservient to Wyatt Earp, who had been given the position by the U.S. Marshal C. Dake, after Virgil was wounded, and had authority to deputize.
Morgan Earp. Morgan Earp was born in Iowa on 24th April, 1851. His father moved the family, to San Bernardino, California in 1864. He joined his older brother Wyatt Earp in Dodge City. In 1880 he moved to Tombstone with his three brothers, James Earp, Wyatt Earp and Virgil Earp.
Sheriff John Behan arrested Virgil Earp, Wyatt Earp, Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday for murder of Billy Clanton, Tom McLaury and Frank McLaury. However, after a 30 day trial Judge Wells Spicer, who was related to the Earps, decided that the defendants had been justified in their actions. The two brothers also worked on railroad construction in Wyoming. Virgil Earp married Alice Sullivan in 1870 and for a time ran a sawmill in Prescott. He was a deputy marshall at Tucson before moving to Tombstone with his three brothers, James Earp, Wyatt Earp and Morgan Earp. In October 1880, Virgil Earp became city marshal of Tombstone
Louisa Houston Earp, wife of famed gunfighter Morgan Earp was born on January 24, 1855 in Iowa, Wisconsin. Contrary to popular belief, Lou the second eldest of twelve children born to Samuel Houston and Elizabeth Waughtal is not the great-granddaughter of famed General Samuel Houston. 
California, USA. Louisa Houston Earp Peters was the wife of Morgan Seth Earp (of the Ok Corral famed Earps) and Los Angeles/Long Beach Shipyard foreman, Gustave Peters. Many questionable things have been repeated by many about Lou in Earpiana. Lou as she was known by for many years, was at the home of the senior Earps in Colton/Temescal California when her husband Morgan was murdered in Tombstone, Arizona. After Morgan's death, Louisa, remained in southern California. She would go on to marry Gustav Peters in 1885 and died at Long Beach,