1. a dog of mixed or indeterminate breed. 2. an animal or plant resulting from an uncontrolled or accidental crossing of breeds or varieties. 3. any cross between different types of persons or things. 4. being a mongrel. [1425–75; probably Middle English mong(e) mixture + –rel-rel ]. 1. (Breeds) a plant or animal, esp a dog, of mixed or unknown breeding; a crossbreed or hybrid. 2. (Peoples) a person of mixed race. 3. (General Sporting Terms) sport Austral and NZ toughness and physical aggression: a tall southpaw with plenty of mongrel. adj. 4. of mixed origin, breeding, character, etc.
mongrel. noun. 1. hybrid, cross, half-breed, crossbreed, mixed breed, bigener (Biology) They were walking their pet mongrel on the outskirts of the town when it happened. adjective. 1. half-breed, hybrid, crossbred, of mixed breed He was determined to save his mongrel puppy. 1. (Breeds) a plant or animal, esp a dog, of mixed or unknown breeding; a crossbreed or hybrid. 2. (Peoples) a person of mixed race. 3. (General Sporting Terms) sport Austral and NZ toughness and physical aggression: a tall southpaw with plenty of mongrel. adj. 4. of mixed origin, breeding, character, etc.
Noun. 1. mongrel-derogatory term for a variation that is not genuine; something irregular or inferior or of dubious origin; the architecture was a kind of bastard suggesting Gothic but not true Gothic. bastard. variation-an artifact that deviates from a norm or standard; he patented a variation on the sandal. n. 1. (Breeds) a plant or animal, esp a dog, of mixed or unknown breeding; a crossbreed or hybrid. 2. (Peoples) a person of mixed race. 3. (General Sporting Terms) sport Austral and NZ toughness and physical aggression: a tall southpaw with plenty of mongrel.
That girl sounded like she was from Manchester, Wales and Lincoln all at the same time-she was a proper mongrel-in a good way. 
mongrel. noun. 1. hybrid, cross, half-breed, crossbreed, mixed breed, bigener (Biology) They were walking their pet mongrel on the outskirts of the town when it happened. adjective. 1. half-breed, hybrid, crossbred, of mixed breed He was determined to save his mongrel puppy. n. 1. (Breeds) a plant or animal, esp a dog, of mixed or unknown breeding; a crossbreed or hybrid. 2. (Peoples) a person of mixed race. 3. (General Sporting Terms) sport Austral and NZ toughness and physical aggression: a tall southpaw with plenty of mongrel.
mon•grel. 1. a dog of mixed or indeterminate breed. 2. an animal or plant resulting from an uncontrolled or accidental crossing of breeds or varieties. 3. any cross between different types of persons or things. 4. being a mongrel. n. 1. (Breeds) a plant or animal, esp a dog, of mixed or unknown breeding; a crossbreed or hybrid. 2. (Peoples) a person of mixed race. 3. (General Sporting Terms) sport Austral and NZ toughness and physical aggression: a tall southpaw with plenty of mongrel.
n. 1. (Breeds) a plant or animal, esp a dog, of mixed or unknown breeding; a crossbreed or hybrid. 2. (Peoples) a person of mixed race. 3. (General Sporting Terms) sport Austral and NZ toughness and physical aggression: a tall southpaw with plenty of mongrel. adj. 4. of mixed origin, breeding, character, etc.
In the United States, the term mixed-breed is a favored synonym over mongrel among many who wish to avoid negative connotations associated with the latter term. There are also regional terms for mixed-breed dogs. In the United Kingdom mongrel is the unique technical word for a mixed-breed dog. North Americans generally prefer the term mix or mixed-breed. Mutt is also commonly used (in the United States and Canada). Some American registries and dog clubs that accept mixed-breed dogs use the breed description All American