Patient autonomy: The right of patients to make decisions about their medical care without their health care provider trying to influence the decision. Patient autonomy does allow for health care providers to educate the patient but does not allow the health care provider to make the decision for the patient. 
Medical Definition of AUTONOMY. 1. : the quality or state of being independent, free, and self-directing. 2. : independence from the organism as a whole in the capacity of a part for growth, reactivity, or responsiveness. Full Definition of AUTONOMY. 1. : the quality or state of being self-governing; especially: the right of self-government. 2. : self-directing freedom and especially moral independence. 3. : a self-governing state. See autonomy defined for English-language learners. See autonomy defined for kids.
autonomy (·t ˑ·n ·mē) , n a principle of medical ethics according to which a person should respect the rights of other individuals to freely determine their own choices and decisions. (aw-tonŏ-mē). autonomy. 1. the ability to function in an independent fashion. 2. in bioethics, self-determination that is free from both controlling interferences by others and personal limitations preventing meaningful choice (such as inadequate understanding or faulty reasoning).
Medical ethics is a system of moral principles that apply values and judgments to the practice of medicine. As a scholarly discipline, medical ethics encompasses its practical application in clinical settings as well as work on its history, philosophy, and sociology. The principles of autonomy and beneficence/non-maleficence may also be expanded to include effects on the relatives of patients or even the medical practitioners, the overall population and economic issues when making medical decisions.
In moral and political philosophy, autonomy is often used as the basis for determining moral responsibility and accountability for one's actions. In medicine, respect for the autonomy of patients is an important goal, though it can conflict with a competing ethical principle, namely beneficence. Autonomy is also used to refer to the self-government of the people.
The Four Traditional Pillars of Medical Ethics Traditional approaches to medical ethics quote the four fundamental principles described below. Respect for autonomy of the patient. Autonomy refers to the capacity to think, decide and act on one's own free initiative. Traditional approaches to medical ethics quote the four fundamental principles described below. 1  Respect for autonomy of the patient. 2  Beneficence: promoting what is best for the patient. 3  Non-maleficence: do no harm. 4  Justice.
Balance competing medical ethics in making decisions about patient care 3. Define Decision Making Capacity 4. Discuss a process to assess capacity 5. Differentiate Capacity and Competence Medical Ethics Medical ethics and principles 1. Autonomy 2. Beneficence 3. Nonmaleficence 4. Justice 5. Veracity 6
Health care ethics (a/k/a medical ethics or bioethics), at its simplest, is a set of moral principles, beliefs and values that guide us in making choices about medical care. At the core of health care ethics is our sense of right and wrong and our beliefs about rights we possess and duties we owe others. 
In a medical context, respect for a patient's personal autonomy is considered one of many fundamental ethical principles in medicine. Autonomy can be defined as the ability of the person to make his or her own decisions. Autonomy is also used to refer to the self-government of the people.