Basics. Insolence ranges from minor errors in judgment such as telling your boss to get off your back during a particularly stressful project or to more egregious blow-ups or acts of incivility. Using profanity, making personal insults toward your boss and making physical threats are among the extreme examples. Insolence results for a variety of reasons. Some employees enter the workplace with attitudes that are likely to lead to insolence, such as accepting a job or a responsibility they don't really like. In many cases employees carry with them a pessimistic attitude, feelings of inadequacy, anxiety, stress and fear.
Save. insolent /ˈɪnsələnt/ adjective. insolent. /ˈɪnsələnt/. adjective. Learner's definition of INSOLENT. [more insolent; most insolent] somewhat formal. : rude or impolite: having or showing a lack of respect for other people. an insolent [= impudent, disrespectful ] child. Insolent behavior will not be tolerated. 
Full Definition of INSOLENT. 1. : insultingly contemptuous in speech or conduct: overbearing. 2. : exhibiting boldness or effrontery: impudent. — insolent noun. — in·so·lent·ly adverb. See insolent defined for English-language learners. See insolent defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Insolent is defined as disrespectful or arrogant. 1  An example of someone insolent is a student who talks back to a teacher. 2  An example of someone insolent is a criminal who acts up during a trial. 1 An example of someone insolent is a student who talks back to a teacher. 2  An example of someone insolent is a criminal who acts up during a trial.
2. Haughty and contemptuous or brutal in behavior or language; overbearing; domineering; grossly rude or disrespectful; saucy; as, an insolent master; an insolent servant. Insolent is he that despiseth in his judgment all other folks as in regard of his value, of his cunning, of his speaking, and of his bearing. - Chaucer
Definition of INSOLENCE. 1. : the quality or state of being insolent. 2. : an instance of insolent conduct or treatment. See insolence defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The ignorant English mind (I have observed) is apt to be insolent in the exercise of unrestrained English liberty. The Haunted Hotel by Collins, Wilkie View in context. There is exquisite pleasure in subduing an insolent spirit, in making a person predetermined to dislike acknowledge one's superiority. insolent. adjective rude, cheeky, impertinent, fresh (informal), bold, insulting, abusive, saucy, contemptuous, pert, impudent, uncivil, insubordinate, brazen-faced Don't be insolent with me, young lady! respectful, civil, mannerly, polite, courteous, submissive, deferential. adjective
Definition from the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Advanced Learner's Dictionary. Dictionary results for insolent. Dictionary pictures of the day. 