We will then give you the chance to choose a new password. Sorry, we don't recognise that email address/user ID. Your BT Yahoo! user ID will end in @btinternet.com, @btopenworld.com or @talk21.com. Please re-enter your email address and, if you are still having problems, contact us. Your BT Yahoo! ID gives you access to some of your favourite products & services such as mail, news, sport, finance and Flickr-all included as part of your BT package at no extra cost. 1  Award winning homepage lets you get the best of the Internet in one place.
Username: your email address including the @btinternet or @btopenworld.com part. Password: your btinternet password. Root folder/path : Folder separator : . (full stop). Please do NOT enable secure password authentication (SPA). It's not needed when you use SSL encryption and won't work. How to use the navigation. The help section uses a finder that has been divided into categories and sub-categories to help navigate through to the relevant answer. The steps are as follows: 1  Step 1: Select a category. 2  Step 2: Select a subcategory.
Get the best of the Internet with your BT Yahoo ID. Your BT Yahoo! ID gives you access to some of your favourite products & services such as mail, news, sport, finance and Flickr-all included as part of your BT package at no extra cost. 1  Award winning homepage lets you get the best of the Internet in one place.
We have two types of broadband: superfast fibre BT Infinity and standard BT Broadband. BT Infinity gives you a superfast fibre optic broadband connection with speeds of up to 76Mb which lets you do more online, with everyone online together. It's great for downloading or streaming movies, TV shows and music. You can watch iPlayer with less interruption and HD video with less buffering. If you have standard BT Broadband you can add Starter or Essential. If you have BT Infinity you can add Starter, Entertainment Starter, or Entertainment Plus which gives you 30 premium channels † , including Discovery Channel, MTV, Comedy Central, FOX, Gold, History and National Geographic.
Your email account. To change the password of any of your email accounts, we need the name of the email account that you want to change. and the current password of that account. Talk21 customers: Please add .t21 after your username e.g. for john.smith@talk21.com enter john.smith.t21. 
It's simple. 'SMTP authentication' is usually switched on by ticking a box called 'My server requires authentication' in your email program settings (see below). Please do this for all the BT Yahoo! email addresses that you and your family use.
Page Type. BTInternet.com takes you to a login for Yahoo! email with the email address @btinternet.com. This site is a partnership between BT.com, a communications provider (phone, internet, etc.) for business and home, and Yahoo.com, the email giant.
To use a mobile device or email program to send and receive BT email messages, we recommend that you use IMAP with SSL enabled. This is because if you set up your mobile device or email client with the standard IMAP or POP3 protocol, the username and password are sent 'in the clear' over the Internet. How to use the navigation. The help section uses a finder that has been divided into categories and sub-categories to help navigate through to the relevant answer. The steps are as follows: 1  Step 1: Select a category. 2  Step 2: Select a subcategory.
BT Total Broadband is a broadband internet product offered by BT Retail, which is part of BT Group plc. It was formerly known as BT Yahoo! Broadband, BT Openworld and simply BT Broadband. With the introduction of BT Infinity, the Total Broadband package now refers to the legacy ADSL broadband products, such as ADSL Max and ADSL2+ . The BT Home Hub is a wireless Internet router from BT. It is based on the IEEE 802.11g (WiFi) standard and also supports IEEE 802.11b devices.