Seafoods and organ meats are the richest food sources of selenium [ 1 ]. Other sources include muscle meats, cereals and other grains, and dairy products. The amount of selenium in drinking water is not nutritionally significant in most geographic regions [ 2, 6 ]. The major food sources of selenium in the American diet are breads, grains, meat, poultry, fish, and eggs [ 7 ]. Pork, beef, turkey, chicken, fish, shellfish, and eggs contain high amounts of selenium. Some beans and nuts, especially Brazil nuts, contain selenium. 1  Limits solid fats (saturated fats and trans fats), cholesterol, salt (sodium), added sugars, and refined grains.
Probably, if you've read about food sources of selenium, you've read about Brazil nuts as a strong source of the mineral. Depending on where they are grown, this is likely to be true—one ounce of Brazil nuts may contain as much as 10 times the Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) recommendation for selenium intake. Most of our food groups at WHFoods provide valuable amounts of selenium. Fish, grass-fed and pasture-raised meats, whole grains, and nuts and seeds are either good, very good, or excellent food sources of selenium. We rate nine of the World's Healthiest Foods as excellent
Seafood and dairy are other good sources of selenium. Three ounces of tuna has 92 micrograms of selenium, halibut has 47 micrograms, sardines have 45 micrograms and shrimp contains 40 micrograms of selenium. One cup of 1 percent cottage cheese has 20 micrograms of selenium. Photo Credit Junghee Choi/iStock/Getty Images. Selenium is a trace mineral naturally found in seafood, nuts, meat, dairy and grains, as well as in supplements. Selenium is essential for DNA, thyroid hormones, reproduction and oxidation protection.
Other exceptionally selenium-rich foods include oysters, clams, liver, and kidney. Each of these foods is likely to contain double to triple the DRI in a serving. These foods are the exception, however, and not the rule. As a more general rule of thumb, we can identify the best sources of selenium by food group. Most of our food groups at WHFoods provide valuable amounts of selenium. Fish, grass-fed and pasture-raised meats, whole grains, and nuts and seeds are either good, very good, or excellent food sources of selenium. We rate nine of the World's Healthiest Foods as excellent
1. Brazil Nuts. Without a doubt, Brazil nuts are one of the best sources of selenium! Tasty, delicious, and loaded; one study showed that just two brazil nuts per day for 12 weeks raised selenium levels to a normal range. ­ 1 1/2 oz. contains a whopping 268 mcg, ­479% of daily requirement and ­95 calories. 
Good sources of selenium include salmon, tuna, shellfish, turkey, whole wheat bread, and cottage cheese. Three ounces of tuna provide 95 percent of the daily recommended allowance of selenium. 
Meats like Beef, liver, lamb, pork, turkey and chicken contain Selenium. Seafood is another set of selenium food. A large variety of seafood including Tuna, Halibut, Sardines, Flounder, Salmon, Oysters, Lobsters, Crabs, Mussels, Shrimp, Clams, Red Snapper, Herring and Scallops are very good sources of Selenium. [ Read: Purine Rich Food List ].
The following foods are generally considered good sources of selenium: 1  Brazil Nuts. 2  Sunflower Seeds. 3  Fish (tuna, halibut, sardines, flounder, salmon). 4  Shellfish (oysters, mussels, shrimp, clams, scallops). 5  Meat (Beef, liver, lamb, pork). 6  Poultry (chicken, turkey). 7  Eggs. 8  Mushrooms (button, crimini, shiitake). Selenium Deficiencies. Deficiencies of selenium can occur in areas where soil content of this mineral is low. Diets high in refined foods may also lead to deficiency, as selenium can be destroyed by food processing. Taking anti-inflammatory drugs may reduce the body's supply of selenium.
Selenium is a trace mineral that is necessary to all functions of the body. Selenium Function. This important nutrient is vital to immune system function. Selenium works in conjunction with vitamin E, vitamin C, glutathione and vitamin B3 as an antioxidant to prevent free radical damage in the body. Selenium Deficiencies. Deficiencies of selenium can occur in areas where soil content of this mineral is low. Diets high in refined foods may also lead to deficiency, as selenium can be destroyed by food processing. Taking anti-inflammatory drugs may reduce the body's supply of selenium.
Better Sources of Selenium. Better vegetarian sources of selenium include grains and grain foods such as breads and pasta, as well as nuts. Brazil nuts are exceptionally high in selenium—an ounce contains 544 micrograms. The best animal food sources include tuna, cod, turkey, chicken and beef. 