The hypersensitivity states and resulting hypersensitivity reactions are usually subclassified by the Gell and Coombs classification. adj., adj hypersen´sitive. contact hypersensitivity that produced by contact of the skin with a chemical substance having the properties of an antigen or hapten. n a type involving a latent period between the antigen introduction and the reaction; cellular reactions mediated by the T lymphocytes (e.g., tuberculosis, and transplant reaction). hypersensitivity, dentin, n refers to the pain caused by fractures, or gingival recession, which exposes the dentin of a tooth.
Hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity refers to undesirable reactions produced by the normal immune system, including allergies and autoimmunity. These reactions may be damaging, uncomfortable, or occasionally fatal. Hypersensitivity reactions require a pre-sensitized state of the host
Report Abuse. Hypersensitive is, by definition, either excessively or abnormally sensitive or abnormally susceptible physiologically to a specific agent (as a drug or antigen). It combines hyper as in over or excessive and sense as in to feel. Hypersensitivity can sometimes be found in autistic individuals, but not exclusively. Best Answer: Autistic people are extremley hypersensitve but everyone can be. For example if you have a severe peanut allergy you are hypersensitive to peanuts. It just mean extremely sensitive to something and doesn't apply to one thing in particular.
delayed hypersensitivity (DH) (delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH)) the type of hypersensitivity exemplified by the tuberculin reaction, which (as opposed to immediate hypersensitivity) takes 12 to 48 hours to develop and which can be transferred by lymphocytes but not by serum. n a type involving a latent period between the antigen introduction and the reaction; cellular reactions mediated by the T lymphocytes (e.g., tuberculosis, and transplant reaction). hypersensitivity, dentin, n refers to the pain caused by fractures, or gingival recession, which exposes the dentin of a tooth.