More info. The effects of the antibiotic drug ceftazidine on Staphylococcus aureus bacteria. The antibiotic kills the bacteria (red) by causing the cell wall to disintegrate (yellow remnants). Antibiotics are chemicals that kill or inhibit the growth of bacteria and are used to treat bacterial infections. They are produced in nature by soil bacteria and fungi
Antibiotics. Antibiotics are medications taken to fight infections caused by bacteria. When they first became available during World War II (1939-1945), antibiotics were called wonder drugs because of their stunning record for safety and effectiveness. Well-known antibiotics include penicillin, streptomycin, and erythromycin. Many types of bacteria reproduce by cell division (the one-celled organism divides into two identical organisms), a very rapid process that sometimes takes as little as 20 minutes. The chemicals bacteria release may be toxic (poisonous) to human cells or may interfere with cell function.
Penicillin antibiotics were among the first medications to be effective against many bacterial infections caused by staphylococci and streptococci. Penicillins are still widely used today, though many types of bacteria have developed resistance following extensive use. All penicillins are β-lactam antibiotics. About 10% of people report that they are allergic to penicillin; however, 90% of this group are not actually allergic. While the number of penicillin-resistant bacteria is increasing, penicillin can still be used to treat a wide range of infections caused by certain susceptible bacteria, including Streptococci, Staphylococci, Clostridium, and Listeria genera.
Penicillin (PCN or pen) is a group of antibiotics which include penicillin G (intravenous use), penicillin V (oral use), procaine penicillin, and benzathine penicillin (intramuscular use). They are derived from Penicillium fungi. While the number of penicillin-resistant bacteria is increasing, penicillin can still be used to treat a wide range of infections caused by certain susceptible bacteria, including Streptococci, Staphylococci, Clostridium, and Listeria genera.
Penicillin and other antibiotics. Here we consider the roles of antibiotics, with special focus on the clinically useful antibiotics that are used to control bacterial infections in humans. Peptidoglycan is one of the major wall targets because it is found only in bacteria. Some of the other compounds target bacterial protein synthesis, because bacterial ribosomes (termed 70S ribosomes) are different from the ribosomes (80S) of humans and other eukaryotic organisms.
All penicillin type antibiotics operate by inhibiting the production of cell walls by bacteria, which therefore prevents growth. It is now known that penicillin has a bactericidal rather than a bacteriostatic action, i.e. it kills the bacteria, rather than merely inhibiting their growth, as some antibiotics do. It is thought that in a large population of bacteria there are always a few bacteria with resistance to some antibiotics. The few bacteria with this ability can grow and multiply greatly when the other bacteria - sensitive to the antibiotic-have been killed.
Penicillin is produced by strains of the fungus Penicillium notatum and P. chrysogenum. Most of the other antibiotics in clinical use are produced by actinomycetes, particularly streptomycetes (natural antibiotics). Other antibiotics are produced by chemical synthesis (synthetic antibiotics). Tetracyclines tetracycline, any of a group of antibiotics produced by bacteria of the genus Streptomyces. They are effective against a wide range of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria, interfering with protein synthesis in these microorganisms (see Gram's stain)...... Click the link for more information.
Mycoplasma is a genus of bacteria which lack a cell wall.[1] Without a cell wall, they are unaffected by many common antibiotics such as penicillin or other beta-lactam antibi … otics that target cell wall synthesis. They can be parasitic or saprotrophic. There are different classes of antibiotics. Many people allergic to Penicillin itself can also be allergic to other drugs in that class (Penicillin), as well as the cephalospo … rins (a class very similar to the penicillins). Only a few antibiotics are in the sulfa class, so that may not be a big deal at all.
, ampicillin ampicillin, a penicillin-type antibiotic that is effective against both gram-negative microorganisms and gram-positive microorganisms such as Escherichia coli. It is often used in the treatment of urinary tract infections, but resistant organisms are increasingly common..... Tetracyclines tetracycline, any of a group of antibiotics produced by bacteria of the genus Streptomyces. They are effective against a wide range of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria, interfering with protein synthesis in these microorganisms (see Gram's stain)...... Click the link for more information.