On the whole, the initial economic effects of Prohibition were largely negative. The closing of breweries, distilleries and saloons led to the elimination of thousands of jobs, and in turn thousands more jobs were eliminated for barrel makers, truckers, waiters, and other related trades. With Prohibition in effect, that revenue was immediately lost. At the national level, Prohibition cost the federal government a total of $11 billion in lost tax revenue, while costing over $300 million to enforce.
The economic impact of prohibition was immense as the US government was unable to collect taxes from an industry that generated billions of dollars in revenue. Prohibition allowed organized crime to flourish at an exponential rate and it also saw an increase in consumption of liquor and bootlegging. Corruption among government officials increases and also more murders were being committed in the country.
Along with other economic effects, the enactment and enforcement of Prohibition caused an increase in resource costs. During the 1920s the annual budget of the Bureau of Prohibition went from $4.4 million to $13.4 million. Prohibition in the United States was a nationwide constitutional ban on the sale, production, importation, and transportation of alcoholic beverages that remained in place from 1920 to 1933.
The Effects of Prohibition. As we mentioned, Prohibition created a vast illegal market for the production, trafficking and sale of alcohol. In turn, the economy took a major hit, thanks to lost tax revenue and legal jobs. Prohibition nearly ruined the country's brewing industry. The advent of the Great Depression (1929-1939) caused a huge change in American opinion about Prohibition. Economic issues crippled the country, and it just didn't make sense to those suffering that the country couldn't profit from the legal taxation
The increase of crime due to prohibition cost the government lots of money. This money was spent on maintaining and managing the number of prisoners that were behind bars because of prohibition crimes.(1) The Day, a newspaper in Iowa, stated some of the effects prohibition had on the economy. 
The main of prohibition was to prevent people from drinking and thereby bringing down the rates of crime, death, and poverty in the country. However, when the 18th amendment was implemented, instead of having a positive effect on the society and country, the opposite occurred. Prohibition allowed organized crime to flourish at an exponential rate and it also saw an increase in consumption of liquor and bootlegging. Corruption among government officials increases and also more murders were being committed
[This article is excerpted from chapter one of The Economics of Prohibition .]. Prohibition has an ever-increasing impact on our daily life. In the United States, prohibition against certain drugs, involving wars on them, has become one of our most visible and hotly debated national problems. At the core of this book, one of the first theoretical investigations of prohibition, is an economic theory of prohibition, which defines prohibition as a government decree against the exchange of a good or service.
Alcohol Prohibition Was a Failure. Executive Summary. National prohibition of alcohol (1920-33)—the “noble experiment”—was undertaken to reduce crime and corruption, solve social problems, reduce the tax burden created by prisons and poorhouses, and improve health and hygiene in America. 
On the whole, the initial economic effects of Prohibition were largely negative. The closing of breweries, distilleries and saloons led to the elimination of thousands of jobs, and in turn thousands more jobs were eliminated for barrel makers, truckers, waiters, and other related trades. I was reading about the economic impacts of US prohibition in the 1920s. Economics of Prohibition. Prohibition’s supporters were initially surprised by what did not come to pass during the dry era. When the law went into effect, they expected sales of clothing and household goods to skyrocket.