Kidney Pain. Pain caused by the kidneys is typically felt in the flank area, which is in the back, just at the lower edge of the ribs on either side of the spine. Pain caused by the kidneys tends to be sharp and severe, to and occur in waves. People sometimes equate back pain with kidney pain, but aching pain in the back -- especially the lower back or the middle of the back -- is usually due to muscles, ligaments, or even vertebrae and disks in the spinal column. Musculoskeletal pain typically gets worse with movement, and is relieved by heat or massage.
Kidney Disease Symptoms and Signs. Kidney pain is not very specific and can be confused with side pain arising from the spleen, pancreas, liver, gallbladder, colon, abdominal aorta (aneurysm), lungs, or lower back pain arising from the muscles, spine or spinal nerves. Pain in the kidney area and blood on the tissue (if it is from the urine) suggest a kidney disease. Pain from stretched lower back muscles is more superficial and changes with the body movement and position, but kidney pain is less likely affected by the body position.
Kidney pain — also called renal pain — refers to pain arising from infection, injury or inflammation of a kidney. You may feel kidney pain as a dull, one-sided ache in your upper back, often accompanied by fever and urinary symptoms. Some people are surprised to learn exactly where the kidneys are located. Your kidneys are located relatively high in your body, under your lower ribs. It's not unusual to attribute back pain or side (flank) pain to your kidneys. But more often than not, your kidneys probably aren't the cause of your back or flank pain. 1  Causes
1 Causes of kidney pain are mainly urinary tract infections and kidney stones. 2  However, there are many other causes of kidney pain. 3  If a woman is pregnant and has kidney pain she should contact her doctor. 4  Symptoms of kidney pain may include. 5  fever, 6  painful urination, 7  flank pain, 8  nausea and/or vomiting. 1 Kidney pain can be on the left, right, or both sides. 2  Causes of kidney pain are diagnosed with the patient's history and physical examination, and lab tests including blood, pregnancy, and urine tests. 3  A CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis may be ordered.
Kidney Stones Cause of pain: The pain caused by kidney stones occurs when a stone becomes lodged in the ureter, the slender tube that connects the kidney with the bladder. Urine flow is then blocked, which causes urine to back up into the kidney. People sometimes equate back pain with kidney pain, but aching pain in the back -- especially the lower back or the middle of the back -- is usually due to muscles, ligaments, or even vertebrae and disks in the spinal column. Musculoskeletal pain typically gets worse with movement, and is relieved by heat or massage.
Kidney pain is caused by infection, inflammation, injury or enlargement of the kidney, or by conditions that block the flow of urine out of the kidney. Pyelonephritis (kidney infection) and kidney stones are the most common causes of kidney pain. Your left kidney is slightly higher than your right. Pain from the kidneys tends to occur in the flanks or in the lower back just under the ribs, although it can extend into the groin and testicles.
Symptoms and signs that can speak for the kidney origin of the pain (1,3,4,7) : 1  Frequent urination. 2  Cloudy or foamy urine or blood in the urine. 3  Tenderness in the flank(s). 4  Dull pain provoked by a slight punch by a fist in the kidney area. Pain in the kidney area and blood on the tissue (if it is from the urine) suggest a kidney disease. Pain from stretched lower back muscles is more superficial and changes with the body movement and position, but kidney pain is less likely affected by the body position.
The kidneys are paired organs located toward the back of your body, partially protected by your lower ribs. Your left kidney is slightly higher than your right. Pain from the kidneys tends to occur in the flanks or in the lower back just under the ribs, although it can extend into the groin and testicles.
The kidneys are located in the middle-lower back, on each side of the spine, under and, partly, below the lower ribs (Picture 1) . They lie deep in the upper abdomen, in front of the back muscles and underneath the diaphragm. Picture 1. Kidney pain appears where the kidneys are located (back view). Pain in the kidney area and blood on the tissue (if it is from the urine) suggest a kidney disease. Pain from stretched lower back muscles is more superficial and changes with the body movement and position, but kidney pain is less likely affected by the body position.