Epithelial and endothelial cells are far too different types of cells forming different types of tissues in animals. The location, form, and function are different in these two types of tissues. In addition, the presented differences between the characteristics of these two types of cells would make it more sensible to the reader. Epithelial Cells. Epithelial cells form the epithelium, which usually lines the surfaces of the body including the most widely spread and the largest organ of the body, skin. Epithelium is one of the four basic types of tissues; others are muscle tissue, nervous tissue, and connective tissue. In addition to the lining of the skin, the epithelial cells line many glands and cavities of the body
Making the world better, one answer at a time. One difference between epithelial cells and muscle cells is their location in the human body. Epithelial cells are skin cells on the outside of the body. Muscle cells are located in the muscle under the skin. 
Epithelial tissue comprises one of the four basic tissue types. The others are connective tissue (support cells, immune cells, blood cells), muscle tissue (contractile cells), and nervous tissue. Organs represent various combinations of these four basic tissue types, which thus comprise the entire body. Epithelial tissue is one of the four basic tissue types. Several features characterize epithelial tissue and distinguish it from connective tissue, muscle tissue, and nervous tissue. 1  Epithelial tissue covers surfaces with an uninterrupted layer of cells.
The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. Simple epithelium is one cell thick; that is, every cell is in direct contact with the underlying basement membrane. In general, it is found where absorption and filtration occur. The thinness of the epithelial barrier facilitates these processes.
Grouped in to four basic types: connective, muscle, nervous, and epithelial. Multiple tissue types compose organs and body structures. While all animals can generally be considered to contain the four tissue types, the manifestation of these tissues can differ depending on the type of organism. 
Best Answer: Hello, -The epithelial tissue or epithelium in dermatology is a tissue composed of a layer of cells. In humans, it is one of four primary body tissues. Epithelium lines both the outside (skin) and the inside cavities and lumen of bodies. The outermost layer of our skin is composed of dead stratified squamous epithelial cells, as are the mucous membranes lining the inside of mouths and body cavities. Other epithelial cells line the insides of the lungs, the gastrointestinal tract, the reproductive and urinary tracts, and make up the exocrine and endocrine glands. Functions of epithelial cells include secretion, absorption, protection, transcellular transport, sensation detection, and selective permeability. Endothelium (the inner lining of blood vessels) is a specialized form of epithelium