Recovery time after a chemical peel depends on what kind of peel was done and how deep it was. With all types of peels, proper care of the skin after the peel is very important to speed healing, help results last longer, prevent infection, and avoid color changes in the treated area caused by sun exposure. A medium peel causes a second-degree burn of the skin. The skin takes 5 to 7 days to heal to a point where you can use makeup to hide the redness caused by the peel. There is little or no pain after the peel, but there may be some swelling, especially if the area around the eyes is treated.
A deep peel causes a deeper second-degree burn of the skin. Skin regrowth takes between 10 to 14 days after a deep peel. The skin remains extremely red for 3 weeks, up to 2 months for some people. Most people take about 2 weeks off from work. A medium peel causes a second-degree burn of the skin. The skin takes 5 to 7 days to heal to a point where you can use makeup to hide the redness caused by the peel. There is little or no pain after the peel, but there may be some swelling, especially if the area around the eyes is treated.
A glycolic peel is the kid sister of the heavier duty chemical peels, and as a result, the healing time is much faster. But there are still some after-peel steps that will help mellow the irritation. Here are five ways to soothe your skin after a glycolic peel. 
1. Cool it down. If you notice your skin start to peel, the first thing you should do is take a cold shower or bath. The cold water will help your skin cool down and slow the peeling process. When you are drying your skin, be sure to pat it dry with a clean, soft towel and avoid rubbing. By rubbing your skin, you can actually speed up and spread the peeling of your skin — and you definitely don't want to do that.
Posted by Samantha Cook in Chemical Peel. ANSWER: How long it takes a chemical peel to heal depends on the type of chemical peel. More Info: Chemical peels are categorized into three subgroups, which is used depends on the severity of the skin issue. The stronger the chemical used in the procedure, the deeper the peel, and subsequently the longer the healing time. The TCA peel causes a second degree burn on the epidermis and upper portion of the dermis, which means it will take longer to heal than a superficial peel. Following the procedure the skin will begin to crust and peel in the first 2-3 days. It may take up to 5-7 days to heal but some redness will likely remain.
Once you get out of the shower and dry your skin, apply a moisturizing lotion. Look for a moisturizer that is specifically designed to work on sunburn or peeling skin. Generally, the lotion should contain aloe vera, which will cool your skin, reduce inflammation and slow the peeling. The cold water will help your skin cool down and slow the peeling process. When you are drying your skin, be sure to pat it dry with a clean, soft towel and avoid rubbing. By rubbing your skin, you can actually speed up and spread the peeling of your skin — and you definitely don't want to do that.
In a chemical peel, a chemical solution is applied to the skin and allowed to soak in. Over the next 1 to 14 days, depending on how deeply the chemical penetrated the skin, the skin peels off. This procedure destroys parts of the skin in a controlled way so that new skin can grow in its place. A medium peel causes a second-degree burn of the skin. The skin takes 5 to 7 days to heal to a point where you can use makeup to hide the redness caused by the peel. There is little or no pain after the peel, but there may be some swelling, especially if the area around the eyes is treated.
Best Answer: It'll take about 5 days to a week. Don't worry, while in that process, get some cream so it can't go any further. Go to the doctors. They will give you some type of medicine or cream to cure the peel of the skin. Everything will be ok. Source(s): My sister had it. 
If you undergo a relatively strong TCA peel, the medium-depth removal of your skin can trigger significant swelling, as well as the formation of blisters. In some cases, these blisters will crack, crust over and heal within one to two weeks. A chemical peel is a procedure that uses the application of a chemical solution on your skin to achieve goals such as skin pigmentation correction and reduction of acne scars or wrinkles.