Although not required, most accountants attend college and earn a bachelor’s degree. However, a bachelor’s degree in accounting or a related field is considered the minimum education requirement for those who plan to become a CPA. Although CPAs have specific education and experience requirements, regular accountants do not. That means students have the opportunity to study in any number of related fields and still be eligible to fill accounting positions. Here are five popular degree options for accountants.
All are acceptable accounting degrees. The primary difference in these degrees is not the accounting and business courses required but the nature of the general education requirements. A bachelor’s in accounting degree typically requires the successful competition of 120 credit hours. Of the 120 credit hours about half are general education courses. There are four levels of accounting degrees and hundreds of institutions offering the accounting degrees. Each institution has specific admission requirements to enter their program and specific requirements which must be successfully completed to earn an accounting degree from their institution.
However, there is a certain amount of training and certification you’ll need before you can become an accountant. For starters, you’ll need a degree from an accredited college or university, and preferably a bachelor’s degree instead of an associate’s degree. The higher your degree, the better job you’ll be able to get. 
The admission and graduation requirements vary depending on the level of the accounting degree you are seeking and the institution offering the degrees mission. To be admitted into most programs offering an associate degree in accounting you need a high school diploma or a GED. Associate degrees are offered primarily at vocational schools or community colleges and through online institutions and these types of institutions typically have open admissions policies. There are four levels of accounting degrees and hundreds of institutions offering the accounting degrees. Each institution has specific admission requirements to enter their program and specific requirements which must be successfully completed to earn an accounting degree from their institution.
With this bachelor's degree, you will have more job opportunities open to you and will likely earn twice the salary of a person with an associate degree. The bachelor's degree in accounting includes about 36 credits of difficult accounting courses as well as another 20 credits in business courses. Colleges and universities with quality accounting degree programs will offer both a bachelor's degree in accounting as well as the more ambitious 150-credit degree, the latter one meeting the state's requirements for sitting for the CPA Exam.
Accounting Education Requirements: Degrees. A Bachelor's degree in Accounting, or a related field, is widely considered the minimum education level required to land a job as an accountant, the BLS reports. However, many employers seek applicants that have earned Master's degrees in Accounting or Business Administration. 
MBA in Accounting. A master’s business administration degree with a focus in accounting can help prepare a student become a certified public accountant. In the United States today, most states require that a student has a minimum of 150 credit hours to take the CPA exam. Rules will vary state by state, though. 
Colleges and universities with quality accounting degree programs will offer both a bachelor's degree in accounting as well as the more ambitious 150-credit degree, the latter one meeting the state's requirements for sitting for the CPA Exam. If you want to become a CPA, you will choose the 150-credit program. While having a 120-credit bachelor's degree in accounting was, at one time, enough to qualify a person to sit for the CPA Exam, most states now require that candidates complete a 150-credit college degree program.
Master's Degree Programs. Course work at the master's level will prepare you for management and administrative roles as well as often offer the credit hours required to sit for the CPA exam. Generally, students can pursue an MBA with a focus in accounting or the MAcc, the Master of Accounting. Both an MBA with a focus in accounting and a master's degree in accounting, such as the Master of Accounting (MAcc), will prepare you for managerial positions within the field.
Introduction to Accounting Degrees. If you have an aptitude for accounting and business, the field of accounting can offer you a variety of job opportunities. With a high school diploma or a two-year associate degree earned at a community or technical college, you could find employment as an accounting clerk. Colleges and universities with quality accounting degree programs will offer both a bachelor's degree in accounting as well as the more ambitious 150-credit degree, the latter one meeting the state's requirements for sitting for the CPA Exam.