Contingent Leadership. Contingency theory of leadership emphasizes that effectiveness of leadership is dependent on matching a leader’s style to right situation. This theory was originally developed by Fiedler after studying various leaders in different contexts, but predominantly military. 1 The contingency model is predictive; there is a well defined method to evaluate both LPC and Situations. 2  The theory reduces the amount of expectations from a leader, instead it focuses on matching a leader to task.
The definition of “situation” is also different in the two theories, while it implies the development/readiness level of the organization in “situational-leadership” , it’s a complex combination of three factors in contingency theory. 1 The contingency model is predictive; there is a well defined method to evaluate both LPC and Situations. 2  The theory reduces the amount of expectations from a leader, instead it focuses on matching a leader to task.
Understanding the Model. The Fiedler Contingency Model was created in the mid-1960s by Fred Fiedler, a scientist who studied the personality and characteristics of leaders. The model states that there is no one best style of leadership. Instead, a leader's effectiveness is based on the situation. 
Examples of contingency theories are: Contingency theory of leadership. In contingency theory of leadership, the success of the leader is a function of various contingencies in the form of subordinate, task, and/or group variables. 
There are many theories on what defines successful leadership. Contingency leadership is one of them, and it is especially important in modern leadership thought. The stance we take this theory will have a huge impact on how we go about leading, and developing as leaders.
Definition. A contingency approach to management is based on the theory that management effectiveness is contingent, or dependent, upon the interplay between the application of management behaviors and specific situations. In other words, the way you manage should change depending on the circumstances. The contingency approach to management holds that management techniques should be dependent upon the circumstances. In this lesson, you will learn what the contingency approach to management is and the key elements of contingency management.
Lesson Summary. The contingency approach to management is grounded in Fielder's contingency theory of leadership effectiveness. The theory argues that a manager's effectiveness is based upon the interplay of task, or relation, motivation and the circumstance. The contingency approach to management holds that management techniques should be dependent upon the circumstances. In this lesson, you will learn what the contingency approach to management is and the key elements of contingency management.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Contingency leadership is a philosophy that a manager ’s leadership style is contingent on the surrounding environment. Three basic factors of this leadership theory include relationships, task structure and positional power