Stained Concrete Cost. With staining, it’s often possible to dress up plain gray concrete for less than the cost of covering it up with carpeting, tile, or most types of high-end flooring materials. 1 When comparing the cost of stained concrete with alternative flooring materials, such as carpet, tile, or hardwood, don't forget to factor in longevity and replacement costs.
Economical. The cost of concrete floors is very low, about $2 to $6 per square foot to polish a plain gray slab, giving it a lustrous sheen. The concrete's tonal differences, subtle cracks and aggregates take on a stonelike, natural feel.
An additional option for improving concrete floors is to use dye. The dye, as opposed to staining, colors the concrete by penetrating the surface and adhering to the concrete, instead of reacting with it. An advantage to dye is that it dries faster than stains and it comes in a wider variety of colors. Each chemical process is unique and each slab of concrete is unique, leaving you a one-of-a-kind finish. Instead of hiring a painter to paint your concrete floor, only to have it crack, peel and fade in a few years, stain it. A stain can be applied to new or old concrete floors, revitalizing lackluster surfaces.
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase).
Costs. A professional concrete contractor will typically charge $2-$4 per square foot for a simple stain application, including the sealer. A stain application with patterning and sawed lines will typically cost between $4 and $10 per square foot. Multiple color patterns and intricate sawcuts can run between $5 and $15 per square foot. Elaborate sandblasted stencil work and layered staining can cost between $12 and $25 per square foot. Each chemical process is unique and each slab of concrete is unique, leaving you a one-of-a-kind finish. Instead of hiring a painter to paint your concrete floor, only to have it crack, peel and fade in a few years, stain it. A stain can be applied to new or old concrete floors, revitalizing lackluster surfaces.
Cost of Staining Concrete. Time: 01:56. View all concrete floor videos. The cost of staining will vary considerably depending on the complexity of the stain application, surface prep requirements, the size of the job, the type of sealer used, and your local market. Even if the stained surface wears after time, it can often be brought back to life with some touchup staining and reapplication of the protective coating. 1  It is usually much more cost-effective to stain new concrete that has not been sealed or previously covered with another flooring material.
For instance, if you have a basement floor you’re wanting stained a single color with no decorative saw cuts, and includes cleanup and a final sealer coat with minimal slab preparation, the cost can range from about $1.50 to $4 per square foot. Tags: acid stained concrete, basement floor, concrete acid, concrete cost, concrete driveway, concrete floor, concrete project, concrete sidewalk, different colors, free estimate, price, price variations, pricing, saw cuts, stain, stained, stained concrete, staining.
Your final cost will vary depending on the complexity of the stain application, surface prep requirements, the size of the job, the type of sealer used, and whether you do the work yourself or hire a staining professional. But no matter what you spend, you’ll be investing in a floor treatment that lasts. 1 When comparing the cost of stained concrete with alternative flooring materials, such as carpet, tile, or hardwood, don't forget to factor in longevity and replacement costs.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Patina Concrete Staining project. For a basic 125 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Stain Concrete Patina ranges between $3.05 - $3.88 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.