Aloe Vera. Aloe vera, also known as a burn plant or medicine plant, is a succulent often grown as a houseplant. Aloe is known for its healing properties as a topical analgesic. Aside from reportedly relieving itching, it is thought to reduce pain caused by minor burns and other skin irritations. Although similar in appearance to cacti, aloe vera is not a cactus but a succulent and a member of the lily family. Aloe plants are more closely related to tulips and asparagus than to cacti. 1  Plants That Look Like Aloe Vera. 2  Is Aloe Part of the Cactus Family?
The aloe plant may look like a cactus and act like a cactus, but it’s actually related to the lily and the onion. It is a succulent (i.e. its leaves retain an abundance of water), and while its exact origins are unclear, some believe it is native of Africa. It is usually found in hot, dry climates. The gel inside the leaf of the Aloe Vera plant is quite effect for treating burns (including sunburns), rashes and insect stings. The gel is also used in a variety of beauty products. Aloe Vera also makes a unique, easy-to-care-for houseplant.
Aloe vera leaves will not grow back. The wound seals over quickly and the plant will continue to grow new branches and leaves from the center. Best soil mix for aloe vera plants are cactus potting soil that you can find at garden centers. To prevent, let the soil dry out between waterings. Aloes, being succulents, do not require a lot of water. Check the soil about 1 to 2 inches deep; if it is dry, then water deeply. You may not need to water again until 2 or 3 weeks have passed; in winter, water it even less frequently.
Cacti, like aloe vera, are succulent desert plants often grown indoors on sunny windowsills. However, aloe vera is not covered in the sharp, needle-like thorns cacti are known for. Although similar in appearance to cacti, aloe vera is not a cactus but a succulent and a member of the lily family. Aloe plants are more closely related to tulips and asparagus than to cacti. 1  Plants That Look Like Aloe Vera. 2  Is Aloe Part of the Cactus Family?
Submit. Although similar to a cactus, the Aloe Vera plant is actually a succulent, capable of storing large quantities of water in its long, barbed, tapering leaves. Keywords: Aloe Vera, Succulent, Cactus.
The first step in aloe vera plant care is to realize that this plant is a succulent. Like cacti, succulents do best in dry conditions. When growing aloe vera plants, plant them in a cactus potting soil mix or a regular potting soil that has been amended with additional perlite or building sand. Also, make sure that the pot has plenty of drainage holes. Aloe vera plants cannot tolerate standing water. You can fertilize your aloe vera plant, but aloes do not need to be fertilized. If you decide to add fertilizing to part of your aloe vera plant care routine, aloe vera plants should be fertilized once a year in the spring. You can use a phosphorus-heavy water-based fertilizer at half strength.
Aloe vera is a cactus-like plant belonging to the Lily family, extracts of which are used topically for skin care, orally as a laxative and as a component of many herbal mixtures claimed to have medicinal benefits. Aloe vera (“true, shining bitter substance”) is derived from a cactus-like plant, a member of the Lily family that grows best in arid climates.
Prickly pear cactus may help maintain healthy blood sugar levels. Aloe vera, a member of the lily family and native to North Africa, has been used for medicinal and practical benefits for more than 4,000 years. A study published in the October 2012 issue of the journal Metabolic Syndrome and Related Disorders found that supplementation with aloe vera inner leaf gel for eight weeks significantly reduced levels of blood sugar and low-density lipoprotein, or LDL bad cholesterol, in participants with metabolic syndrome.
Aloe vera (/ˈaeloʊiː/ ˈæloʊiː /or/) ˈaeloʊ ˈæloʊ is a succulent. plant species The species has a number of synonyms: A. barbadensis Mill., Aloe indica Royle, Aloe perfoliata L. var. vera and A. vulgaris Lam. Common names include Chinese Aloe, Indian Aloe, True Aloe, Barbados Aloe, Burn Aloe, First Aid Plant.