Sucrose (table sugar) is made by joining two specific monomers, glucose and fructose. Different monosaccharide pairs produce many of the common disaccharide sugars we associate with food, including sucrose, maltose (malt sugar, two glucose monomers) and lactose (milk sugar, glucose and galactose monomers). Although cellulose is made with glucose, the glycosidic linkages between glucose monomers are different from the bonds in glycogen and starch. This unique bond structure causes cellulose chains to form linear flat strands instead of coils. The flat cellulose strands are able to form tightly packed bundles.
Carbohydrates Carbohydrates (also called saccharides) are molecular compounds made from just three elements: carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Monosaccharides (e.g. glucose) and disaccharides (e.g. sucrose) are relatively small molecules. They are often called sugars. Other carbohydrate molecules are very large (polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose). Carbohydrates are: 1  a source of energy for the body e.g. glucose and a store of energy, e.g. starch in plants.
Disaccharides are two monosaccharides linked together. Monosaccharides and disaccharides are also called simple sugars. Starches and fiber, the indigestible parts of plants, are polysaccharides, meaning that they contain many saccharide molecules linked together. Sucrose, glucose and starch are related because they're all forms of carbohydrate. One of the essential macronutrients in foods along with protein and fat, carbohydrates supply energy to your body. Carbohydrates, which consist of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, are classified according to their chemical makeup.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sucrose is a disaccharide made of glucose and fructose. Starch is a polysaccharide that is simply a chain of glucose. 
Some monosaccharides have a sweet taste. Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose (levulose) and galactose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides (such as sucrose and lactose) and polysaccharides (such as cellulose and starch).
Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'. When all the monosaccharides in a polysaccharide are the same type, the polysaccharide is called a homopolysaccharide or homoglycan, but when more than one type of monosaccharide is present they are called heteropolysaccharides or heteroglycans.
Amylose and Amylopectin are polysaccharides of starch. Amylose has a linear chain structure made up of hundreds of glucose molecules that is linked by a alpha 1,4 glycosidic linkage. Due to the nature of these alpha 1,4 bonds, the macromolecule often assumes a bent shape. 
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fruct