Thiamine, or vitamin B1, was the first Vitamin to be discovered scientifically, though Vitamin C, and D were also found early on.
In 1905, the first scientist to determine that if special factors (vitamins) were removed from food disease occurred, was Englishmen, William Fletcher. Doctor Fletcher was researching the causes of the disease Beriberi when he discovered that eating unpolished rice prevented Beriberi and eating polished rice did not.
Vitamin C In 1747, Scottish naval surgeon James Lind discovered that an nutrient (now known to be vitamin C) in citrus foods prevented scurvy. It was rediscovered by Norwegians, A. Hoist and T. Froelich in 1912. Vitamin C was the first vitamin to be artificially synthesized in 1935. A process invented by Dr. Tadeusz Reichstein, of the Swiss Institute of Technology in Zurich. Vitamin D In 1922, Edward Mellanby discovered Vitamin D while researching a disease called rickets.
Vitamin BB6 was discovered by Paul Gyorgy in 1934. The Scottish naval surgeon James Lindin observed in 1747 that a nutrient in citrus foods, now known to be Vitamin C, prevented scurvy. Vitamin C was rediscovered by Norwegians, A. Hoist and T. Froelich in 1912.
Folic acid Lucy Wills discovered in 1933. B6 Paul Gyorgy discovered in 1934. Vitamin C In 1747, Scottish naval surgeon James Lind discovered that an nutrient (now known to be vitamin C) in citrus foods prevented scurvy. It was rediscovered by Norwegians, A. Hoist and T. Froelich in 1912. Vitamin C was the first vitamin to be artificially synthesized in 1935. A process invented by Dr. Tadeusz Reichstein, of the Swiss Institute of Technology in Zurich.
Vitamin A Elmer V. McCollum and M. Davis discovered vitamin A during 19121914. In 1913, Yale researchers, Thomas Osborne and Lafayette Mendel discovered that butter contained a fat-soluble nutrient soon known as vitamin A. Vitamin A was first synthesized in 1947.
The first to be discovered but not fully understood was vitamin C-the Royal Navy discovered that if sailors ate lime fruits on a long voyage they did not develop scurvy (so the Yanks called the Brits limeys) - the lime and other citrus fruits were later found to be rich in vitamin C. Source(s): cunny · 6 years ago.