Consists of glands, such as the pituitary, that secrete hormones. Endocrine System. Transports nutrients, easte products, gases, and hormones throughout the body; plays a role in the immune response and the regulation of body temp. Consists of the heart, blood vessels, and blood. Cardiovascular System. Removes waste products from the blood and regulates blood pH, ion balance, and water balance
Confidence votes 29. Our circulatory system is probably considered the highway of our body. It is responsible for moving blood cells, nutrients, hormones, waste products and blood gasses around you and distributing it to the organs in need. In the human circulatory system, it transports blood rich in oxygen from the heart to the other parts of the body and transports blood rich in carbon dioxide from the rest of … the body to the heart.
1. To transport nutrients, gases and waste products around the body. 2. To protect the body from infection and blood loss. 3. To help the body maintain a constant body temperature (‘thermoregulation’). 4. This network allows a non-stop courier system (the blood) to deliver and expel nutrients, gases, waste products and messages throughout the body. Nutrients such as glucose from digested carbohydrate are delivered from the digestive tract to the muscles and organs that require them for energy
-Transports nutrients from the digestive system to all parts of the body. -Transports oxygen from the lungs to all the cells of the body. -Transports carbon dioxide and other metabolic wastes from the cells to the excretory organs. -Transports hormones from the endocrine glands to the target tissues. 
The human transport system is a system of tubes with a pump and valves to ensure one way blood flow. We need a transport system to deliver oxygen, nutrients and other substances to all our body cells, and take away waste products from them. The oxygenated blood (high in oxygen, red in color) comes to the heart from the lungs in the pulmonary vein; the heart pumps it to the aorta (an artery) to the rest of the body. This makes up most of the blood. It is mostly water with some substances dissolved in it, these include carbon dioxide, hormones, food nutrients, urea and other waste products. The blood plasma transports substances from one place to another.
The function of the red blood cells is to transport oxygen from the lungs to the body cells. A red protein called Haemoglobin, when the blood reaches the lungs, oxygen diffuses from the alveoli to the red blood cells and combines with haemoglobin forming an unstable compound called oxyhaemoglobin. This makes up most of the blood. It is mostly water with some substances dissolved in it, these include carbon dioxide, hormones, food nutrients, urea and other waste products. The blood plasma transports substances from one place to another.
It carries oxygen from and carbon dioxide to the lungs, nutrients from the digestive system or storage sites to tissues that require them, and waste products from the tissues to the liver for detoxification and to the kidneys for disposal. Nutrient Transport, Regulation, and Clotting. Blood also transports nutrients, hormones, and immune system components. Nutrients from the gut are dissolved directly in the plasma for transport, but are quickly shuttled to the liver for processing and storage of excess.
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. Endocrine System. The endocrine system is made up of a group of glands that produce the body's long-distance messengers, or hormones. Hormones are chemicals that control body functions, such as metabolism, growth, and sexual development.