LG GATE is an enterprise-grade technologies package. It provides peace of mind to your organization in the growing BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) era. To properly experience our LG.com website, you will need to use an alternate browser or upgrade to a newer version of internet Explorer (IE9 or greater).
LG Electronics plays a large role in the global consumer electronics industry. LG launched the LG Chocolate mobile phone in 2005 and is the second-largest LCD TV manufacturer worldwide as of 2013. By 2005, LG was a Top 100 global brand, and in 2006 LG recorded a brand growth of 14%. Its display manufacturing affiliate, LG Display, as of 2009 was the world's largest LCD panel manufacturer. 
Latest LG Phones 2015 (And Smartphones). LG Profile: More Best LG Phones. Our unique cell phone crawler finds the best LG mobile phones by averaging results from reviews from around the web. Here is what it found for recent LG phones. LG makes a vast array of cell phone, from very basic phones to Android smartphones, plus a wide range of texting and feature phones. Upcoming and new LG phones are presented here in order of inclusion in our database and our list goes back to legacy LG phones from as far as 2008. New and upcoming phones are shown first. 
LG Phones. Founded in Seoul in 1958 as GoldStar, LG Electronics today makes home appliances, mobiles, tablets, and televisions. LG launched its first Android smartphone in 2009, and its first Android tablet in 2011. Filters.
Windows®: Get the full desktop experience on your phone with a Windows® phone that lets you switch between devices seamlessly. Touchscreen: Available with a wide range of features, our touchscreen cell phones give you the power to do more with just a tap. To properly experience our LG.com website, you will need to use an alternate browser or upgrade to a newer version of internet Explorer (IE9 or greater).
LG. LG is a South Korean consumer electronics company that makes — among other things — smartphones, tablets and computers that are sold around the world. It also has many subdivisions that make many of the components that are used by its own smartphones and tablets, as well as sourced by several other major phone manufacturers. LG is probably best known for the displays, chips and batteries it makes for mobile devices. The vast majority of all phones and tablets LG makes run Android, while its computers run Windows and now Chrome OS