1 Always check to see if there is a label on the product before you use it. 2  Read, understand and follow the instructions on the label and SDS. 3  Follow any additional education, instructions, and training as provided by your employer. 4  Ask your supervisor if you are not sure about how to use or store it. 1 In a situation where an importer imports a hazardous product for use in their own workplace in Canada (i.e., the importer is not selling the hazardous product), the importer may retain the name, address and telephone number of the foreign supplier on the SDS instead of replacing it with their own contact information.
The three main elements of WHMIS – labels, MSDSs and training – are provided for everyone’s benefit. Read the WHMIS label each time you use any controlled product. Tell your supervisor if a label is damaged or missing. Refer to the MSDS for details about any hazardous products before you use it. These materials are also called controlled products. Each category has its own hazard symbol and it is important that the worker be able to recognize these. Hazardous materials can be in the form of liquids, gases, mists, fumes or vapors. This could include such items like paint, cleaning products and solvents.
(PDF Version - 441 K). The product label is your first source of information about the hazards of a product and how to protect yourself. Controlled (hazardous) products from suppliers must display a WHMIS label with a hatched border and the following seven categories of information. Supplier labels must be bilingual (English/French), easy to read, and durable. If the label is lost, damaged, or no longer readable, the product must be relabeled.
You must use a workplace label on the container. There are two special cases when a workplace label is not necessary. When a controlled material is poured into a container and it is going to be used immediately, no label is required. A workplace label must: 1  appear on all controlled products produced in a workplace or transferred to other containers by the employer. 2  may appear in placard form on controlled products received in bulk from a supplier. 3  have the following information: 4  product identifier (product name).
If the product is always used in the container with the supplier label, no other label is required (unless the supplier label falls off or becomes unreadable). However, sometimes you will want to put some of the material into another container for use in the workplace. A workplace label must: 1  appear on all controlled products produced in a workplace or transferred to other containers by the employer. 2  may appear in placard form on controlled products received in bulk from a supplier. 3  have the following information: 4  product identifier (product name).
Workplace labels are used in the workplace to: Identify controlled products that are produced and used in the workplace. For products transferred into other containers. To replace a supplier label if it is damaged or missing. No product is to be used without having an identification label attached to it. These materials are also called controlled products. Each category has its own hazard symbol and it is important that the worker be able to recognize these. Hazardous materials can be in the form of liquids, gases, mists, fumes or vapors. This could include such items like paint, cleaning products and solvents.
Any hazardous material, or controlled product, whether in transit, storage or use must be labelled. Two types of labels exist under WHMIS regulations: supplier labels and workplace labels. The supplier label must include: 1  product identifier. 2  supplier identifier. 3  reference to the material safety data sheet. The Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) requires that all hazardous materials are labelled, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are provided for all controlled products in use on campus and training is provided.
There are slightly different requirements for what must be on the label depending on who is required to put the label on the product. If a supplier label is not attached to a controlled product you are not to use the material until the supplier gives you an MSDS and a supplier label. A workplace label must: 1  appear on all controlled products produced in a workplace or transferred to other containers by the employer. 2  may appear in placard form on controlled products received in bulk from a supplier. 3  have the following information: 4  product identifier (product name).
A supplier label must: 1  appear on all controlled products received at workplaces in Canada. 2  contain the following information: 3  product identifier (name of product). 4  supplier identifier (name of company that sold it). 5  a statement that an MSDS is available. 6  hazard symbols [the pictures of the classification(s)]. A workplace label must: 1  appear on all controlled products produced in a workplace or transferred to other containers by the employer. 2  may appear in placard form on controlled products received in bulk from a supplier. 3  have the following information: 4  product identifier (product name).