Carbink are rock / fairy-type Pokemon pokémon who appeared in the 17th pokemon Pokémon movie diancie And the Cocoon. Of destruction they all come in four. different forms These four Carbink live in the Diamond Domain and serve as Diancie's bodyguards. They all have nicknames. Three of them Allotrope, Merrick, and Bort, made their debuts in Diancie, Princess of the Diamond Domain, and the fourth one, Dace, made his debut in Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction.
Carbink are rock / fairy-type Pokemon pokémon who appeared in the 17th pokemon Pokémon movie diancie And the Cocoon. Of destruction they all come in four. Different forms These four carbink live In The diamond domain and Serve'as diancie. S bodyguards they all. have nicknames These four Carbink live in the Diamond Domain and serve as Diancie's bodyguards. They all have nicknames. Three of them Allotrope, Merrick, and Bort, made their debuts in Diancie, Princess of the Diamond Domain, and the fourth one, Dace, made his debut in Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction.
Overview. Carbink is a staple on Trick Room teams in NU because it is a reliable setter of both Trick Room and Stealth Rock able to preserve momentum for your team with Explosion. To amplify its effectiveness, Carbink is one of the few Trick Room setters that resist Dark-and Bug-type moves. Magic Coat also can bounce back entry hazards as well as a potential Lovely Kiss or Sleep Powder from Jynx or Vivillon, respectively. Carbink's unique typing alongside its good bulk allows it to check many of the Fire-, Normal-, and Flying-types in the tier such as Magmortar, Kangaskhan, and Swellow.
Physiology. Carbink is a small gray rock-like creature embedded with many blue crystals. On the top part of its body, Carbink has long diamond-shaped ear-like formations on either side of its head, small bright blue eyes, and a light-blue crystal embedded in the middle of its forehead. The two sections of Carbink's body are separated by a white collar-like formation. 1 Diancie is actually a transformation of Carbink, though not its evolution.
Water-types: Water-types such as Prinplup, Lanturn, and Carracosta care little about Carbink's attacks and can 2HKO it with their STAB attacks. Prinplup and Kabutops in particular can use Defog and Rapid Spin, respectively, removing Carbink's Stealth Rock from the field. Magic Coat also can bounce back entry hazards as well as a potential Lovely Kiss or Sleep Powder from Jynx or Vivillon, respectively. Carbink's unique typing alongside its good bulk allows it to check many of the Fire-, Normal-, and Flying-types in the tier such as Magmortar, Kangaskhan, and Swellow.
Carbink are rock / fairy-type Pokemon pokémon who appeared in the 17th pokemon Pokémon movie diancie And the Cocoon. of destruction These four Carbink live in the Diamond Domain and serve as Diancie's bodyguards. They all have nicknames. Three of them Allotrope, Merrick, and Bort, made their debuts in Diancie, Princess of the Diamond Domain, and the fourth one, Dace, made his debut in Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction.
Moonblast is the decent Fairy-type move for Carbink. It's powerful, has STAB, and can lower the opponent's Special Attack. Power Gem and Ancient Power are two Rock-type moves, again with STAB. Power Gem is more powerful, but with Ancient Power, there's a 10% chance that all your stats will be raised by one level. Your best bet here is a Bullet Puncher such as Scizor, Mega Scizor or Metagross. These, thanks to a 4* weakness, can do drastic damage to Carbink. All Steel-type moves work in a similar manner too, so Pok mon like Aegislash with Flash Cannon would do wonders.
Carbink (メレシー) is the 124th Pokemon pokémon in The Kalos Coastal. Pokedex pokédex it Is/A-Rock, fairy type and is known As The. Jewel pokemon pokémon Carbink Uses The, clear body ability Which prevents opposing pokemon Pokémon from lowering'its statistics but doesn t prevent it From. lowering its own statistics Carbink's Hidden Ability is Sturdy, which protects it from one of the four One-Hit KO Moves and prevents it from being KO'd when its HP is full. Carbink doesn't evolve and doesn't have a pre-evolved form.
It is a Rock/Fairy-Type, and is known as the Jewel Pokemon. Pokémon carbink uses The Clear Body, ability which prevents Opposing pokemon pokémon from Lowering its statistics'but doesn t prevent it from lowering Its. own statistics Carbink's Hidden Ability is Sturdy, which protects it from one of the four One-Hit KO Moves and prevents it from being KO'd when its HP is full. Carbink doesn't evolve and doesn't have a pre-evolved form.
Steel-types: Due to Carbink's 4x weakness to Steel-type moves, any Steel-type can deal serious damage to Carbink while it can do very little in return. Ferroseed, Mawile, and Klinklang can use Carbink as setup bait for entry hazards or boosting moves, and Klinklang can OHKO Carbink with Gear Grind, bypassing Sturdy. Magic Coat also can bounce back entry hazards as well as a potential Lovely Kiss or Sleep Powder from Jynx or Vivillon, respectively. Carbink's unique typing alongside its good bulk allows it to check many of the Fire-, Normal-, and Flying-types in the tier such as Magmortar, Kangaskhan, and Swellow.