This contribution is necessary to cover Land Trust costs in preparing the conservation easement, including site analysis; identification of conservation values; review of title commitment, baseline documentation and minerals report; development of conservation easement language; and development of a management plan.
Some holders divide the cost of a single easement defense amongst multiple easements (50-100). This method has two major flaws. First, it assumes that only one easement will need to be defended in court against a violation. Second, small holders would not have 50-100 easements to spread the costs over.
Stewardship Costs. Based on the reports of eight land trusts, as found in the literature survey, average annual stewardship costs are $786/easement, with a range of $431 to $1,500 (excluding the costs to resolve major easement violations). The following describes the costs involved with the components of stewardship.
The Land Trust Alliance estimates the cost of an amendment to range between $500 and $5,000, and possibly higher (Doscher et al., 2007). Projects to amend/restate easements supported by the Pennsylvania Land Trust Association ranged in cost from $676 to $9,425 with an average cost of $4,826.
Survey $1,000 – $5,000+. A conservation easement requires an accurate legal description of the property you plan to place under easement. If one does not exist and the legal description is not verifiable, a survey may be needed.
(See “Tax Benefits” in the Land Conservation Options.) You will want to check with your attorney or tax advisor, but in most cases, a property owner ends up saving money with an easement. That said, there are up-front costs in addition to the $500 you gave to NCCT to initiate work on your easement.
Although larger easements will be more costly to monitor than smaller ones, many costs are not proportional to the size of the easement. While it will take longer to view the land of a larger easement, other costs, such as communications with the landowner and travel to the property, are not related to size.
Staff will track the cost to administer the easement and will bill the. Grantee for any cost in excess of $1,500 at the cost of staff time plus 20%. The applicant will be. informed if the project exceeds the base fee and as staff time accrues.
At closing, you will be asked to pay all attorney and filing costs incurred by NCCT, amounting to $1200 on average. You will also be asked to make a donation to NCCT’s easement protection and stewardship endowment.