A high ankle sprain occurs from a twisting or rotational injury. The high ankle sprain also can occur in the setting of an ankle fracture, which means the bones of the ankle are broken. In some cases, the ligament on the inside of the ankle, the deltoid, will be torn. In this event, the energy of the injury passes from the deltoid, through the high ankle ligaments, or syndesmosis, and up the leg through the fibula. This causes the fibula to be broken at a very high level. 
Torn ligaments and tendons require as long to heal as fractured bones do. The average healing times are: (1) mild strain – 2 to 10 days, (2) moderate strain – 10 days to 6 weeks, (3) severe strain – 6 to 10 weeks. The complications listed above are more likely to occur in the case of repeated injuries.
Treatment. On average, it takes six weeks for a MCL injury to heal. The initial treatment for most grade 1, 2 or 3 MCL tears focuses on reducing the pain and inflammation in the knee while immobilizing the knee to keep it stabilized. This includes: 1  Resting, icing and elevating the knee. 1 A grade 2 tear can take from two to four weeks to heal. 2  A grade 3 tear usually takes from four to eight weeks to heal, unless it is associated with damage to the ACL, in which case the recovery time may be longer.
Recovering from a hamstring injury may take days, weeks or months, depending on how severe the strain or tear is. A completely torn hamstring (grade 3) may take several months to heal and you'll be unable to resume training or play sport during this time. 1 Rest – keep your leg as still as you possibly can and avoid physical activity. 2  Your GP may recommend using crutches in more severe cases. 3  Ice – apply cold packs (a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a tea towel will also work) to your hamstring for 15 to 20 minutes every two to three hours during the day.
Balance training improves posture, athletic skill and coordination, which results in greater stability and fewer injuries as you age. 1  Balance on 1 foot (0.3 m). 2  When you can bear weight on your legs, try balancing on 1 foot (0.3 m). 3  Stand on the injured leg as long as possible, and try to increase the time daily. Depending on the leg injury sustained, healing time can vary from a few days to several months. Exercising after a leg injury can improve the leg's flexibility, strength and motion, but you must begin slowly so you don't aggravate the injury.
Overview. A groin strain is a stretch, tear, or complete rupture of the muscle that extends from the pubic bone to the inside of the thigh. It is the main muscle that allows you to move the leg from an outside to an inside position from the hip (initiating a crossover step in basketball or soccer, for example). A pulled or strained groin is painful and takes time to heal.
Introduction. A hamstring injury is a strain or tear to the tendons or large muscles at the back of the thigh. It's a common injury in athletes and can occur in different severities. The three grades of hamstring injury are: 1  grade 1 – a mild muscle pull or strain. 2  grade 2 – a partial muscle tear. 1 Rest – keep your leg as still as you possibly can and avoid physical activity. 2  Your GP may recommend using crutches in more severe cases. 3  Ice – apply cold packs (a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a tea towel will also work) to your hamstring for 15 to 20 minutes every two to three hours during the day.
1 When you can bear weight on your legs, try balancing on 1 foot (0.3 m). 2  Stand on the injured leg as long as possible, and try to increase the time daily. 3  Place 1 foot (0.3 m) in front of the other in a heel to toe pattern, as if walking a balance beam or imaginary tight rope. Depending on the leg injury sustained, healing time can vary from a few days to several months. Exercising after a leg injury can improve the leg's flexibility, strength and motion, but you must begin slowly so you don't aggravate the injury.
1 Balance on 1 foot (0.3 m). 2  When you can bear weight on your legs, try balancing on 1 foot (0.3 m). 3  Stand on the injured leg as long as possible, and try to increase the time daily. 4  Place 1 foot (0.3 m) in front of the other in a heel to toe pattern, as if walking a balance beam or imaginary tight rope. Depending on the leg injury sustained, healing time can vary from a few days to several months. Exercising after a leg injury can improve the leg's flexibility, strength and motion, but you must begin slowly so you don't aggravate the injury.
The length of time it takes to recover from a hamstring strain or tear will depend on how severe the injury is. A minor muscle pull or strain (grade 1) may take a few days to heal, whereas it could take weeks or months to recover from a muscle tear (grade 2 or 3). 1 Rest – keep your leg as still as you possibly can and avoid physical activity. 2  Your GP may recommend using crutches in more severe cases. 3  Ice – apply cold packs (a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a tea towel will also work) to your hamstring for 15 to 20 minutes every two to three hours during the day.