During the refining process, the sugars are processed to the point where the nutrients naturally available in the raw foods -- cane and beets -- are lost. Refined sugar is used as an added sugar in prepared and processed foods, as well as for eating and cooking.
Organic sugar (also called Rapadura). Organic sugar comes from sugar cane. Natural sugar cane is brimming with vitamins, minerals, enzymes, fibers, and phytonutrients that help the body digest the naturally occurring sugars.
About two years ago I started buying organic pure cane sugar, replacing the refined and pesticide-aided white sugar I had always used.A lengthy refining process turns the extracted juice of sugarcane into white sugar.
The visible differences of organic sugar vs refined sugar are evident by the dark color and coarser texture. Because organic sugar retains all of the nutrients found in its natural state, it also has a prominent molasses aroma.
Sugar, in all forms, is a simple carbohydrate that the body converts into glucose and uses for energy. But the effect on the body and your overall health depends on the type of sugar you’re eating, either natural or refined.
It is made up of sucrose, fructose, and glucose. Table sugar is just sucrose and calories, plus traces of chemicals utilized in the refining process such as lime, sulphur dioxide, and phosphoric acid. Organic cane sugar is not like brown sugar, which is white sugar with molasses thrown back in. The light color of organic cane sugar is comparable to turbinado or “raw” sugar, a sign that it is less processed compared to other wholesome sweeteners such as muscovado and molasses.
Refined organic sugar will share the same basic flavor as refined white sugar. Organic raw or natural sugar, however, does have a distinctive flavor difference, caused by the natural molasses content in each sugar crystal.
Natural sugars are those found naturally in foods. For example, lactose is a natural milk sugar and fructose is a sugar found in fruits. They can also be sugars that are naturally produced, not refined, and are added to foods, such as honey, stevia, agave nectar and maple syrup.