The maximum amount of hair needed for a hair drug test: the lab will only analyze the most recent inch and a half of hair (giving you a 90 day drug history). However, when you submit your hair sample, do not shorten the hair you provide. If your hair is 8 inches long, submit the entire 8 inches in length.
Fastest Labs can have the results of your hair drug test in as little as 24 hours, however if a positive test result is found (drug use is detected) in the initial screening, the sample is automatically re-evaluated and re-tested for confirmation of the positive result, which can take an additional 3 to 5 days.
A: Studies indicate that head hair grows on average of 0.5 inches (1.3cm) per month. This growth rate varies slightly (estimated at 0.2 cm per month), consequently there is some (1 week) time variation possible. Head and body hair do not grow at the same rate; body hair grows at a much slower rate.
This Hair Follicle Drug Test (5‐Panel) will determine the presence or absence of 5 types of drugs in your hair. Most people requesting a Hair Follicle Drug Test request a detection window for up to 90 days, depending upon the length of hair collected. A small sample of hair will be collected from several inconspicuous spots on your head. As a substitute, body hair can be used; however, the detection window varies for body hair.
HairConfirm™ will detect drugs for a period of 90 days. The test requires a hair sample of 1.5 inches in length. Each 0.5 inch represents 30 days. The hair sample must be cut as close to the scalp as possible and the most recent 1.5 inches are tested.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Hard to say: Typically, a hair test goes back 90 days, but it depends on how fast your hair grows. They are looking at 1 1/2 inches of hair, closest to the scalp. Incidentally, you should not avoid it by shaving your head.
In a typical hair drug test (taken from the scalp), with the hair sample being at least 1.5 inches in length using 90-120 strands (60 mg) of hair, a hair drug test can identify drug use within a 90 day period.
A: HairConfirm will detect drugs for a period of 90 days. The test requires a hair sample of 1.5 inches in length. Each 0.5 inch represents 30 days. The hair sample must be cut as close to the scalp as possible and only the most recent 1.5 inches are tested.