Within just 8 months of its launch, Tanqueray 10 gin, won 7 top US awards. Not only did the Old Tom Still survive the WWII London bombings, it is still used to make London Dry today. Charles Tanqueray and 180 years of world-class gin, to giving the night what it deserves.
Tanqueray is a London dry gin; it is so called because of its distillation process, as well as originating in Bloomsbury, London. London dry gin is made by means of double distillation of grain. Botanicals are added during the second distillation. The recipe is a closely guarded trade secret, although it is known to contain four botanicals (juniper, coriander, angelica root and liquorice). Tanqueray gin was initially distilled in 1830 by Charles Tanqueray in the Bloomsbury district of London. The retail outlet of Edward & Charles Tanqueray & Co was established on Vine Street, London in 1838.
Share This. Within just 8 months of its launch, Tanqueray 10 gin, won 7 top US awards. Not only did the Old Tom Still survive the WWII London bombings, it is still used to make London Dry today. Gin and vermouth, garnished with an olive or twist of lemon-the ‘Martini’ is perhaps the world’s best-known cocktail. Charles Tanqueray and 180 years of world-class gin, to giving the night what it deserves.
Tanqueray® gin. A popular brand of london dry gin made from juniper berries, coriander and angelica, as well as a secret addition of other ingredients. 
TANQUERAY® GIN. Charles Tanqueray began distilling his London Dry Gin in 1830, in Bloomsbury, London. He produced the finest London Dry Gin available at that time and set new standards in gin production. Today, Tanqueray gins are made with the expertise and passion of our master distiller, the keeper of Charles' legacy. DISPLAY LESS.
Tanqueray is a brand of gin produced by Diageo plc and marketed worldwide. Although it originated in England, it is now produced in Scotland. It does not command a sizable market share in its native market, its largest market being North America, where it is the highest selling gin import, followed by southern Europe. Tanqueray gin was initially distilled in 1830 by Charles Tanqueray in the Bloomsbury district of London. The retail outlet of Edward & Charles Tanqueray & Co was established on Vine Street, London in 1838.
The Tanqueray® Gin Collection: Charles Tanqueray began distilling his London Dry Gin in 1830, in Bloomsbury, London. He produced the finest London Dry Gin available at that time and set new standards in gin production. Today, Tanqueray gins are made with the expertise and passion of our master distiller, the keeper of Charles' legacy. DISPLAY LESS.
Tanqueray first and foremost is a London Dry Gin. Its distilled in Scotland, and has been made more or less in its current incarnation since the 1830s. It is a classic and as expected it has a strong bite of juniper with a hint of acid sharpness. 
Since Tanqueray is one of the iconic London Dry Gins, it’s no surprise that the first aroma from the glass is indeed juniper, but it’s not just pine. Also at the front of the nose are light lime and pine flowers. Tanqueray London Dry Gin is all about how just a few botanicals can come together around juniper to make a complex and flavorful gin, while Tanqueray No. Ten Gin is about presenting a wider palate of flavors to build on for cocktails.