After two weeks, it's down to a mere 11 ounces and located entirely within your pelvis. By about four weeks, it should be close to its pre-pregnancy weight of 3.5 ounces or less. This process is called involution of the uterus. Even after your uterus shrinks back into your pelvis, you may continue to look somewhat pregnant for several weeks or longer. That's because your abdominal muscles get stretched out during pregnancy, and it will take time – and regular exercise – to get your belly back in shape.
Uterus Size During Pregnancy: First Trimester. Around 12 weeks pregnant, the uterus is the size of a grapefruit and starts to grow up and out of the your pelvis, but still fits within it. If you are carrying twins or multiples, your uterus will start growing and stretching sooner. If this is not your first pregnancy it is normal for this measurement to be a bit bigger. If your uterus is the size it should be during your prenatal visits, this is a sign everything is progressing well with your pregnancy.
The immediate postpartum period most often occurs in the hospital setting, where the majority of women remain for approximately 2 days after a vaginal delivery and 3-5 days after a cesarean delivery. During this time, women are recovering from their delivery and are beginning to care for the newborn. The woman who breastfeeds her infant has a longer period of amenorrhea and anovulation than the mother who chooses to bottle-feed. The mother who does not breastfeed may ovulate as early as 27 days after delivery. Most women have a menstrual period by 12 weeks; the mean time to first menses is 7-9 weeks.
Description. Childbirth usually begins spontaneously, about 280 days after conception, but it may be started by artificial means if the pregnancy continues past 42 weeks gestation. The average length of labor is about 14 hours for a first pregnancy and about eight hours in subsequent pregnancies. 
1 Contractions called afterpains shrink the uterus for several days after childbirth. 2  Shrinking of the uterus to its prepregnancy size may take 6 to 8 weeks. 3  Sore muscles (especially in the arms, neck, or jaw) are common after childbirth. 4  This is because of the hard work of labor. Care after vaginal birth. Most women need some time after delivery to return to their normal activities. It's important to focus on your healing and on taking care of your body after delivery. 1  Use pads instead of tampons for the bloody flow that may last as long as 2 weeks.
1 Childbirth can tip the uterus forward or backward. 2  If the ligaments holding the uterus in place stretch, or lose their tension during pregnancy, the uterus can become tipped. 3  In most cases, the uterus returns to a forward position after childbirth. 1 In most cases, the uterus returns to a forward position after childbirth. 2  Scarring from adhesions as a result of endometriosis or fibroids can also cause the uterus to shift to a tilted or retroflexed state.
Uterus Size After Pregnancy. After birth your uterus will gradually return to its pre-pregnancy size and position. The deflation of your uterus is called involution. It usually takes about 6 weeks for this process to be complete. If this is not your first pregnancy it is normal for this measurement to be a bit bigger. If your uterus is the size it should be during your prenatal visits, this is a sign everything is progressing well with your pregnancy.
Physical changes after childbirth. The changes in your body may include sore muscles and bleeding. 1  Contractions called afterpains shrink the uterus for several days after childbirth. 2  Shrinking of the uterus to its prepregnancy size may take 6 to 8 weeks. 3  Sore muscles (especially in the arms, neck, or jaw) are common after childbirth. Care after vaginal birth. Most women need some time after delivery to return to their normal activities. It's important to focus on your healing and on taking care of your body after delivery. 1  Use pads instead of tampons for the bloody flow that may last as long as 2 weeks.
Puerperium is defined as the time from the delivery of the placenta through the first few weeks after the delivery. This period is usually considered to be 6 weeks in duration. By 6 weeks after delivery, most of the changes of pregnancy, labor, and delivery have resolved and the body has reverted to the nonpregnant state. An overview of the relevant anatomy and physiology in the postpartum period follows. The woman who breastfeeds her infant has a longer period of amenorrhea and anovulation than the mother who chooses to bottle-feed. The mother who does not breastfeed may ovulate as early as 27 days after delivery. Most women have a menstrual period by 12 weeks; the mean time to first menses is 7-9 weeks.
The process of involution, the process by which the uterus attempts to return to its prepregnancy size and condition. The involution state is assessed by looking at the fundal height and consistency of the uterine fundus plus the character and amount of lochia every 4-6 hours postpartum. The uterus is obviously stretched during pregnancy. By one week postpartum, the fundus may no longer be palpable through the abdomen and the entire size of the uterus is about the size of a grapefruit, round and smooth but firm. A boggy uterus may indicate potential hemorrhage.