Surprisingly few foods contain vitamin D -- unless it's added to the food. That's because your body is built to get vitamin D through your skin (from sunlight) rather than through your mouth (by food). But once your body has enough, it doesn't matter whether you got it through your skin or through your stomach. Other food sources of vitamin D include: 1  Cod liver oil (warning: cod liver oil is rich in vitamin A; too much may be bad for you). 2  Tuna canned in water. 3  Sardines canned in oil. 4  Milk or yogurt -- regardless of whether it's whole, nonfat, or reduced fat -- fortified with vitamin D. 5  Beef or calf liver. 6  Egg yolks. 7  Cheese
Sardines. Sardines are one of the best foods sources of vitamin D. One small tin can of sardines will provide you with approximately 70% of your daily needs. These tiny canned fish are also a great source for vitamin B12, omega-3 fatty acids, protein, and selenium. There are many reasons to stock up on foods containing vitamin D, health benefits of the vitamin include: 1  The prevention of chronic diseases. 2  The protection and lubrication of your bones, teeth and hair. 3  The regulation of cellular growth and healthy cell activity. 4  Overall reduction of systemic redness and swelling.
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in very few foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. It is also produced endogenously when ultraviolet rays from sunlight strike the skin and trigger vitamin D synthesis. Vitamin D in these foods is primarily in the form of vitamin D 3 and its metabolite 25(OH)D 3 [ 12 ]. Some mushrooms provide vitamin D 2 in variable amounts [ 13, 14 ]. Mushrooms with enhanced levels of vitamin D 2 from being exposed to ultraviolet light under controlled conditions are also available.
Five Foods Rich in Vitamin D. Vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin that plays a vital role in the human body. It has many functions, and a lack of vitamin D can lead to serious health problems. Bone growth is severely impaired from vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D promotes calcium absorption in the body, which leads to strong bones. While there are not many natural foods rich in vitamin D, the following 5 have high concentrations of the vitamin. 1. Milk. Milk is an excellent source of vitamin D, as nearly all milk in this country is fortified with the vitamin. Fortification began decades ago when rickets became a significant health problem.
Very few foods have vitamin D in them. Foods with a higher amount of vitamin D include fish, liver, and egg yolk. Excellent sources of vitamin D are foods and beverages that have vitamin D added to them. Cow milk always has added vitamin D. Orange juice, margarine, and soy beverage usually have it added. For other foods, check the label.
The best way to get more calcium is from your diet. You probably already know that dairy products -- such as milk, cheese, and yogurt -- provide calcium. Other foods that are high in calcium include: 1  Spinach. 2  Kale. 3  Okra. 4  Collards. 5  Soybeans. 6  White beans. 7  Some fish, like sardines, salmon, perch, and rainbow trout. Foods that provide vitamin D include: 1  Fatty fish, like tuna, mackerel, and salmon. 2  Foods fortified with vitamin D, like some dairy products, orange juice, soy milk, and cereals. 3  Beef liver. 4  Cheese. 5  Egg yolks
5. Sardines are one of the best foods sources of vitamin D. One small tin can of sardines will provide you with approximately 70% of your daily needs. These tiny canned fish are also a great source for vitamin B12, omega-3 fatty acids, protein, and selenium. There are many reasons to stock up on foods containing vitamin D, health benefits of the vitamin include: 1  The prevention of chronic diseases. 2  The protection and lubrication of your bones, teeth and hair. 3  The regulation of cellular growth and healthy cell activity. 4  Overall reduction of systemic redness and swelling.
Egg yolk, Swiss cheese, sardines and beef liver also naturally contain some vitamin D. All milk sold in the United States is fortified with vitamin D, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Yogurt, margarine, breakfast cereals and other foods may also be fortified with the vitamin.