Full Definition of MAMMAL. : any of a class (Mammalia) of warm-blooded higher vertebrates (as placentals, marsupials, or monotremes) that nourish their young with milk secreted by mammary glands, have the skin usually more or less covered with hair, and include humans. — mam·ma·li·an \mə-ˈmā-lē-ən, ma-\ adjective or noun.
Any of various warm-blooded vertebrate animals whose young feed on milk that is produced by the mother's mammary glands. Unlike other vertebrates, mammals have a diaphragm that separates the heart and lungs from the other internal organs, red blood cells that lack a nucleus, and usually hair or fur. any warm-blooded vertebrate of the class Mammalia, characterized by a covering of hair on some or most of the body, a four-chambered heart, and nourishment of the newborn with milk from maternal
Mammal. Mammals are a clade of endothermic amniotes. Among the features that distinguish them from the other amniotes, the reptiles and the birds, are hair, three middle ear bones, mammary glands in females, and a neocortex.
Definition of MAMMAL for Kids. : a warm-blooded animal (as a dog, mouse, bear, whale, or human being) with a backbone that feeds its young with milk produced by the mother and has skin usually more or less covered with hair. : any of a class (Mammalia) of warm-blooded higher vertebrates (as placentals, marsupials, or monotremes) that nourish their young with milk secreted by mammary glands, have the skin usually more or less covered with hair, and include humans. — mam·ma·li·an \mə-ˈmā-lē-ən, ma-\ adjective or noun.
Marsupials mammal means a sub-group of mammals which, like all mammals, are warm blooded vertebrates, breathe using lungs (rather than gills), and are covered with skin, fur o … r hair. Mammals, including marsupials, suckle their young on mothers' milk. 
Mammals are a particular class of animal. What makes an animal a mammal are several things. First, they must have glands that give milk. This is to feed their babies. Second, they are warm-blooded. Third, all mammals have fur or hair. Humans are mammals and so are dogs, whales, elephants, and horses. 
Wiktionary (5.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: mammal (Noun). An animal of the class Mammalia, characterized by being warm-blooded, having hair and feeding milk to its young. mammal (Noun). A vertebrate with three bones in the inner ear and one in the jaw. Mammals are a clade of endothermic amniotes. Among the features that distinguish them from the other amniotes, the reptiles and the birds, are hair, three middle ear bones, mammary glands in females, and a neocortex.
Report Abuse. A mammal is a group of animals that feeds its baby with its own milk. This means they feed their babies with the milk out of their own breast. It is also known as breast feeding. All mammals also are warm-blooded, and have hair. 
Marsupials mammal means a sub-group of mammals which, like all mammals, are warm blooded vertebrates, breathe using lungs (rather than gills), and are covered with skin, fur o … r hair. Mammals, including marsupials, suckle their young on mothers' milk. However, marsupial mammals have some differences. 
• MAMMAL (noun). The noun MAMMAL has 1 sense: 1. any warm-blooded vertebrate having the skin more or less covered with hair; young are born alive except for the small subclass of monotremes and nourished with milk. Familiarity information: MAMMAL used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. 