Many domain registrars now offer a service called privacy protection. When you choose privacy protection, your personal information will not be listed on the WhoIs record. Instead, the information of the registrar's privacy service will appear. You still own your domain.
With private registration, the private registration service can be the legal owner of the domain. This has occasionally resulted in legal problems. Ownership of a domain name is given by the organization name of the owner contact in the domain's Whois record. 1 Personal information is typically collected by these registrars to provide the service. 2  Some registrars take little persuasion to release so-called 'private' information to the world, requiring only a phone request or cease and desist letter.
WHOIS Privacy Protection offers to protect your personal domain registration information from public WHOIS searches. Privacy Protection for your domain is only $9.95 per year. Most eNom and Launchpad domains can now be managed in the registry tool at register.hostgator.com. The following instructions will show you how to enable WHOIS Privacy for your domains via register.hostgator.com. To enable WHOIS Privacy Protection for a domain: 1  Go to http://register.hostgator.com. 2  Click on the Manage Domains tab. 3  Log in with your billing account email and password to access any domains attached to that billing account
When you enable Privacy Protection on a domain name, we replace all your publicly visible contact details with alternate contact information so that when a WHOIS query is performed on the domain, an alternate mailing address, email address and phone number are displayed. When buying a domain name you have to provide accurate contact information or else your domain registration could be terminated as it would be in violation of the registration agreement.
Domain privacy or WHOIS protection (different registrars sometimes refer to it by different names) hides the domain registrant’s personal information from the public WHOIS database. WHOIS is an organization that manages all data regarding domain registration. We offer privacy protection at $7/year with our domain registrations. In comparison, GoDaddy, a popular domain registrar, offers privacy protection at $9.99/year. Transparency can be a good thing. Some domain owners don’t care if their information is public.
Once you've activated privacy protection on your domain and your personal information is no longer public, spammers can't use it to find your email address or send you those deceptive domain renewal notices from other companies. When you choose privacy protection, your personal information will not be listed on the WhoIs record. Instead, the information of the registrar's privacy service will appear. You still own your domain.
2. Privacy protection of domain name can help you in personal protection. You have to provide your domain name registrar with your accurate personal information. Otherwise, your name could be terminated becuase of violations of terms and conditions. As your entire personal information is made available to everyone, it can be used by hackers to steal your identity. They can use your name and other personal information for theft and other fraudulent activities. Therefore, you can choose domain privacy protection for preventing yourself from such issues.
Domain privacy protection is utilized for protecting your personal information. The WHOIS information includes your name, email, phone number and other personal addresses that you provide for the domain name registrar. As your entire personal information is made available to everyone, it can be used by hackers to steal your identity. They can use your name and other personal information for theft and other fraudulent activities. Therefore, you can choose domain privacy protection for preventing yourself from such issues.
The process of domain privacy protection makes sure that the personal information will not get published on the web. The publicly visible details of contact are replaced by safety measures and alternative information is created which is then made available by your registrar of domain name. As your entire personal information is made available to everyone, it can be used by hackers to steal your identity. They can use your name and other personal information for theft and other fraudulent activities. Therefore, you can choose domain privacy protection for preventing yourself from such issues.