If you have a Roth IRA and it has been open for more than five years, you can withdraw the value of your contributions -- not earnings -- from your account at any time without replacing it and you will not be penalized. The same is true for all traditional-to-Roth conversion money that is at least five years old.
If you withdraw money from your IRA and redeposit the same amount within 60 days, it effectively doesn't count. You will not be charged a penalty for early withdrawal, and you do not need to pay taxes on the withdrawal. The reverse is also true -- you do not get a tax deduction for the re-deposit in a traditional IRA.
(It's a retirement account, after all.). If you are under 59 ½: If you withdraw any money from a traditional IRA, you'll be slapped with a 10% penalty on the amount you withdraw. That's in addition to the regular income tax you'll owe on your withdrawal. Bad idea.
Typically, you have 60 days to put money you take out of your IRA back into the account to be able to treat it as a rollover. If you do put it back within the time frame, you avoid having it considered a permanent distribution, and therefore avoid any taxes and penalties.
If you are under 59 ½: If you withdraw any money from a traditional IRA, you'll be slapped with a 10% penalty on the amount you withdraw. That's in addition to the regular income tax you'll owe on your withdrawal. Bad idea.
Save. Under IRS rules, individual retirement accounts provide a tax break for retirement savings. There's a limit on the amount you can contribute to an IRA each year: $5,500 as of 2015, plus an additional $1,000 catch-up contribution if you're over 50.
Accounts. You do not have to redeposit your IRA money to the exact same account you removed it from. As long as the money goes into the same type of account -- traditional or Roth -- you can deposit it to any account you own, or even a completely new one.
Under certain conditions, you can withdraw money from your IRA without penalty. The rules vary depending on the type of IRA you have. Generally, for a Traditional IRA, distributions prior to age 59½ are subject to a 10% penalty in addition to federal and state taxes unless an exception applies.