In general, most school counselors begin their careers with a bachelor’s degree in areas such as counseling, education, or psychology. When pursuing a school counseling career, you’ll most likely also be required to earn at least a master’s degree in school counseling or education psychology. 
By Erika Price, PhD. Counselors help people make the most of their lives in the face of unique challenges and adversity. Broadly defined, a counselor is any trained and licensed professional who provides mental health, behavioral, or emotional assistance to individual clients in need. Prospective counselors who only have a master’s degree will need to obtain training and mentorship from the organization for which they will be providing services – for example, a women’s shelter, juvenile detention facility, or rape crisis center – and may also need to perform a certified internship.
Become a Counselor: Education & Training. Most counselors have a post-bachelor’s graduate degree (MA or PhD) from a Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) accredited program. Counselor Licensing. Most states require licensure or certification. The National Board for Certified Counselors (NBCC) grants a general practice credential, National Certified Counselor (NCC), to counselors who have passed their examination, have completed a graduate degree and have two years of fieldwork.
A strong sense of what you want to do -- a real vision -- can help you get accepted into a program. The best way to get a sense of what professional counselors do is to talk to professionals and spend some time out in the field. Counseling programs have a common core but unique elements. A counseling specialty, broadly defined, determines licensing. Many counselors are licensed as Licensed Professional Counselors, but those in some specialties are either licensed separately or have dual credentials. It's not uncommon for a counselor to also have an emphasis area -- a focus population, for example, even with that emphasis it doesn't change credentialing.
In general, an associate’s or bachelor’s degree is required for addiction counseling, career counseling and life coaching. An associate’s or bachelor’s degree also introduces a person to the wide variety of counseling career choices, which may help you to determine if counseling is the correct career path for you. Prospective counselors who only have a master’s degree will need to obtain training and mentorship from the organization for which they will be providing services – for example, a women’s shelter, juvenile detention facility, or rape crisis center – and may also need to perform a certified internship.
3. Complete your master's degree. If you want to become a licensed career counselor in some states, you must complete a master's degree. Career counselors usually pursue a master's degree in Counseling, with a concentration in vocational or adult counseling. If you enjoy helping people, becoming a counselor can be a great career choice for you. However, there is a lot to consider before becoming a counselor, and many sub-specialties. This article shows you how to land a career as either a social worker, guidance counselor, career counselor, or drug counselor.
The best way to get a sense of what professional counselors do is to talk to professionals and spend some time out in the field either volunteering or working in a lower level position that doesn't require a professional license. Many counselors are licensed as Licensed Professional Counselors, but those in some specialties are either licensed separately or have dual credentials. It's not uncommon for a counselor to also have an emphasis area -- a focus population, for example, even with that emphasis it doesn't change credentialing.
Requirements. Education. Most counselors have a master’s degree or an advanced degree such as a PhD or a PsyD, but an associate’s or bachelor’s degree is a great place to begin a counseling career, particularly if a person wants to maintain flexibility in his specific counseling path. Prospective counselors who only have a master’s degree will need to obtain training and mentorship from the organization for which they will be providing services – for example, a women’s shelter, juvenile detention facility, or rape crisis center – and may also need to perform a certified internship.
Just like any therapist or counselor, you need a thorough, advanced education in psychology, counseling, and psychotherapy in order to offer professional assistance to people in need. In addition to this, Christian counselors practice a faith-based approach that is grounded in the teachings provided in the Bible. 