Arizmendi. Calakmul, Campeche, Mexico; 30 December 2010 © Amy McAndrews. The Ocellated Turkey (Meleagris ocellata) is the sister species to North America’s Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo). It is a Neotropical species of high tri-national concern (Mexico–United States–Canada) to Partners in Flight (Berlanga et al
The domesticated turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is a large poultry bird, one of the two species in the genus Meleagris and the same as the wild turkey. It was domesticated by the indigenous peoples of Mesoamerica at least 2,000 years ago, with the evidence pointing to what are today the central regions of Mexico. Female domesticated turkeys are referred to as hens and the chicks may be called poults or turkeylings. In the United States, the males are referred to as toms, while in Europe, males are stags. The average lifespan for a domesticated turkey is ten years.
The turkey is a large bird in the genus Meleagris, which is native to the Americas. One species, Meleagris gallopavo (commonly known as the wild turkey or domestic turkey), is native to the forests of North America, mainly Mexico and the United States. The other living species is Meleagris ocellata or the ocellated turkey, native to the forests of the Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula Males of both turkey species have a distinctive fleshy wattle or protuberance that hangs from the top of the beak (called a snood).
(Meleagris gallopavo mexicana) The fifth recognized, but least known, wild turkey subspecies is the Gould's found in portions of Arizona and New Mexico, as well as northern Mexico. It was first described by J. Gould in 1856 during his travels in Mexico. Like the Merriam's, the Gould's is a bird of the mountains. Merriam’s Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) This subspecies of turkey is primarily located in the pines of the western mountain regions of the U.S. It was named by Dr. E.W. Nelson in 1900 in honor of C. Hart Merriam, the first chief of the U.S. Biological Survey.
A turkey fossil not assignable to genus but similar to Meleagris is known from the Late Miocene of Westmoreland County, Virginia. In the modern genus Meleagris, a considerable number of species have been described, as turkey fossils are robust and fairly often found, and turkeys show great variation among individuals. Males of both turkey species have a distinctive fleshy wattle or protuberance that hangs from the top of the beak (called a snood).
Eastern Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris)This subspecies of wild turkey is the most numerous and hunted species and is also the most widely distributed of all the subspecies in North America. It nearly inhabits the entire eastern half of the country. The Eastern turkey is best found in hardwood and thick forests. Merriam’s Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) This subspecies of turkey is primarily located in the pines of the western mountain regions of the U.S. It was named by Dr. E.W. Nelson in 1900 in honor of C. Hart Merriam, the first chief of the U.S. Biological Survey.
Meleagris redirects here. For the familiar species, see Domesticated turkey and Wild turkey. For turkey as a food, see Turkey (food) . For other uses, see Turkey (disambiguation) and Meleagris (disambiguation) . Males of both turkey species have a distinctive fleshy wattle or protuberance that hangs from the top of the beak (called a snood).
The 6 subspecies are: 1  Eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris). 2  This is the most common of the turkeys, and is found in the eastern half of North America from New England and southern Ontario west to Minnesota, Missouri, and Iowa, and south to Texas and northern Florida. There are 6 subspecies of wild turkey which have been described in the technical literature. The differences between them may be found in the References listed below. Subspecies have a 3-part Latin name, instead of the 2-part name for a species.