Relief printmaking is a form of printmaking in which the image to be printed is raised from the surface. Pieces of material are removed from the surface using sharp tools called gouges. This creates a surface similar to a stamp. Special block printing ink is added to the raised surfaces with a roller called a brayer. 
Relief printing is one of the traditional families of printmaking techniques, along with the intaglio and planographic families. Modern developments have created other types. In contrast, in the intaglio process the recessed areas are the printed areas. The relief family of techniques includes woodcut, metalcut, wood engraving, relief etching, linocut, rubber stamp, foam printing, potato printing, and some types of collagraph. Traditional text printing with movable type is also a relief technique.
Poster Child’s Guide to relief printing! A relief print is made by creating a low relief on a flat surface, then coating that surface with ink and pressing paper (or some other medium) to the inked surface to create a reverse image of the relief carving.
Relief printing is a printmaking process where protruding surface faces of the printing plate or block are inked; recessed areas are ink free. 
Relief Printing. This is the oldest of the printing techniques. On the relief block – wood or metal – the non-printing areas are cut away and the ink is applied to the remaining raised areas by dabbing or with a roller. Then the ink is transferred by laying a sheet of paper and applying pressure. Relief is identified by: 1  Edges’s rim
The Relief Printmaking Process. In relief printing, you cut away or recess what you do not want to print. The print is made from what is left of the original surface. The image is transferred by rubbing the backside of the paper after it is placed face-down on the fully inked block. 
Relief printing is the oldest form of printmaking. The most common form of relief printing is woodcut. An ink drawing is made on a wood block. The artist cuts away uninked areas, leaving inked areas raised. 
Relief printing is. Relief printing is a printmaking process where protruding surface faces of the printing plate or block are inked; recessed areas are ink free. Added 3/13/2014 3:43:29 PM. This answer has been confirmed as correct, not copied, and helpful. Confirmed by yumdrea [3/13/2014 3:51:05 PM]
A is the block or matrix; B is the paper; the thick black lines are the inked areas. (The thickness of the ink is greatly exaggerated for illustration). Relief printing is a process where protruding surface faces of the printing plate or block are inked; recessed areas are ink free. The relief family of techniques includes woodcut, metalcut, wood engraving, relief etching, linocut, rubber stamp, foam printing, potato printing, and some types of collagraph. Traditional text printing with movable type is also a relief technique.
Flexography and letterpress are forms of relief printing. Although the image to be printed is raised on the printing plate, relief printing does not necessarily create relief or raised lettering such as found in embossing and thermography. Common Misspellings: releif printing.