The most commonly used crystalloid fluid is normal saline, a solution of sodium chloride at 0.9% concentration, which is close to the concentration in the blood (isotonic). Ringer's lactate or Ringer's acetate is another isotonic solution often used for large-volume fluid replacement. Normal saline (NS) is the commonly used term for a solution of 0.9% w/v of NaCl, about 300 mOsm /L. Less commonly, this solution is referred to as physiological saline or isotonic saline, neither of which is technically accurate.
A solution of 0.9% sodium chloride is known as normal saline solution because its tonicity (308 mOsm/liter) closely correlates with the osmolality of plasma. This solution contains 154 mEq/liter of both sodium and chloride, close to normal plasma levels of 140 mEq/liter of sodium and 103 mEq/ liter of chloride. Indications. Hypotonic saline fluids such as 0.45% sodium chloride solution, which expand the intracellular compartment, are indicated for hypertonic dehydration, gastric fluid loss, and cellular dehydration from excessive diuresis.
Normal saline (NSS, NS or N/S) is the commonly used phrase for a solution of 0.90% w/v of NaCl, 308 mOsm /L or 9.0 g per liter. Less commonly, this solution is referred to as physiological saline or isotonic saline, neither of which is technically accurate. Since normal saline contains 9 grams of NaCl, the concentration is 9 grams per liter divided by 58.5 grams per mole, or 0.154 mole per liter. Since NaCl dissociates into two ions – sodium and chloride – 1 molar NaCl is 2 osmolar. Thus, NS contains 154 mEq /L of Na + and Cl − .
The solution is 9 grams of sodium chloride (NaCl) dissolved in water, to a total volume of 1000 ml (weight per unit volume(w/v)). The mass of 1 millilitre of normal saline is 1.0046 gram at 22 °C. Since normal saline contains 9 grams of NaCl, the concentration is 9 grams per liter divided by 58.5 grams per mole, or 0.154 mole per liter. Since NaCl dissociates into two ions – sodium and chloride – 1 molar NaCl is 2 osmolar. Thus, NS contains 154 mEq /L of Na + and Cl − .
This type of solution provides free water, sodium, and chloride but does not provide calories or other electrolytes. An example of a hypotonic solution is 0.45% sodium chloride (0.45% NS), commonly called half normal saline. Solutions with an electrolyte content of 375 mEq/L or more are considered hypertonic. Hypertonic solutions are infused to treat patients who have severe hyponatremia. Intravenous (IV) fluids are infused to maintain fluid balance, replace fluid losses, and treat electrolyte imbalances. They are commonly available in volumes ranging from 25 mL to 1,000 mL and are dispensed in either plastic bags or glass bottles.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Sodium Chloride (sodium chloride (sodium chloride injection) injection) Injection, USP is a sterile, nonpyrogenic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment in single dose containers for intravenous administration. It contains no antimicrobial agents. The nominal pH is 5.5 (4.5 to 7.0). 
The combination of 0.9% saline (dehydration correction) and 0.18% saline (maintenance fluid) averages to approximately 0.45% (half-normal) saline. This approximation is acceptable because the kidneys will sort out what to keep and what to excrete. Step 1: In the ER, the child is estimated is having 10% dehydration. Therapy may be started with a rapid bolus of 0.9% saline to combat incipient shock. But correction of dehydration has to be accompanied by provision of maintenance fluid-after all, the child is breathing, losing free water through the skin, and is urinating!
This type of solution is infused to replace fluid losses, usually extracellular losses, and to expand the intravascular volume. Most isotonic solutions do not provide calories or free water. Examples of isotonic solutions are 0.9% sodium chloride, commonly called normal saline (NS), and lactated Ringer’s (LR). Intravenous (IV) fluids are infused to maintain fluid balance, replace fluid losses, and treat electrolyte imbalances. They are commonly available in volumes ranging from 25 mL to 1,000 mL and are dispensed in either plastic bags or glass bottles.
• Normal Saline is a sterile, nonpyrogenic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment. • It contains no antimicrobial agents. • The pH is 5.0 (4.5 to 7.0). • It contains 9 g/L Sodium Chloride with an osmolarity of 308 mOsmol/L. • It contains 154 mEq/L Sodium and Chloride. 