Most adults need 7 or 8 hours of sleep each night to feel fully alert during the day. This is usually also true for people age 65 or older. But as we get older, we might have more trouble sleeping. Many things can get in the way of sleeping well or sleeping long enough to be fully rested. 
1 Teenagers need about 8.5-9.5 hours on average. 2  Most adults need 7 to 9 hours a night for the best amount of sleep, although some people may need as few as 6 hours or as many as 10 hours of sleep each day. 3  Women in the first 3 months of pregnancy often need several more hours of sleep than usual. 1 Infants require about 14-15 hours a day. 2  Teenagers need about 8.5-9.5 hours on average. 3  Most adults need 7 to 9 hours a night for the best amount of sleep, although some people may need as few as 6 hours or as many as 10 hours of sleep each day.
For example, in general: 1  Infants require about 14-15 hours a day. 2  Teenagers need about 8.5-9.5 hours on average. 3  Most adults need 7 to 9 hours a night for the best amount of sleep, although some people may need as few as 6 hours or as many as 10 hours of sleep each day. 1 Infants require about 14-15 hours a day. 2  Teenagers need about 8.5-9.5 hours on average. 3  Most adults need 7 to 9 hours a night for the best amount of sleep, although some people may need as few as 6 hours or as many as 10 hours of sleep each day.
PRINCETON, NJ -- Fifty-nine percent of Americans get seven or more hours of sleep at night, while 40% get less than seven hours. Those figures are largely unchanged from Gallup polls in the 1990s and 2000s, but Americans, on average, slept much more in the 1940s. Implications. U.S. adults likely get less sleep than would be ideal, with the average reported 6.8 hours below the minimum recommendation of seven hours per night. Forty percent get six hours sleep or less per night
Sleep needs change over a person's lifetime. Children and adolescents need more sleep than adults. Interestingly, older adults need about the same amount of sleep as younger adults -- seven to nine hours of sleep per night. Unfortunately, many older adults often get less sleep than they need. One reason is that they often have more trouble falling asleep. A study of adults over 65 found that 13 percent of men and 36 percent of women take more than 30 minutes to fall asleep. 
Sleep is important for people of all ages to stay in good health. Read more to learn how much sleep your body needs. How you feel and perform during the day is related to how much sleep you get the night before. If sleepiness interferes with your daily activities, more sleep each night will improve the quality of your waking hours. Yet many adults report experiencing a sleeping problem one or more nights a week. 
Therefore, experts typically recommend seven to nine hours sleep for adults. Currently, 59% of U.S. adults meet that standard, but in 1942, 84% did. That means four in 10 Americans get less than the recommended amount of nightly sleep, compared with the 11% who did so 70 years ago. Implications. U.S. adults likely get less sleep than would be ideal, with the average reported 6.8 hours below the minimum recommendation of seven hours per night. Forty percent get six hours sleep or less per night
Americans aged 65 and older report getting the most sleep, with 67% getting seven or more hours per night. Each younger age group gets less sleep, down to 54% of 18- to 29-year-olds who report getting seven or more hours. Nearly half of 18- to 29-year-olds get less than the recommended amount of sleep. Implications. U.S. adults likely get less sleep than would be ideal, with the average reported 6.8 hours below the minimum recommendation of seven hours per night. Forty percent get six hours sleep or less per night