Older and less preferred terms that also refer to X-ray CT are computed axial tomography (CAT scan) and computer-aided/assisted tomography. X-ray CT is a form of radiography, although the word radiography used alone usually refers, by wide convention, to non-tomographic radiography. Computed tomography was originally known as the EMI scan as it was developed in the early 1970s at a research branch of EMI, a company best known today for its music and recording business. It was later known as computed axial tomography (CAT or CT scan) and body section roentgenography. rö
Tomography is from the Greek word tomos meaning slice or section and graphia meaning describing. CT was invented in 1972 by British engineer Godfrey Hounsfield of EMI Laboratories, England and by South Africa-born physicist Allan Cormack of Tufts University, Massachusetts. Hounsfield and Cormack were later awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their contributions to medicine and science
Sir Godfrey Newbold Hounsfield, CBE, FRS, (28 August 1919 – 12 August 2004) was an English electrical engineer who shared the 1979 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine with Allan McLeod Cormack for his part in developing the diagnostic technique of X-ray computed tomography (CT). Hounsfield was born in Sutton-on-Trent (near Newark-on-Trent), Nottinghamshire, England on 28 August 1919. He was the youngest of five children (two brothers, two sisters). As a child he was fascinated by the electrical gadgets and machinery found all over his parents' farm.
Robert S. Ledley, who invented the whole-body CT scanner, with the first such device, at Georgetown University in 1974. Credit National Biomedical Research Foundation. Before the advent of CT scanning in the early 1970s, radiologists had limited tools. CT scanning gave them not only a far higher resolution than traditional X-rays but also three-dimensional, cross-sectional images to work with, significantly reducing the need for exploratory surgery and its attendant risks.
:: a brief history of CT. The first clinical CT scan on a patient took place on 1st October 1971 at Atkinson Morley's Hospital, in London, England. 
CT was invented in 1972 by British engineer Godfrey Hounsfield of EMI Laboratories, England and by South Africa-born physicist Allan Cormack of Tufts University, Massachusetts. Hounsfield and Cormack were later awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their contributions to medicine and science. Original Siretom dedicated head CT scanner, circa 1974. The first clinical CT scanners were installed between 1974 and 1976. The original systems were dedicated to head imaging only, but whole body systems with larger patient openings became available in 1976. CT became widely available by about 1980.
Continue reading the main story. Robert S. Ledley, a dentist turned biomedical researcher and computing trailblazer who invented the first CT scanner capable of producing cross-sectional images of any part of the human body, died on Tuesday in Kensington, Md. He was 86. The cause was Alzheimer’s disease, his son Fred said. Before the advent of CT scanning in the early 1970s, radiologists had limited tools. CT scanning gave them not only a far higher resolution than traditional X-rays but also three-dimensional, cross-sectional images to work with, significantly reducing the need for exploratory surgery and its attendant risks.
Diagnostic Imaging Online August 19, 2004 CT inventor Godfrey Hounsfield dies Sir Godfrey N. Hounsfield, who won the 1979 Nobel Prize in Medicine for inventing computed axial tomography, died Aug. 12. He was 84. He was 84. The first CT machine took nine days to scan an object. Processing the information by computer then took 21 hours. Despite such formidable obstacles, researchers were undaunted.Hounsfield conceived the idea for a CAT scanner in 1967.
As X-ray CT is the most common form of CT in medicine and various other contexts, the term computed tomography alone (or CT) is often used to refer to X-ray CT, although other types exist (such as positron emission tomography [PET] and single-photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]). Computed tomography was originally known as the EMI scan as it was developed in the early 1970s at a research branch of EMI, a company best known today for its music and recording business. It was later known as computed axial tomography (CAT or CT scan) and body section roentgenography. rö
Who invented CAT-Scans? CAT scan was invented by two people Godfrey Hounsfield from EMI Laboratories in England and Allan Cormack from Tufts University in Massachusetts in 1972. 1 In the second generation full body CT scans were introduced and 20 or more X-ray beams and detectors were used which improved the quality of the image greatly. 2  Many developments were made in the present day CT scan device and you can complete the entire scan of the body within one-third of a second.