The date of my last period was Dec. 22, 2006. My doc calculated my conception date Jan. 5th, 2007. According the my sono, my baby weighs 5pds 11ounces today. Is there any way I could of gotten preg. The ultrasound is usually the most accurate way of determining when you are due. The date of the last menstrual period is just a rough estimate when you are due... if an ultrasound says different, go with the ultrasound. Some people STILL have periods when they are pregnant, so it could be that's what happened... or it could be that you have a big baby
Share. According to my doctor I was only 14 weeks and they could tell what sex the baby was, now I'm 16 weeks and the doctor tells me that my baby weighs over 1/2 pounds. My last cycle was April 27, 2007. This is my 4th baby and I don't feel that the doctors are 100% right on my due date. I delivered my baby 2 days before my original due date, they kept pushing it back weeks at a time saying my baby didn't look the age that I was told. Only your baby will know when he/she is ready to be born.
Update: i just looked in my baby records and it says that the first day of my last period was 22/4/09 and when i typed that into a due date calculator on the internet it gives me a due date of 29th jan making 36 weeks now but ive been told im 33 weeks now and a due date of 14th feb. Follow. 5 answers 5. i feel as if i am gonna go in labour soon, im 33 weeks pregnant and my belly is huge i have been told by some doctors that looks like im gonna have a big baby but if ive still got 7 weeks to go then how can they tell its gonna be big at this stage.
After I found out I was preg, the doctor gave me a due date (June 18)based off of my last period which wasn't really even a period because it lasted 2 days and was mostly just spotting. I told my doctor how my periods had always been irregular and she did an ultrasound and made my due date for a month later (July 15). And according to my dates, I was actually 42 1/2 weeks. The doctor doing the ultrasound is ok. It is the computer that figures your dates from the measurements of the baby, so it isn't any different than what the Ultrasound tech would have told you, but it can still be off.
Of course it is impossible for your doctor to say exactly when you ovulated. He is probably using the normal formula of next period due date - 14 days, and as I said, this can be off by 2 days either way. The good news in all of this is that sex with your (ex-)bf on Aug 5/6 was way too early so I think it is safe to say your (ex-)fiance is the daddy. It is possible that the due date may be wrong. It is based on various formulas and possibly on information you gave to the doctor. He might have misunderstood or missheard. If you had a scan before week 20, the due date will be pretty accurate.
When I was pregnant with my daughter, I had 6 different due dates, and they all turned out to be wrong. I delivered my baby 2 days before my original due date, they kept pushing it back weeks at a time saying my baby didn't look the age that I was told. Only your baby will know when he/she is ready to be born.
Could the doctor be wrong about my due date? i feel as if i am gonna go in labour soon, im 33 weeks pregnant and my belly is huge i have been told by some doctors that looks like im gonna have a big baby but if ive still got 7 weeks to go then how can they tell its gonna be big at this stage.
More about your due date. It sounds a little silly, but you aren't really pregnant for about the first two weeks of your pregnancy. Pregnancy is calculated based on the average menstrual cycle (28 days), which begins with your period. About two weeks into this cycle, ovulation occurs... 