Definition. Munchausen syndrome is a psychiatric disorder that causes an individual to self-inflict injury or illness or to fabricate symptoms of physical or mental illness, in order to receive medical care or hospitalization. Muenchausen münchausen by proxy-syndrome a, parent usually knowledgeable about or experienced in health, care harming a child in order to gain the attention of healthcare. Providers muenchausen-münchausen syndrome repeated fabrication of clinically convincing simulations of disease for the purpose of gaining. medical attention
fictitious asset. An asset entry recorded on the balance sheet of a business that has value to the business, but that does not correspond to a real asset or have a resale value. 
Origin of FICTIOUS. ficti on + -ous. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. Definition of FICTIOUS. : given to fiction: fictitious. ADVERTISEMENT.
Munchausen syndrome. habitual seeking of hospital treatment for apparent acute illness, the patient giving a plausible and dramatic history, all of which is false. It is a subtype of factitious disorder. Muenchausen münchausen by proxy-syndrome a, parent usually knowledgeable about or experienced in health, care harming a child in order to gain the attention of healthcare. Providers muenchausen-münchausen syndrome repeated fabrication of clinically convincing simulations of disease for the purpose of gaining. medical attention
fictitious. adj. 1. not genuine or authentic; assumed; false: to give a fictitious address. 2. of, related to, or characteristic of fiction; created by the imagination. fic·ti·tious. adj. 1. Concocted or fabricated, especially in order to deceive or mislead; make up: a fictitious name; fictitious transactions. 2. Of or relating to the characters, settings, or plots that are created for a work of fiction: a book in which fictitious characters interact with historical figures.
fictitious. adjective. 1  Concocted or fabricated, especially in order to deceive or mislead; make up: a fictitious name; fictitious transactions. 2  Of or relating to the characters, settings, or plots that are created for a work of fiction: a book in which fictitious characters interact with historical figures. fictitious. Use fictitious in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of fictitious is made up, whether for a written story, a lie or a tale.
Fictitious Name Law & Legal Definition. Fictitious name is a name which a person adopts or assumes either for business purposes or in his social relations. It is a name artificially contrived or adopted. 
Still there are even some tragedies in which there are only one or two well known names, the rest being fictitious. The Poetics of Aristotle by Aristotle View in context. The mode of locomotion is, of course, purely imaginary, and the incidents and adventures fictitious. 