The rash that you get from poison ivy is caused by a chemical in the sap called urushiol. This chemical penetrates the outer layer of skin until it hits the dermis, and in the dermis an allergic reaction to the urushiol occurs. (See How Sun Tans and Sunburns Work for a good description of your skin and how it works.). 1 Urushiol does not spread through the body (although it may appear to because of the delay in symptoms caused by differing skin thicknesses). 2  The blisters that form are also not contagious.. 3  They do not contain urushiol.
This is completely wrong. First of all it is POISON ivy not poision. Poison Ivy and oak both contain urishiol oil that binds to the proteins on the keratin layer of our skin. While the oil is completely harmless; our immune systems become confused resulting in 90% of humans responding with an allergic reaction. Use some anti itch cream or special poison cream. If you do need to scratch it … it could spread. Make sure you wash your hands afterwords. If you scratch and get the puss juice stuff on your hands then scratch somewhere else
Causes: When people come in contact with poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac they often develop an allergic reaction that causes a rash at the site of exposure. The leaves of the plant secrete a resin called urushiol (u-ROO-she-ol) that provokes a delayed allergic reaction one day or more after exposure to the skin. Myths: 1  Poison ivy rash is contagious. 2  You can catch poison ivy by being near the plants. 3  Leaves of three let them be. 4  Dead poison ivy plants will not cause an allergic reaction. 5  Breaking the blisters on your skin releases the urushiol and causes the rash to spread.
Poision ivy has an oil on its leaves that when they come in contact with our skin, it makes a chemical burn or rash. Use some anti itch cream or special poison cream. If you do need to scratch it … it could spread. Make sure you wash your hands afterwords. If you scratch and get the puss juice stuff on your hands then scratch somewhere else
Skip to comments. Poison Ivy Basics. Poison ivy is a red, itchy rash caused by the plant that bears its name. Many people get it when they are hiking or working in their garden and accidentally come into direct contact with the plant's leaves, roots, or stems. The poison ivy rash often looks like red lines, and sometimes it forms blisters. The culprit behind the rash is a chemical in the sap of poison ivy plants called urushiol (oo-roo-shee-ohl). Its name comes from the Japanese word urushi, meaning lacquer. Urushiol is the same substance that triggers an allergic reaction when people touch poison oak and poison sumac plant
About 15 percent of the 120 million Americans who are allergic to poison oak, poison ivy, and poison sumac are so highly sensitive that they break out in a rash and begin to swell in 4 to 12 hours instead of the normal 24 to 48. Their eyes may swell shut and blisters may erupt on their skin. 
Topic Overview. A rash caused by poison ivy, oak, or sumac may itch and produce blisters. Try the following suggestions and medicines to help relieve these symptoms. Medicines that relieve itching include: 1  Over-the-counter antihistamine pills or tablets such as Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and prescription antihistamine pills such as Vistaril (hydroxyzine). 2  These medicines may cause drowsiness. 3  Talk to your doctor before you use these medicines. 4  And do not drive while taking them.
Explain that most rashes caused by poison ivy, poison oak, or poison sumac are mild and last from 5 to 12 days. In severe cases, the rash can last for 30 days or longer. Another good resource is The Poison Ivy, Oak, and Sumac Information Center, which contains FAQs, photographs, a list of products and treatments, a question-and-answer board, and links to other sites on poison ivy, oak, or sumac grouped by category. Cara Aldridge Young, Senior Assistant Editor. Column coordinators: Wm.
Myths: 1  Poison ivy rash is contagious. 2  The blisters and rash produced by the urushiol do not spread nor are they contagious to others. 3  You can however spread the rash if the urushiol has been left on your hands or clothes and they come in contact with other parts of your body or someone else. Myths: 1  Poison ivy rash is contagious. 2  You can catch poison ivy by being near the plants. 3  Leaves of three let them be. 4  Dead poison ivy plants will not cause an allergic reaction. 5  Breaking the blisters on your skin releases the urushiol and causes the rash to spread.