The auditory cortex is the part of the brain that processes sensory information in the form of sound. While the area is not directly or completely responsible for the hearing, it is essential to processing and understanding sounds. 
Temporal Lobe: The temporal lobe controls visual and auditory memories. It includes areas that help manage some speech and hearing capabilities, behavioral elements, and language. It is located in the cerebral hemisphere. 1  Wernicke's Area-This portion of the temporal lobe is formed around the auditory cortex. 2  While scientists have a limited understanding of the function of this area, it is known that it helps the body formulate or understand speech. 1 This middle area of the brain can also be used to relay information from the sense of touch, including pain or pressure which is affecting different portions of the body. 2  Motor Cortex-This helps the brain monitor and control movement throughout the body. 3  It is located in the top, middle portion of the brain.
The temporal lobe is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the brain of mammals. Visual. The areas associated with vision in the temporal lobe interpret the meaning of visual stimuli and establish object recognition. The ventral part of the temporal cortices appear to be involved in high-level visual processing of complex stimuli such as faces (fusiform gyrus) and scenes (parahippocampal gyrus).
The left temporal lobe holds the primary auditory cortex, which is important for the processing of semantics in both speech and vision in humans. Wernicke's area, which spans the region between temporal and parietal lobes, plays a key role (in tandem with Broca's area in the frontal lobe) in speech comprehension. Visual. The areas associated with vision in the temporal lobe interpret the meaning of visual stimuli and establish object recognition. The ventral part of the temporal cortices appear to be involved in high-level visual processing of complex stimuli such as faces (fusiform gyrus) and scenes (parahippocampal gyrus).
The primary auditory cortex is the part of the temporal lobe that processes auditory information in humans and other vertebrates. The auditory cortex was previously subdivided into primary (A1) and seco (A2) projection areas and further association areas. The modern divisions of the auditory cortex are the core (which includes A1), the belt, and the parabelt.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
Coronal section of a human brain. BA41(red) and BA42(green) are primary auditory cortex. BA22(yellow) is Brodmann area 22, HF(blue) is hippocampal formation and pSTG is posterior part of superior temporal gyrus. The auditory cortex was previously subdivided into primary (A1) and seco (A2) projection areas and further association areas. The modern divisions of the auditory cortex are the core (which includes A1), the belt, and the parabelt.
Auditory cortex: The part of the brain that is concerned with hearing. The auditory cortex is the temporal lobe, which the lower lobe of the cerebral hemisphere just forward of the occipital lobe. 
Adjacent areas in the superior, posterior, and lateral parts of the temporal lobes are involved in high-level auditory processing. The temporal lobe is involved in primary auditory perception, such as hearing, and holds the primary auditory cortex. Visual. The areas associated with vision in the temporal lobe interpret the meaning of visual stimuli and establish object recognition. The ventral part of the temporal cortices appear to be involved in high-level visual processing of complex stimuli such as faces (fusiform gyrus) and scenes (parahippocampal gyrus).
Heschl's Gyrus, is the area in the temporal where sound first reaches the brain. It is is also known as the anterior transverse temporal gyrus ,and is the primary auditory area. There are two secondary auditory or auditory association areas which make important contributions to the comprehension of speech. 