1 The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 2  DNA is a double stranded molecule while RNA is a single stranded molecule. 3  DNA is stable under alkaline conditions while RNA is not stable. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
RNA (Ribonucleic Acid). RNA is a nucleic acid consisting long chain of nucleotide units. Like the DNA molecule, every nucleotide consists of a nitrogenous base, sugar and phosphates. RNA is created by a process known as Transcribing, which involves the following 4 steps: 1  DNA “unzips” as the bonds break. 2  The free nucleotides lead to the RNA pair up with the complementary bases
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nucleic acid base. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The sugar in RNA is ribose, the same as deoxyribose but with one more OH (oxygen-hydrogen atom combination called a hydroxyl). This is the biggest difference between DNA and RNA. #in DNA the sugar is alpha 2 deoxyribose, whereas in RNA it is alpha ribose. #also one major difference is of the base. in DNA four types of bases are found namely, cytosine, adenine, guanine and thymine. In RNA all the bases are same except thymine.
Tweet. The difference between DNA and RNA in the most basic way is that DNA is double stranded whereas RNA is single stranded. The next difference is that DNA is made from deoxyribose and RNA is made from ribose. Ribose has a hydroxyl group attached to it, making it less stable. The third difference is in the complementary nucleotides that DNA and RNA encode for. DNA has thymine (T), guanine (G), adenine (A) and cytosine (C). 
RNA or ribonucleic acid is a nucleic polymer acid that performs a significant role in translating the genetic code from the DNA to protein products. It is found in the nucleus and cytoplasm. It is usually a single-stranded molecule with shorter nucleotide chains. The sugar present is ribose. Several RNA viruses instill the RNA to the host cell and skip the DNA host for duplication and decoding. DNA here acts as a pattern for RNA virus then transcribes it into viral proteins.
RNA has Ribose sugar. In RNA the thymine is replaced by Uracil base. RNA is usually formed from DNA, but DNA cannot be formed from RNA (Except the retro viruses, where the enzyme reverse transcript as is present) In human there are three type of RNAs. mRNA, rRNA, tRNA are those. Compared with DNA, RNA is small in size.
DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
Predominant structure [edit]. DNA is a double-stranded molecule with a long chain of nucleotides while RNA is single-stranded molecule, in most of its biological roles and has a shorter chain of nucleotides (after transcription and splicing, only exons remain in RNA). 