For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Mortgage Loan Processor I in the United States is $35,114, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Mortgage Loan Processor I in the United States are expected to make less than $35,114. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. The annual salary for someone with the job title Mortgage Loan Processor I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?X
The average pay for a Mortgage Loan Processor is $39,246 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Job Growth and Salary Info. Due to the increase in online loan applications, the in-person aspect of a loan processor's job is resulting in a decrease in employment. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reported that this field could see a three percent decline in job opportunities from 2012-2022. May 2014 BLS data stated that the average annual salary for a loan processor was $73,760. The bottom tenth-percentile of loan processors earned an average annual salary of $33,050, while the top tenth-percentile earned an average annual salary of $128,390. 
Loan Processor Salary. Loan Processor average salary is $33,814, median salary is $31,200 with a salary range from $20,800 to $77,147. Loan Processor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
Average Loan Processor Salaries. The average salary for loan processor jobs is $44,000. Average loan processor salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term loan processor anywhere in the job listing.
Average Loan Processor salaries for job postings nationwide are 38% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Average Mortgage Loan Processor salaries for job postings nationwide are 35% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 