Confidence votes 11. Metallic bonding constitutes the electrostatic attractive forces between the delocalized electrons, called conduction electrons, gathered in an electron cloud, and the positively charged metal ions. 
The metallic bond is a type of chemical bond that occurs between atoms of metallic elements. It gives metals their unique properties that we don't see in nonmetal substances, as you'll learn in this lesson. This results in a sea of electrons, or big pool of delocalized or valence electrons. The sea of electrons is negative and the metal atoms have become positive ions. The attraction between the two parts of the metal is the metallic bond. This special type of bond gives metals unique properties.
Metallic bonding is the principal force holding together the atoms of a metal. A metallic bond results from the sharing of a variable number of electrons by a variable number of atoms. The force that binds together the atoms of metals is called metallic bond. 
Lesson Summary. The metallic bond is a unique type of chemical bond found in metal elements. In a sample of metal, the valence electrons detach from the atoms and are free to move throughout the metal. This results in a sea of electrons, or big pool of delocalized or valence electrons. The sea of electrons is negative and the metal atoms have become positive ions. The attraction between the two parts of the metal is the metallic bond. This special type of bond gives metals unique properties.
Metallic bonding occurs as a result of electromagnetism and describes the electrostatic attractive force that occurs between conduction electrons (in the form of an electron cloud of delocalized electrons) and positively charged metal ions. Metallic bonding is not the only type of chemical bonding a metal can exhibit, even as a pure substance. For example, elemental gallium consists of covalently-bound pairs of atoms in both liquid and solid state—these pairs form a crystal lattice with metallic bonding between them
Metallic bonds are bonds between metals. They consist of valence  electrons in delocalized bonds covering the whole crystal. These  electrons can move freely and are respons … ible for the special  properties of metals such as electrical conductivity. In most metals some of the bonding derives from some covalent bonding between metal atoms allied with delocalised bonds occupied by free electrons. These delocalised bonds can be thought of as having superficial resemblance to the delocalised bonds in graphite.
The chemical bonding that holds the atoms of a metal together. This bond is formed from the attraction between mobile electrons and fixed, positively charged metallic atoms. Whereas most chemical bonds are localized between specific neighboring atoms, metallic bonds extend over the entire molecular structure. See more at bond. The chemical bond characteristic of metals, in which mobile valence electrons are shared among atoms in a usually stable crystalline
Report Abuse. The metallic bond is actually a special case of an ionic bond. Think of metallic bonding as a more or less static arrangement of positive ions within a moving array of mobile electrons. This unique arrangement of cations and electrons give metals their characteristic properties