1. As you can see on the picture above, there are two people who favorited my tweets. They are @wnabcreative and @adamsconsulting. Sometimes those who favorite a tweet might not retweet your tweet. I showed her how by using a website which is able to check twitterers who favorite tweets. Its a simple web based website which is able to check the popular tweets which are favorite as well as people who favorite your tweets. All you need to do is go to.
Instructions. Go to Twitter.com and log in with your Twitter username and password. Click on your Twitter name, located on the upper right hand corner of your account's Home page. Click on the Settings option that appears in the drop-down menu. Click on the blue Notifications link at the top of the screen. You can set up your account so that you're notified via email whenever someone marks one of your tweets as one of their favorites. Keep in mind, though, that if you're very popular on Twitter you could receive a lot of email notifications.
It can be pretty interesting and useful to see who is favoriting your tweets and which tweets that you and others are also favoriting. The two sites that I've come across and used to track favorited tweets are Favotter.net and Favstar.fm. By using these two sites, you should be able to get a good idea of who is favouriting your tweets or favored the same tweets as you. This can help you find other twitter users to follow or just see what tweets people like of yours!
Just replace the username at the top with your username. Mine will be http://favstar.fm/users/ AskAaronLee /rss. This way you will be updated with who favorite your tweets and what tweets are those. If you tweet a lot you then you might not want to try this as your RSS reader will flooded. I showed her how by using a website which is able to check twitterers who favorite tweets. Its a simple web based website which is able to check the popular tweets which are favorite as well as people who favorite your tweets. All you need to do is go to.
1 You can also find out people how have favorited your tweets, who else favorited the same favorites as you, as well as favored and favorite tweets of the people you are following. 2  The site is still a little buggy, but overall it gets the job done for finding favorited tweets! By using these two sites, you should be able to get a good idea of who is favouriting your tweets or favored the same tweets as you. This can help you find other twitter users to follow or just see what tweets people like of yours!
With fav star you can view who favorited your tweets according categories like most recent, most favorited, favourite given which you need to follow @favstar to get this feature. One of my favorite part about Fav Star is that you can view who favorites you. I showed her how by using a website which is able to check twitterers who favorite tweets. Its a simple web based website which is able to check the popular tweets which are favorite as well as people who favorite your tweets. All you need to do is go to.
How To: Track Who Favorited Your Tweets. by Aaron 21 Comments. 126 Flares Twitter 57 Facebook 10 Google+ 57 LinkedIn 2 Buffer 0 Pin It Share 0 126 Flares ×. One of my friend Nicky aka @rocksstar10 asked me the other day how to check or track who favorite her tweets. I showed her how by using a website which is able to check twitterers who favorite tweets. Its a simple web based website which is able to check the popular tweets which are favorite as well as people who favorite your tweets. All you need to do is go to.
Facebook lets you see who approves of the comments you make, thanks to its Like button. Twitter also offers a similar feature for your Twitter feed. You can set up your account so that you're notified via email whenever someone marks one of your tweets as one of their favorites. Keep in mind, though, that if you're very popular on Twitter you could receive a lot of email notifications.
It’s no secret: You make Twitter what it is. And if you tweet, you may have found yourself wanting to go back in time and explore your past Tweets. Maybe you wanted to recall your reaction to the 2008 election, reminisce on what you said to your partner on your 10th anniversary, or just see your first few Tweets. Once you have your Twitter archive, you can view your Tweets by month, or search your archive to find Tweets with certain words, phrases, hashtags or @usernames. You can even engage with your old Tweets just as you would with current ones.