An Overview. IPL Photofacial treatments utilize the latest advances in laser technology to help treat everything from sun damaged skin to rosacea, age spots, premature wrinkles, pigment problems, bags under the eyes, and large pores on the face, neck, and chest. Photofacial treatments are described as being similiar to being snapped with a rubber band. After your treatment of Photofacial, it's common to experience minor discomfort, but can be easily controlled with standard pain medication.
IPL Photofacial. A photofacial, or fotofacial, also known as photorejuvenation, is a treatment touted to reverse sun damage, even out facial color as well as improve tone and texture in the process. In other words, photofacial treatments reportedly: Another consideration that may or may not affect one’s decision to undergo a photofacial is the dearth of research studying the long-term impact of IPL treatments, which is to be expected with a technology that’s younger than lasers, only in use since 1995.
Photofacial. The LimeLight Photofacial is a non-invasive, non-surgical treatment used to revitalize the skin. This treatment improves skin tone and surface imperfections, such as agespots associated with aging, acne scars, photodamage and other damage. The LimeLight Photofacial is ideal for any part of the face, neck, and decollete décolleté effected by skin, redness tiny, veins brown, spots or other.
Some medical spas call IPL (intense-pulsed light), which is a type of laser treatment, a photo facial. An IPL photo facial can treat a variety of skin conditions such as brown spots, broken capillaries, spider veins, and facial redness. The two main types of technology used for photo facials are LED (light-emitting diode) and IPL (intense-pulsed light) . They are completely different, so it's extremely important to understand which photo facial technology is being used.
To begin with, the IPL TM photofacial is nonablative, meaning no skin is removed during the procedure. In laser skin resurfacing, on the other hand, doctors treat wrinkles, skin discolorations, and other blemishes by removing extremely fine layers of skin with a laser. People who have blotchy, sun-damaged, or discolored skin, or whose skin is affected by large pores, freckles, or wrinkles, may benefit from an IPL TM photofacial. The procedure is also quick and involves no downtime, making it a convenient option for people with busy schedules.
A photofacial, or “fotofacial,” is a 30-minute procedure in which intense pulses of light are used to penetrate deep into the skin. IPL™ photorejuvenation then causes collagen and blood vessels below the epidermis to constrict, reducing redness and age lines. People who have blotchy, sun-damaged, or discolored skin, or whose skin is affected by large pores, freckles, or wrinkles, may benefit from an IPL TM photofacial. The procedure is also quick and involves no downtime, making it a convenient option for people with busy schedules.
4.4 /5 (15 Reviews). IPL Photofacial (aka fotofacial or photo facial) is like a boost of energy to your epidermis. Photofacial treatment is an intense pulsed light used to penetrate your skin on the deepest levels causing your body to produce new collagen and connective tissue, thus creating healthier and smoother skin. Photofacial is performed in a series of treatments, about 5 in total, spaced 3 weeks apart. This timing can vary with everyone depending on their needs. Each treatment takes 15-30 minutes.
Photofacials use a broad spectrum of light targeted to the lower layers of the epidermis causing the skin to produce new collagen and connective tissue while reducing abnormal pigmentations. They thus support the upper skin layer better and make the skin surface smoother and with a more uniform color. Because Photofacials are performed in a series, you will see more improvement after each treatment. After the first session, skin will already look and feel smoother and will have a more even skin tone. Over time sunspots will fade, pore size will reduce and fine lines and wrinkles will smooth out.
Although both machines have a capability of providing a IPL/photofacial treatment, the wavelengths do not target the same things. It is important that you also understand what your goals are and if the machine that is being used is capable of targeting your needs. 
IPL Photofacial is particularly suited for treating rosacea, sun damaged skin, large pores, age spots, facial veins, and wrinkles. Most patients undergo a series of 5 to 8 half hour treatments, about 3 weeks between each treatment. Photofacial is performed in a series of treatments, about 5 in total, spaced 3 weeks apart. This timing can vary with everyone depending on their needs. Each treatment takes 15-30 minutes.