You may use your visa to travel to the United States until the date it expires. However, if your visa says that it is valid indefinitely, you should apply for a new visa, or travel under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) if eligible as all indefinitely-valid visas are now obsolete. See further down this page. The period of validity of a visa relates only to the time in which you may travel to the United States and apply for admission; it does not determine how long you may remain in the country.
Passport Cancellation. In order to invalidate your passport, it must meet one of two criteria. The most common way a passport is canceled is when it expires. The expiration date can be found to the right of your picture inside the passport book, near the bottom. Expired passports can never be used as identification.
You can locate your passport number even if you don't have your passport on your person. Several situations both at home and abroad exist where you need the number of your passport, but not the physical passport itself. Remove your U.S. passport card from your wallet, if you have one. You received a U.S. passport card along with your passport when you first got it. Among other information, the U.S. passport card contains your nine-digit U.S. passport number.
(Top) If your valid passport is lost or stolen, you can report the loss when you apply for a new passport. In addition to Form DS-11, you will need to complete Form DS-64, Statement Regarding a Lost or Stolen Passport.. You may also call 202-955-0430 to report the loss or theft of your passport. 
Visitors traveling to the United States are required to be in possession of passports that are valid for six months beyond the period of their intended stay in the United States. Citizens of the countries listed below are exempt the six-month rule and need only have a passport valid for their intended period of stay. 
Answer: First of all, the State Department does not issue duplicate passports. You can apply for a passport record if you want to discover if you applied for a renewal. The fee is $50 and it takes up to six weeks. Here is the dilemma. If you did NOT renew the passport you currently posses, then you are eligible to renew it by mail. All you need to send is completed form DS-82, the passport, two passport photos and payment of the fee. For a complete list of requirements, click the link below. Apply to Renew Passport. If you did renew the passport and, then, lost it, you are not eligible to renew it by mail. You need to report the lost passport by calling the National Passport Information Center and, then, appear in person to apply for a new passport.
Visit the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate if you have lost your passport and don't just need the number. The sooner you report a lost passport, the better. If you are still in the U.S. or have the means of calling a U.S. number, call 1-877-487-2778 to report the loss. Remove your U.S. passport card from your wallet, if you have one. You received a U.S. passport card along with your passport when you first got it. Among other information, the U.S. passport card contains your nine-digit U.S. passport number.
If you wish for a visa in your new passport you must apply for a new visa. But an undamaged, valid, multiple entry visa in an expired or canceled passport can be used until it expires, in combination with a new valid passport. My passport containing a valid visa has expired. The period of validity of a visa relates only to the time in which you may travel to the United States and apply for admission; it does not determine how long you may remain in the country.
If your visa* is in a passport that has expired or will expire within 6 months of the end of your U.S. visit, you will need to get a new passport. However, you do not need to apply for a new visa. Just bring both your new passport and your old passport with the valid visa to present to the CBP Officer when you arrive in the U.S. *Note: Your ESTA is not a U.S. Visa. If you obtain a new passport, you are requried to apply for a brand new ESTA. To re-apply visit esta.cbp.dhs.gov