1 Children under 16 may work up to 8 hours a day and 40 hours a week if they are on an approved work experience or educational programme where the work is not harmful to their health, safety or development.
The maximum number of hours most employees can be required to work in a week is 48 hours. The weekly maximum can be exceeded only if there is a written agreement between the employee and employer and the employer has received the approval of the Director of Employment Standards.
Re: Maximum Work Hours Allowed. Generally, the only restriction on hours worked under federal law is that you have to be paid 1-1/2 your regular rate for every hour in excess of 40 during a single workweek. This only applies if you work in a nonexempt position.
Children under 16 years of age. 1  a full working week is a maximum of 35 hours and this can only be worked outside school term. 2  the maximum working day for a 35 hour week is 7-hours and 8-hours for a 40-hour week. 3  may not be required to work before 8 a.m. or after 8 p.m. at night.
The maximum number of hours most employees can be required to work in a day is eight hours or the number of hours in an established regular workday, if it is longer than eight hours. The only way the daily maximum can be exceeded is by written agreement between the employee and employer.
You may have to work more than 48 hours a week on average if you work in a job: 1  where 24-hour staffing is required. 2  in the armed forces, emergency services or police.
The maximum average working week is 48 hours. This does not mean that it is prohibited to work more than these hours in any week, nor does it mean that one can stop work when you have worked 48 hours in a week. However it means that on average your working time should not be greater than 48 hours.
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not limit the number of hours per day or per week that employees aged 16 years and older can be required to work.
If you are aged 17 and 18, you can work up to a maximum of 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. You must have a break after 4.5 hours of work and a break of 12 consecutive hours after an 8 hour day.