Brunei map also shows that the country is northern part of Borneo Island which shares its international boundary with Malaysia from all around other than northern side. In the northern side, the small country Brunei makes coastline with South China Sea. 
Borneo is surrounded by the South China Sea to the north and northwest, the Sulu Sea to the northeast, the Celebes Sea and the Makassar Strait to the east, and the Java Sea and Karimata Strait to the south. To the west of Borneo are the Malay Peninsula and Sumatra. The sovereign state of Brunei, located on the north coast, comprises about 1% of Borneo's land area. Antipodal to an area of Amazon rainforest, Borneo is itself home to one of the oldest rainforests in the world.
As we can see of the given political map of Borneo Island, it is surrounded by various seas-South China Sea covers north and northwest part, the Celebes Sea and Macassar Strait lie in the eastern side, whereas Sulu Sea covers the northeast part and Java Sea and Karimata Strait collectively cover southern part. The given map also gives other information about the Borneo Island including cities and other geographical features. By virtue of having the location on the equator, the island receives adequate rainfall and hence, it is lush with the flora. As per the study, it has more than 10,000 species of flowering plants.
The island of Borneo, with East Malaysia shown in orange. East Malaysia (Malaysia Timur), also known as Sabah, Sarawak and Labuan (Sabah, Sarawak dan Labuan) or Malaysian Borneo, is the part of Malaysia located on the island of Borneo. 
A map of Borneo. Borneo is the third largest island in the world and is located to the north of Australia. Its landscape is largely jungle. While north Borneo is Malaysian, the rest of the island is Indonesian. It is featured in Uncharted 2: Among Thieves
The Southeast Asian islands of Borneo and Sumatra, located on the Equator, are home to some of the world’s most diverse rain forests and Southeast Asia’s last intact forests. Borneo is the world’s third largest island, covering an area slightly larger than Texas. 
In the north, the East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak make up about 26% of the island. Additionally, the Malaysian federal territory of Labuan is situated on a small island just off the coast of Borneo. The sovereign state of Brunei, located on the north coast, comprises about 1% of Borneo's land area. Antipodal to an area of Amazon rainforest, Borneo is itself home to one of the oldest rainforests in the world.
The name 'Borneo' is used solely as a Western reference. In Malaysia, its known as East Malaysia and in Indonesia Borneo is referred to as Kalimantan. Almost 75% of Borneo and its rainforest is located in Indonesia, and only about 1% is located in the tiny country of Brunei. Along with the Amazon and Daintree (Australia) rainforests, the Borneo rainforest is one of the oldest in the world, and is brimming with thousands of species of flora and fauna.
Borneo (/ˈbɔrnioʊ/ ; Indonesian: Kalimantan, Malay: Borneo) is the third-largest island in the world and the largest island in Asia. At the geographic center of Maritime Southeast Asia, in relation to major Indonesian islands, it is located north of Java, west of Sulawesi, and east of Sumatra. The sovereign state of Brunei, located on the north coast, comprises about 1% of Borneo's land area. Antipodal to an area of Amazon rainforest, Borneo is itself home to one of the oldest rainforests in the world.
Geography. Covering an area of roughly 287,000 square miles, Borneo is the third-largest island in the world. It is divided into four political regions: Kalimantan belongs to Indonesia; Sabah and Sarawak are part of Malaysia; a small remaining region comprises the sultanate of Brunei. Located southeast of the Malay Peninsula and southwest of the Philippines, Borneo is primarily mountainous, with dense areas of rain forest.