Those gas molecules in the Earth's atmosphere with three or more atoms are called greenhouse gases because they can capture outgoing infrared energy from the Earth, thereby warming the planet. The greenhouse gases include water vapor with three atoms (H 2 O), ozone (O 3), carbon dioxide (CO 2), and methane (CH 4). Global Warming. An issue of major concern is the possible effect of the burning of fossil fuels and other contributers to the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The action of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in trapping infrared radiation is called the greenhouse effect. It may measurably increase the overall average temperature of the Earth, which could have disastrous consequences
1 The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 2  These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 3  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 4  Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat. 1 These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 2  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 3
For millions of years carbon dioxide, from the earth's natural carbon cycle, has worked to produce the greenhouse effect in the earth's atmosphere. The greenhouse gases, like … carbon dioxide, trap enough heat from the sun and stop it escaping into space. This keeps the earth comfortably warm enough for life. Carbon dioxide is the most commonly cited greenhouse gas because of  its natural abundance in the atmosphere. It constitutes 80% of the  non-condensing greenhouse gases. Exp … erts believe that the removal  of CO2 will cool the Earth by 30 degrees Celsius.
Carbon dioxide is one of several greenhouse gases that help in this. Carbon dioxide captures some of this radiated heat and keeps it in the atmosphere. Some other greenhouse gases are water vapor, methane, nitrous oxide, and CFCs. In fact, any gas with three or more atoms acts as a greenhouse gas. Carbon dioxide is the most commonly cited greenhouse gas because of  its natural abundance in the atmosphere. It constitutes 80% of the  non-condensing greenhouse gases. Exp … erts believe that the removal  of CO2 will cool the Earth by 30 degrees Celsius.
A greenhouse gas is basically a gas that absorbs the sun's energy. They warm the the atmosphere of the Earth. The main greenhouse gases are CO2 (carbon dioxide), water vapor, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. There are more greenhouse gases than this. Yes, water is a greenhouse gas that is involved in the natural greenhouse effect. It is not causing global warming. Carbon dioxide and methane are the greenhouse gases causing … global warming. Answered.
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F). 
The 'blanket' here is a collection of atmospheric gases called 'greenhouse gases' based on the idea that the gases also 'trap' heat like the glass walls of a greenhouse do. These gases, mainly water vapor (), carbon dioxide (), methane (), and nitrous oxide (), all act as effective global insulators. 1 These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 2  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 3  Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat