While vitamin deficiencies can certainly cause dry, cracked hands, skin lesions can develop for a number of other reasons. Medications, protein deficiencies or exposure to chemicals can all affect your skin, causing cracked skin on your hands. If you suffer from severe skin cracking, visit a physician to determine the underlying cause.
Cracked skin on your hands can prove uncomfortable and painful, and it detracts from the appearance of your hands. In addition, chronically cracked skin can pose a health risk, offering an entry point for bacteria, viruses or fungi to go into your body. Medications, protein deficiencies or exposure to chemicals can all affect your skin, causing cracked skin on your hands. If you suffer from severe skin cracking, visit a physician to determine the underlying cause.
Your hands are one of the busiest parts of your body. So when their skin is dry and cracked, it can be hard to ignore. Chances are good your environment plays a leading role in your dry hands. 1 Petroleum jelly (petrolatum), mineral oil, and lanolin, all of which trap water in the skin. 2  Lactic acid and urea, which can help soothe severely dry skin. 3  Glycerin and dimethicone, which draw water to the skin. 4  Hyaluronic acid, which can help skin retain moisture. 5  Wear gloves.
Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Dry cracked hands may occur for a variety of reasons and cause pain or interfere with daily activities. Deep cracks are also vulnerable to potentially serious infections. Severely dry or cracked skin requires evaluation by a dermatologist to determine the underlying cause of the problem, according to the Mayo Clinic. Frequent Use of Harsh Soaps. Washing your hands too frequently or using harsh soaps can quickly dry out your skin. And washing your hands with hot water can make dryness and cracking worse by removing your skin's protective oils, according to the University of Iowa.
Vitamin C. One vitamin deficiency that might cause cracked skin on your hands is a deficiency in vitamin C, or ascorbic acid. Deficiencies in vitamin C lead to a depletion of collagen in your skin tissue, which can lead to wounds and cracking. Medications, protein deficiencies or exposure to chemicals can all affect your skin, causing cracked skin on your hands. If you suffer from severe skin cracking, visit a physician to determine the underlying cause.
1 Wear gloves or mittens during the winter or cold weather to protect your hands. 2  The cold can crack your fingers. 3  If your fingers are severely cracked, do NOT put lotion on it, it'll just cause pain. 4  Put ointments or petroleum jelly on the cracks and put on a bandage. 1 The cold can crack your fingers. 2  If your fingers are severely cracked, do NOT put lotion on it, it'll just cause pain. 3  Put ointments or petroleum jelly on the cracks and put on a bandage. 4  Consider trying herbal soaps that contain all natural ingredients. 5  Soak the affected area with warm water.
Medical Editor: Barbara K. Hecht, PhD. Dry hands that persist despite the use of lotions and creams may be a sign of a condition called hand eczema. Eczema is a term for different types of skin inflammation (dermatitis). The symptoms of eczema commonly include itchy, reddened, dry skin. Many things can cause this type of skin irritation such as dryness, soaps and detergents, cleaning products, rubber gloves and even cosmetic lotions and creams
Dermatitis can cause hands to be dry, red, cracked and itchy. Persistently dry, red, cracked and itchy skin could be a sign of dermatitis or eczema which is a skin inflammation. Allergies, stress, genetic factors and environmental irritants can cause or co-contribute to the condition. 