Overview. Incorporating the right type of fats into your diet is equally as important as the amount of fat you consume. Saturated fats and trans fats, or “bad” fats, increase your risk of heart disease, high cholesterol and other diseases. 
Most of the essential fatty acids are found in unsaturated fat, so foods high in saturated fat and cholesterol (animal fat, dairy products and eggs) should be eaten sparingly. Fats should make up only 10 to 25 percent of the calories (not weight) in your diet. The Importance Of Fats (Lipids). Fats, oils, and waxes belong to the group of naturally occuring organic materials called lipids. Lipids are those constituents of plants or animals which are insoluble in water but soluble in other organic solvents.
Fat provides 9 calories per gram, more than twice the number provided by carbohydrates or protein. Fat is essential for the proper functioning of the body. Fats provide essential fatty acids, which are not made by the body and must be obtained from food. TRANS FATTY ACIDS. These fats form when vegetable oil hardens (a process called hydrogenation) and can raise LDL levels. They can also lower HDL levels (good cholesterol). Trans fatty acids are found in fried foods, commercial baked goods (donuts, cookies, crackers), processed foods, and margarines.
Virtually all natural foods contain some fat. It is in foods because both plants and animals use fats as the most economical way to store energy. It is needed for their growth, development and function when there is a shortage of food supply (or a shortage of sunlight in the case of plants). Certain specific dietary fats have other essential functions. 1 A source of energy – Our body uses the fat we eat, and fats we make from other nutrients in our bodies, to provide the energy for most of our life-functions. 2  Energy store – The extra calories that we consume, but do not need to use immediately, are stored for future use in special fat cells (adipose tissue).
Lipids: Fats. Fats are composed of three fatty acids and glycerol. These so called triglycerides can be solid or liquid at room temperature. Those that are solid are classified as fats, while those that are liquid are known as oils. Fatty acids consist of a long chain of carbons with a carboxyl group at one end.
Facts of Fats (Lipids). Apart from carbohydrates and protein, fats or lipids are the third major macronutrients required by the body. Although 'fat' has a bad reputation and is often used to describe saggy bottoms and tire bellies, some fat is essential for development. Much like carbohydrates, lipids are made up of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Fat is the most concentrated energy source, and while it has many functions within the body, one of its main duties is to transport, absorb and digest the fat soluble vitamins, A, D, E and K. Other functions include:
Fats, or lipids, are the third main class of the macronutrients needed in human nutrition. The lipids are found primarily in meats and dairy foods, at least, these are the most visible sources, but most foods contain some fat. Some of the richer vegetable sources of dietary fat are nuts and seeds, soybeans, olives, peanuts, and avocados, and these contain the needed or essential fatty acids (EFAs). 
Fat Functions. Regardless of the type, fat is essential for the storage and activity of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K. Fats also provide energy, at nine calories per gram. If the energy in your diet exceeds needs, the extra is stored as fat. Saturated fats are normally solid at room temperature. Most come from animal sources such as beef, poultry, whole-fat milk, cheese and butter, however several come from plant sources, like coconut, palm and palm kernel oils.