Phylogenetic systematics, a.k.a. evolutionary trees : Reconstructing trees: Parsimony. We just mentioned that the principle of parsimony is often useful in reconstructing evolutionary trees. Hypothesis 1 requires six evolutionary changes and Hypothesis 2 requires seven evolutionary changes, with a bony skeleton evolving independently, twice. Although both fit the available data, the parsimony principle says that Hypothesis 1 is better  since it does not hypothesize unnecessarily complicated changes.
The parsimony principle is basic to all science and tells us to choose the simplest scientific explanation that fits the evidence. In terms of tree-building, that means that, all other things being equal, the best hypothesis is the one that requires the fewest evolutionary changes. Hypothesis 1 requires six evolutionary changes and Hypothesis 2 requires seven evolutionary changes, with a bony skeleton evolving independently, twice. Although both fit the available data, the parsimony principle says that Hypothesis 1 is better  since it does not hypothesize unnecessarily complicated changes.
In general, parsimony is the principle that the simplest explanation that can explain the data is to be preferred. In the analysis of phylogeny, parsimony means that a hypothesis of relationships that requires the smallest number of character changes is most likely to be correct. 
Parsimony (Molecular Biology). Parsimony is one of the principles of phylogenetic tree reconstruction in which the phylogeny of a group of species or genes is inferred to be the branching pattern that requires the smallest number of evolutionary changes (1). The merit of using the parsimony principle is that we can infer the amino acid or nucleotide sequences of all the intermediate stages in the continuous lineage between the ancestor and the present species. The intermediate stages may be trustworthy, however, only when closely-related genes are compared.
Compare with Occam's razor. Example sentences. 1  He is remembered as the father of the medieval principle of parsimony, or economy, that advises anyone confronted with multiple explanations or models of a phenomenon to choose the simplest explanation first.
In science, parsimony is preference for the least complicated explanation for an observation. This is generally regarded as good when judging hypotheses. Occam's Razor also states the principle of parsimony. In systematics, maximum parsimony is a cladistic optimality criterion based on the principle of parsimony. Under maximum parsimony, the preferred phylogenetic tree is the tree that requires the least number of evolutionary changes. In biogeography, parsimony is used to infer ancient migrations of species or populations by observing the geographic distribution and relationships of existing organisms
Within the realm of evolutionary biology, the Principle of Parsimony actually takes on a special meaning. To determine the phylogeny of a newly discovered species, the phylogenetic tree with the fewest branches is most likely the correct relationship between all of the species in the tree. In other words, when making a hypothesis about something, it is probably not a convoluted and complicated relationship that is causing the problem. In evolution, the Principle of Parsimony is very important for scientists working on the phylogeny of a species.
The theory that the simplest explanation of an event will be the preferred explanation of those who are a part of it. LAW OF PARSIMONY: The phrase, What you see is what you get, is an example of the law of parsimony.. No related posts. 