EXPERT ANSWER. Forests are called as biodiversity hot spots, because they contain high levels of species diversity that are threatened with extinction. The ways in which individual conserve wild life and forests : (i) One should protest against the cutting of trees (deforestation). 
1 Biodiversity underpins all life on Earth. 2  Without species, there would be no air to breathe, no food to eat, no water to drink. 3  There would be no human society at all. 4  And as the places on Earth where the most biodiversity is under the most threat, hotspots are critical to human survival. The map of hotspots overlaps extraordinarily well with the map of the natural places that most benefit people. We recognize that it is not enough to protect species and places; for humanity to survive and thrive, the protection of nature must be a fundamental part of every human society. Yet the hotspots remain important in CI’s work for two important reasons:
A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with a significant reservoir of biodiversity that is under threat from humans. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988), & 1990 revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”.
rainforests are called biodiversity hotspots because of the big amount of flora and fauna it has. Forests where a large number of flora and fauna species are found are termed as 'biodiversity hot spots '. The range of different life forms like bacteria, fungi, ferns, flowe … ring plants, nematodes, insects, birds, reptiles and so on are present in forests.
To qualify as a biodiversity hotspot on Myers 2000 edition of the hotspot-map, a region must meet two strict criteria: it must contain at least 0.5% or 1,500 species of vascular plants as endemics, and it has to have lost at least 70% of its primary vegetation. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988), & 1990 revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”.
There would be no human society at all. And as the places on Earth where the most biodiversity is under the most threat, hotspots are critical to human survival. The map of hotspots overlaps extraordinarily well with the map of the natural places that most benefit people. We recognize that it is not enough to protect species and places; for humanity to survive and thrive, the protection of nature must be a fundamental part of every human society. Yet the hotspots remain important in CI’s work for two important reasons: Biodiversity underpins all life on Earth.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Forests where a large number of flora and fauna species are found are termed as 'biodiversity hot spots '. The range of different life forms like bacteria, fungi, ferns, flowering plants, nematodes, insects, birds, reptiles and so on are present in forests. Biodiversity hotspots are geographic areas that contain high levels  of diversified species, but are threatened with extinction. There  are currently 34 biodiversity hotspot … s in the world.
Forests where a large number of flora and fauna species are found are termed as 'biodiversity hot spots '. The range of different life forms like bacteria, fungi, ferns, flowering plants, nematodes, insects, birds, reptiles and so on are present in forests. EXPERT ANSWER. Forest serves as the reservoir of biodiversity containing different species of plants, animals and all other sorts of living organisms.. Biodiversity hotspot is termed to the specific forests consisting of richest diversity of species including most rare and prior to extinct species. There are two biodiversity hotspots in India – Eastern Himalayas and Western Gha