From standard ceilings to vaulted, popcorn, coffered, or beam, there are plenty of options for ceiling types. The cost to install a ceiling will depend on what type of ceiling you want. Standard, smooth drywall ceilings will have the lowest installation costs. Vaulted ceilings use more materials and are taller, which can bring ceiling installation costs up. Generally, the larger the home or room, the more the cost to install a ceiling will end up being. However, with drywall projects, the inverse is actually true. It costs more per square foot for smaller drywall jobs, like repairs, than larger ones like installation.
If your project list includes a ceiling treatment, you may be wondering whether to install a drop ceiling or a drywall ceiling. There are a number of good reasons DIYers prefer drop ceilings vs. drywall. Let’s look at a few. Installing Drywall Requires More Labor. From start to finish, more physical work goes into a drywall ceiling vs. a drop ceiling. Drywall sheets average about 60 lbs. and hoisting them up to the ceiling requires two sets of sturdy arms or a drywall lift.
Basement Ceiling and Dropped Ceiling Tile Disadvantages. When deciding between dropped ceiling tiles vs drywall ceilings for your basement ceiling, it is important that you consider the height of your unfinished basement. The one key downside of installing dropped ceiling tiles is that your basement ceiling will be lower, compared to installing a drywall ceiling. You will need 3-4 inches of space between your main floor floor-joists and your dropped ceiling tiles. 
Andrew says. Jason, Take a look a Ceiling Link, it’s a PVC based “drop ceiling” system that only costs you about 1″ of space, only twice the space of drywall. A 1000 SQ Ft basement (assuming 20X50) would run you $707 in ceiling link parts, $40 in screws and $700 to 900 in panels (2′ X 4′). Drywall for the basement ceiling, .5 inch. Carpet and padding maybe .75 of an inch. Otherwise there are no framing elements on the ceiling or the floor. Unless you want install a framed sub-floor, but that’s not the normal case for most finished basements.
All dried joint compound shall be flat, smooth and free of tool marks and ridges. Note that surface texturing or skim coating is NOT included in this estimate. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Ceiling Drywall ranges between $1.57 - $1.94 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.
Drywall, also commonly referred to as sheetrock or wall board, is a lightweight cost efficient product for use on interior walls or ceiling panels in new construction, renovation and repair work. In residential construction the most commonly used sizes are 4 x 8 foot x ½ inch. 
The cost to install drywall is about $1.50 per square foot. After material and labor are added in, the cost per panel can range from around $40.00 to $60.00. A typical 12x12 room, for example, will use 12 panels. 
The ceiling tiles can be moved in and out to allow access to any part of your ceiling should you ever need it. If you select a reasonably priced ceiling tile, the cost of the acoustic ceiling will be about the same as a drywall ceiling, with all factors considered (hanging, finishing, painting, etc.). That being said, there is one benefit to an acoustical ceiling that you do not get with drywall: choices. 