The average cost of eyelid surgery is $2,874, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Blepharoplasty costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon's cost for eyelid surgery may vary based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, as well as geographic office location. Many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans to help cover blepharoplasty costs, so be sure to ask.
An eyelid lift, or blepharoplasty, is a surgical procedure to remove skin and to add or remove fat from the eyelids. The term eyelid lift is a misconception because the eyelid is not lifted during surgery. Upper blepharoplasty surgery uses incisions on the skin to allow for removal of skin and fat. 
The total cost for upper and lower blepharoplasty is about $4,000. For the lower lids, the total cost is around $2,500, and upper lid blepharoplasty costs about the same as the lower lid surgery. Eyelid surgery costs tend to be higher in urban areas — like New York City or Dallas — where overhead is more expensive and where surgeons are in greater demand. The national average for plastic surgeon fees for blepharoplasty is $3,528, according to the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Of course, this is just the average. Some surgeons charge less and others charge much more. Anesthesia fees for eyelid surgery can range from $400 to $800 depending on the nature and extent of the procedure, and the facility fee can be up to $1,000
On average, lower eyelid surgery cost is about $2,400, while the price of upper eyelid surgery is usually around $2,100. The cost of laser eyelid surgery is typically higher than that of conventional blepharoplasty and can be anywhere between $3,000 and $5,000. 1  RELATED: Find a qualified plastic surgeon in your area. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, in 2004 the average surgeon’s fee for blepharoplasty was $2,523. The type of anesthesia used in the blepharoplasty procedure may cost between $400 and $600.
Your surgeon will assess your brow position as well as the extent of excess skin, skin laxity and fat deposits to determine the technique that will give you the best results. Eyelid surgery can cost between $1,500 and $7,000 depending on whether you are having upper lids, lower lids, or both eyelids done. 
Other factors that may affect eyelid surgery cost include the surgeon's fee as well as the geographic location of his or her practice. Eyelid surgery cost is comprised primarily of anesthesia fees, facility fees and surgeon fees. The total cost can range from $2,000 to $5,000 or higher. Why the big range? Among other variables, the extent of the surgery plays a major role in determining cost. For example, upper and lower lid blepharoplasty costs about twice as much as lower lid blepharoplasty alone. Eyelid Surgery Cost: Breaking it Down. The average surgeon's fee for blepharoplasty is around $2,900, according to the most recent statistics from the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery.
The cost varies based on whether you are having your lower lids, your upper lids or both sets of eyelids rejuvenated. For example, Asian double eyelid surgery cost reflects the unique technique and experience required for this specialized cosmetic procedure. The national average for plastic surgeon fees for blepharoplasty is $3,528, according to the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Of course, this is just the average. Some surgeons charge less and others charge much more. Anesthesia fees for eyelid surgery can range from $400 to $800 depending on the nature and extent of the procedure, and the facility fee can be up to $1,000
In comparison to more major forms of cosmetic surgery, blepharoplasty can be done for a relatively low cost. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, in 2004 the average surgeon’s fee for blepharoplasty was $2,523. The type of anesthesia used in the blepharoplasty procedure may cost between $400 and $600.
Almost all costs involved in eyelid surgery —whether for upper eyelid surgery, lower eyelid surgery or both—are dependent on how long the procedure is likely to take. You can expect treatment costs to fall within the following ranges: 1  Cost of upper eyelid blepharoplasty – $2,500 – 4,500 (AUD). 2  Cost of lower eyelid blepharoplasty – $2,500 – 4,500 (AUD). 3  Cost of combined upper and lower eyelid blepharoplasty – Between $4,500 – 8,000 (AUD).