Split and merge into it. Answer by Shelby Alongi. Confidence votes 201. Bone and Cartilage are two types of connective tissue in the skeletal system. There is also dense fibrous tissue (in periosteum and joint capsules mainly). Ligaments and cartilage are also two types of connective tissue in the skeletal system. 
The skeletal system supports and protects the body while giving it shape and form. This system is composed of connective tissues including bone, cartilage, tendons, and ligaments. Nutrients are provided to this system through blood vessels that are contained within canals in bone. The skeletal system stores minerals, fats, and produces blood cells. The skeleton is composed of fibrous and mineralized connective tissues that give it firmness and flexibility. It consists of bone, cartilage, tendons, joints, and ligaments. Bones are a major component of the skeletal system.
Many bones also contain a soft connective tissue called bone marrow. There are two types of bone marrow-red marrow and yellow marrow. 1  Red marrow makes red blood cells, platelets, and most of the white blood cells for the body (discussed in the Diseases and the Body’s Defenses chapter). 
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. 
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water.
Cartilage is the third type of connective tissue. Many of us are familiar with this flexible tissue that makes up our nose and ears. Cartilage is strong due to the collagen fibers within its matrix, and it is resilient due to a gel matrix. Cartilage is also found in the body as a cushion within the skeletal system. Bones are a fourth example of connective tissue.
Bone and Cartilage are two types of connective tissue in the skeletal system. There is also dense fibrous tissue (in periosteum and joint capsules mainly) Ligaments and cartil … age are also two types of connective tissue in the skeletal system. 7 people found this useful
Structure of Skeletal Muscle. A whole skeletal muscle is considered an organ of the muscular system. Each organ or muscle consists of skeletal muscle tissue, connective tissue, nerve tissue, and blood or vascular tissue. Skeletal muscles vary considerably in size, shape, and arrangement of fibers. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). The skeletal system consists of a number of different types of tissue. The most obvious ones are the bones themselves, the dense and rigid structures that support the body and the connective tissues that connect those structures. Red and most white blood cells as well as platelets are produced in the red marrow. One of the other functions of marrow is producing stem cells of various types. Cartilage is another tissue found in the skeletal system and a particularly specialized one. Cartilage is critical in supporting and cushioning various parts of the skeletal system and is interesting in that it cannot heal itself in the ways that other tissues in the system can