Italy's currency. Italy currency & exchange rate Italy is one of the 12 EU countries that joined the EMU – the Economic and Monetary Union – which introduced the single currency, the euro. The current Italian currency exchange rate is approximately €0.49 = $1AUD. To find the most up to the minute Italy currency exchange rate, click here. 
Currency. The currency in Italy is the euro (EUR). Euro banknotes and coins were circulated on the 1st of January 2002. Twelve European Union countries use the euro as currency. They are Belgium, Germany, Greece, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal and Finland.
Italy's currency. Currency Italy is one of the 12 EU countries that joined the EMU – the Economic and Monetary Union – which introduced the single currency, the Euro. The current exchange rate is approximately €0.77 = $1. To find the most up to date exchange rate, click here
Currency. The Euro is the official currency of Italy. The Euro was launched in two stages. First, in January 1999, to became the new official currency of 11 EU Member States, replacing the old national currencies – such as the Italian Lira. It was introduced in the virtual form for bank transactions. 
The currency of Italy is the Euro. (EUR, €), which was introduced in 2002. Prior to that it was the lira. The Euro is divided into 100 'cents' in English; in Italian a cent is a centismo (plural: centesimi). 
The euro is the official currency of Italy, which is a member of the European Union. The Euro Area refers to a currency union among the European Union member states that have adopted the euro as their sole official currency. 
[ˈliːra] ; plural lire [ˈliːre]) was the currency of Italy between 1861 and 2002 and of the Albanian Kingdom between 1941 and 1943. Between 1999 and 2002, the Italian lira was officially a national subunit of the euro. However, cash payments could be made in lire only, as euro coins or notes were not yet available. The lira was the official unit of currency in Italy until January 1, 1999, when it was replaced by the euro (euro coins and notes were not introduced until 2002). Old lira denominated currency ceased to be legal tender on February 28, 2002. The conversion rate is 1,936.27 lire to the euro
The Euro (Symbol = ) is now the official Italian currency and in the 12 nations that comprise the European Union. These 12 nations are: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Notably, the United Kingdom has not adopted the Euro. 