The word Malate is believed to have stemmed from the corruption of the Tagalog word  maalat' (salty). Tradition notes that the tidewaters from Manila Bay flowed far inland and that seawater intruded into the freshwater collected from wells, thus making the drinking water in the area salty. The once exclusive residential areas on the western portion of Malate began to transform in the 1970s into a commercial area with some large homes and residential apartments being converted into small hotels, specialty restaurants and cafes.
Malate during the Spanish colonial period was an open space with a small fishing village. During the Spanish period, the center of activity was the Malate Church, which enshrined Our Lady of Remedies. Devotion to the image was especially popular among pregnant women having a difficult pregnancy. The once exclusive residential areas on the western portion of Malate began to transform in the 1970s into a commercial area with some large homes and residential apartments being converted into small hotels, specialty restaurants and cafes.
a salt of malic acid. malate-aspartate shuttle. system for the transfer of reducing equivalents as NADH and H+ between the site of generation in glycolysis in the cytosol and the site of oxidation in the electron transport chain for production of ATP in the mitochondria. malate dehydrogenase, NAD-linked malate dehydrogenase. an enzyme found in the mitochondria (as part of the TCA cycle) or cytosol that participates in the reversible conversion of malate to oxaloacetate.
Shares & Saves. Save. Magnesium malate is a mineral supplement that is derived from a magnesium salt of malic acid. It controls many important biological functions in the human body like maintaining cardiovascular and helps in the formation of nerve, bone and muscle. Natural Sources. Magnesium malate occurs naturally in the following diets: bananas, fish, yogurt, artichokes, grains, almonds, black beans, nuts and cashews (i.e. kidney-shaped nuts found in Tropical America).
I believe Citrulline Malate has the potential to be the next big thing in helping to redefine human athletic performance. Check out the studies that prove it! For years Creatine has been considered the big daddy of safe, legal and non-hormonal performance enhancers…And rightfully so. For the past 20 years Citrulline Malate has been used in Europe to treat fatigue, muscle weakness and Dementia. Dementia is a mental disorder that affects your ability to think, speak and move.
Magnesium malate is a dietary supplement that often comes in tablet or capsule form. This pill contains both magnesium and malic acid, two supplements that can help the body produce and store energy in the cells. Hypoxia could also play a role. Therefore, magnesium malate is often recommended as a supplement to help relieve symptoms of both conditions. It is important for people to remember that magnesium malate is a dietary supplement and not a proven treatment.
Malic acid is a natural fruit acid that is present in most cells in the body and is an intermediate in the Krebs cycle, where energy is captured during the metabolism of carbs and fats. Magnesium is an essential cofactor for over 300 enzymatic reactions in metabolism, ATP synthesis and energy production. 
Malate, or malic acid, is a salt compound that is often used as a food preservative and, in nature, contributes to the sour flavor of apples and other fruit. In supplemental form, it is bound to citrulline and other various other supplements to give them stability in the body. 
Tri-creatine malate is a mixture of creatine and malic acid. Use the exercise finder to start building bigger muscles with targeted exercises now! Creatine, when taken as a supplement, is notoriously difficult to digest. Some types of creatine, such as creatine ethyl ester, are believed to be absorbed more effectively. 
D-Malic acid. Malate plays an important role in biochemistry. In the C4 carbon fixation process, malate is a source of CO2 in the Calvin cycle. In the citric acid cycle, (S)-malate is an intermediate, formed by the addition of an-OH group on the si face of fumarate. It can also be formed from pyruvate via anaplerotic reactions