Graphite is a naturally-occurring form of crystalline carbon. It is a native element mineral found in metamorphic and igneous rocks. Graphite is a mineral of extremes. It is extremely soft, cleaves with very light pressure and has a very low specific gravity. What remains is a nearly pure carbon material that crystallizes into mineral graphite. This graphite occurs in seams that correspond to the original layer of coal. When mined the material is known as amorphous graphite. The word amorphous is actually incorrect in this usage as it does have a crystalline structure.
Graphite is the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions. Therefore, it is used in thermochemistry as the standard state for defining the heat of formation of carbon compounds. Graphite is also commonly used in the form of powders, and sticks for the purpose of writing or drawing. Graphite of various hardness or softness results in different qualities and tones when used as an artistic medium.
Graphite and diamond are the two mineral forms of carbon. Diamond forms in the mantle under extreme heat and pressure. Most graphite found near Earth's surface was formed within the crust at lower temperatures and pressures. Graphite and diamond share the same composition but have very different structures. The carbon atoms in graphite are linked in a hexagonal network that forms sheets that are one atom thick. These sheets are poorly connected and easily cleave or slide over one another if subjected to a small amount of force. What remains is a nearly pure carbon material that crystallizes into mineral graphite. This graphite occurs in seams that correspond to the original layer of coal. When mined the material is known as amorphous graphite. The word amorphous is actually incorrect in this usage as it does have a crystalline structure.
Graphite has a layered, planar structure. In each layer, the carbon atoms are arranged in a honeycomb lattice with separation of 0.142 nm, and the distance between planes is 0.335 nm. Atoms in the plane are bonded covalently, with only three of the four potential bonding sites satisfied. Graphite is also commonly used in the form of powders, and sticks for the purpose of writing or drawing. Graphite of various hardness or softness results in different qualities and tones when used as an artistic medium.
Graphite /ˈɡraefaɪt/ , ˈɡræfaɪt archaically referred to As, plumbago is a crystalline form of, carbon a, semimetal a native element, mineral and one of the allotropes of. carbon Graphite is also commonly used in the form of powders, and sticks for the purpose of writing or drawing. Graphite of various hardness or softness results in different qualities and tones when used as an artistic medium.
GRAPHITE is a form of elemental carbon. It is one of the three allotropic forms which the element carbon exists in nature, the other two being coal and diamond. It crystallises in hexagonal system in platy form but it is rare that perfect crystals of graphite have been found. At Kropfmuehl, some 20 folds of graphite are found interbedded with crystalline limestone and micaceous gneiss in a stratigraphic thickness of 135 metres. The mine has been worked to a depth of 70 metres. The mineral is concentrated to yield 92-98% carbon of crucible and pencil grades.
It is nonmetallic and tetravalent —making four electrons available to form covalent chemical bonds. There are three naturally occurring isotopes, with 12C and 13C being stable, while 14C is radioactive, decaying with a half-life of about 5,730 years. Carbon is one of the few elements known since antiquity. Carbon is the 15th most abundant element in the Earth's crust, and the fourth most abundant element in the universe by mass after hydrogen, helium, and oxygen. It is present in all forms of carbon-based life, and in the human body carbon is the second most abundant element by mass (about 18.5%) after oxygen. In combination with oxygen in carbon dioxide, carbon is found in the Earth's atmosphere (approximately 810 gigatonnes of carbon) and dissolved in all water bodies (approximately 36,000 gigatonnes of carbon). Around 1,900 gigatonnes of carbon are present in the biosphere.
There is not an atom called a graphite atom. Graphite, a natural mineral, is a form (allotrope) of the element carbon, and it is composed of carbon atoms. But graphite is not … the only allotrope of carbon. There are also diamonds and amorphous carbon. 
Moreover, it has an affinity for bonding with other small atoms, including other carbon atoms, and is capable of forming multiple stable covalent bonds with such atoms. As a result, carbon is known to form almost ten million different compounds; the large majority of all chemical compounds. In combination with oxygen in carbon dioxide, carbon is found in the Earth's atmosphere (approximately 810 gigatonnes of carbon) and dissolved in all water bodies (approximately 36,000 gigatonnes of carbon). Around 1,900 gigatonnes of carbon are present in the biosphere.
Graphite is a mineral composed exclusively of the element carbon. Graphite has the same chemical composition as Diamond, which is also pure carbon, but the molecular structure of Graphite and Diamond is entirely different. This causes almost opposite characteristics in their physical properties. Graphite is rather common mineral, but fine crystals are rare. Most Graphite mining areas produce enormous quantities from a single or several large Graphite vein s, but collector specimens in good crystals are not commonly encountered.