Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
Older hens lay just fine, some of them very nicely. As for how many years, perhaps some long-time chicken lovers can chime in and let us know how their old biddies are doing. ....waiting waiting waiting for the day when my eggs aren't costing me $500 a dozen.... Rep
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Hens lay eggs on the same schedule as without a rooster present. If the rooster is allowed to mingle with the hens, there is a high likelihood that the eggs will be fertilized. This could result in chicks if the eggs are allowed to incubate (either in the nest under the hen or in an egg incubator). Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
Farm chickens can live 4 to 7 years and lay eggs for most of that time. Every year they go “off-lay” (stop laying eggs) for several months. This happens over the winter, when there’s too little daylight to trigger egg-laying. They’ll begin again in the spring. First, understand that pullets are female chicks who do not yet lay eggs. Most breeds of hens will start laying at 20 weeks (4-6 months of age). The number of eggs depends on the hen. On average, 3 hens should give you 2 eggs a day. So, 18 hens = 84 eggs.
For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
Chickens are individuals as much as any other animal. Some will lay for two years, then decide to retire. Some will keep laying up to 5 years, then slow down/stop. And some will just slowly decline steadily over the years. Of course breeding vastly affects this. As for how many years, perhaps some long-time chicken lovers can chime in and let us know how their old biddies are doing. ....waiting waiting waiting for the day when my eggs aren't costing me $500 a dozen....
Fall is a normal time of year for chickens to stop laying eggs as the sunlight decreases and they molt, but 7 months is a long time. She's not that old. Another common reason is dietary, though it sounds as if your other chicken is laying. Learn what to do when your chickens stop laying eggs. The final chapter in the oval of life. (This is the sixth and final post in our Raising Chickens 101 beginner series .). Sooner or later, your chickens will stop laying eggs.