If you are interested in a nursing managerial position, a bachelor's degree would be recommended. It would take four years at a four year college or university to earn a BSN (Bachelor of Science in Nursing). Many colleges have RN to BSN transition programs. A bachelor's degree in most fields can require between 124 and 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or university that operates on a regular two semester academic year, which is the most common.
Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three year
You do not have to complete an associates before going on the bachelors. The associate degree is designed to be a two year program of study provided the student takes the degree as prescribed by the institution. For a school that operates on a two semester academic year, it would amount to four semesters. Colleges terms can be separated by quarters (typically 10 weeks) or by semesters (typically 17-18 weeks). Summer classes can be between 3 and 11 weeks, depending on the colleg … e and the subject. Semesters are about 4 months in duration.
About a bachelor's degree in nursing. A bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree prepares you for a job as a registered nurse. While you can work as an RN with an associate's degree, nurses with a BSN are typically given more responsibility, supervisory roles and higher salaries. To determine if you're a good fit for a BSN program, you'll first want to consider your background. There are generally three types of BSN students. 1  An aspiring RN who attends a four-year college or university. 2  An RN looking to get their bachelor's degree and enrolls in an RN-BSN program.
A BSN degree program takes typically four years to complete. Accelerated BSN programs, however, may take fewer than two years to complete. Students who have already earned a associate's degree in nursing can enroll in a RN-to-BSN program. Those who have a bachelor's degree in a field other than nursing can take advantage of other accelerated BSN programs. BSN programs are available to students who already have a bachelor's degree in another field but are interested in transitioning to a career in nursing. These programs are typically available in an accelerated format and last from 12-18 months.
Completing your schooling generally takes the following amount of time: 1  Bachelor's degree: Three to four years. 2  If you already have received certification as an RN, an RN-BSN can be completed in about two years. To determine if you're a good fit for a BSN program, you'll first want to consider your background. There are generally three types of BSN students. 1  An aspiring RN who attends a four-year college or university. 2  An RN looking to get their bachelor's degree and enrolls in an RN-BSN program.
Total credits would be between 60 and 64. A bachelors degree is designed to be a four year program of study, and once again for institutions that operate on a two semester academic year, it would entail eight semesters. Total credits to complete would be between 124 and 128. Colleges terms can be separated by quarters (typically 10 weeks) or by semesters (typically 17-18 weeks). Summer classes can be between 3 and 11 weeks, depending on the colleg … e and the subject. Semesters are about 4 months in duration.
Associate's Degree in Nursing. An associate's degree in nursing (ADN) can be earned at both 2-year community colleges and 4-year learning institutions. ADN programs generally take two or more years to complete and include classroom education in addition to clinical training in a healthcare setting. The most common educational paths to becoming a registered nurse (RN) are to obtain an associate's or bachelor's degree in nursing. Aspiring nurses may also consider 3-year diploma programs offered by hospitals, although these programs are much less available.