Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate) Inhalation Aerosol may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy, e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, and arthritis. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate) Inhalation Aerosol. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids.
Approved Uses for FLOVENT. FLOVENT is a prescription inhaled corticosteroid medicine for the long-term treatment of asthma in people aged 4 years and older. FLOVENT is not used to relieve sudden breathing problems. FLOVENT won't replace a rescue inhaler. FLOVENT HFA is used to treat asthma in patients 4 years and older. When inhaled regularly, FLOVENT HFA also helps to prevent symptoms of asthma. FLOVENT HFA contains a medicine called fluticasone propionate, which is a synthetic corticosteroid. Corticosteroids are natural substances found in the body that help fight inflammation. Corticosteroids are used to treat asthma because they reduce airway inflammation
Approved Uses for FLOVENT. FLOVENT is a prescription inhaled corticosteroid medicine for the long-term treatment of asthma in people aged 4 years and older. FLOVENT is not used to relieve sudden breathing problems. FLOVENT won't replace a rescue inhaler. 
Fluticasone, a corticosteroid, is the anti-inflammatory component of the combination, while salmeterol treats constriction of the airways. Together, they help prevent symptoms of coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath. 
Descriptions. Inhalation corticosteroids are cortisone-like medicines. They are used to help prevent the symptoms of asthma. When used regularly every day, inhalation corticosteroids decrease the number and severity of asthma attacks. However, they will not relieve an asthma attack that has already started. Mayo Clinic is a not-for-profit organization. Proceeds from website advertising help support our mission. Mayo Clinic does not endorse non-Mayo products and services. 1  Policy. 2  Opportunities.
FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate) Inhalation Aerosol is not to be regarded as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm. As with other inhaled asthma medications, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate) Inhalation Aerosol. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids.
The safety and effectiveness of FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate) Inhalation Aerosol in children below 12 years of age have not been established. Oral corticosteroids have been shown to cause a reduction in growth velocity in children and teenagers with extended use. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT (fluticasone propionate) Inhalation Aerosol. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids.
Fluticasone belongs to the family of medicines known as corticosteroids (cortisone-like medicines). It is used to help prevent the symptoms of asthma… Read more. Into the nose. Fluticasone nasal spray is used to treat sneezing, itchy or runny nose, or other symptoms caused by hay fever. This is a steroid medicine. This medicine… Read more. Brand names include: Flonase, Novaplus Fluticasone Propionate.