There is a big difference between the terms Friesian Sporthorse and Friesian Sport Horse. Friesian Sporthorse refers to the breed, as defined in our Breed Standards and our Registation Guidelines, and as registered with the Friesian Sporthorse Association. Members should be wary of other registries representing themselves as registries for Friesian Sporthorses -- if your horse is not registered with the FSA it is not officially a Friesian Sporthorse.
Horse Breeds. The Friesian is a light horse breed. Light horse breeds generally weigh under 1,500 pounds. They are typically used as riding horses for leisure and trail riding. Being agile and swift, many are also used on the racetrack, in the show ring, and for work on the ranch. 
Friesian Sporthorse™ is a registered trademark of the Friesian Sporthorse Association. Friesian Sport Horse is often used as a generic term to describe any Friesian crossbred, regardless of the breeding or registry affiliation. Members should be wary of other registries representing themselves as registries for Friesian Sporthorses -- if your horse is not registered with the FSA it is not officially a Friesian Sporthorse.
As of January 2007, the former president of the Friesian Sport Horse Registry and the former volunteers formed the Friesian Heritage Horse & Sporthorse Intl Please visit our main website at www.friesianheritage.com or call us toll free (877) 653-1341 10:00AM to 10:00PM M-F. DNA has become the industry standard for all credible registries. Some show circuits, such as International Friesian Show Horse Association (IFSHA), require DNA before you can show. It is important to know that there is no test to determine if a horse is of a particular breed.
Today, about seven percent of the horses in the Netherlands are Friesians. The Friesian horse today is used both in harness and under saddle, particularly in the discipline of dressage. In harness, they are used for competitive and recreational driving, both singly and in teams. It is believed that during the Middle Ages, ancestors of Friesian horses were in great demand as war horses throughout continental Europe. Through the Early Middle Ages and High Middle Ages, their size enabled them to carry a knight in armour. In the Late Middle Ages, heavier, draught type animals were needed.
Gypsian Rules & Forms. We are the largest fastest growing, legitimate registry in the USA for registering horses of Friesian heritage; Friesian Sport Horses, Friesians and Gypsian horses. The Friesian Heritage Horse & Sporthorse International offers a authentic credible registry, that is inclusive and provides a home for all documented. horses of 25%, or greater, Friesian heritage. Our basic registration is straightforward, affordable and requires no membership fee. 
A Friesian tends to have great presence and to carry itself with elegance. Today, there are two distinct conformation types — the baroque type, which has the more robust build of the classical Friesian, and the modern,  sport horse  type, which is finer-boned. It is believed that during the Middle Ages, ancestors of Friesian horses were in great demand as war horses throughout continental Europe. Through the Early Middle Ages and High Middle Ages, their size enabled them to carry a knight in armour. In the Late Middle Ages, heavier, draught type animals were needed.
While the term, Friesian Sport horse, is used generically to refer to any Friesian crossbreed, the ideal Friesian Sporthorse is specifically bred to excel in disciplines such as dressage, eventing, combined driving, harness, and jumping. Friesians have been crossbred for more than a century. Therefore, in 1879, the Friesian registry created two books: one for purebred Friesians, and another for crossbreeds. By 1907, crossbreeding had become so common that the rules were changed again to combine the two registries back into one book.
Friesian History. T he Friesian horse is the only horse breed native to the Netherlands where the Friesian has been known since as far back as the 13th century. At the start of the Christian era, the Friesian was used in battle1 and Friesian troops were documented in Britannia. The Friesian is often seen in the dressage ring and in driving sports. Some of the more common uses are for ridden work under saddle and as a harness horse or driving horse. For work under saddle and driving sports, a functional build is key. The horse’s body must have an “uphill” slope.
The Friesian (also Frisian) is a horse breed originating in Friesland, in the Netherlands. Although the conformation of the breed resembles that of a light draught horse, Friesians are graceful and nimble for their size. It is believed that during the Middle Ages, ancestors of Friesian horses were in great demand as war horses throughout continental Europe. Through the Early Middle Ages and High Middle Ages, their size enabled them to carry a knight in armour. In the Late Middle Ages, heavier, draught type animals were needed.