It's methane. While methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than CO2, there is over 200 times more CO2 in the atmosphere. Eg-CO2 levels are 380 ppm (parts per million) while methane levels are 1.75ppm. Hence the amount of warming methane contributes is calculated at 28% of the warming CO2 contributes. Here is a graph of the various forcings that influence climate (methane is CH4, right above CO2).
Follow @bobbymagill. By Bobby Magill. As climate change melts Arctic permafrost and releases large amounts of methane into the atmosphere, it is creating a feedback loop that is certain to trigger additional warming, according to the lead scientist of a new study investigating Arctic methane emissions. 
With these observations — that methane is a greenhouse gas, that changes to emissions can affect the atmospheric concentration, and that climate can cause methane emissions to vary — there is a potential for some very interesting positive feedbacks. Methane as a Greenhouse Gas. First some basics: methane (CH 4) is a very simple molecule (one carbon surrounded by four hydrogen atoms) and is created predominantly by bacteria that feed on organic material.
Gases, such as water vapor, which respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are seen as feedbacks.. Gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect include: 1  Water vapor. 2  The most abundant greenhouse gas, but importantly, it acts as a feedback to the climate. Gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect include: 1  Water vapor. 2  Carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  Methane. 4  Nitrous oxide. 5  Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).
Humans are increasingly influencing the climate and the earth's temperature by burning fossil fuels, cutting down rainforests and farming livestock. This adds enormous amounts of greenhouse gases to those naturally occurring in the atmosphere, increasing the greenhouse effect and global warming. 
Solar irradiance. It's reasonable to assume that changes in the sun's energy output would cause the climate to change, since the sun is the fundamental source of energy that drives our climate system. Indeed, studies show that solar variability has played a role in past climate changes. Gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect include: 1  Water vapor. 2  Carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  Methane. 4  Nitrous oxide. 5  Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).
Methane. The importance of methane in the greenhouse effect is its warming effect. Even though it occurs in lower concentrations than carbon dioxide, it produces 21 times as much warming as CO2. Methane accounts for 20% of the 'enhanced greenhouse effect'.
Methane Hydrates and Climate Change. Methane hydrates store huge volumes of methane formed by the bacterial decay of organic matter or leaked from underlying oil and natural gas deposits. The active formation of methane hydrates in the shallow crust prevents methane, a greenhouse gas, from entering the atmosphere. On the other hand, warming of arctic sediments or ocean waters has the potential to cause methane hydrate to dissociate, releasing methane into the deepwater sediments, the ocean or atmospher
Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the greenhouse effect 1 — warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect include: 1  Water vapor. 2  Carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  Methane. 4  Nitrous oxide. 5  Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).