Please email holiday@dunsborough.com for an Information Pack. Accommodation in the Geographe Bay and Margaret River region. Relax and unwind in a beautiful secluded bush setting on 100 acres of farm and bushland. Our accommodation includes our lovingly restored historic jarrah rail carriages and our 2 bedroom cottages. You can even bring your dog on holiday with you.
Dunsborough is a coastal town in the South West of Western Australia, 254 kilometres (158 mi) south of Perth on the shores of Geographe Bay. The modern town is named after the nearby Dunn Bay, which was named after Captain Richard Dalling Dunn under whom Governor James Stirling had served in the Hibernia and the Armide in 1810-11. Land for a townsite was set aside here in the late 1830s, and there is a recorded whale fishery at Dunsbro in 1850.
Dunsborough was named after Dunn Bay, which was named after Captain Richard Dalling Dunn who Captain James Stirling served under in the Royal Navy. Dunsborough was officially proclaimed in 1879. This makes it one of the world’s earliest continually inhabited areas. Dunsborough was originally called Quedjinup, which means ‘Place of Women’ by the traditional custodians of this land, the Wardandi people, (meaning sea people). There are multiple sights of Aboriginal importance in and nearby to town.
Dunsborough YHA. The Dunsborough Beachouse YHA Backpacker is the ideal base to enjoy the attractions of the Margaret River region. Situated on pristine beachfront, the hostel is the perfect place to kick back and relax. YHA Australia has great hostels all around the country. From Sydney to Perth, Darwin to Hobart, and everywhere in between-there's a YHA hostel for you!
Dunsborough is serviced by Busseltons public bus service route 903 run by South West Coach Lines. South West Coach Lines and Transwa coach services also run service to Dunsbrough for connections to other south west towns and Perth. The modern town is named after the nearby Dunn Bay, which was named after Captain Richard Dalling Dunn under whom Governor James Stirling had served in the Hibernia and the Armide in 1810-11. Land for a townsite was set aside here in the late 1830s, and there is a recorded whale fishery at Dunsbro in 1850.
© MOONDAH LODGE BNB 2014 | DUNSBOROUGH ACCOMMODATION SOUTHWEST WA, DUNSBOROUGH BNB, PRIVATE ACCOMMODATION DUNSBOROUGH, MARGARET RIVER WINE REGION BNB, SOUTH WEST ACCOMMODATION WA. +61 474 461 188. Please note: accommodation in the South West books out well in advance. Beautifully appointed, your accommodation has its own separate entry, private facilities, and is walking distance to the buzz of the renowned tourist destination Dunsborough, and a relaxed scenic drive from everything this magical south west destination has to offer.
Dunsborough is a popular tourist destination for Western Australians; in 1999 it was voted the state's best tourist destination and in 2013 awarded the Top Tourism Award for Population Under 5,000. The modern town is named after the nearby Dunn Bay, which was named after Captain Richard Dalling Dunn under whom Governor James Stirling had served in the Hibernia and the Armide in 1810-11. Land for a townsite was set aside here in the late 1830s, and there is a recorded whale fishery at Dunsbro in 1850.
When Dunsborough first appeared on a map in 1839 it was spelt Dunnsbro but the extra n seems to have disappeared by 1850, and the spelling of bro was amended to borough when the name was gazetted in 1879. The modern town is named after the nearby Dunn Bay, which was named after Captain Richard Dalling Dunn under whom Governor James Stirling had served in the Hibernia and the Armide in 1810-11. Land for a townsite was set aside here in the late 1830s, and there is a recorded whale fishery at Dunsbro in 1850.
Located on the stunning turquoise banks of Geographe Bay, Dunsborough would have to have one of the most tranquil and magnificent locations in the world. Sparkling calm clear water and white sandy Dunsborough beaches are linked to town by lush green grass and shady paths. There is a bustling cafe café atmosphere and plenty of gorgeous boutique. shops This makes it one of the world’s earliest continually inhabited areas. Dunsborough was originally called Quedjinup, which means ‘Place of Women’ by the traditional custodians of this land, the Wardandi people, (meaning sea people). There are multiple sights of Aboriginal importance in and nearby to town.