For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Insurance Claims Coordinator in the United States is $44,571, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Insurance Claims Coordinator in the United States are expected to make less than $44,571. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 
Income. As a claims handler, your starting salary would be between £14,000 and £18,000 a year. If you are a graduate trainee, or an experienced claims handler, you could earn up to £20,000 a year. As a claims negotiator, you could earn £18,000 to £30,000 a year. As a claims manager this could rise to £50,000 a year. Insurance claims handlers help people who are making claims on their insurance policies. As a claims handler, you would check that insurance claims are valid and make sure that payouts are made within an agreed payout limit.
High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again based on last month's job ads. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. Clicking on 'Top salaries' will provide you with a breakdown of salaries based on industry and location.
Salary results for Claims Handler. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. Clicking on 'Top salaries' will provide you with a breakdown of salaries based on industry and location.
Normally, new-hire airline baggage handlers move to the highest salary classifications over five to 10 years. At large commercial airlines, baggage handlers with five to 10 years of service and experience can earn $18 to $25 hourly, or about $37,400 to $52,000 annually. Airline baggage handlers earn their pay, too, because the work needed to load, unload and service an airliner is often difficult. New-hire full-time airline baggage handlers at large US airlines earn gross average salaries of around $21,000 annually, or $10 per hour. Many airline baggage handlers, though, start out as part-time hires, meaning they'll make about $10,400 annually to start
Starting Salaries. New-hire full-time airline baggage handlers at large US airlines earn gross average salaries of around $21,000 annually, or $10 per hour. Many airline baggage handlers, though, start out as part-time hires, meaning they'll make about $10,400 annually to start. Airline baggage handlers earn their pay, too, because the work needed to load, unload and service an airliner is often difficult. New-hire full-time airline baggage handlers at large US airlines earn gross average salaries of around $21,000 annually, or $10 per hour.
(United States). Insurance Claims Handlers in the United States take home an average $45K per year. A fair number report receiving medical coverage from their employers and a majority collect dental insurance. Female Insurance Claims Handlers survey participants are more prevalent than men — 66 percent of professionals. To work as an insurance claims handler, a person must typically have at least an associate's degree in a business-related field with an emphasis on assurance or actuary study.