Symptoms and Signs. Although hypophosphatemia usually is asymptomatic, anorexia, muscle weakness, and osteomalacia can occur in severe chronic depletion. Serious neuromuscular disturbances may occur, including progressive encephalopathy, seizures, coma, and death. 
Hypophosphatemia is defined as a phosphate level of less than 2.5 mg/dL (0.8 mmol/L). Phosphate is critical for a remarkably wide array of cellular processes. Hypophosphatemia has been reported in up to 15% of geriatric patients undergoing refeeding. Hypophosphatemia has also been reported in up to 35% of adult patients undergoing open heart surgery and is associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation, increased use of cardiovascular drugs, and prolonged hospitalization.
Background. Hypophosphatemia is defined as a phosphate level of less than 2.5 mg/dL (0.8 mmol/L). Phosphate is critical for a remarkably wide array of cellular processes. It is one of the major components of the skeleton, providing mineral strength to bone. Hypophosphatemia has been reported in up to 15% of geriatric patients undergoing refeeding. Hypophosphatemia has also been reported in up to 35% of adult patients undergoing open heart surgery and is associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation, increased use of cardiovascular drugs, and prolonged hospitalization.
Causes. The many causes of hypophosphatemia include dietary changes, GI abnormalities, drug interactions, hormonal changes, and cellular changes. Changes in the diet as a result of malnutrition or alcoholism can significantly reduce the serum phosphorus levels. Familial hypophosphatemia (formerly vitamin D–resistant rickets) results in the inability of the kidney to effectively reabsorb phosphate. Low blood levels of phosphate can be seen beginning between 6 and 10 months.
Hypophosphatemia: A lower-than-normal level of phosphate in the blood. Hypophosphatemia can be associated with a number of conditions including bone diseases and hormone conditions. Symptoms occur only when hypophosphatemia is very severe and include muscle weakness that may progress to coma and death.
Drugs that may be prescribed by your doctor for hypophosphatemia: There are few medications prescribed specifically for low blood phosphate levels. The treatment of your low blood phosphate levels is to identify the underlying cause, and to treat that condition. 1 The symptoms that you notice, with lowered phosphate levels, are due to the disease that is causing this abnormality. 2  If the disease itself is corrected, and with phosphorous supplementation, your blood phosphorous levels should return to the normal range and your hypophosphatemia will go away.
Hypophosphatemia (Low Phosphate). Hypophosphatemia may be described as low levels of inorganic phosphate in the blood. Phosphate, or phosphorous, is similar to calcium, and is found in your teeth and bones. You need vitamin D in order to absorb phosphate. The kidneys excrete (get rid of) phosphate from our bodies. 1 The symptoms that you notice, with lowered phosphate levels, are due to the disease that is causing this abnormality. 2  If the disease itself is corrected, and with phosphorous supplementation, your blood phosphorous levels should return to the normal range and your hypophosphatemia will go away.
Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets is a disorder related to low levels of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphatemia). Phosphate is a mineral that is essential for the normal formation of bones and teeth. In most cases, the signs and symptoms of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets begin in early childhood. 
Hypophosphatemia is a low phosphorous level in the blood. Symptoms include muscle weakness, changes in mental states, and damaged bone tissue. Treatment for hypophosphatemia includes medications or intravenous injection. A common drug class used to treat hypophosphatemia is the phosphate supplements drug class.
Primary hypophosphatemia is the most common cause of nonnutritional rickets. Laboratory findings include low-normal serum calcium, moderately low serum phosphate, elevated serum alkaline phosphatase, and low serum 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D levels, hyperphosphaturia, and no evidence of hyperparathyroidism. 