Spain is a country located on the Iberian Peninsula in the  southwest of Europe. It neighbours Portugal, Gibraltar, Andorra and  France. . Edit. Spain is situated in the southwestern area of Europe. It is  bordered by France on the north and Portugal on the west. It is  also bordered by the Mediterranean Sea, the Bal … earic Sea, and the  Atlantic Ocean.
Confidence votes 17.1K. Spain is located in the extreme southwest of Europe, along the Atlantic Ocean on the Iberian Peninsula (which it shares with Portugal). It is south of the Bay of Biscay and France, and their common border includes the country of Andorra in the Pyrenees. Spain is situated in the southwestern area of Europe. It is  bordered by France on the north and Portugal on the west. It is  also bordered by the Mediterranean Sea, the Bal … earic Sea, and the  Atlantic Ocean.
On the Mediterranean coast of Spain is Gibraltar (a British territory). Spain is a country located in the southwest of Europe, it is on the Iberian Peninsula, Portugal is to the west, Atlantic Ocean to the north, France to the northeast, the Mediterranean Sea to the east. 3 people found this useful. Spain is located in the extreme southwest of Europe, along the Atlantic Ocean on the Iberian Peninsula (which it shares with Portugal). It is south of the Bay of Biscay and Fr … ance, their common border including the country of Andorra in the Pyrenees
RELATIVE LOCATION: Located in far southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula Spain is geographically positioned in the northern, as well as the eastern and western hemispheres. Spain is bordered by the countries of Andorra, France and Portugal, and by the British colony of Gibraltar. 
On the Mediterranean coast of Spain is Gibraltar (a British territory). Spain is a country located in the southwest of Europe, it is on the Iberian Peninsula, Portugal is to the west, Atlantic Ocean to the north, France to the northeast, the Mediterranean Sea to the east. Spain is situated in the southwestern area of Europe. It is  bordered by France on the north and Portugal on the west. It is  also bordered by the Mediterranean Sea, the Bal … earic Sea, and the  Atlantic Ocean.
Location: Malaga is geographically located in southern Spain which is in south-western Europe. The city lies on the Mediterranean coastline, surrounded by the rest of the seven cities such as, Cadiz, Seville and Granada, which constitute the region of Andalucia. andalucía 
The city of Alicante is geographically located in Spain, which is situated in the southwest part of Europe. Spain is bordered by many countries such as Portugal and France, however it still has a large coastline which plays a significant role in attracting millions of tourists every year. 
SPAIN Geography. Spain is located at the Iberian Pen nsula, of which it occupies approximately 80% (the remaining 20% are occupied by Portugal), in the southwest of Europe. In the north Spain borders on France and Andorra, with the Pyrenees as a natural frontier.
Coastline: 3,084 miles (4,964 km). Highest Point: Pico de Teide (Canary Islands) at 12,198 feet (3,718 m). Spain is a country located in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula to the south of France and Andorra and to the east of Portugal. It has coastlines on the Bay of Biscay (a part of the Atlantic Ocean) and the Mediterranean Sea. Tourism and the related service sector is also a major part of Spain's economy. Geography and Climate of Spain. Today most of Spain's area is located in southwestern Europe with the mainland of the country that is south of France and the Pyrenees Mountains and