If you are milking once a day: There is no reason to wean the kids (see above).Though, you should keep in mind that a doe should have at least 2 months off from milking before she kids again. If you are bottle raising the kids: For convenience sake, you can wean around two to three months, see bottle feeding. If you are letting the mother goat raise, and nurse, her own kids: There is really no reason for you to have to wean the kids. It causes undue stress on the kids as well as their mother. The mother will naturally wean her kids when she feels the time is right (or she is just plain sick of them).
Baby goats are called kids, the same word your parents may use to describe you and your siblings! Mother goats are nannies. Fathers are called billy goats. 
1 If you can still feel the kids, the doe will probably not kid for at least 12 hours. 2  The doe will ‘loosen up’ before she kids. 3  This term refers to the condition of the vulva. 4  A goat’s vulva is normally kind of puckered as though it has a draw string in the middle. 1 There is a ligament that runs from the pin bones to the dorsal process. 2  When a goat is getting ready to kid, this ligament will move out of the way to allow the kids to get between the pelvic bones. 3  To feel for this ligament, you can put your hand on the doe’s tail head.
If you are milking once a day : There is no reason to wean the kids (see above).Though, you should keep in mind that a doe should have at least 2 months off from milking before she kids again. I f you are bottle raising the kids : For convenience sake, you can wean around two to three months, see bottle feeding. If you are letting the mother goat raise, and nurse, her own kids: There is really no reason for you to have to wean the kids. It causes undue stress on the kids as well as their mother. The mother will naturally wean her kids when she feels the time is right (or she is just plain sick of them).
Milk production varies with the breed, age, quality, and diet of the doe; dairy goats generally produce between 680 and 1,810 kg (1,500 and 4,000 lb) of milk per 305-day lactation. On average, a good quality dairy doe will give at least 3 kg (6 lb) of milk per day while she is in milk. The goat is a member of the family Bovidae and is closely related to the sheep as both are in the goat-antelope subfamily Caprinae. There are over 300 distinct breeds of goat. Goats are one of the oldest domesticated species, and have been used for their milk, meat, hair, and skins over much of the world
If you are a newbie to goats, you might be exited as well as nervous about what will occur during your first kidding. It is quite normal to be nervous. Being prepared will help you relax and enjoy your first kidding experience. The average gestation for a goat is 145 to 155 days. Keeping good records of breedings is important so that you have a general idea when your doe may kid. If you know the date that your doe was covered, count 150 days from that date and that is your approximate kidding date. 
Measure out the amount of milk you will need for this feeding. For MiniNubian kids, we feed one quart per day per kid. So once you are doing 2 feedings a day, that is 2 cups per kid per feeding. Heat the milk in a pot on the stove. A very common question and of course there are about as many different answers as there are goat breeders. Below is how we feed our MiniNubian kids. This program is for kids that will mature at about 100 lbs. Y ou will want to increase the amounts for larger breeds and decrease it for smaller breeds.
Castrated males are wethers. Goat meat from younger animals is called kid or cabrito (Spanish), and from older animals is simply known as goat or sometimes called chevon (French), or in some areas  mutton  (which more often refers to adult sheep meat). The goat is a member of the family Bovidae and is closely related to the sheep as both are in the goat-antelope subfamily Caprinae. There are over 300 distinct breeds of goat. Goats are one of the oldest domesticated species, and have been used for their milk, meat, hair, and skins over much of the world
A goat is the adult, And a kid is the infant. An adult goat, - male or female, have two little horns which protrude from the top of the head. They have a little goatie, as w … ell. While infants dont possess, any of these features until later on. 