22q11.2 deletion syndrome (which is also known by several other names, listed below) is a disorder caused by the deletion of a small piece of chromosome 22. The deletion occurs near the middle of the chromosome at a location designated q11.2. The inheritance of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is considered autosomal dominant because a deletion in one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A chromosome deletion is a form of chromosome mutation. Chromosome mutations are due to changes in the structure of a chromosome, as opposed to gene mutations, which are changes within the chemical makeup of a chromosome. Chromosome mutations can actually be detected by looking at the DNA through a microscope. When a chromosome deletion occurs, part of a chromosome is removed, or deleted. Most of the time, the chromosomes can be found as long thin strands of DNA in the nucleus. They are all wound round each other, so there are plenty of opportunities for interactions with other chromosomes and with themselves.
Gene deletion: The total loss or absence of a gene. Gene deletion plays a role in birth defects and in the development of cancer. 
1 9p Deletion Syndrome is a very rare chromosome abnormality that reportedly occurs in 1 in 50,000 births. 2  It is characterized by a portion of the “p” (or short end of the 9th chromosome) being deleted or missing. 
Deletion on a chromosome. In genetics, a deletion (also called gene deletion, deficiency, or deletion mutation) (sign: δ) is a mutation (a genetic aberration) in which a part of a chromosome or a sequence of DNA is lost during DNA replication. Any number of nucleotides can be deleted, from a single base to an entire piece of chromosome. The smallest single base deletion mutations are believed occur by a single base flipping in the template DNA, followed by template DNA strand slippage, within the DNA polymerase active site. 1 ' Terminal Deletion' — a deletion that occurs towards the end of a chromosome. 2  Intercalary Deletion / Interstitial Deletion — a deletion that occurs from the interior of a chromosome. 3  Microdeletion — a relatively small amount of deletion (up to 5Mb that could include a dozen genes).
People with a 22q11.2 deletion have a very small piece of chromosome 22 missing; that's why the disorder is called a deletion.. The q11.2 tells everyone who works in genetics that the missing piece is in a very specific spot on the q arm — also called the long arm — of the chromosome. Chromosome 22q11.2 Deletion. The chromosome 22q11.2 deletion is a chromosomal difference that may or may not run in the family (meaning it's hereditary). The condition is present in approximately one out of every 9,000 live births, and in 5-8 percent of children born with cleft palate.
Deletion is a type of mutation involving the loss of genetic material. It can be small, involving a single missing DNA base pair, or large, involving a piece of a chromosome. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute. Large deletions involving a whole segment of a chromosome may be detected by routine examination of the chromosomes; intermediate deletions involving a few genes may be detected by using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH); smaller deletions involving a portion of a gene may only be detected by analyzing the DNA.
A human cell has one pair of identical chromosomes on chromosome 1. With the 1q21.1 deletion syndrome, one chromosome of the pair is not complete, because a part of the sequence of the chromosome is missing. One chromosome has the normal length and the other is too short. The syndrome is a form of the 1q21.1 copy number variations and it is a deletion in the distal area of the 1q21.1 part. The CNV leads to a very variable phenotype and the manifestations in individuals are quite variable.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Gene deletion is a loss of genetic material that can lead to serious abnormalities in an organism. The absence of the gene can be caused by any number of features, including errors during meiosis, breaking, and translocation. Many human genetic disorders are related to gene deletion, often of a specific gene. Most people encounter the concept of gene deletion through its manifestation as a disorder. Absence of genetic material can create birth defects and may be related to some forms of cancer.