NAION is estimated to affect as many as 6,000 Americans each year. The condition results from a painless swelling of the optic nerve that causes a rapid reduction in vision. Those stricken with NAION often awake one morning with vision loss, or vision loss may stutter and worsen over one to two weeks, Johnson says. Risk factors include hypertension, diabetes, a history of fever blisters and a characteristic appearance of the optic nerve that can be recognized by ophthalmologists.
Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) is an isolated white-matter stroke of the optic nerve (ON). NAION is the most common cause of sudden optic nerve-related vision loss, affecting more than 10,000 Americans every year, often bilaterally. The mechanism of injury for NAION used to be quite controversial. However, experts in the field have come to a consensus that most cases involve two main risk factors. The first is a predisposition in the form of a type of optic disc shape.
Questions and Answers forThose Affected by NAION From the leaflet by Claud Regnard and Margaret DayanNewcastle upon Tyne, UK What is NAION?What we see of the world is focused onto the back of our eyes onto the lining at the back of our eye (the retina). The retina converts the image into electrical impulses which travel through the optic nerve (the nerve o f sight) to the brain. The blood supply to part of optic nerve is reduced, resulting in damage to the nerve fibres and this causes the loss of some of the sight in the eye.What causes NAION?Despite many theories and suggestions, the exact cause of NAION is not known.
Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) is due to impaired circulation of blood to the front of the optic nerve. It is called “non-arteritic” because there is reduced blood flow without true inflammation of the blood vessels (as there is in arteritis). Finally, it is called an “optic neuropathy” because it is an injury to the optic nerve, which disrupts the ability of eye to send information to the brain. The eye examination for a patient with NAION shows swelling of the optic nerve (arrows), due to injury from. reduced blood flow.
In contrast, NAION results from the coincidence of cardiovascular risk factors in a patient with crowded optic discs. Non-arteritic AION is more common than AAION and usually occurs in a slightly younger group than AAION. The mechanism of injury for NAION used to be quite controversial. However, experts in the field have come to a consensus that most cases involve two main risk factors. The first is a predisposition in the form of a type of optic disc shape.
The exact mechanism causing reduced blood flow to the optic nerve in NAION is not proven, but it is known that this condition occurs more often when a patient has conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and sleep apnea. Smoking may also elevate the risk of developing NAION. Finally, it is called an “optic neuropathy” because it is an injury to the optic nerve, which disrupts the ability of eye to send information to the brain. The eye examination for a patient with NAION shows swelling of the optic nerve (arrows), due to injury from. reduced blood flow.
Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) refers to loss of blood flow to the optic nerve (which is the cable that connects the eye to the brain). This condition typically causes sudden vision loss in one eye, without any pain. Finally, it is called an “optic neuropathy” because it is an injury to the optic nerve, which disrupts the ability of eye to send information to the brain. The eye examination for a patient with NAION shows swelling of the optic nerve (arrows), due to injury from. reduced blood flow.
Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) is the most common clinical presentation of acute ischemic damage to the optic nerve. Most treatments proposed for NAION are empirical and include a wide range of agents presumed to act on thrombosis, on the blood vessels, or on the disk edema itself. 
The first is non-arteritic (NAION) and the second is arteritic (AAION) and is almost always associated with giant cell arteritis. Posterior ischemic optic neuropathy (PION) encompasses those conditions that result in ischemia to any portion of the optic nerve posterior to the optic disc. Up to 97% of patients with NAION have small optic discs with small or absent optic cups. Acutely, it can be difficult to determine the cup/disc ratio because of optic nerve edema and the clinician should note the cup/disc ratio in the fellow eye.