Making the world better, one answer at a time. nuclear lamina is a structure like cilia made up of proteins ,present in the interior surface of the nuclear membrane, it helps to maintain definite shape of the. eukaryotic nucleus. 
The nuclear lamina is a structure near the inner nuclear membrane and the peripheral chromatin. It is composed of lamins, which are also present in the nuclear interior, and lamin-associated proteins. The nuclear lamina and its functions in the nucleus. Gruenbaum Y(1), Goldman RD, Meyuhas R, Mills E, Margalit A, Fridkin A, Dayani Y, Prokocimer M, Enosh A.
Nuclear lamina. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Jump to: navigation, search ... A nuclear lamina is a dense, fibrillar meshwork composed of intermediate filament s that lines the inner surface of the nuclear envelope. '/. See more about: Nuclear lamina ... Along the inner surface of the nucleus, one of these networks is organ ized into a special mesh-like lining called the nuclear lamina, which binds to chromatin, integral membrane proteins, and other nuclear components.
Apoptosis is a highly regulated process in which the nuclear lamina is disassembled in an early stage. In contrast to the phosphorylation-induced disassembly during mitosis, the nuclear lamina is degraded by proteolytic cleavage, and both the lamins and the nuclear lamin-associated membrane proteins are targeted. The nuclear lamina is assembled by interactions of two lamin polypeptides in which the α-helical regions are wound around each other to form a two stranded α-helical coiled-coil structure, followed by a head-to-tail association of the multiple dimers.
The nuclear lamina is a dense (~30 to 100 nm thick) fibrillar network inside the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. It is composed of intermediate filaments and membrane associated proteins. The nuclear lamina lies on the inner surface of the inner nuclear membrane (INM), where it serves to maintain nuclear stability, organize chromatin and bind nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) and a steadily growing list of nuclear envelope proteins (purple) and transcription factors (pink).
... genes encoding nuclear lamina proteins has increased ... The nuclear lamina is an intermediate filament-type network underlying the inner nuclear membrane. ... In vitro disassembly of the nuclear lamina and M phase-specific phosphorylation ... The nuclear lamina is also thought play a role in directing materials inside the ... The nuclear lamina in vertebrates contains a polymer of 2–4 related intermediate ... The lamina plays essential roles in nuclear structure and functions, as ...
The nuclear lamina is associated with the inner face of the bilayer nuclear envelope whereas the outer face stays continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum. Besides providing mechanical support, the nuclear lamina regulates important cellular events such as DNA replication and cell division. Additionally, it participates in chromatin organization and it anchors the nuclear pore complexes embedded in the nuclear envelope.
Apoptosis is a highly regulated process in which the nuclear lamina is disassembled in an early stage. In contrast to the phosphorylation-induced disassembly during mitosis, the nuclear lamina is degraded by proteolytic cleavage, and both the lamins and the nuclear lamin-associated membrane proteins are targeted. The nuclear lamina lies on the inner surface of the inner nuclear membrane (INM), where it serves to maintain nuclear stability, organize chromatin and bind nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) and a steadily growing list of nuclear envelope proteins (purple) and transcription factors (pink).
The nuclear lamina is a dense (~30 to 100 nm thick) fibrillar network inside the nucleus of most cells. It is composed of intermediate filaments and membrane associated proteins. Besides providing mechanical support, the nuclear lamina regulates important cellular events such as DNA replication and cell division. Additionally, it participates in chromatin organization and it anchors the nuclear pore complexes embedded in the nuclear envelope. The nuclear lamina is assembled by interactions of two lamin polypeptides in which the α-helical regions are wound around each other to form a two stranded α-helical coiled-coil structure, followed by a head-to-tail association of the multiple dimers.
The increasing number of proteins that interact with lamins and the compound interactions between these proteins and chromatin-associated proteins make the nuclear lamina a highly complex but also a very exciting structure. The nuclear lamina is an essential component of metazoan cells. It is involved in most nuclear activities including DNA replication, RNA transcription, nuclear and chromatin organization, cell cycle regulation, cell development and differentiation, nuclear migration, and apoptosis. Specific mutations in nuclear lamina genes cause a wide range of heritable human diseases. The nuclear lamina and its functions in the nucleus. Gruenbaum Y(1), Goldman RD, Meyuhas R, Mills E, Margalit A, Fridkin A, Dayani Y, Prokocimer M, Enosh A.