Judicial Foreclosure States. If you are in a state where foreclosures go through court (check our Summary of State Foreclosure Laws), you typically will receive ten to 30 days’ notice of the lender’s intent to file a foreclosure action. Once it’s filed, you will have 20 to 30 days to respond. So you’ll likely have a minimum of two months from the first notice of intent to file the case to the date the court orders the sale to take place. You’ll have at least double that amount of time if you decide to oppose the foreclosure in court.
You can count on at least 30 days’ notice before the sale (except in a few states that give you just 15 days’ notice); in most states, you’ll get at least 60 days. Check your state’s law in our Summary of State Foreclosure Laws to find out the precise amount of notice you are entitled to. So you’ll likely have a minimum of two months from the first notice of intent to file the case to the date the court orders the sale to take place. You’ll have at least double that amount of time if you decide to oppose the foreclosure in court.
Foreclosure is the legal process which occurs when the borrower cannot pay his mortgage. The lender sells the property at auction to recover the monies owed on the property. Your first indication that the lender intends to auction the property is the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default serves as your official notice from the county that the lender is pursuing foreclosure. Approximately 90 days after you receive the Notice of Default, you will receive the auction notice. Auction Notice. The auction notice, or Notice of Sale, is your final notice that the lender intends to sell the property at auction. The county prints the location, time and date of the trustee's auction on the Notice of Sale.
Eviction. If the property is your personal home, you can continue living there until you receive an eviction notice, even after the sale. If the new owner doesn't ask for rent, you don't even have to pay to stay there. Once you get the notice, events will follow according to the eviction laws of your state. Another Letter. If the judge rules in favor of your lender, the next step will be a letter notifying you of the date of sale. In many states, you can still stop the sale if you can amass enough money to pay off the mortgage in full, plus foreclosure expenses and other costs.
The foreclosure process doesn’t officially begin until you receive a notice of default, or a foreclosure notice. With this notice your lender is already making plans and taking the necessary steps to foreclose. Most lenders consider your loan to be in default once you are 90 days behind. Borrowers typically have 30-90 days from the notice of default or foreclosure notice to make up the deficit before the lender sends out a “notice of sale,” which sets a sale date for the house (typically within the next 15 to 30 days).
The foreclosure process doesn’t officially begin until you receive a notice of default, or a foreclosure notice. Even though, behind the scenes, your lender is already making plans and taking the necessary steps to foreclose, it officially begins with the Notice. Once you receive a notice of default, there is no time to waste, because the longer to wait to find a solution, the more the late fees and charges start adding up. Catching up 3 or 4 payments is a lot easier than it may seem, because your lender may agree to a partial payment plan, or even a mortgage modification.
If the house sells for less than the amount of the mortgage, then the lender has the right to sue the homeowner for the rest of the money that the homeowner owes, called the deficiency. After the Sheriff’s Sale, you will receive a Notice from the Sheriff telling you when you must vacate (move out) of the house. If you do not move out of the house by that date, then the Sheriff may come in to the property and remove you and your belongings. 
If you receive a foreclosure notice in the mail, it means you've fallen far enough behind in your mortgage payments that your lender intends to take your property and sell it off unless you make up the late payments. Another Letter. If the judge rules in favor of your lender, the next step will be a letter notifying you of the date of sale. In many states, you can still stop the sale if you can amass enough money to pay off the mortgage in full, plus foreclosure expenses and other costs.