Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Pyridium® (phenazopyridine hydrochloride) is chemically designated 2,6-Pyridinediamine, 3-(phenylazo), monohydrochloride. It is a urinary tract analgesic agent for oral administration. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride tablets contain 100 mg or 200 mg Phenazopyridine H
Phenazopyridine is also available as an over-the-counter and is used to relieve urinary tract pain, burning, irritation, and discomfort, as well as urgent and frequent urination caused by urinary tract infections. This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Phenazopyridine is a medication used to relieve urinary pain, burning, urgency, and frequency associated with urinary tract infections. Phenazopyridine is not an antibiotic; it does not cure infections. Phenazopyridine is both an over-the-counter and a prescription medication. The prescription form is used to relieve urinary tract pain, burning, irritation, and discomfort, as well as urgent and frequent urination caused by urinary tract infections, surgery, injury, or examination procedures
Pyridium Warnings. Do not take this medication if you are allergic to Pyridium or if you have kidney disease, liver disease, or any other blood disorder. Pyridium will cause your urine to be dark or turn it to an orange or red color. This is a normal effect and is not cause for alarm. If you have any of the following side effects while taking Pyridium, stop using the medicine and check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible: 1  Blue or blue-purple color of skin. 2  Fever and confusion. 3  Shortness of breath. 4  Tightness in chest. 5  Wheezing or troubled breathing. 6  Skin rash. 7  Sudden decrease in the amount of urine.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Phenazopyridine is a chemical which, when excreted into the urine, has a local analgesic effect. It is often used to alleviate the pain, irritation, discomfort, or urgency caused by urinary tract infections, surgery, or injury to the urinary tract. Phenazopyridine was discovered by Bernhard Joos, the founder of Cilag. It is sometimes used in conjunction with an antibiotic or other anti-infective medication at the beginning of treatment to help provide immediate symptomatic relief. Phenazopyridine does not treat infections or injury, it is only used for symptom relief.
Do not take this medication if you are allergic to phenazopyridine, or if you have kidney disease. Phenazopyridine will treat the symptoms of a urinary tract infection, but this medication does not treat the actual infection. Take any antibiotic that your doctor prescribes to treat your infection. Phenazopyridine will most likely darken the color of your urine to an orange or red color. This is a normal effect and is not cause for alarm unless you have other symptoms such as pale or yellowed skin, fever, stomach pain, nausea, and vomiting.
Stop using phenazopyridine and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  pale skin, fever, confusion or weakness; 2  jaundice (yellowing of your skin or eyes); 3  urinating less than usual or not at all; 4  drowsiness, confusion, mood changes, increased thirst, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting; 5  swelling, weight gain, .... Pyridium® (phenazopyridine hydrochloride) is chemically designated 2,6-Pyridinediamine, 3-(phenylazo), monohydrochloride. It is a urinary tract analgesic agent for oral administration. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride tablets contain 100 mg or 200 mg Phenazopyridine H
Phenazopyridine is used to treat pain, burning, increased urination, and increased urge to urinate. These symptoms are usually caused by infection, injury, surgery, catheter, or other conditions that irritate the lower urinary tract. Phenazopyridine will most likely darken the color of your urine to an orange or red color. This is a normal effect and is not cause for alarm unless you have other symptoms such as pale or yellowed skin, fever, stomach pain, nausea, and vomiting.
Precautions. Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Uses. This medication is used to relieve symptoms caused by irritation of the urinary tract such as pain, burning, and the feeling of needing to urinate urgently or frequently. This drug does not treat the cause of the urinary irritation, but it can help relieve the symptoms while other treatments take effect.
Stop using phenazopyridine and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  pale skin, fever, confusion or weakness; 2  jaundice (yellowing of your skin or eyes); 3  urinating less than usual or not at all; 4  drowsiness, confusion, mood changes, increased thirst, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting; 5  swelling, weight gain, .... Phenazopyridine will most likely darken the color of your urine to an orange or red color. This is a normal effect and is not cause for alarm unless you have other symptoms such as pale or yellowed skin, fever, stomach pain, nausea, and vomiting.