A. A. A. Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder with distinct periods of extreme euphoria and energy (mania) and sadness or hopelessness (depression). It's also known as manic depression or manic depressive disorder. Bipolar disorder occurs with similar frequency in men and women. But there are some differences between the sexes in the way the condition is experienced. For example, a woman is likely to have more symptoms of depression than mania. These studies suggest that women with mood disorders, including bipolar disorder, experience more severe symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Other research has shown that women whose disorders are treated appropriately actually have less fluctuation in mood over the course of the menstrual cycle.
Thus, the symptoms of mania are key to the definition of having bipolar disorder. Symptoms of mania alone would be sufficient in diagnosing a person with bipolar disorder. The symptoms of mania include increased energy, activity, restlessness, racing thoughts, and rapid speech. 
Bipolar Disorder Is Different for Women. Diagnosing bipolar disorder is a notoriously inexact science. The disorders characteristic combination of symptoms bouts of depression interspersed with periods of an abnormally elevated mood known as maniais easy to miss or misread, even for trained experts. 
1. Mood Swings. Type: Manic and Depressive. Mood swings are the most common symptom of bipolar disorder and are a combination of the manic and depressive symptoms. A mood swing is characterized by high levels of positivity followed by high levels of negativity and depression or vice versa.
While bipolar symptoms in women tend to be prone to encounter rapid cycling concerning bipolar disorders, meaning that at least four cases of mania, hypomania and also depression may occur in a single year. Bipolar symptoms in women that are caught early can help minimize the severity of the disorder. Medical/Health Disclaimer: The information provided on this website should not be construed as personal medical advice or instruction. No action should be taken based solely on the contents of this site.
A person may be having an episode of bipolar disorder if he or she has a number of manic or depressive symptoms for most of the day, nearly every day, for at least one or two weeks. Sometimes symptoms are so severe that the person cannot function normally at work, school, or home. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive illness, is a serious medical illness that causes shifts in a person's mood, energy, and ability to function. Symptoms of bipolar disorder are severe. They are different from the normal ups and downs that everyone goes through from time to ti
Bipolar is a complex illness. There are many different symptoms -- and several different types -- of bipolar disorder. The primary symptoms of the disorder are dramatic and unpredictable mood swings. The various types of bipolar disorder range from mild to severe.
Bipolar disorder is a condition in which a person has periods of depression and periods of being extremely happy or being cross or irritable. In addition to these mood swings, the person also has extreme changes in activity and energy levels. A.D.A.M. 