PDF format (2,831 Kb, 12 Pages). The impact of treaty making in Canada has been wide-ranging and long standing. The treaties the Crown has signed with Aboriginal peoples since the 18th century have permitted the evolution of Canada as we know it. In fact, much of Canada's land mass is covered by treaties. This treaty-making process, which has evolved over more than 300 years between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people in Canada, has its origins in the early diplomatic relationship developed between European settlers and Aboriginal people. Events in Europe often had major impact in the New World. The 1713 Treaty of Utrecht ceded the mainland of the Maritimes, or Acadia, to Great Britain, leaving Île île (Royal Cape Breton) island Île Ile-île (St Jean Prince) edward island as The sole french possessions in. the area
Treaty First Nation: First Nation that signed a treaty with the Crown. This general information is provided as a brief overview only. The terms of the Indian Act, its regulations, other federal statutes and their interpretation by the courts take precedence over the content of this information sheet. For example, in what are now New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, the British made a series of “Peace and Friendship” treaties with the Mi'kmaq and Maliseet tribes between 1725 and 1779. By the early 1760s, the British had established themselves as the dominant colonial power in North America.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization was created in 1949 by the United States, Canada, and several Western European nations to provide collective security against the Soviet Union. Signing of the NATO Treaty. NATO was the first peacetime military alliance the United States entered into outside of the Western Hemisphere. After the destruction of the Second World War, the nations of Europe struggled to rebuild their economies and ensure their security. 
Versailles, Treaty of, 1919. This was the treaty between Germany and the victorious Allied nations (including Canada) which brought the World War to a formal close. It was signed in the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles on June 28, 1919. The terms of the treaty affected Canada in a direct way only slightly. Canada obtained a small share of the indemnities to be paid by Germany; but otherwise she asked for, and obtained, no direct benefits from the treaty in land or money.
The Canada-United States tax treaty is, given the depth of Canada's ties with the United States, particularly important. Like all of Canada's DTAs, the Canada-U.S. treaty is based on a model developed by the OECD, but it has always included some special features that reflect the unique Canada-U.S. relationship. As cross-border business and investment practices evolve, the tax treaty has to change as well if it is to remain effective.
The federal government believes that the treaties, and the relationship they represent, can guide the way to a shared future. The continuing treaty relationship provides a context of mutual rights and responsibilities that will ensure Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people can together enjoy Canada's benefits. For example, in what are now New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, the British made a series of “Peace and Friendship” treaties with the Mi'kmaq and Maliseet tribes between 1725 and 1779. By the early 1760s, the British had established themselves as the dominant colonial power in North America.
The pact's existence is a source of debate with some scholarly sources maintaining that a treaty between the Dutch and Kanienkeh (Mohawk Nation) did not take place or took place at a later date. In August 2013, the Journal of Early American History published a special issue dedicated to exploring the Two Row Tradition. The existence of written treaty was first made public in an article in 1968 by history professor and documents collector L.G. van Loon. He claimed to have acquired it from an unnamed person on the Mississaugua Reservation in Canada.
Modern Quebec was part of the territory of New France, the general name for the North American possessions of France until 1763. At its largest extent, before the Treaty of Utrecht, this territory included several colonies, each with its own administration: Canada, Acadia, Hudson Bay, and Louisiana. After several years of negotiations, in 1867 the British Parliament passed the British North America Acts, by which the Province of Canada, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia joined to form the Dominion of Canada. Canada East became the Province of Quebec.
Comprehensive land claim settlements deal with areas of Canada where Aboriginal people's claims to Aboriginal rights have not been addressed by treaties, or other legal means. The first of these modern-day treaties was the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement, signed in 1975. To date, the federal government has settled 15 comprehensive claims with Aboriginal people in Canada. For example, in what are now New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, the British made a series of “Peace and Friendship” treaties with the Mi'kmaq and Maliseet tribes between 1725 and 1779. By the early 1760s, the British had established themselves as the dominant colonial power in North America.
The agreement is considered by the Haudenosaunee to be the basis of all of their subsequent treaties with European and North American governments, including the Covenant Chain treaty with the British in 1677 and the Treaty of Canandaigua with the United States in 1794. The existence of written treaty was first made public in an article in 1968 by history professor and documents collector L.G. van Loon. He claimed to have acquired it from an unnamed person on the Mississaugua Reservation in Canada.