Internet Explorer 9. To reopen recently closed tabs in IE9, right-click on a tab and select Recently closed tabs from the popup menu. Select a tab from the submenu or select Open all closed tabs to open all tabs that were closed in the current session.
Here's how: In Internet Explorer, click the New Tab button on the Address bar (or press Ctrl+T) to open the New Tab page. On the New Tab page, click Reopen last session. All the pages that you had open when Internet Explorer last closed will open in new tabs.
To reopen the most recently closed tab, right-click on a tab and select Reopen closed tab, or press Ctrl + Shift + T. Repeatedly selecting Reopen closed tab, or pressing Ctrl + Shift + T, will open previously closed tabs in the order they were closed. You can also reopen closed tabs from the New Tab page.
Reopen closed tabs. If you accidentally close a tab while browsing, here's how to reopen it: In Internet Explorer, click the New Tab button on the Address bar (or press Ctrl+T) to open the New Tab page. On the New Tab page, click Reopen closed tabs, then choose which pages you'd like to reopen.
Reopen Closed Tabs in Internet Explorer. Right-click on a tab and select Reopen closed tab to reopen the last closed tab. You can also press Ctrl+Shift+T to reopen the tab.
To do so, open a new tab and click the Reopen closed tabs link in the bottom, left corner of the New Tab page. Select a tab from the popup menu or select Open all closed tabs to reopen all tabs that were closed in the current session. You can also easily reopen the entire last browsing session in IE9.
To reopen closed tabs in the desktop. Open the desktop, and then tap or click the Internet Explorer icon on the taskbar. Tap or click the New Tab button on the address bar (or press Ctrl+T) to open the New tab page. On the New tab page, tap or click Reopen closed tabs, and select any tabs you'd like to reopen.
Again, if you accidently closed your browser you can reopen last browsing session using the command bar. By default the command bar is hidden and thus you will have to activate it. To enable the command bar right-click on a blank area near the tab strip in internet explorer and click on Command bar
Reopen closed tabs. If you accidentally close a tab while browsing, here's how to reopen it: In Internet Explorer for the desktop, tap or click the New Tab button on the Address bar (or press Ctrl+T) to open the New Tab page.