There are 7 types of Salmon. Chinook. Chinook salmon are the most well known type of salmon in North America. Also known as King salmon, they are the largest of the salmon species. Americans often refer to Chinook as “Kings” because they are the “King” of salmon. Read more about Chinook…. Coho. They are the most plentiful of the salmon species. Read more about Pink salmon…. Atlantic Salmon. Wild Atlantic salmon are on the east coast of North America, the Great Lakes as well as in Europe. Atlantic salmon are the most durable of the salmon species making them the prime salmon to put in “farms”.
This is wild salmon season: salmon are fished in Alaska and the Pacific coast from May to August. The season usually opens with King salmon (also known as Chinook). As the name implies, it is the largest of the pacific salmon species (typically 11-18 pounds) and has the highest oil and healthy omega-3 content. It is prized for its buttery flavor and texture. 
Salmon are native to tributaries of the North Atlantic (genus Salmo) and Pacific Ocean (genus Oncorhynchus). Many species of salmon have been introduced into non-native environments such as the Great Lakes of North America and Patagonia in South America. Salmon are intensively produced in aquaculture in many parts of the world. In the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, salmon are keystone species, supporting wildlife such as birds, bears and otters. The bodies of salmon represent a transfer of nutrients from the ocean, rich in nitrogen, sulfur, carbon and phosphorus, to the forest ecosystem.
1 Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) is also known in the USA as King or Blackmouth Salmon, and as Spring Salmon in British Columbia. 2  Chinook are the largest of all Pacific salmon, frequently exceeding 30 lb (14 kg). 3  The name Tyee means Chinook over 30 pounds in British Columbia. Confidence votes 115. There are, in part, seven different kinds of salmon. Salmon are a part of the family Salmonidae, and many of the fish of this family are known as 'trout', which branches your question out even further.
Salmon /ˈsaemən/ ˈsæmən is the common name for several species of fish in the Family. Salmonidae other fish in the same family include, trout, char grayling and. Whitefish salmon are native to tributaries of The North (atlantic Genus) salmo And Pacific (ocean Genus). oncorhynchus In the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, salmon are keystone species, supporting wildlife such as birds, bears and otters. The bodies of salmon represent a transfer of nutrients from the ocean, rich in nitrogen, sulfur, carbon and phosphorus, to the forest ecosystem.
Silver Salmon is found in the Ketchikan Alaska waters!Illustration by Timothy Knepp U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The Silver Salmon is the second largest of the types of salmon found in Alaskan waters. High quality Coho salmon are often frozen whole and sold as a delicacy in Europe. Restaurant owners like Silver or Coho Salmon because the fillets are the perfect size and it keeps its orange-red color. An Average Sockeye Salmon is about 6 pounds and can grow up to 3 feet long. More typical, however, is a fish measuring about 20 to 24 inches. Once a Sockeye Salmon is caught, you are in for a wild battle of wild leaps! Sockeye Salmon are the types of salmon prized by fly fishermen.
King (Chinook): These are the granddaddies of salmon and one of the most prized catches. The largest of the Pacific wild salmon, kings are valued for their rich flavor and firm texture as well as their massive size (they usually do not weight less than 30 pounds; the record weight is 97 pounds). 