Cost could be seen as an obstacle for patients considering Prolia as a treatment option. While generic Fosamax costs roughly $100 to $200 per year and brand-name bisphosphonates slightly less than $1,000 per year, Prolia will cost about $1,650 per year plus the cost associated with an office visit. Prolia is also more expensive than Reclast, which costs $1,100 for a yearly dose.
Healthcare providers involved in the fight against osteoporosis now have one more weapon in their arsenal, as the FDA recently approved the sale of Prolia (denosumab), a twice-yearly injection indicated for postmenopausal women.
Denosumab (Prolia®) is not a bisphosphonate but a monoclonal antibody which inhibits bone resorption by mechanisms different from those of bisphosphonates (see previous newsletter). The executive summary report addressed the issues of serum CTX tests and drug holidays.
Like the bisphosphonates, denosumab (trade names Prolia, Xgeva) also prevents osteoclasts from removing old, damaged or worn out bone. It just does so via a different action than the bisphosphonates — an action that may turn out to have even more harmful side-effects. Instead of poisoning already mature osteoclasts (which is what the bisphosphonates do), denosumab prevents the precursor cells for osteoclasts from ever developing into osteoclasts.
Pros: Prolia works equally well for all types of fractures, not just hip or vertebral. You’ll avoid the gastrointestinal issues common with bisphosphonates; and it’s taken just twice a year. Cons: It’s only advised for postmenopausal women with an increased risk of bone fracture.
Denosumab (Prolia) is a newer medication shown to reduce the risk of osteoporotic fracture in women and men. Unrelated to bisphosphonates, denosumab might be used in people who can't take a bisphosphonate, such as some people with reduced kidney function.
Like bisphosphonates, Prolia focuses on osteoclasts, cells that break down your bones, causing them to “shed” and lose density. But it does it in a different way: by targeting a protein called RANK ligand, which controls the activity of osteoclasts.
As expected from prior studies, denosumab did, however, cause a number of adverse effects in these men, including more hypocalcemia (1.7% versus 0.3% with placebo) as well as a 5% rate of osteonecrosis of the jaw, which didn’t occur at all in the control group.