The most powerful ELISA assay format is the sandwich assay. This type of capture assay is called a “sandwich” assay because the analyte to be measured is bound between two primary antibodies – the capture antibody and the detection antibody. The sandwich format is used because it is sensitive and robust. However an antigen is captured to the plate (by direct adsorption to the surface or through a pre-coated capture antibody, as in a sandwich ELISA), it is the detection step (as either direct or indirect detection) that largely determines the sensitivity of an ELISA.
1 A specific antibody is added, and binds to antigen (hence the 'sandwich': the Ag is stuck between two antibodies); 2  Apply enzyme-linked secondary antibodies as detection antibodies that also bind specifically to the antibody's Fc region (non-specific). Sandwich ELISA Protocol is shown in a different section. Sandwich ELISA is a common tool to diagnose Influenza, e.g. H5N1 (Avian Flu) Hemagglutinin ELISA kit. In addition, a description of the application of sandwich ELISA to home pregnancy test can be found here.
Sandwich ELISA Protocol. An Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay or Sandwich ELISA is a scientific technique used by researchers to detect the presence of an antibody or an antigen in a sample. An ELISA can also be used as a diagnostic tool in medicine. 
A sandwich ELISA measures the amount of antigen between two layers of antibodies (capture and detection antibody). The antigen to be measured must contain at least two antigenic sites capable of binding to antibody, since at least two antibodies act in the sandwich. 
RayBio® Sandwich ELISA kits. The RayBio® Sandwich ELISA kits utilize the sandwich-based principle of detection, with specific capture antibodies coated on a 96-well plate. Standards and samples are pipetted into the wells; the target protein in the standards and samples binds to the immobilized antibody
Sandwich ELISA, Highly Sensitive. Sandwich ELISA is a less common variant of ELISA, but is highly efficient in sample antigen detection. Moreover, many commercial ELISA pair sets are built on this sanwich ELISA. The sandwich ELISA quantify antigens between two layers of antibodies (i.e. capture and detection antibody). Sandwich ELISA Protocol is shown in a different section. Sandwich ELISA is a common tool to diagnose Influenza, e.g. H5N1 (Avian Flu) Hemagglutinin ELISA kit. In addition, a description of the application of sandwich ELISA to home pregnancy test can be found here.
The sample with an unknown amount of antigen is immobilized on a solid support (usually a polystyrene microtiter plate) either non-specifically (via adsorption to the surface) or specifically (via capture by another antibody specific to the same antigen, in a sandwich ELISA). This antibody is linked to an enzyme, and, in the final step, a substance containing the enzyme's substrate is added. The subsequent reaction produces a detectable signal, most commonly a color change in the substrate. Performing an ELISA involves at least one antibody with specificity for a particular antigen.
The sandwich ELISA measures the amount of antigen between two layers of antibodies. The antigens to be measured must contain at least two antigenic sites, capable of binding to antibody, since at least two antibodies act in the sandwich. 
Introduction. Sandwich ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) involves attachment of a capture antibody to a microplate. Then, samples containing unknown amount of the target protein or analyte of interest are added and bind to the capture antibody. The ELISA method is a benchmark for quantitation of antigens. ELISAs are adaptable to high-throughput screening because results are rapid, consistent and relatively easy to analyze. The best results have been obtained with the sandwich format, utilizing highly purified, pre-matched capture and detection antibodies.