1) Reduce the pressure of the refrigerant: The first and the foremost function of the thermostatic expansion valve is to reduce the pressure of the refrigerant from the condenser pressure to the evaporator pressure. In the condenser the refrigerant is at very high pressure. The thermostatic expansion valve has a constriction or orifice due to which the pressure of the refrigerant passing through it drops down suddenly to the level of the evaporator pressure. As it is obvious from the above discussion the advantages of the thermostatic expansion valve are: 1) The TEV maintains the flow of the refrigerant to the evaporator as per the load inside. Thus the refrigeration or the air conditioning plant can run to the optimum capacity as per the requirements.
One of the design features of the TXV is to separate the high pressure and low pressure sides of an air conditioning system. Liquid refrigerant enters the valve under high pressure via the system’s liquid line, but its pressure is reduced when the TXV limits the amount of this liquid refrigerant entering the evaporator. As the thermostatic expansion valve regulates the rate at which liquid refrigerant flows into the evaporator, it maintains a proper supply of refrigerant by matching this flow rate against how quickly the refrigerant evaporates (boils off) in the evaporator coil.
The thermostatic expansion valve (TXV) is a precision device, which is designed to regulate the rate at which liquid refrigerant flows into the evaporator. As the thermostatic expansion valve regulates the rate at which liquid refrigerant flows into the evaporator, it maintains a proper supply of refrigerant by matching this flow rate against how quickly the refrigerant evaporates (boils off) in the evaporator coil.
In order to reduce the temperature of the liquid to the saturation temperature of the evaporator, some of the liquid must turn into a vapor in the capillary tube, “flash”, just as it does with all refrigerant controls. *Notes: All air conditioner expansion valve works in similar fashion. The expansion device is the fourth major component in air conditioner units. It’s also known as meter devices. Air conditioner expansion valve is the divided point between the low side and the high side of the air conditioner units. Another dividing point is air conditioner compressors.
Flow control, or metering, of the refrigerant is accomplished by use of a temperature sensing bulb, filled with a similar gas as in the system, that causes the valve to open against the spring pressure in the valve body as the temperature on the bulb increases. The condenser converts the high-pressure and-temperature gas to a high-pressure liquid by transferring heat to a lower temperature medium, usually ambient air. The high pressure liquid then enters the expansion valve where the TX valve allows a portion of the refrigerant to enter the evaporator.
The expansion valve removes pressure from the liquid refrigerant to allow expansion or change of state from a liquid to a vapor in the evaporator. The high-pressure liquid refrigerant entering the expansion valve is quite warm. This may be verified by feeling the liquid line at its connection to the expansion valve. The liquid refrigerant leaving the expansion valve is quite cold. The orifice within the valve does not remove heat, but only reduces pres­sure. Heat molecules contained in the liquid refrigerant are thus allowed to spread as the refrigerant moves out of the orifice.
A thermal expansion valve (often abbreviated as TEV, TXV, or TX valve) is a component in refrigeration and air conditioning systems that controls the amount of refrigerant flow into the evaporator thereby controlling the superheating at the outlet of the evaporator. The condenser converts the high-pressure and-temperature gas to a high-pressure liquid by transferring heat to a lower temperature medium, usually ambient air. The high pressure liquid then enters the expansion valve where the TX valve allows a portion of the refrigerant to enter
Thermostatic Expansion Valve Capacity. The capacity of a TXV differs due to orifice size, pressure difference between high and low side, and the temperature and condition of the refrigerant in the liquid line. The amount of liquid that will flash to a vapor will increase with a rise in liquid line temperature. The three forces which control the operation of the thermal expansion valve are: P1 – The vapor pressure of the thermostatic element (a reaction to the bulb temperature) which acts to open the valve. P2 – The evaporator pressure which acts in a closing direction below the diaphragm.
Thermostatic Expansion Valve. The thermal expansion valve (TEV or TXV), as shown in picture below, it’s used for refrigerant flow control and operates at varying pressures resulting from varying temperatures. This valve maintains constant superheat in the ac evaporator. The three forces which control the operation of the thermal expansion valve are: P1 – The vapor pressure of the thermostatic element (a reaction to the bulb temperature) which acts to open the valve. P2 – The evaporator pressure which acts in a closing direction below the diaphragm.