1 On average, the cost of a sewer camera inspection can cost anywhere from $150 to $500. 2  There are various plumbing companies that provide sewer camera inspections. 3  Depending on the company, the price can be different. 1 Miracle Rooter is another company that specializes in sewer camera inspections as well as other services that involve plumbing systems. 2  The company is located in the Los Angeles area and they provide the service for anywhere from $200 to $500 depending on the length of the piping system installed in the house.
1 Video sewer inspections are not typically included in a standard home inspection, and are usually ordered separately, if needed. 2  Many experts recommend doing a video sewer inspection on a house built more than 25 years ago. Shopping for a sewer inspection: 1  Some consumers complain that companies offering low-cost sewer inspections may charge relatively high rates for needed repairs discovered during the video process. 2  Before hiring a company to just do a video inspection, ask about its fees for standard repairs.
1 Some consumers complain that companies offering low-cost sewer inspections may charge relatively high rates for needed repairs discovered during the video process. 2  Before hiring a company to just do a video inspection, ask about its fees for standard repairs. Shopping for a sewer inspection: 1 
A sewer inspection in the greater Los Angeles area typically cost anywhere from $275-$475 for homes ranging in size from a couple hundred square feet to several thousand square feet. 
1 A residential video sewer inspection can cost $100-$800, but averages about $250-$500, depending on the length of the pipes, local rates, if the inspection is being done in conjunction with other work or as a separate job, and whether the images are just sent to a monitor or are recorded for later viewing. Shopping for a sewer inspection: 1  Some consumers complain that companies offering low-cost sewer inspections may charge relatively high rates for needed repairs discovered during the video process. 2  Before hiring a company to just do a video inspection, ask about its fees for standard repairs.
Pipe Spy charges $150 for residential video inspections, and most inspections are completed within one hour (sewer line inspection cost varies if more time is required). There are times a camera inspection may cost more. If there is no accessible clean out, we may need to remove a toilet, complete the camera inspection, and reinstall the toilet, and for that we charge another $150. Please call us if you have any questions about sewer video inspection
Typically, though, most homeowners call in a sewer line video inspection only if there is a problem, such as a blockage that cannot be fixed by plunging, liquid drain cleaners, or sewer or drain augering. By contrast, sewer video scopes and locator units owned by plumbing companies can cost upwards of $15,000. 
1 Many companies first do a video camera inspection of the pipes at a cost of $100-$800 but with an average price of $250-$550, depending on local rates and the total length of the pipes; often this amount will be deducted from the final bill if the same contractor replaces the sewer line. 1 Smaller projects generally cost more per foot. 2  To replace sewer lines less than 50' long, CostHelper readers paid $5,500-$6,800 or $148-$550 per foot for traditional trenching projects, at an average cost of $6,167 or $232 per foot.
1 Camera inspections for larger commercial buildings can cost upwards of $2,000. 2  These type of inspections are usually charged based on how many pipes are running through a home or building. 3  For example, The Plumbing Doc, which is located in Bakersfield, California, offers sewer camera inspection services. 1 Miracle Rooter is another company that specializes in sewer camera inspections as well as other services that involve plumbing systems. 2  The company is located in the Los Angeles area and they provide the service for anywhere from $200 to $500 depending on the length of the piping system installed in the house.