View More. Definition: Sibilance is a sound characterized by pronouncing words with the letter 's'. In audio reproduction the letter 's' should sound clear and distinct, not smeared or distorted as in 'sh'. The letter 's' should sound like a hissing sound. 
In this extract, the repetition of “s” sound (sibilance) is used throughout the poem. It emphasizes the atmosphere of dirty lives. And continuous use of the “s” sound gives the example of onomatopoeia such as “scraping” sounds of leaves. Definition of Sibilance. Sibilance is a literary device where strongly stressed consonants are created deliberately by producing air from vocal tracts through the use of lips and tongue. Such consonants produce hissing sounds. However, in poetry, it is used as a stylistic device and sibilants are used more than twice in quick succession
De-essing is any technique intended to reduce or eliminate the excessive prominence of sibilant consonants, such as s, z and sh, in recordings of the human voice. Sibilance lies in frequencies anywhere between 2–10 kHz, depending on the individual voice. De-essing is a dynamic process, only working when the level of the signal in the sibilant range exceeds a set threshold. It differs from equalization, which is a static change in level, but can also be used to reduce the level of sibilant frequencies.
Sibilance is a manner of articulation of fricative and affricate consonants, made by directing a stream of air with the tongue towards the sharp edge of the teeth, which are held close together; a consonant that uses sibilance may be called a sibilant, or a strident. Stridency refers to the perceptual intensity of the sound of a sibilant consonant, or obstacle fricatives/affricates, which refers to the critical role of the teeth in producing the sound as an obstacle to the airstream.
Like +1 Tweet. Sibilance refers to the high frequency components of certain vocal sounds, especially “s” and “sh”. Sibilance lives in the 5 to 10 kHz frequency range, and can cause problems if over-emphasized in a recording. While it is possible to use a graphic or parametric EQ to correct for sibilance, this is often an unsatisfactory approach. Often the overall track will begin to sound dull before the sibilance is corrected.
Sibilance. Sibilance is a more specific type of. that relies on the repetition of soft consonant sounds in words to create a wooshing or hissing sound in the writing. Examples of Sibilance: Sally sells seashells by the seashore. (repetition of the s). Sing a song of sixpence. 
adjective. The definition of sibilance is when something has an s or sh sound. An example of sibilance is the hissing of a snake. Noun. (plural sibilances)
Alliteration is produced by the repetition of first consonant sounds in the words, generally the first one or two letters such as in “A b ig b ully b eats a b aby b oy.” However, sibilance is also a specific type of alliteration that uses the soft consonants. In sibilance, the sibilant or hissing sounds are created. Definition of Sibilance. Sibilance is a literary device where strongly stressed consonants are created deliberately by producing air from vocal tracts through the use of lips and tongue. Such consonants produce hissing sounds. However, in poetry, it is used as a stylistic device and sibilants are used more than twice in quick succession