Having seniority may help you get promoted to assistant superintendent of the course. To become a course superintendent, it helps to have an associate's or bachelor's degree in agronomy or a related field. Once you are a superintendent, becoming a Certified Golf Course Superintendent (CGCS) may be a valuable credential. 
If you want to become a school principal, vice principal, department administrator or district superintendent, a master's degree program in school administration can help get you there. Typically about two years in length, these programs prepare you to meet state certification requirements for school administrators. You might also gain an understanding of a principal's relationship with the school's community and learn how to supervise a staff. Financial concerns and budgeting are commonly discussed. Hands-on learning is often an important component of a principal or school administrator master's degree program.
How to Become a School Superintendent. All school districts require highly trained leaders for the effective and efficient operation of all educational institutions. School superintendents are executive administrators that are responsible for the overall functions of a specific school district. The employment of school superintendents is expected to experience little to no change through 2018 (1). The school superintendent job outlook is expected to be fair, with strong competition due to the prestige and high salaries associated with this position.
Education. A master's degree is often the minimum formal education requirement for a school superintendent. The degree does not have to be in a particular subject matter, as long as it is from an accredited school. Some superintendents posses a doctorate level degree, such as doctor of education. Two to five years of experience in school administration is a common job requirement for a superintendent. A board of education views principal or assistant principal experience as highly desirable.
The top 10% earned an average school superintendent salary of more than $193,983. A career as a school superintendent is an excellent choice for individuals with extensive experience in education and the desire to perform a variety of tasks to ensure excellent education and overall productivity of a school district. The employment of school superintendents is expected to experience little to no change through 2018 (1). The school superintendent job outlook is expected to be fair, with strong competition due to the prestige and high salaries associated with this position.
In order to become a school superintendent, someone must typically receive at least a master's degree in school administration or education, and gain several years of experience as a teacher, principal, or another type of administrator. A person who decides to become a school superintendent usually has a sincere concern for the education of future generations. A number of other personal beliefs and qualities are also important in becoming an effective
A master's degree program in school administration teaches you the skills and knowledge necessary to become a principal, administrator or superintendent. Continue reading to learn what to expect from your degree program, what classes you may take and what the career outlook for these positions is. You might also gain an understanding of a principal's relationship with the school's community and learn how to supervise a staff. Financial concerns and budgeting are commonly discussed. Hands-on learning is often an important component of a principal or school administrator master's degree program.
Job Requirements. School superintendents hold an advanced degree from an accredited college or university. Most candidates possess a bachelor's degree in education and a master's degree in school administration. Some school districts require candidates to possess a doctoral degree. 
You could be a school district superintendent. A new law drops the requirement that prospective school chiefs have any experience in a classroom. There is no longer a need to be a teacher or principal or to have an education-related degree. 
Educational Requirements. The first step towards becoming a school superintendent in most states is to acquire some type of education degree. Most often this must be a master’s in education. It is also possible to qualify with a master’s in school administration in some areas. Some school districts will consider promoting a superintendent who only holds a bachelor in education as long as the individual has sufficient teaching experience and a master’s degree in a business or an administrative major.