Waterborne Diseases. Waterborne diseases are caused by drinking contaminated or dirty water. Contaminated water can cause many types of diarrheal diseases, including Cholera, and other serious illnesses such as Guinea worm disease, Typhoid, and Dysentery. Water related diseases cause 3.4 million deaths each yea
7. Malaria is a disease caused by parasites, which are spread by female mosquitos called Anopheles. Mosquitos breed in water, and when they bite a person infected with malaria, they can spread the infection to other people. Symptoms of malaria include fever, headache and shivering. Diseases Caused By Water Pollution. Water is essential to human life. Your body needs water for hydration and to facilitate various functions of the body such as digestion, metabolism, and elimination of waste. However, one of the biggest problems of mankind today is the poor quality of water in many parts of the world.
Waterborne diseases. General Information. Water-borne diseases are any illness caused by drinking water contaminated by human or animal faeces, which contain pathogenic microorganisms. The full picture of water-associated diseases is complex for a number of reason
6. Hepatitis A. It is an infectious disease of the liver caused by hepatitis A virus(HAV) usually spread by fecal-oral route, person-to-person by ingestion of contaminated food or water or through direct contact with infectious person. Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacteria ‘vibrio chlorae’. Its symptoms are diarrhea and vomiting. It is caused by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by feces, i.e waste products of an infected person.
We call these illnesses waterborne diseases because people get them from contaminated (unsafe) water. The water can also be harmful to animals. It may cause minor or serious illness, or even death. Contaminated water can lead to disease outbreaks in a local area, country, or across the world. 
Bacteria called ‘vibrio chlorae’ cause a small intestinal disease known as cholera. Symptoms of cholera include diarrhea and vomiting, as well as abdominal cramps and headache. You acquire these bacteria when you drink water or eat food contaminated by waste products (feces) from an infected person. Diseases Caused By Water Pollution. Water is essential to human life. Your body needs water for hydration and to facilitate various functions of the body such as digestion, metabolism, and elimination of waste. However, one of the biggest problems of mankind today is the poor quality of water in many parts of the world.
Waterborne diseases can be spread via groundwater which is contaminated with fecal pathogens from pit latrines. Waterborne diseases are caused by pathogenic microorganisms that most commonly are transmitted in contaminated fresh water. Microorganisms causing diseases that characteristically are waterborne prominently include protozoa and bacteria, many of which are intestinal parasites, or invade the tissues or circulatory system through walls of the digestive tract. Various other waterborne diseases are caused by viruses.
Diseases Caused by Water Pollution. There are a wide variety of diseases caused by water pollution, with their severity ranging from a minor inconvenience to life threatening. These diseases are the result of pollution and can be grouped into two main categories, chemicals and living organisms. These usually originate from contamination by animal feces and include typhoid, glardiasis, and hookworm. There are also many diseases caused by polluted beach water, the most serious of which is Hepatitis A. This is an extremely serious illness that affects approximately 3,600 people each year.
Waterborne diseases are caused by a variety of microorganisms, biotoxins, and toxic contaminants, which lead to devastating illnesses such as cholera, schistosomiasis and other gastrointestinal problems. 