Comments and insights on the name Jolene: | Edit. Jolene is a lovely name, but prospective parents should be aware it is also a brand of cream bleach for facial hair. The facial hair bleach is called Jolen. Not Jolene. Jolene is a feminine given name. It is derived the Middle English name for Joseph. As a descendant from Joseph, it keeps its original Hebrew language meaning of He God will increase.God shall add and she who shall increase. Sometimes referred to as Jolie, meaning beautiful in French
[ 3 syll. jo-le-ne, jol-ene ] The baby girl name Jolene is pronounced JHowL IY IY N †. Jolene's language of origin is English and Hebrew. It is predominantly used in the English language. The name is a recent coinage from the combination of the first element Jo with '-lene', which could have been derived from another name with such an ending, such as Marlene. The name was popularized by the 1974 hit single 'Jolene', sung by Dolly Parton.
Jolene is also a variant of Josephine (English, French, and German). Jolene has 26 variants that are used in English and foreign languages. Variants of the name used in English include Jolaine, Jolane, Jolanne, Jolayne, Jole, Joleene, Jolena, Jolenna, Jolina, Jollene, Jolyane, Jolyn, Jolyna, Jolyne, and Jolynn. It is predominantly used in the English language. The name is a recent coinage from the combination of the first element Jo with '-lene', which could have been derived from another name with such an ending, such as Marlene. The name was popularized by the 1974 hit single 'Jolene', sung by Dolly Parton.
Jolene is a feminine given name. It is derived the Middle English name for Joseph. As a descendant from Joseph, it keeps its original Hebrew language meaning of He [God] will increase. Sometimes referred to as Jolie, meaning beautiful in French. 
Meanings and history of the name Jolene: | Edit. Jolene Call Clayton, B. 1930,Preston,Idaho; named by father Joseph Grant Call combining his name Jo with maternal aunt Valene lene Rowberry Hansen. Jolene is a lovely name, but prospective parents should be aware it is also a brand of cream bleach for facial hair. The facial hair bleach is called Jolen. Not Jolene. Jolene is a feminine given name. It is derived the Middle English name for Joseph.
English Meaning: The name Jolene is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jolene is: Compound of Jo and the feminine name element-ene. American Meaning: The name Jolene is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jolene is: Compound of Jo and the feminine name element-ene.
Jolene is a form of the name Joseph. Joseph is an English form of the Hebrew name Yoseph. In the Old Testament, Joseph was the name borne by the 11th son of Jacob's 12 sons. He was Jacob's favorite child because he was Rachel's child and because he was kind, thoughtful and good.
Jolene  is a song written and performed by American country music artist Dolly Parton. It was released in October 1973 as the first single and title track from her album of the same name, produced by Bob Ferguson. 
Jolene /jo-lene/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced joh-LEEN. Modern name. A feminine variant of Joseph or a blend using Jo as a prefix with the suffix-lene from names such as Marlene. The name was made famous by a hit song of the same name, recorded by Dolly Parton in 1979. Kreatif forms: Jalene, Joleno, Julene. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Jolene for girls. Jolene entered the list in 1930-1939 and reached its peak rank of #356 in the U.S. during the years 1970-1979, and is presently at #720. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Jolene and associated names. Prominent variation forms of Jolene (#720 the previous year) are Marley (#202 the previous year) , Marlee (#470) , Marlene, Joetta, Marlie, Marlyn, Marlena, Marlen, Joline, Joseph, Marla and Jo