Medical Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP—called also adenosine triphosphate. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids.
ATP synthase (EC 3.6.3.14) is an important enzyme that provides energy for the cell to use through the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the most commonly used energy currency of cells from most organisms. It is formed from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P i), and needs energy. 
Best Answer: ATP = Adenosine triphosphate It is made up of adenine (a nitrogen base found also in DNA and RNA), ribose sugar, and three phosphate groups. The phosphate groups are easy to remember because of the triphosphate in the name of ATP (tri = three, phosphate = phosphate). The energy that ATP holds is stored between the second and third phosphate groups.
ATP stands for Adenosine Triphosphate. The ATP molecule is composed of 3 components. At the centre is a sugar molecule, ribose (the same sugar that forms the basis of RNA). Attached to one side of this is a base (a group consisting of linked rings of carbon and nitrogen atoms); in this case the base is adenine. The phosphate groups are easy to remember because of the triphosphate in the name of ATP (tri = three, phosphate = phosphate). The energy that ATP holds is stored between the second and third phosphate groups.
An ATP molecule is an adenosine-derived nucleotide, C10H16N5O13P3, that contains high-energy phosphate bonds and is used to transport energy to cells for b … iochemical processes, including muscle contraction and enzymatic metabolism, through its hydrolysis to ADP. ATP stands for Adenosine TriPhosphate. It comprises of a nitrogenous base (adenine), a sugar (ribose) and three phosphate groups. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
Its Structure. The ATP molecule is composed of three components. At the centre is a sugar molecule, ribose (the same sugar that forms the basis of RNA). Attached to one side of this is a base (a group consisting of linked rings of carbon and nitrogen atoms); in this case the base is adenine.
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP.
Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP.