1 Figure that your average background check will be completed in 2 to 4 days. 2  Don’t take shortcuts in the screening process. 3  If it sound too good to be true (i.e. instant background checks or guarantees on exactly how long a search will take), it most definitely is. Here’s a breakdown of the various research options and how long they take to complete: 1  In-County Court Research-When physical research of court records is necessary, the average turnaround time is anywhere from 30-36 hours.
I am sure I passed it as I have no crime etc and the job does not have a thorough long background check like a bank or government job and it is not a very high up job, but I wanna make sure. The background check probably consists of crime check, employer references, drug test, education check (I doubt credit check). 
1 Build time into your hiring process to conduct a thorough criminal background check. 2  Figure that your average background check will be completed in 2 to 4 days. 3  Don’t take shortcuts in the screening process. Here’s a breakdown of the various research options and how long they take to complete: 1  In-County Court Research-When physical research of court records is necessary, the average turnaround time is anywhere from 30-36 hours.
Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate. Speeding Up Check. The best way to speed up the process of background checking is to provide the agency with all of the required information and documentation, and to make sure the information is complete. For example, that addresses are given for all former employers and references.
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order. Patience when doing employment background checks can significantly reduce the risk of a bad hire! The idea of an instant background check sounds great. However, a quality background takes some effort and time. It takes time to identify, locate, and contact the correct court, employer, school, or licensing agency.
If a criminal background check process includes an FBI background check, then you may add 30 days to the whole process as well. As all details are gathered from a variety of sources and synchronized at one place in the end, one must remain prepared for the number of days it may take. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days.
As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details
Background checks typically take 2-3 days to process and to receive back from the outside contracted agency. A few exceptions may take up to 2 weeks. Rarely, a background check may take longer, 3 to 4 weeks. Please allow additional processing time for each background check in the event of a delay. A delay can occur for any of the following reasons:
How long does it take to do a background check. The time it takes to complete background checks is dependent on a lot of factors and usually varies from one company to another. For most positions, the norm seems to be around 24 to 36 hours. How Long Do Background Checks Take. Any candidate employee worth his salt would know that passing a pre-employment background check is the make-or-break deal when it comes to getting a job.
Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. The typical time frame for a criminal background check is 48 to 72 hours. However, the breadth of the search, including the number of states and countries a candidate has resided in, impact the timing. Alerting candidates to potential delays after interviews is good human resources practice. However, the timeline to complete state checks can vary. In rare cases, it can take up to three or four weeks for a completed background check, according to The University of Mississippi Department of Human Resources.