An Arc Fault Circuit Interrupter (AFCI) is a type of duplex receptacle or circuit breaker that breaks the circuit when it detects a dangerous electrical arc, in order to prevent electrical fires. An AFCI does not detect high line voltage due to an open neutral in a multiwire branch circuit. A multiwire branch circuit has both energized wires of a 120-240V split phase service. If the neutral is broken, devices connected from a 120 V leg to the neutral may experience excess voltage, up to twice normal.
AFCI breakers will not interfere with the operation of ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) outlets, so it’s safe to install AFCIs on circuits that include GFCI outlets. This project guide will show you step-by-step how to replace a standard circuit breaker with an AFCI breaker. The 2008 National Electrical Code (NEC) requires an AFCI breaker in new construction for any circuit that has an outlet or fixture in a family room, dining room, living room, parlor, library, den, bedroom, sunroom, recreation room, closet, hallway or other living area.
AFCI and GFCI Protection. An AFCI can be used in conjunction with GFCI protection to provide both arcing fault protection as well as 5mA ground fault (people) protection. A common way to provide both types of protection is to use an AFCI circuit breaker and a GFCI receptacle. When arcing occurs, the AFCI analyzes the characteristics of the event and determines if it is a hazardous event. AFCI manufacturers test for the hundreds of possible operating conditions and then program their devices to monitor constantly for the normal and dangerous arcing conditions.
AFCI Circuit Breaker Troubleshooting. An arc-fault circuit interrupter (AFCI) is a circuit breaker* located in your electrical panel that serves the functions of a normal breaker but also senses hazardous arcing on its circuit and will trip off for this. It can be identified by the special colored test-button near its handle. 
Choose a method of providing protection. AFCI protection is provided by either an AFCI circuit breaker installed at the electrical panel, or by a receptacle specifically identified as providing arc fault protection. Both the circuit breaker and receptacle are installed similar to the GFCI circuit breakers and receptacles that are present in many homes already. In this case, install an AFCI circuit breaker and a GFCI receptacle. The pipe, armored cable, metal box, etc. limitations on AFCI receptacles are not applicable to GFCI receptacles. Some manufacturers offer circuit breakers that provide both AFCI and GFCI protection in a single package.
(Q&A). Arc Fault Circuit Interrupters (AFCIs) are required by the National Electrical Code for certain electrical circuits in the home. Below are some frequently asked questions about AFCIs and the benefits of installing them in your home. When arcing occurs, the AFCI analyzes the characteristics of the event and determines if it is a hazardous event. AFCI manufacturers test for the hundreds of possible operating conditions and then program their devices to monitor constantly for the normal and dangerous arcing conditions.
Abstract. The primary goal of this web site is to describe what a Combination AFCI circuit breaker can do, while also clarifying what it can’t do. The features of the Combination AFCI, and the earlier Branch/feeder AFCI, are explained. The site’s IEEE paper explains that neither provides series arc protection. 
An AFCI is a product that is designed to detect a wide range of arcing electrical faults to help reduce the electrical system from being an ignition source of a fire. Conventional overcurrent protective devices do not detect low level hazardous arcing currents that have the potential to initiate electrical fires. When arcing occurs, the AFCI analyzes the characteristics of the event and determines if it is a hazardous event. AFCI manufacturers test for the hundreds of possible operating conditions and then program their devices to monitor constantly for the normal and dangerous arcing conditions.
Enlarge. The Dual Function Circuit Breaker combines GFCI and AFCI, protecting against both Arc Faults and Ground Faults. This, along with the new Self-Test & Lockout feature, makes it the first in class in electrical safety for homeowners. The 2014 National Electrical Code (NEC®) now requires both Arc Fault and Ground Fault protection on kitchen and laundry circuits. Before the release of Dual Function Circuit Breakers, the only option to comply with this code was to pair an AFCI circuit breaker with a GFCI receptacle.