The Federal Republic of Germany, also called Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland or just Deutschland), is a country in Central Europe. 
Currency in Germany: The Euro. Germany's currency is the Euro (currency symbol: €), which replaced the traditional Deutsche Mark (also known as Deutschmark or DM) in 2002. The Euro is the only generally accepted currency in Germany. Knut pictures. Germany's currency is the Euro (currency symbol: €), which replaced the traditional Deutsche Mark (also known as Deutschmark or DM) in 2002.
Money. Money & Costs -- The euro (€) is the single European currency of Germany and other participating countries. Exchange rates of participating countries are locked into a common currency fluctuating against the dollar. The major cities of Germany are some of the world's most expensive
The German currency is the Euro. Actually, the Euro is not German money, but it is the currency we use in this country. The Euro replaced the German Mark and it is the official currency of the European Union. Nineteen states in Europe currently use
[ˈdɔʏtʃə ˈmaɐ̯k] , German mark, abbreviated DM) was the official currency of West Germany (1948–1990) and unified Germany (1990–2002) until the adoption of the euro in 2002. It is commonly called the  Deutschmark  in English but not in German. Germans often say Mark (help·info) or D-Mark (help·info) . 
German Currency in World War 2   The currency was the Reichsmark (RM), which had replaced the inflationary currecny of 1919-23. In the later stages of World War 2 and the … first few months after the war, the Reichsmark lost about 80-85% of its value. As a result many people lost most of their savings a second time. The Euro. Since late March 2002 the Euro has been the only legal tender currency in Germany(€) . (The Deutsche Mark is no longer legal tender).
· just now. Report Abuse. Germany is administered to the European Union(EU), and like all members are pressured to use the united economic currency of European nations called the Euro. The German Euro is fancy in design and has a German Eagle on it. The Euro is worth more then any other currency. stayfly_14 · 8 years ago.
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code. This website shall not be liable for any losses or damages incurred in connection with this site. SHARE | BOOKMARK.