Arthritis is an inflammation of the joints. Photo Credit phototake/iStock/Getty Images. The pain experienced by people with arthritis is due to inflammation of the joints. Certain foods can help limit inflammation in the body, potentially reducing the pain and suffering caused by arthritis. Fish oil. Photo Credit Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Include some healthy fats in each meal. Omega-3 fats, found in flax seed, walnuts, fatty fish and fish oil supplements, can help decrease rheumatoid arthritis symptoms, according to a study published in Seminars in Arthritis and Rheumatism in October 2005.
While eating certain foods cannot cure arthritis, many nutrients in foods can have a beneficial effect on the pain associated with arthritis. Many of the nutrients that are found naturally in food can help to decrease the inflammation and pain associated with arthritis. 
Overall, you should aim for a diet that’s high in fruits, vegetables, fish, nuts, legumes, and olive oil. Limit or avoid red meat, dairy, saturated fats, and sugar to help prevent arthritis and manage arthritis-related inflammation and pain. Advertisement. Previous Next. Rheumatoid arthritis is another form of arthritis that attacks the synovial lining of joints, causing pain, stiffness, swelling, and loss of function. A growing body of research suggests that dietary changes may help alleviate the chronic pain associated with this condition.
In the 1990s, a combination vegetarian/vegan diet for arthritis was the focus of a small study of 53 RA patients. The participants started with a vegan diet that excluded gluten, refined sugar, citrus, meat, fish, eggs, dairy, alcohol, coffee, tea, salt, strong spices and preservatives. Eating healthy foods is important for everyone. When you have arthritis or a related condition, getting the right nutrients can help to alleviate pain and inflammation and positively affect overall health.
Osteoarthritis damages cartilage, joints, and bones. It’s the most common type of arthritis, affecting more than 27 million Americans according to the CDC. Rheumatoid arthritis is another form of arthritis that attacks the synovial lining of joints, causing pain, stiffness, swelling, and loss of function. A growing body of research suggests that dietary changes may help alleviate the chronic pain associated with this condition.
Go Mediterranean. People with RA have immune systems that harm the lining of their joints. This damage causes chronic inflammation, stiffness, and pain. Research shows the Mediterranean diet's tasty fare -- like olive oil, fish, greens, and other vegetables -- can lower inflammation, which is good for your whole body. Favor Fish. Some fats -- especially omega-3 fatty acids -- lower inflammation. They also cut down on “bad” (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides when you use them instead of saturated fats and trans fats. High levels of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides (fats in the blood) put you at risk for heart disease.
Here are 7 arthritis foods to stock up on... Good food #1: Fatty fish (salmon, herring, sardines) or any other food with omega-3 fatty acids, such as walnuts, soy beans, flax seeds, canola oil and pumpkin seeds. Why it's a good arthritis food: Vitamin C protects collagen, a major component of cartilage, which cushions the joints as they move. Inadequate amounts may increase your risk for some kinds of arthritis.
There is some inflammation associated with osteoarthritis -- though not as much as with some other forms of arthritis. But a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is good for your health in so many ways. 3. Add Omega-3 Fatty Acids. Omega-3 fatty acids may help relieve joint pain and decrease morning stiffness. 
Unfortunately, the link between food and pain is not as clear. However, inflammation is a key cause of pain in many conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis. And there is some evidence to suggest that certain foods might help ease inflammation. Medication is proven to help RA symptoms, but some people do feel that food affects how they feel and function.