Sargassum seaweed is a brown, free floating alga that originates in the Sargasso Sea, located in the North Atlantic Ocean, as well as the Northern Gulf of Mexico. It is produced in large amounts, with mats in those areas being as large as two miles square. With the knowledge that Sargassum seaweed can be put to good use, Barbadians seemed less apprehensive about it. Nevertheless, as the deputy, director of the CZMU, Dr. Lorna Inniss, stressed: we need all hands on deck if we are to rid the beaches of this threat.
Seaweed uses and utilization. Seaweeds are used in many maritime countries as a source of food, for industrial applications and as a fertiliser. The major utilisation of these plants as food is in Asia, particularly Japan, Korea and China, where seaweed cultivation has become a major industry. The present uses of seaweeds at present are as human foods, cosmetics, fertilisers, and for the extraction of industrial gums and chemicals. They have the potential to be used as a source of long-and short-chain chemicals with medicinal and industrial uses.
Human uses: Sargassum seaweeds are eaten by people, and used fish bait in basket traps, animal feed, fertiliser, insect repellent. Various species are used as medicine for ailments ranging from children's fever, cholesterol problems, cleansing the blood, skin ailments. In the tropics, sargassum seaweeds are a significant source of alginates. They are also used as a component in animal feed and liquid plant food or plant biostimulants
The Sargasso Sea, located entirely within the Atlantic Ocean, is the only sea without a land boundary. Mats of free-floating sargassum, a common seaweed found in the Sargasso Sea, provide shelter and habitat to many animals. Image credit: University of Southern Mississippi Gulf Coast Research Laboratory.
Sargassum is a genus of large brown seaweed (a type of algae) that floats in island-like masses. Pelagic brown algae in the genus Sargassum. The berry-like structures are gas-filled bladders known as pneumatocysts, which provide buoyancy to the plant. Image courtesy of H. Scott Meister, SCDNR. When Sargassum loses its buoyancy, it sinks to the seafloor, providing energy in the form of carbon to fishes and invertebrates in the deep sea. Sargassum may also provide an important addition to the food sources available
Sargassum also provides essential habitat for marine species,such as shrimp, crab, and fish, that have adapted specifically to this floating algae. The Sargasso Sea is a spawning site for threatened and endangered eels, as well as white marlin, porbeagle shark, and dolphinfish. Mats of free-floating sargassum, a common seaweed found in the Sargasso Sea, provide shelter and habitat to many animals. Image credit: University of Southern Mississippi Gulf Coast Research Laboratory.
Sargassum is also eaten by itself or added to fish and meat dishes. If not strong it can be added to salads after washing, or it can be cooked in water like a vegetable. If the Sargassum is strong flavored it can be boiled in two changes of water. Sun dried leaves can be eaten like chips, or they can be fried and sprinkled with salt. Species found in Florida include: S. natans, S. fluitans, S. filipendula and S. pteropleuron. Those eaten elsewhere in the world include: S. aquifolium, S. fusiformis, S. granuliferum, S. mutica, S. polycyctum, and S. siliquosum.
Based on analysis done by the Ministry of Agriculture, Sargassum seaweed has a nutrient content of around 1-1.5% nitrogen, 0.5 - 1.5% phosphorous, and 1-2% potassium. With the knowledge that Sargassum seaweed can be put to good use, Barbadians seemed less apprehensive about it. Nevertheless, as the deputy, director of the CZMU, Dr. Lorna Inniss, stressed: we need all hands on deck if we are to rid the beaches of this threat.
Seaweed refers to several species of macroscopic, multicellular, marine algae that live near the seabed (benthic). The term includes some members of the red, brown, and green algae. Seaweeds can also be classified by use (as food, medicine, fertilizer, filtration, industrial, etc.). The study of seaweed is known as phycology
A second way of cooking Sargassum, such as S. fusiformis, is fry it quickly then simmer it in water with soy sauce and other ingredients for 30 minutes to two hours or more, depending upon the dish. Other areas of the world mix their Sargassum with oil, salt and green onions and using as filling in dumplings. Sun dried leaves can be eaten like chips, or they can be fried and sprinkled with salt. Species found in Florida include: S. natans, S. fluitans, S. filipendula and S. pteropleuron. Those eaten elsewhere in the world include: S. aquifolium, S. fusiformis, S. granuliferum, S. mutica, S. polycyctum, and S. siliquosum.