Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate.
A: Cost varies according to depth and quality of the check. Basic background checks typically cost from $50 to $150 (based on the number of searches requested). More careful, comprehensive background checks can cost from $200 to $500.
1 69% - How long does it take a background check to come back for food 4 less? 2  54% - How long does it take for an finger printed to come back with the background check for an job for the irs?
Common reasons for delay. According to A Matter of Fact, the most common reason for delay in completing background checks is when employers do not fill out background check request forms accurately and completely, and when they fail to get the authorization and release forms signed by the job applicant.
Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors.
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order.
Online Services. How long background checks take depends on the type of information you need. Some information can be delivered instantly, while other checks can take up to four days to process. Below is a list of the different places you can gather background check information and how long each takes.
As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details.