An ethnic group or ethnicity is a socially defined category of people who identify with each other based on common ancestral, social, cultural or national experience. The distinction between race and ethnicity is considered highly problematic. Ethnicity is often assumed to be the cultural identity of a group, often based on language and tradition, while race is assumed to be a biological classification, based on DNA and bone structure.
: of or relating to races or large groups of people who have the same customs, religion, origin, etc. : associated with or belonging to a particular race or group of people who have a culture that is different from the main culture of a country. 
White, black, asian, etc. are considered races of people. Ethnicity is a more specific term having to do with the person's cultural/tribal group, such as French, German, Chinese, etc. There can also be ethnic subgroups. For example, Bavarians could be considered an ethnic group within the German ethnicity. The origin of race is a term that is related to different animals, such as the Human race, or a race of dogs, or cats. It is specifically related to the fundamental differences between different species. Ethnicity, or ethnic background, on the other hand is determined by the different Ideals, nationalities, and in some cases is determined by the color of skin in the region
White, black, asian, etc. are considered races of people. Ethnicity is a more specific term having to do with the person's cultural/tribal group, such as French, German, Chinese, etc. There can also be ethnic subgroups. For example, Bavarians could be considered an ethnic group within the German ethnicity.
Ethnicity is state of belonging to a social group that has a common national or cultural tradition. This is, by definition, a fluid concept; ethnic groups can be broadly or narrowly construed. For example, they can be as broad as  Native American  or as narrow as  Cherokee . Self-identification and Choice. Another difference between race and ethnicity is related to the ability to self-identify. A person does not choose her race; it is assigned by society based upon her physical features.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ethnicity means an identification with a certain race or background. Ethnic groups are defined by country, region, and heritage. Ethnicity means in relation to things that are ethnic such as cultural ideas and traits. Ethnicity is a more specific term having to do with the person's cultural/tribal group, such as French, German, Chinese, etc. There can also be ethnic subgroups. For example, Bavarians could be considered an ethnic group within the German ethnicity.
The term race refers to the concept of dividing people into populations or groups on the basis of various sets of physical characteristics (which usually result from genetic ancestry). Significance. Ethnicity connotes shared cultural traits and a shared group history. Self-identification and Choice. Another difference between race and ethnicity is related to the ability to self-identify. A person does not choose her race; it is assigned by society based upon her physical features.
Noun. 1. ethnicity-an ethnic quality or affiliation resulting from racial or cultural ties; ethnicity has a strong influence on community status relations. quality-an essential and distinguishing attribute of something or someone; the quality of mercy is not strained--Shakespeare. Translations.
noun (plural ethnicities). The fact or state of belonging to a social group that has a common national or cultural tradition: the interrelationship between gender, ethnicity, and class [count noun]: the diverse experience of women of different ethnicities. More example sentences. 1  The findings, in terms of ethnicity and social class differences, are stark. 2  They're too busy glugging pints to care what color, nationality or ethnicity their next door neighbor is. 3  Cultural identity is commonly defined in terms of nationality rather than ethnicity. 