Best Answer: The charge will be 2-. Charges of an elements ions can be worked out by figuring out if the element will GAIN or LOSE electrons when they react. So Sulfur with electron configuration of 2,8,6 in its outter valance shell will need to GAIN two electrons to get 8, and have a stable outter shell. This will mean there are 2 more electrons then protons and the overall ion will have a negative charge. So S2- is the answer
Examples of such naming are selenium disulfide and titanium sulfide, which contains no sulfide ions whatsoever. Sulfide is also used non-systematically, to describe compounds which release hydrogen sulfide upon acidification, or a compound that otherwise incorporates sulfur in some form, such as dimethyl sulfide. Sulfide (systematically named sulfanediide, and sulfide(2−)) is an inorganic anion of sulfur with the chemical formula S 2− . It contributes no color to sulfide salts. As it is classified as a strong base, even dilute solutions of salts such as sodium sulfide (Na 2 S) are corrosive and can attack the skin
Every  element in Group II will form an ion with the charge of 2+ by  losing two electrons. Hence, magnesium will for … m the magnesium ion:  Mg2+. Sulfur is located in Group VI in the periodic  table. Every element in Group VI will form an ion with the charge  of 2- by gaining two electron. Hence, sulfur will form the sulfur  ion: S2-
Sulfur is an essential element for all life, but almost always in the form of organosulfur compounds or metal sulfides. Three amino acids (cysteine, cystine, and methionine) and two vitamins (biotin and thiamine) are organosulfur compounds. Sulfur or sulphur (see spelling differences) is a chemical element with symbol S and atomic number 16. It is an abundant, multivalent non-metal. Under normal conditions, sulfur atoms form cyclic octatomic molecules with chemical formula S 8. Elemental sulfur is a bright yellow crystalline solid at room temperature.
Nonmetal elements have greater attractions for electrons and tend to gain electrons to form anions. The charge on the ion is written as a superscript after the element symbol. For example chlorine gains one electron to form chloride, Cl1-. Sulfur gains two electrons to form sulfide, S2-. You can predict the negative charge on an anion by looking at the group number for the atom. The charge for representative elements is typically equal to the group number minus eight. Example: Fluorine, F, is in group 7A. The negative charge is 7 - 8 = -1
Magnesium is located in Group II in the periodic table. Every  element in Group II will form an ion with the charge of 2+ by  losing two electrons. Hence, magnesium will for … m the magnesium ion:  Mg2+. Sulfur is located in Group VI in the periodic  table. Every element in Group VI will form an ion with the charge  of 2- by gaining two electron. Electrons are negative. To have a ne … utral atom, you must have the  same number of electrons as you do protons.    So if Sulfur loses a single electron, it's losing some negativity,  meaning Sulfur will be more positive.   If it loses two, then it becomes even
The element replaces one of the ions of the same charge (+ or -) in the solution and a new element appears from the ion in solution. This type of reaction is called a replacement because a free element replaces one of the ions in a compound. There are two types of single replacement reactions, anionic and cationic. 
The sulfur atom is in the +6 oxidation state while the four oxygen atoms are each in the −2 state. The sulfate ion carries a negative two charge and is the conjugate base of the bisulfate (or hydrogen sulfate) ion, HSO 4 − , which is the conjugate base of H 2SO 4, sulfuric acid. Organic sulfate esters, such as dimethyl sulfate, are covalent compounds and esters of sulfuric acid.