Causes. Amoebic dysentery is caused by a parasite called Entamoeba histolytica. You may develop amoebic dysentery if you: 1  Put something in your mouth that has touched the stool of a person infected with E histolytica. If you experience any of these symptoms do not assume it is due to amoebic dysentery. These symptoms may be caused by other, less serious health conditions. If you experience any one of them, see your physician. 1  Loose stools. 2  Nausea. 3  Weight loss. 4  Stomach pain.
Amoebic dysentery is caused by the protozoan parasite Entamoeba histolytica. It is transmitted in areas where poor sanitation allows contamination of drinking water and food with faeces. In these areas, up to 40% of people with diarrhoea may have amoebic dysentery. Fulminant amoebic dysentery is reported to have 55% to 88% mortality. It is estimated that more than 500 million people are infected with E histolytica worldwide. Between 40,000 and 100,000 will die each year, placing this infection second to malaria in mortality caused by protozoan parasites.
Causes of amoebic dysentery. Amoebic dysentery is usually caused by infection with the Entamoeba histolytica amoeba. Amoebic dysentery is more common in the tropics while bacillary dysentery is more common elsewhere. However, parts of rural Canada do get reports of amoebic dysentery. Symptoms of amoebic dysentery include: 1  abdominal pain. 2  fever and chills. 3  nausea and vomiting. 4  watery diarrhea, which can contain blood, mucus or pus. 5  painful passing of stools. 6  fatigue. 7  intermittent constipation.
1 Bacillary dysentery, caused by Shigella, a bacterium. 2  In Western Europe and the USA it is the most common type of dysentery among people who have not recently been to the tropics. 3  Amoebic dysentery (amoebiasis) This is caused by Entamoeba histolytica, a type of amoeba, and is more common in the tropics. Symptoms of amoebic dysentery include: 1  abdominal pain. 2  fever and chills. 3  nausea and vomiting. 4  watery diarrhea, which can contain blood, mucus or pus. 5  painful passing of stools. 6  fatigue. 7  intermittent constipation.
Causes TOP. Amoebic dysentery is caused by a specific parasite. You may develop amoebic dysentery if you: 1  Put something in your mouth that has touched the stool of an infected person. 2  Swallow water or food that has been contaminated with the parasite. 3  Touch cysts (eggs) from contaminated surfaces and bring them to your mouth. 
Amoebic Dysentery-Causes And Spread. The infection is caused by a parasite called  Entamoeba histolytica . (EH). These are microscopic one-celled parasites commonly known as amoebas. Entamoeba histolytica exists as two forms in contaminated food and drink. As free amoebae (known as  trophozoites ). E. Histolytica can also sometimes live in the intestine without causing symptoms, but it can cause severe disease-. These amoebas may invade the wall of the intestine and can cause small ulcers and inflammations leading to amoebic dysentery.
1 bacillary dysentery or shigellosis – caused by shigella bacteria; this is the most common type of dysentery in the UK. 2  amoebic dysentery or amoebiasis – caused by an amoeba (single-celled parasite) called Entamoeba histolytica, that's found mainly in tropical areas; this type of dysentery is usually picked up abroad. Introduction. Dysentery is an infection of the intestines that causes diarrhoea containing blood or mucus. Other symptoms of dysentery can include: 1  painful stomach cramps. 2  nausea or vomiting. 3  a high temperature (fever) of 38C (100.4F) or above, or 37.5C (99.5F) or above in children under five.
The World Health Organization 1 says there are two main types of dysentery: 1  Bacillary dysentery, caused by Shigella, a bacterium. 2  Amoebic dysentery (amoebiasis) This is caused by Entamoeba histolytica, a type of amoeba, and is more common in the tropics. Symptoms of amoebic dysentery include: 1  abdominal pain. 2  fever and chills. 3  nausea and vomiting. 4  watery diarrhea, which can contain blood, mucus or pus. 5  painful passing of stools. 6  fatigue. 7  intermittent constipation.
Definition. Amoebic dysentery is caused by the protozoan parasite Entamoeba histolytica. Invasive intestinal parasitic infection can result in symptoms of fulminant dysentery, such as fever, chills, bloody or mucous diarrhoea, and abdominal discomfort. The dysentery can alternate with periods of constipation or remission. Fulminant amoebic dysentery is reported to have 55% to 88% mortality. It is estimated that more than 500 million people are infected with E histolytica worldwide. Between 40,000 and 100,000 will die each year, placing this infection second to malaria in mortality caused by protozoan parasites.