This Sigma-Aldrich HYDRANAL®-Manual is intended to be a useful reference handbook for analysts performing routine Karl Fischer (KF) titration. It contains practical recommendations and is the culmination of many years of diligent product development and close collaboration with our customers. It is determined in a working medium of high chloroform content (80% HYDRANAL ® -Chloroform 3, 20% HYDRANAL ® -Methanol dry 2, v/v) following procedure 8.2 (L 073). Saccharose (sucrose) must be completely dissolved in order to determine the total, i.e. entrapped as well as adherent water content.
The HYDRANAL® K reagent line is designed to meet the needs of the analytical chemist, providing accurate water content determination by Karl Fischer (KF) titration in samples containing aldehydes and... This question can be answered by means of a simple test: a portion of the sample is... Keywords: Pesticides, Titrations. Determination of Water Content in Ethosuximide (3-Ethyl-3-methyl-2,5-pyrrolidinedione Using Karl Fischer Titration. The sample is a waxy, solid mass, which is not easily homogenized.
The theoretical water content of a monohydrate is 13,33%. In the investigate sample we found 14,45% water. With the one-component reagent HYDRANAL-Composite the titration takes approx. 8 minutes. This question can be answered by means of a simple test: a portion of the sample is... Keywords: Pesticides, Titrations. Determination of Water Content in Ethosuximide (3-Ethyl-3-methyl-2,5-pyrrolidinedione Using Karl Fischer Titration. The sample is a waxy, solid mass, which is not easily homogenized.
Using HYDRANAL-Coulomat Reagents The following procedure is generally used forthe coulometric determination of water (Figure 3):1. Fill the cathodic compartment with HYDRANAL-Coulomat CG or E2. Fill the anodic compartment with HYDRANAL-Coulomat A, AG, AG-H or E3. HYDRANAL-Solvent is a solution of sulfur dioxide and imidazole in methanol. HYDRANAL-Titrant contains a solution of iodine with a precisely defined concentration. Stability The titrants have a shelf life of three years, thesolvents five years, as long as the bottles areunopened.
The titer decay is approximately 0.3 mg H 2 O/mL per year.HYDRANAL®-Composite 22 has a nominal titer of 2 mg H 2 O/mL and is used for the titration of samples with lower water contents. It contains imidazoles, sulfur dioxide and iodine in diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (DEGEE). It is determined in a working medium of high chloroform content (80% HYDRANAL ® -Chloroform 3, 20% HYDRANAL ® -Methanol dry 2, v/v) following procedure 8.2 (L 073). Saccharose (sucrose) must be completely dissolved in order to determine the total, i.e. entrapped as well as adherent water content.
HYDRANAL ® -Coulomat A type reagents are used as anolyte. They contain ®® HYDRANAL ® -Coulomat E is based on ethanol and does not require hazardous labeling. Toxicity All HYDRANAL ® -Coulomat reagents are free of toxic and noxious compounds, such as as pyridine, carbon tetrachloride and 2-methoxyethanol. For this new development we have applied for a patent. Stability HYDRANAL ® -Composite is stabilized with Toxicity HYDRANAL ® -Composites are free of pyridine and 2-methoxyethanol. DEGEE is non-hazardous unlike 2-ME which is fetotoxic and teratogenic (see ECETOC Technical Report No. 17).
HYDRANAL®-Composite 22 is very stable and has a shelf life of three years. The titer decay is approximately 0.1 mg H 2 O/mL per year.HYDRANAL®-Composite 13 has a titer of 0.7 to 1.0 mg H 2 O/mL and is used for the titration of samples with very low water levels. It is determined in a working medium of high chloroform content (80% HYDRANAL ® -Chloroform 3, 20% HYDRANAL ® -Methanol dry 2, v/v) following procedure 8.2 (L 073). Saccharose (sucrose) must be completely dissolved in order to determine the total, i.e. entrapped as well as adherent water content.
FLUKA HYDRANAL®-Coulomat CG, reagent for coulometric KF titration (catholyte solution). Sigma-Aldrich. CAS No.: 544-40-1 Application: To be used with: see related products General description: Visit our HYDRANAL center to learn more. Legal Information: HYDRANAL is a registered trademark of Sigma-Aldrich Laborchemikalien GmbH Included Fees: C990Q88 has a Small Barrier Pack Fee included in the price. 
• Hydranal is a range of products specifically designed for Karl Fischer Titration. In 1979, Eugen Sholz and Helga Hoffmann started developing ways to improve the Karl Fischer technique. 
Karl Fischer titration is a classic titration method in analytical chemistry that uses coulometric or volumetric titration to determine trace amounts of water in a sample. It was invented in 1935 by the German chemist Karl Fischer. The titration cell also consists of a smaller compartment with a cathode immersed in the anode solution of the main compartment. The two compartments are separated by an ion-permeable membrane. The Pt anode generates I 2 when current is provided through the electric circuit.