Yes, 580 is the minimum credit score FHA allows for loans with a down payment of only 3.5 percent. Here, too, finding a mortgage lender willing to take the risk of loaning to someone with the very minimum allowable credit score may not be easy. 
An FHA loan has lenient credit score requirements. The minimum credit score required is 500, but your down payment must be at least 10%. If your credit score is over 580, then you can get an FHA loan with a down payment of 3.5%. As of 2015, there is at least one lender approving FHA loans for borrowers with scores down to 550, with an LTV maximum of 90%. For borrowers with sub-620 scores, the lenders have tougher requirements. While there is a minimum credit score required to qualify for a home loan, there is not a minimum credit score required. Private Mortgage Interest (PMI) is generally required when a borrower has less than a 20% equity stake in the home.
Borrowers with a score above 580 can refinance up to a 97.5% loan-to-value on a rate and term refinance. And up to 85% cash out refinance with a FICO score above 580. If you're score is below 580 new FHA changes require a maximum loan-to-value of 90% for a rate and term refinance. And up to 75% cash out refinance with FICO score below 580. VA allows veterans to buy a home with no money down with a minimum score of 50
Credit History and Score Requirements. For those interested in applying for an FHA loan, applicants are now required to have a minimum FICO score of 580 to qualify for the low down payment advantage, which is currently at around 3.5 percent. If your credit score is below 580, however, you aren't necessarily excluded from FHA loan eligibility. 
Standard FHA-insured mortgages require the home buyer to put up a down payment of at least 3.5 percent of the purchase price. This is one of the lowest down payment levels available for mortgages. To get an FHA loan with a 3.5 percent down payment, the home buyer must have a FICO credit score of at least 580. HUD increased the minimum score for a minimum down payment FHA loan from 500 to 580 in January 2010
Lower credit score and down payment requirements. The FHA requirements for credit score and down payments are far lower than for conventional loans. Borrowers can technically qualify for an FHA loan with credit scores of at least 580 and a down payment of just 3.5 percent, according to HUD. 
The minimum credit scores listed here are in effect for most FHA home loans for single family residences with a few exceptions which include (but are not limited to) Title 1 HECM loans and HOPE For Homeowners loans. Always ask an FHA loan expert or your local FHA lender about your credit score and what you qualify for. That's the date the FHA issued new guidance on the minimum credit scores needed for certain FHA guaranteed home loans. Minimum credit score requirements for FHA home loans depend on which FHA loan product the applicant needs.
Generally speaking, to get maximum financing on typical new home purchases, applicants should have a credit score of 580 or better. Those with credit scores between 500 and 579 are, according the the FHA guidelines, limited to 90 percent LTV. Applicants who have a minimum decision credit score of less than 500 are not eligible for FHA mortgages. That's the date the FHA issued new guidance on the minimum credit scores needed for certain FHA guaranteed home loans. Minimum credit score requirements for FHA home loans depend on which FHA loan product the applicant needs.