From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. -ism is a suffix in many English words, first usage, originally derived from Ancient Greek -ισμός (-ismos), reaching English through Latin, via French. The first recorded usage of the suffix ism as a separate word in its own right was in 1680. By the nineteenth century it was being used by Thomas Carlyle to signify a pre-packaged ideology.
This ROOT-WORD is the Suffix ISM. It means DOCTRINE, SYSTEM, MANNER, CONDITION, ACT & CHARACTERISTIC. It has the quality of enlargement, and it carries you from the particular to the general, from the individual to the mass. Take the word Nazi and you have an individual who is associated with Nazism. But take Nazism and you have a system of government which murdered millions and millions of people of all nationalities.
In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of ISM file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. In the case that your ISM file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit ISM file extensions. If your PC opens the ISM file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings.
Look up-ism in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. -ism is a suffix in many English words, first usage, originally derived from Ancient Greek -ισμός (-ismos), reaching English through Latin, via French. The first recorded usage of the suffix ism as a separate word in its own right was in 1680. By the nineteenth century it was being used by Thomas Carlyle to signify a pre-packaged ideology.
Here are 234 different isms, each representing a philosophical, political or moral doctrine or a belief system. In selecting terms for the list, I have deliberately avoided any word which apply ism to a personal name, so that Marxism doesn't count although it is otherwise an ideal candidate for the list. I also excluded isms which do not refer to a specific belief system, such as impressionism (an artistic movement) or alcoholism (a disease). Despite these omissions, enough remain to leave an ism in every pot, including beliefs about proper government, God, and the nature of existence itself. Of the terms on the list that are of a religious nature, most are Christian, which is not unexpected, but I'm open to adding isms from other world religions
He uses the word in many of his songs when referring to the controlled substance........see also weed, herb, or tical. so wuts good wit all the ism..........blaze it. -which means-. my good man where is all the marijuana......light that stuff up. Spread the ism around until the ism reaches each end// take your fingers and your thumb from tip to tip// roll it in a motion then the top piece you lick - lyrics from the redman song, how to roll a blunt off of the how high. soundtrack. 
: a belief, attitude, style, etc., that is referred to by a word that ends in the suffix-ism. 
wholism. witticism. workaholism. xerophytism. yahooism. zombiism. List all words ending with ism, sorted by length or by how common the words are. New Search. Some random words: auction mm nil aecia guacamole roach awry. This is not a dictionary, it's a word game wordfinder. 
A list of words that end with Ism. We search a large Scrabble dictionary for words ending with the letter or word you enter, and generate all words ending with Ism (words with the suffix ism). Also try our list of Words that start with ism, and words that contain ism. Search for words that end with a letter or word: 11 Letter words that end with ism. 1  Absenteeism. 2  Academicism. 3  Achromatism. 4  Adoptianism. 5  Adoptionism. 6  Adventurism.