Psychotherapy is also known as talk therapy or psychological therapy. Different types of psychotherapy can be effective for depression, such as cognitive behavioral therapy or interpersonal therapy. Your mental health provider also may recommend other therapies.
There are a wide number of different types of effective therapeutic approaches utilized for the treatment of depression today. These range from cognitive behavioral therapy, to behavioral therapy (ala Lewinsohn), to interpersonal therapy, to rational emotive therapy, to family and psychodynamic approaches.
There are well over 400 different types of psychotherapy on offer for clinical depression. This can be confusing to say the least. Luckily, there has been more research into therapy for depression that any other problem, and we know exactly what works, and why.
“There are probably more than 400 types of psychotherapy,” says Jeffrey Magnavita, PhD, a licensed psychologist and affiliate professor of clinical psychology at the University of Hartford. The good news is that therapies fall into one (or more) “schools,” each with its own theories and techniques.
Antidepressants, sometimes in combination with psychotherapy, are often the first treatment people get for depression. If one antidepressant doesn't work well, you might try another drug of the same class or a different class of depression medicines altogether. Your doctor might also try changing the dose.
It's a condition you can treat with medicine, talking to a therapist, or changes to your lifestyle. There are many different types of depression. Events in your life cause some, and chemical changes in your brain cause others. Whatever the cause, your first step is to let your doctor know how you're feeling. She may refer you to a mental health specialist to help figure out the type of depression you have.
Classified as a mood disorder, depression affects people very differently. There are also different types of depression. The type of depression a person has will largely determine what kind of medical treatment the person should receive.