Pancreatic cancer arises when cells in the pancreas, a glandular organ behind the stomach, begin to multiply out of control and form a mass. These cancer cells have the ability to invade other parts of the body. 
pancreas. a large, elongated, racemose gland located transversely behind the stomach, between the spleen and duodenum. (See also Plate 11.) It is composed of both exocrine and endocrine tissue. The acini secrete digestive enzymes, and small ductules leading from the acini secrete sodium bicarbonate solution. Function. The exocrine secretion of the pancreas consists of enzymes that digest food in the small intestine, and sodium bicarbonate to neutralize hydrochloric acid from the stomach in the duodenum. See: pancreatic juice. The islets of Langerhans contain alpha, beta, and delta cells.
Pancreatic cancer begins in the tissues of your pancreas — an organ in your abdomen that lies horizontally behind the lower part of your stomach. Your pancreas secretes enzymes that aid digestion and hormones that help regulate the metabolism of sugars. 
Definition of PANCREAS for Kids. : a large gland near the stomach that produces insulin and a fluid (pancreatic juice) with enzymes that aid digestion. Full Definition of PANCREAS. : a large lobulated gland of vertebrates that secretes digestive enzymes and the hormones insulin and glucagon. — pan·cre·at·ic \ˌpaŋ-krē-ˈa-tik, ˌpan-\ adjective. See pancreas defined for English-language learners. See pancreas defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
pancreas-a large elongated exocrine gland located behind the stomach; secretes pancreatic juice and insulin. duct gland, exocrine, exocrine gland-a gland that secretes externally through a duct. pancreas. A tongue-shaped gland located in the abdomen that produces glucagon, insulin, and pancreatic juice. See glucagon, insulin, pancreatic islets, pancreatic juice.
Pancreatitis is inflammation in the pancreas. The pancreas is a long, flat gland that sits tucked behind the stomach in the upper abdomen. The pancreas produces enzymes that assist digestion and hormones that help regulate the way your body processes sugar (glucose).
The pancreas is thus a compound gland in the sense that it is composed of both exocrine and endocrine tissues. The exocrine function of the pancreas involves the synthesis and secretion of pancreatic juices. The endocrine function resides in the million or so cellular islands (the islets of Langerhans) that are embedded between the exocrine units of the pancreas.
Pancreas: A spongy, tube-shaped organ that is about 6 inches long and is located in the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen. It is connected to the upper end of the small intestine. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body. The pancreas makes pancreatic juices and hormones, including insulin and secretin. The exocrine function of the pancreas involves the synthesis and secretion of pancreatic juices. The endocrine function resides in the million or so cellular islands (the islets of Langerhans) that are embedded between the exocrine units of the pancreas.