Yes, we offer many onward destinations including the Middle East, Africa, Asia and the Far East. Carriers such as Saudia, Emirates, Etihad, Turkish Airlines, Qatar Airways, Gulf Air, Egypt Air and Royal Jordanian also offer stopovers and onward trips. Al-Hidaayah Travel Ltd: Leading Hajj and Umrah Tour Operator offering all inclusive Hajj and Umrah packages for all budgets.
We'll show you how to determine how much you owe, and when the payment is due. We'll tell you if your state accepts credit card payments or offers an online payment service. And, we'll even discuss your state's penalties for failing to pay your ticket on time. 1  Alabama. 2  Alaska. 3  Arizona. 4  Arkansas. 5  California. 6  Colorado. 
Zakat money and Sadaqah money can be paid towards the costs for a poor person to perform Hajj or Umrah. Each poor person that we select to send for free Hajj or free Umrah is carefully selected and screened to ensure that they qualify as a genuine poor person. The average cost of visiting the House of Allah (SWT) to perform Hajj is around GBP4,000.00 / USD6,000.00. The average cost of visiting the House of Allah to perform Umrah is around GBP 1,000.00 / USD1,500.00.
Special Designed for 1st timers or Regular goer, we can customized packages as per your tour requirement. We have rooms in most good hotels in Makkah and Madinah during the Hajj and Umrah seasons, this allows us to give lower prices and guaranteed reservations – we don’t look for rooms when you make a booking. Our mission is to serve Allah Guests the best we can. Established in 2010 we serve Haji and Umrah People specially from Mumbai. We are travelled professional and can expertly advise you in Planning you Hajj and Umrah. We ensure great quality, value and experience you deserve.
Thousands of Muslims performing their Umrah 2014 from various travel sources but we have the lead over assured quality services regarding Umrah packages 2014 selected by our valued clients and Holy voyagers. We are giving you the best plans for your travelling, so book your Umrah flights with us, make arrangements for your stay at the most suitable places and help out with all your Umrah travel documents and Umrah Visa. This way you would be able to focus only on the religious obligations that you have gone to act upon.
Welcome to Dar Al-Islam, your center for Hajj 2015 services. Our Hajj 2015 packages include a variety of accommodations in Makkah and Madinah. All our Hajj 2015 packages feature round-trip airfares USA-Jeddah-USA, land transportation, hotel accommodations, and Hajj Visa processing. Dar Al-Islam presents Hajj 2015 packages at affordable prices. These Hajj packages include full management of Hajj tours, from Medinah visits to performing Umrah and Hajj Manasik in Makkah, Mina, Arafa, and Muzdalifah to even performing Qurbany on behalf of each brother and sister in our Dar Al-Islam Hajj groups.
I made my first hajj 27 years ago and after that I make umrah almost every year.The umrah cost is only US $ 1.500,00 up to US $ 2.000,00 depends on how long we will stay there and what kind of hotel and during ramadan is more expensive than out of ramadan. Ruchjat K · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. 
Dar Al-Islam accepts personal checks and cashier checks for processing your Hajj or Umrah application. According to Islamic Shareea, a credit card is a form of debt that you will pay in the future. You cannot borrow money to perform Hajj or Umrah. You can only make Hajj or Umrah when you have the money. Dar Al-Islam presents Hajj 2015 packages at affordable prices. These Hajj packages include full management of Hajj tours, from Medinah visits to performing Umrah and Hajj Manasik in Makkah, Mina, Arafa, and Muzdalifah to even performing Qurbany on behalf of each brother and sister in our Dar Al-Islam Hajj groups.