To summarize the differences between spiritual gifts and talents: 1) A talent is the result of genetics and/or training, while a spiritual gift is the result of the power of the Holy Spirit. 2) A talent can be possessed by anyone, Christian or non-Christian, while spiritual gifts are only possessed by Christians. 3) While both talents and spiritual gifts should be used for God’s glory and to minister to others, spiritual gifts are focused on these tasks, while talents can be used entirely for non-spiritual purposes.
It is also possible that the biblical lists are not exhaustive, that there are additional spiritual gifts beyond the ones the Bible mentions. Answer: There are similarities and differences between talents and spiritual gifts. Both are gifts from God. Both grow in effectiveness with use. Both are intended to be used on behalf of others, not for selfish purposes. First Corinthians 12:7 states that spiritual gifts are given to benefit others and not ourselves. 
The ability to prophecy, or heal by laying on of hands, these would be spiritual gifts. Both talents & spiritual gifts are given by God. Yet a spiritual gift is spiritual. People are given many gifts such as ability to teach or lead or understanding. & the fruit of the Spirit such as the ability to love & be kind & patient are also gifts. Being good at science would be a talent, which is a gift from God... or being skilled in craftmanship would also be a talent which is given by God... or being good at learning multiple languages would be a talent given to someone by God.
3) While both talents and spiritual gifts should be used for God's glory and to minister to others, spiritual gifts are focused on these tasks, while talents can be used entirely for non-spiritual purposes. Both are gifts from God. Both grow in effectiveness with use. Sometimes we can get confused about our talent and the purpose it serves. Our purpose is to serve God since we are His creation. It is important to know the difference between a talent and a spiritual gift, and knowing if we are using our talents or spiritual gifts to glorify God.
Differences between talents and spiritual gifts. 1) A talent is the result of a person's genetics and/or training. A spiritual gift is a manifestation of the power of the Holy Spirit. 2) Talents are given by God to anyone, Christian or non-Christian. Spiritual gifts are only possessed given to Christians. 3) Both talents and spiritual gifts are given to be used for God's glory and to serve others. First, let's look at the similarities between a talent and a spiritual gift. Both are from God. (God makes his son to shine on both the good and the bad). Both are perfected with use. Both are given for the benefit of others.
Answer: There are similarities and differences between talents and spiritual gifts. Both are gifts from God. Both grow in effectiveness with use. Both are intended to be used on behalf of others, not for selfish purposes. First Corinthians 12:7 states that spiritual gifts are given to benefit others and not ourselves. 3) While both talents and spiritual gifts should be used for God’s glory and to minister to others, spiritual gifts are focused on these tasks, while talents can be used entirely for non-spiritual purposes.
SPIRITUAL GIFTS ARE NOT NATURAL TALENTS. There has been some discussion on the difference between a natural talent and a spiritual gift. For some of the gifts the distinction is not clear. We need to remember, all the abilities we have do come from God in some way or another
There appear to be two primary differences between talents and spiritual gifts. First, a talent can be available to either believers or unbelievers. Every person is created with certain abilities that can be of benefit to other people. Second, spiritual gifts are more specific than natural talents in the Bible. First Corinthians 12—14, Romans 12, Ephesians 4:11-16, and 1 Peter 4:10-11 all speak of spiritual abilities in a special way separate from natural talents.