Apple Cider Vinegar: This is the easiest home remedy for kidney stone removal in the body. All you have to do is to take one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and mix it in one cup of water. Drink this concoction before your meals. The chemical composition of this home remedy helps in softening and dissolving the kidney stones. 1. Apple is one of the easiest home remedy for kidney stone removal. It is believed that consuming fresh apple every day will help dissolve the kidney stones without any trouble. This is the reason why you must eat an apple every day if you are suffering from
Wheatgrass. Wheatgrass juice is highly effective in treating kidney stones and other kidney diseases naturally. You can also have a glass of wheatgrass juice mixed with one teaspoon each of lemon juice and juice extracted from basil leaves. Take it two to three times a day. 
Many of them also will help prevent stones from developing in the future. Moreover, make sure to drink plenty of water. If you drink eight to 10 glasses of water along with other kinds of fluids daily, the color of your urine will become clear, which is a good sign. Here are the top 10 home remedies for kidney stones. Also, do consult your doctor for proper diagnosis and treatment. The citric acid present in lemons helps break down calcium-based kidney stones and stops further growth. 1  Take four tablespoons or a quarter cup of fresh lemon juice. 2  Add an equal amount of olive oil. 3  Drink this mixture followed by plenty of water. 4  Do this two to three times a day, up to three days.
You can also take Vitamin B6 supplements to cure the kidney stones of your body. You can take 100 to 150 mg of this drug daily till your stones get flushed out of the system. In the end, one can say that you can try all these home remedies for kidney stones safely. 1. Apple is one of the easiest home remedy for kidney stone removal. It is believed that consuming fresh apple every day will help dissolve the kidney stones without any trouble. This is the reason why you must eat an apple every day if you are suffering from kidney stones.
This is one of my favorites and easily one of the most effective remedies for kidney stones and the pain they cause. At the first symptom of stone pain, mix 2 oz of organic olive oil with 2 oz of organic lemon juice. Drink it straight and follow with a 12 ounce glass of purified water. Wait 30 minutes. The kidneys are one of the most important organs in the human body. The kidneys help to detox and filter impurities from the blood, as well as waste products from your urine. Kidney stones form when the kidneys are not able to process toxins efficiently. Specifically, a crystallization of unprocessed minerals builds up.
Home Remedy Treatments for Kidney Stones. If you have been through a bout with a kidney stone in the past or think you might be a candidate for developing one, you should do your best to beat the odds by trying the home remedies listed below. Drink more than your fill. If you have had a kidney stone, your safest bet is to get your vitamin C from foods, not high-dose supplements. (Vitamin C is essential -- the Recommended Dietary Allowance for men is 90 mg a day and for women, 75 mg a day -- so don't think of trying to go without it.). Eat less meat and certain fish.
Natural Remedies for Kidney Stones. The most popular remedies used to eliminate Kidney Stones and also soothe the excruciating pain from kidney stones are: Lemon and Olive Oil, Apple Cider Vinegar, and the herb Chanca Piedra, a common weed also known as the stonebreaker. 
Apple cider vinegar helps dissolve kidney stones. It also has an alkalinizing effect on blood and urine. 1  Mix two tablespoons of organic apple cider vinegar and one teaspoon of honey in one cup of warm water. 2  Drink this a few times a day. The citric acid present in lemons helps break down calcium-based kidney stones and stops further growth. 1  Take four tablespoons or a quarter cup of fresh lemon juice. 2  Add an equal amount of olive oil. 3  Drink this mixture followed by plenty of water. 4  Do this two to three times a day, up to three days.
1 If you are susceptible to calcium oxalate stones, restrict consumption of foods such as nuts, spinach, peanuts, wheat bran, tea and rhubarb. 2  But consult your doctor before making any changes to your diet. 3  Foods that contain animal protein can contribute to the formation of uric acid stones. Diet for Kidney Stones. The following foods are believed to help in the treatment and prevention of kidney stones: 1  Food that is rich in fiber helps to eliminate excess calcium and oxalate from the urine. 2  You can obtain fiber from foods such as bran flakes. 3  Carrots contain vitamin A which is beneficial for the health of the kidney