Store bought cooked tortillas if stored properly can be stored for up to a mo … nth in the fridge, where uncooked tortillas if stored properly can last up to three weeks. 4 people found this useful. Kodiakcathy. 12,680 Contributions. Oranges will stay fresh for about 3 weeks to 1 month. If an orange goes from a grove to a warehouse and stays there for a few days to weeks before making it to the shelf, it w … ill steadily degrade in quality.     Never store citrus fruit in plastic bags or film-wrapped trays.
The eggplant is a delicate, tropical perennial often cultivated as a tender or half-hardy annual in temperate climates. It grows 40 to 150 cm (16 to 59 in) tall, with large, coarsely lobed leaves that are 10 to 20 cm (3.9 to 7.9 in) long and 5 to 10 cm (2.0 to 3.9 in) broad. Eggplant (Solanum melongena) or aubergine is a species of nightshade grown for its edible fruit. It is known in South Asia, Southeast Asia and South Africa as brinjal.
Eggplants do not store well for long periods of time. Without refrigeration, eggplants can be stored in a cool, dry place for 1 or 2 days. If you don’t intend to eat the eggplant within 2 days, it should be refrigerated. Eggplant can be baked, roasted in the oven, or steamed. If baking it whole, pierce the eggplant several times with a fork to make small holes for the steam to escape. Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (about 177 degrees Celsius) for 15 to 25 minutes, depending upon size.
Eggplant, or aubergine as it is called in France, is a vegetable long prized for its beauty as well as its unique taste and texture. Eggplants belong to the plant family of Solanaceae, also commonly known as nightshades, and are kin to the tomato, bell pepper and potato. Eggplant can be baked, roasted in the oven, or steamed. If baking it whole, pierce the eggplant several times with a fork to make small holes for the steam to escape. Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (about 177 degrees Celsius) for 15 to 25 minutes, depending upon size.
Eggplant is a member of the nightshade or potato family, which also includes tomatoes and hot peppers. Many useful medicines are derived from this family. Eggplants can be purple, green, white or striped, pear-shaped or cylindrical and the size of a golf ball to a football. They are often used as a meat substitute. Eggplant is fat free, cholesterol free, sodium free, low in calories, and a good source of dietary fiber. Eggplant can be baked, roasted in the oven, or steamed. If baking it whole, pierce the eggplant several times with a fork to make small holes for the steam to escape. Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (about 177 degrees Celsius) for 15 to 25 minutes, depending upon size.
Let the salted eggplant sit for at least 1/2 hour or up to 1 1/2 hours. You'll see beads of moisture start to form on the surface of the eggplant as it sits. Some of the pieces may start to look a little shriveled; this is fine. When you're ready to cook, rinse the eggplant under cold water to remove the excess salt. 
When to Plant Eggplant. Start eggplant seeds indoors about six weeks before your last spring frost, or about two weeks after tomatoes and peppers. Eggplant seeds germinate best at temperatures above 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Bottom heat is useful in getting the plants up and growing
Best Answer: Eggplant can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a week. However, it is important to keep eggplant away from fruits or vegetables that produce ethylene, such as apples and apricots. These items will speed up the ripening process. When they start to get soft and mushy they are starting to go bad. Brown spots are also an indicator on some of these. You can cook the eggplant (bread and fry it) then freeze it for up to 2 months. The lettuce will stay for a fair while if you put it in an airtight container. Tomatoes will last about 10 days. The bananas will turn brown and mushy and then they are overripe.. But some people like them that way
Yes, you should peel the eggplant before blanching for freezing. Add 1/2 cup of lemon juice to 1 gallon of water and bring it to a boil. Drop in small pieces of eggplant for about 4 minutes. Plunge into ice water. 