When the Romans began to fight at sea, the merchant ships served to carry foodstuffs, troops, horses, and war-machines such as catapults and rams. This was the type of warship used most by the Romans. It was from 100 to 120 feet long and about 18 feet in beam – about the size of a river pleasure steamer today. When a Roman ship came alongside an enemy, it dropped the bridge in such a way that it fixed on to the deck of the enemy and prevented it from withdrawing. The soldiers then crossed the bridge on to the enemy deck, thus turning the naval battle into a sort of land battle.
The navy was instrumental in the Roman conquest of the Mediterranean basin, though it never enjoyed the prestige of the Roman legions. The bulk of a galley's crew was formed by the rowers, the remiges (sing. remex) or eretai (sing. eretēs) in Greek. Despite popular perceptions, the Roman fleet, and ancient fleets in general, relied throughout their existence on rowers of free status, and not on galley slaves.
I agree completely that most Greek and Roman merchant ships were sailing ships, not galleys, for the reasons given. To be honest, my information about merchant galleys comes from a novel, and the author may have been wrong. The sailors, who usually did not row, were also free volunteers. OTOH, merchant galleys, which were owned by civilians, used slave rowers. Slaves were plentiful in Greek, and especially Roman, times and relatively inexpensive to buy. You didn't have to pay them wages or provide much in the way of food
The sailing vessel was always at the mercy of the wind for propulsion, and those that did carry oars were placed at a disadvantage because they were not optimized for oar use. The galley did have disadvantages compared to the sailing vessel though. The transition from the Mediterranean war galley to the sailing vessel as the preferred method of vessel in the Mediterranean is tied directly to technological developments and the inherent handling characteristics of each vessel types.
During the course of the First Punic War, the Roman navy was massively expanded and played a vital role in the Roman victory and the Roman Republic 's eventual ascension to hegemony in the Mediterranean Sea. The bulk of a galley's crew was formed by the rowers, the remiges (sing. remex) or eretai (sing. eretēs) in Greek. Despite popular perceptions, the Roman fleet, and ancient fleets in general, relied throughout their existence on rowers of free status, and not on galley slaves.
Partly because of this, the navy was never wholly embraced by the Roman state, and deemed somewhat un-Roman. In Antiquity, navies and trading fleets did not have the logistical autonomy that modern ships and fleets possess. Unlike modern naval forces, the Roman navy even at its height never existed as an autonomous service, but operated as an adjunct to the Roman army. The bulk of a galley's crew was formed by the rowers, the remiges (sing. remex) or eretai (sing. eretēs) in Greek. Despite popular perceptions, the Roman fleet, and ancient fleets in general, relied throughout their existence on rowers of free status, and not on galley slaves.
I understand that the Romans were not very good mariners, and that Roman cargo vessels could not tack (sail into the wind). Consequently, the Romans relied upon rowed ships (galleys) for military operations. Suppose a Roman galley left Londinium, and headed west. I think the biggest problems the Roman ships would have would be a lack of navigational sophistication required to make such a journey and that the ships would be extremely vulnerable to the rough and unpredictable Atlantic Ocean. That being said, all kinds of stuff has made the trip across the Atlantic.
Artillery on early gun galleys was not used as a long-range standoff weapon against other gun-armed ships. The maximum distance at which contemporary cannons were effective, c. 500 m (1600 ft), could be covered by a galley in about two minutes, much faster than the reload time of any heavy artillery. The transition from the Mediterranean war galley to the sailing vessel as the preferred method of vessel in the Mediterranean is tied directly to technological developments and the inherent handling characteristics of each vessel types.
A galley is a type of ship propelled by rowers that originated in the eastern Mediterranean Sea and was used for warfare, trade and piracy from the first millennium BC. Galleys dominated naval warfare in the Mediterranean from the 8th century BC until development of advanced sailing warships in the 17th century. 