10 most extreme places on Earth. Lactium® is a stress relief product developed by Ingredia Nutritional, a division of Ingredia S.A., a company that develops, markets, and distributes food ingredients. Ad. According to Ingredia Nutritional, Lactium® can provide relief from stress and may be taken as a regular dietary supplement or as needed for specific stress issues. In addition to being used to treat stress, it can also be used in the management of some types of sleep disorders.
Lactium® was the subject of seven rigorous clinical studies conducted between 1999 and 2011 on 394 adult volunteers, all supervised by healthcare professionals. Those used biological means to confirm the effectiveness of Lactium® on the body. Clinical studies (1)(2)(3) recommend adopting a dosage which varies according to your symptoms and your emotional state: 1  150mg per day is the minimum recommended dose for one month. 2  300mg per day for two weeks, for faster action during a particular period.
Lactium® presents no danger to health at the recommended doses. It does not have any side-effects, in terms of either habituation or sedation. Lactium® is a milk protein hydrolysate and is therefore hypoallergenic. Unlike benzodiazepines, which belong to the anxiolytics family, Lactium® does not cause any addiction. Clinical studies (1)(2)(3) recommend adopting a dosage which varies according to your symptoms and your emotional state: 1  150mg per day is the minimum recommended dose for one month. 2  300mg per day for two weeks, for faster action during a particular period.
The discovery of Lactium®. The story starts back in the late 1990’s when researchers investigating the connections between calmness and milk drinking in newborns raised the possibility that something in milk was affecting the brain.
KEARNY, N.J.— Lactium® , an all-natural ingredient made from cow’s milk proteins, has been shown to significantly improve various aspects of sleep disorders in a recent clinical study published in The Open Sleep Journal (2009;2). With this study, Lactium validates earlier proof that it can improve sleep parameters often associated with stress condition.”. Lactium is a hydrolysate of milk proteins that contain a bioactive decapeptide with proven relaxing properties.
Also a hydrolysate of milk proteins, Lactium is produced with intact casein, a protein discovered in cow’s milk. Up till now, nevertheless, for all those with milk allergy symptoms casein was not a choice. 
By means of a selective affinity for certain receptors in the brain, called GABA A receptors, Lactium® increases the activity of gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA), a neurotransmitter well known for its inhibitory action on anxiety and its relaxing properties. (find out more). Clinical studies (1)(2)(3) recommend adopting a dosage which varies according to your symptoms and your emotional state: 1  150mg per day is the minimum recommended dose for one month. 2  300mg per day for two weeks, for faster action during a particular period.
Lactium® is a natural product already used by numerous consumers wanting to regulate their chronic stress symptoms (weight gain/ loss, sleep disorders…), to face very stressful periods of life (exams, tobacco detoxification…) or to optimize general well-being (immunity increase, energy and balance,…). Lactium® meets all the technological requirements needed to be incorporated in several food matrixes (dietary supplements as well as functional foods). Our teams support you from concepts and ideas, through development and industrialization and all the way to a successful end product launch.
On a regular or more occasional basis, our lives are full of situations which can cause tension and anxiety. The first symptoms to appear are often snacking, stomach aches or headaches, fatigue, difficulty to concentrate, trouble sleeping, loss of libido, etc. Lactium® , an innovative and natural ingredient, is an excellent ally in improving your daily life.
Latium (Latin: Lătĭŭm, [ˈlatjʊ̃]) is the region of central western Italy in which the city of Rome was founded and grew to be the capital city of the Roman Empire. Latium was originally a small triangle of fertile, volcanic soil on which resided the tribe of the Latins or Latians. Latium, often referred to by the Italian name Lazio, is a government region, i.e. one of the first-level administrative divisions of the state. There are twenty regions in Italy.