Recorded in Billy Bob Thornton's studio in Beverly Hills, and featuring the Oscar winner on guest vocals, Dust Bunnies is an album of little-known gems from the sixties and beyond sung by one of the quintisential rock voices, Howard Kaylan. Seattle,WA (PRWEB) March 21, 2006. Dust Bunnies is the first solo album to come from Howard Kaylan, the lead singer of the Turtles, Flo and Eddie and Frank Zappa’s Mothers of Invention. Howard Kaylan -- Lead Singer of the Turtles, Mothers of Invention, Flo and Eddie -- Releases First Solo Album.
Following their stint with Zappa, Kaylan and fellow Turtles/Mothers vocalist Mark Volman went off on their own, calling themselves at first The Phlorescent Leech and Eddie, and then just Flo and Eddie, until reclaiming the Turtles name. Shell Shocked: My Life with the Turtles, Flo and Eddie, and Frank Zappa, etc. If Howard Kaylan had sung only one song, the Turtles’ 1967 #1 smash hit “Happy Together,” his place in rock and roll history would still be secure.
1 The Turtles seminal 1960s pop rock band with main Jewish founding members Howard Kaylan (lead singer/songwriter, real name Howard Kaplan) and Mark Volman (guitarist,saxophonist,vocalist); had hits with such songs as the Flower power anthem Happy Together, and Elenore. 1 Geddy Lee, Canadian lead singer, bassist, keyboardist, and chief songwriter for the progressive rock band Rush. 2  He was born Gary Lee Weinrib and is the son of Jewish Holocaust survivors. 3  His stage name, Geddy, was inspired by his mother's heavily-accented Yiddish pronunciation of his given first name, Gary.
Shell Shocked: My Life with the Turtles, Flo and Eddie, and Frank Zappa, etc. (Backbeat Books, April 16, 2013) is Howard Kaylan’s incredible story, a timeless rock and roll tale intensely colorful, brutally honest, and a whole lot of fun! Rolling Stone has an excerpt. Read it here! Shell Shocked: My Life with the Turtles, Flo and Eddie, and Frank Zappa, etc. If Howard Kaylan had sung only one song, the Turtles’ 1967 #1 smash hit “Happy Together,” his place in rock and roll history would still be secure.
Late in 1968 the band released a concept album called The Turtles Present the Battle of the Bands, in which the group pretended to be 11 different bands (with names including 'The Bigg Brothers', 'Nature's Children', 'the US Teens featuring Raoul', and 'the Fabulous Dawgs'), each with a song in a different genre. At the start of 1966 drummer Don Murray and bassist Chuck Portz quit the group. They were replaced by Joel Larson and then John Barbata on drums, and by Chip Douglas on bass (October 1966).
Later that year, the Turtles broke up and Howard, along with partner Mark Volman, joined Frank Zappa’s Mothers of Invention where he starred in Zappa’s film “200 Motels” and sang lead on “Live at the Fillmore East”, “Just Another Band From L.A.” and others. Howard Kaylan -- Lead Singer of the Turtles, Mothers of Invention, Flo and Eddie -- Releases First Solo Album.
The Turtles are an American rock band led by vocalists Howard Kaylan and Mark Volman, later known as Flo and Eddie. The band became notable for several Top 40 hits beginning with their cover version of Bob Dylan 's . At the start of 1966 drummer Don Murray and bassist Chuck Portz quit the group. They were replaced by Joel Larson and then John Barbata on drums, and by Chip Douglas on bass (October 1966).
TRAMPLED BY TURTLES – STARS AND SATELLITES. When we started Trampled by Turtles, all we wanted to do was play music with acoustic instruments as a break from our rock bands. We learned old fiddle songs, traditional folk songs, bluegrass songs, and what few original songs we had, followed those formulas. 
They also produced many albums for other bands and artists, as well as singing backing vocals on over 100 albums. Flo and Eddie can be heard singing with John Lennon, Bruce Springsteen, Ramones, Blondie, Duran Duran, The Psychedelic Furs, T.Rex, Alice Cooper and many more. In 1987, Kaylan and Volman appeared in a new music video of the song  Happy Together , made in order to promote the romantic comedy Making Mr. Right, which featured the song during its end credits. In 2001, Kaylan wrote a treatment for a very short film about his first night on tour in London.