More than three-quarters of all Americans predict that Clinton will win the Democratic nomination if she runs for the White House, and two-thirds say she is likely to be the next president if she is the party’s standard-bearer in 2016, according to a new CNN/ORC International poll.
Reuters built a computer model to predict which political party will win the presidency in next year’s election, and the results are in: a Republican will most likely be moving into the White House in 2017.
Presidency 2016 President Obama is barred by constitutional term limits from seeking re-election in 2016. A large crowd of candidates will likely compete for the Democratic and Republican nominations. Plus there are LOTS of likely third party and independent P2016 hopefuls. So, if a person is running, or thinking of running -- regardless of party, ballot status, or chances of winning -- we have him or her listed below.
President Obama is barred by constitutional term limits from seeking re-election in 2016. A large crowd of candidates will likely compete for the Democratic and Republican nominations. Plus there are LOTS of likely third party and independent P2016 hopefuls. So, if a person is running, or thinking of running -- regardless of party, ballot status, or chances of winning -- we have him or her listed below.
Add it up and you can expect to see as many as 15 legitimate candidates in the presidential contest at some point in the next two years. Below are our rankings of the 10 who have the best chance of winding up as the Republican nominee. The candidate ranked No. 1 is the most likely winner.
If there’s one thing you can say about the 2016 Republican presidential field, it is this: It is going to be huge. There are as many as 23 names on some long (long) lists of potential candidates. That’s twice(!) as many people as have run for the GOP nomination in any previous campaign.
Hillary Clinton will be the Democratic Party's nominee, and she will win the 2016 election. When you analyze the objective conditions of the Republican Party today and most likely over the next two years and compare them to Clinton's strengths, it's hard not to make such a prediction with confidence.
by Pam Key 8 Feb 2015 0. Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” Bloomberg’s Mark Halperin said Hillary Clinton is “far and away the most likely next president of the United States.”. Halperin said, “They have people who could step in if she falters.