BREAKING DOWN 'Midstream'. Midstream activities are commonly included as part of downstream operations for much of the oil and gas industry. The midstream and downstream activities take place after the initial production phase and through to the point of sale. Midstream activities include the processing, storing, transporting and marketing of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids.
For the eleventh straight year, Platts ranked 250 of the world's top energy companies. Not surprisingly, the top 10 are all oil and gas companies. Outside of the top 10, however, midstream companies have a significant presence, with five companies placing in the top 100, and 11 in the top 150. The list. Platts evaluated the world's energy companies using four metrics: asset value, revenue, profit, and return on invested capital
The Midstream sector of the oil industry has a major economic impact on a varied array of people, companies, and even countries worldwide. It is a huge, vital sector which successfully handles one of the most difficult logistical challenges in the world. The companies provide the services and materials which make the midstream transportation and storage possible. While this list is certainly not exhaustive, a few of the major ones include: 1  Pipeline Developers. 2  Rail Providers (including Big Rail and Shortline). 3  Rail Car Suppliers. 4  Trucking Companies. 5  Barge
The midstream segment is separated from upstream and downstream in most oil companies because it is considered a low risk, regulated type of business. It does not fit the risk profile or asset complexity of the other segments of the oil and gas industry. Storage. As its name implies, the midstream oil and gas segment encompasses facilities and processes that sit between the upstream and downstream segments. Activities can include processing, storage and transportation of crude oil and natural gas.
The petroleum industry is usually divided into three major components: upstream, midstream and downstream. The midstream sector involves the transportation (by pipeline, rail, barge, oil tanker or truck), storage, and wholesale marketing of crude or refined petroleum products. The midstream operations are often taken to include some elements of the upstream and downstream sectors. For example, the midstream sector may include natural gas processing plants that purify the raw natural gas as well as removing and producing elemental sulfur and natural gas liquids (NGL) as finished end-
DEFINITION of 'Midstream'. Term used to describe one of the three major stages of oil and gas industry operations. Midstream activities include the processing, storing, transporting and marketing of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Next Up
Midstream. The petroleum industry is usually divided into three major components: upstream, midstream and downstream. The midstream sector involves the transportation, storage, and wholesale marketing of crude or refined petroleum products.
Term used to describe one of the three major stages of oil and gas industry operations. Midstream activities include the processing, storing, transporting and marketing of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids.
In this article we will discuss that all important middle step: the midstream sector. For clarity it is also important to note that some systems of classification use only the upstream and downstream sectors as their model. The companies provide the services and materials which make the midstream transportation and storage possible. While this list is certainly not exhaustive, a few of the major ones include: 1  Pipeline Developers. 2  Rail Providers (including Big Rail and Shortline). 3  Rail Car Suppliers. 4  Trucking Companies. 5  Barge