The Orkney Islands are an archipelago of approximately 70 islands some 10 miles (16 km) off the northern coast of Scotland. The Heart of Neolithic Orkney is listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List.
Beyond Britannia, where the endless ocean opens, lies Orkney.. Orosius, fifth century AD. T he Orkney Islands lie off the northern tip of Scotland, where the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean meet. Orkney is made up of 70, or so, islands — of which, only 16 are inhabited. Exact agreement as to the total number of islands is difficult as many are little more than skerries-small uninhabited islets.
The wild, windswept Orkney Islands lie off the northernmost tip of the British mainland (at around the same latitude as Stockholm) and are noted for their stunning scenery and historic sites stretching back millennia. There are about 70 islands all up, though little over a dozen are populated.
Welcome to the Orkney Islands. Situated off the north tip of Scotland, Orkney is home to 19,000 people on it's 19 inhabited islands. Within this website we offer useful information for visitors to the islands, from getting here, to places to stay, and things to do.
Situated off the north coast of Great Britain, Orkney is 16 kilometres (10 mi) north of the coast of Caithness and comprises approximately 70 islands, of which 20 are inhabited.
Islands [edit]. Map of the Orkney Islands. 1  Mainland, Orkney's largest island where 2/3 of the Isles' population resides. 2  Rousay, the Egypt of the North with a large concentration of spectacular archaeological sites. 3  Hoy, the High Island.
Orkney /ˈɔrkni/ (Scottish Gaelic: Arcaibh), also known as the Orkney Islands, is an archipelago in the Northern Isles of Scotland, United Kingdom.
Orkney is one of the 32 council areas of Scotland, a constituency of the Scottish Parliament, a lieutenancy area, and a former county. The local council is Orkney Islands Council, one of only three Councils in Scotland with a majority of elected members who are independents.