After that, if the policy is renewed, the rate falls to 5 to 10 percent. Insurance agents are paid a base salary in addition to the commission. For car salespeople, the average commission rate is 30 percent on the front end after dealer costs. The front end is the difference between the selling price and the price the dealer paid for the vehicle. Related Reading: Sales Commission Duties
Base Plus Commission. Average compensation percentages are often lower if the sales representative earns a salary plus commission. The employer may pay reps a salary for a 40-hour work week and give them the opportunity to increase their income by earning a percentage of their sales. Each company determines the percentage for its reps. Average percentages depend on the industry. For example, car salesmen might earn commission percentages between 20 and 25 percent of the profit on the sale, whereas someone in advertising sales can receive 50 percent of the sale. For example, if an advertising sales rep sells an ad for $1,000, he could earn a $500 commission
The average annual income for a sales representative is between $26,950 and $133,040, according to 2008 figures from the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. Each company determines the percentage for its reps. Average percentages depend on the industry. For example, car salesmen might earn commission percentages between 20 and 25 percent of the profit on the sale, whereas someone in advertising sales can receive 50 percent of the sale. For example, if an advertising sales rep sells an ad for $1,000, he could earn a $500 commission
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Sales category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Sales jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. 
Sales representatives earn commissions based on the sales they make. Generally, commission rates are figured as a percentage of the net sale, excluding shipping and other costs. For example, if Jane sold a piano for $3,000 and made a 10 percent commission, she would earn $300 for that sale. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, some sales reps get paid strictly on a commission basis, others earn a salary and some earn both.
– 90% of all commissions paid to reps are between 5% and 20% based on gross sale amount. – Commissions differ with each industry. – The best way to establish your commission amount is through conversations with knowledgeable reps in your industry. Sales reps earn their money not when the sales are good but when they are bad. In other words, if that customer decides to stop buying, that is when companies pay sales reps less but the sales rep has to do more work. So, yes. If this account is in the sales rep’s territory the rep should be paid for ALL sales.
A rep is currently paid 15% commission on wholesale sales. For the.first time since the business was launched, the rep opens a national multi-store account. This multi-store national account requires a substantial reduction in price (21% off of the regular wholesale price) in order to close the sale. Sales reps earn their money not when the sales are good but when they are bad. In other words, if that customer decides to stop buying, that is when companies pay sales reps less but the sales rep has to do more work. So, yes. If this account is in the sales rep’s territory the rep should be paid for ALL sales.
There is a staffing agency in northern California who happens to be currently looking for an outside sales rep. They told us they are expecting to pay a base salary of $40 - $45,000, with a commission structure that could account for an additional amount of up to $2,000/month. They also reimburse their outside sales reps at the current IRS rate of 55.5 cents for all business miles. Ideally, what you want is to pay a commission that comes from profit generated by the Sales Rep's success, where the cash amount is above and beyond all incurred costs associated with employing/training the Sales Rep.. [repeat of a popular post].
Average Percentages. The average annual income for a sales representative is between $26,950 and $133,040, according to 2008 figures from the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. Several factors influence a sales representative's income, such as the type of sales, the product and his experience. Each company determines the percentage for its reps. Average percentages depend on the industry. For example, car salesmen might earn commission percentages between 20 and 25 percent of the profit on the sale, whereas someone in advertising sales can receive 50 percent of the sale. For example, if an advertising sales rep sells an ad for $1,000, he could earn a $500 commission