3. D. 4. False if you inspect the genetic code, you can see that some amino acids can have multiple different mRNA codons. It is possible to get a mutation that will create an mRNA codon that will bring in the SAME amino acid as the original. 5. 6. One codon of an mRNA reads GUA, which specifies valine. If a mutation changes the first nucleotide of the DNA coding for this RNA to an A, use the genetic code to determine what amino acid will be put in after the mutation.
A series of codons in part of a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule. Each codon consists of three nucleotides, usually corresponding to a single amino acid. The nucleotides are abbreviated with the letters A, U, G and C. This is mRNA, which uses U (uracil). DNA uses T (thymine) instead. Biological decoding is accomplished by the ribosome, which links amino acids in an order specified by mRNA, using transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to carry amino acids and to read the mRNA three nucleotides at a time.
The portion of the genome that codes for a protein or an RNA is called a gene. Those genes that code for proteins are composed of tri-nucleotide units called codons, each coding for a single amino acid. Each nucleotide sub-unit consists of a phosphate, a deoxyribose sugar, and one of the four nitrogenous nucleobases. Biological decoding is accomplished by the ribosome, which links amino acids in an order specified by mRNA, using transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to carry amino acids and to read the mRNA three nucleotides at a time.
C is obviously wrong/false. However, A is also false because of the word always--there are frameshift mutations that lead to decoding/reading of groups of FOUR nucleotides. B is the only answer that is TRUE. Source(s): Nucleic acid biochemistry background. SibeDriver · 2 years ago. C. Every codon codes for a particular amino acid. An amino acid can be coded for by more than 1 amino acid. E.g Leucine is coded for by CUU, CUC, CUA, CUG. The process by which more than 1 codon codes for a particular amino acid is known as Code Degeneracy.
The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded within genetic material (DNA or mRNA sequences) is translated into proteins by living cells. Biological decoding is accomplished by the ribosome, which links amino acids in an order specified by mRNA, using transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to carry amino acids and to read the mRNA three nucleotides at a time.
Each amino acid in a polypeptide is coded for by three bases in the DNA. Each triplet has many different meanings. Each DNA base codes for three amino acids. There are six different codons that code for the amino acid leucine in a protein. Because of this, we say that the code is _____.
The genetic code as we know it is written for the nitrogenous bases as found on the mRNA. The words of the genetic code often overlap. In other words, the end of one word often forms the beginning of the next word.. When we say that the genetic code is nearly universal, we mean that ________. Each three-base code is the word for only one amino acid. With very few exceptions, the same codon codes for the same amino acid throughout the living world. The code contains no commas. 
The backbone or outer strands of DNA are repeating sugars and bases. The genetic code lies in the order of nitrogen bases. True / False Statement Four bases in a row make up one codon. Each codon codes for one amino acid. All genetic mutations are harmful. Genetic mutations may be harmful, neutral, or beneficial. True / False Statement A genetic mutation always causes the production of a different protein. Mutagenic agents are drugs taken by a patient to treat a genetic mutation.
The genetic code is highly similar among all organisms and can be expressed in a simple table with 64 entries. Biological decoding is accomplished by the ribosome, which links amino acids in an order specified by mRNA, using transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to carry amino acids and to read the mRNA three nucleotides at a time.