The banana is a perennial plant that replaces itself. Bananas do not grow from a seed but from a bulb or rhizome. The time between planting a banana plant and the harvest of the banana bunch is from 9 to 12 months. The flower appears in the sixth or seventh month. Bananas are available throughout the year-they do not have a growing 'season'. Bananas are grown in tropical regions where the average temperature is 80° F (27° C) and the yearly rainfall is between 78 and 98 inches.
Worldwide, there is no sharp distinction between bananas and plantains. Especially in the Americas and Europe, banana usually refers to soft, sweet, dessert bananas, particularly those of the Cavendish group, which are the main exports from banana-growing countries. By contrast, Musa cultivars with firmer, starchier fruit are called plantains. This can extend to other members of the genus Musa like the scarlet banana (Musa coccinea), pink banana (Musa velutina) and the Fe'i bananas. It can also refer to members of the genus Ensete, like the snow banana (Ensete glaucum) and the economically important false banana (Ensete ventricosum).
A. A common misconception is that bananas come from banana trees, when in fact the banana is closely related to ginger and ornamental plants such as birds of paradise, amaranths and canna lilies. The banana plant is not a tree, but the world's largest perennial herb and grows up to 25 feet, developing massive banana leaves that may extend 9 feet in the air. Edible bananas are technically berries and do not produce mature seeds [1] . Their rhizomes, or roots, can be hundreds of years old.
Bananas and pineapples are grown in countries of the tropics-Africa, Latin America, Caribbean, Pacific etc. Many countries produce bananas as a staple food and only around 20% of all bananas that are produced are actually exported. Most bananas and pineapples sold on the British market are exported from Latin America, and increasingly West Africa, as companies relocate in search of ever 'cheaper' fruit, pursuing a 'Race to the Bottom' in terms of social and environmental standards.
Most bananas grow in South and Central America (Brazil, Ecuador, Guatemala, Panama, Mexico, Colombia), South-East Asia (China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Phillipines, Thailand …), Africa (Burundi), and the Carribean Islands and Canary Islands. Confidence votes 1.4K. Bananas grow in South America, South-East Asia, Africa and the Caribbean islands. Hawaii and Florida are the only locations in the US with any significant production. La Palma, one of the seven major Canary Islands also has many banana plantations.
Map of Banana Farms. Tweet. Delicious bananas are grown at banana farms in tropical regions of the world. The banana industry in North America sources its bananas from tropical regions. Chiquita owns farms in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama. Most of the bananas you buy are grown within 20 degrees on either side of the equator. ecuador Ecuador is the world’s leading banana exporter. It sends its fruit from banana farms to the U.S., Europe, Japan, Chile and Argentina. The banana industry in North America sources its bananas from tropical regions. Chiquita owns farms in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama.
Bananas originated in Indonesia and Malaysia, and their territory stretched to Northern Australia. They have since been planted all over the tropics and sub-tropics, where they thrive in the warm, moist climates. Recent archaeological and palaeoenvironmental evidence at Kuk Swamp in the Western Highlands Province of Papua New Guinea suggests that banana cultivation there goes back to at least 5000 BCE, and possibly to 8000 BCE.[1] This would make the New Guinean highlands the place where bananas were first domesticated.