1) Click on the messenger tab at the top. I see my contacts, the option to sign out of messenger (don't get excited it will log you in again the next time you open hotmail), contacts, profile, add friends and invitations. Why isn't the auto sign in option here. Why isn't everything to do with messenger under the messenger button. 1. Sign in your account. 2. On the left pane of the window, click on  Sign out of Messenger.. 3. Sign out of Hotmail. 4. Sign in your account again. On the other hand, the option to turn off the Messenger in Outlook.com is not available.
Disabling automatic sign-in. If you're being automatically signed in to your Google Account, you may have enabled either a password-storing feature in your browser, or the Google Accounts option to Stay signed in.. Learn more about stored passwords in Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Windows Internet Explorer. If it's selected, delete your browser's cookies. Each time you sign in to your Google Account, make sure the Stay signed in option isn't selected. If the problem persists, you may want to clear your browser's cache and cookies.
If you are referring to the Web Messenger in Hotmail, you can definitely turn it off automatically by following the steps below: 1. Sign in your account. 2. On the left pane of the window, click on  Sign out of Messenger.. 3. Sign out of Hotmail. 4. Sign in your account again. On the other hand, the option to turn off the Messenger in Outlook.com is not available. Thank you.
AD. AD. Hi, To disable the sign in window, open Windows Live Mail and go to: The Windows Live Mail drop-down menu icon (top left above 'Email Message' icon). Select 'Options', then click on 'Mail' from the selection offered. Now every time I sign into a 3rd party email account using the Windows Live 2011 email client it prompts me for a Windows Live Mail Sign in. I cancel but if I exit and open again the same sign on comes on. To stop this from happening first sign into the Windows Live Mail.
JM. Hi, To disable the sign in window, open Windows Live Mail and go to: The Windows Live Mail drop-down menu icon (top left above 'Email Message' icon). Select 'Options', then click on 'Mail' from the selection offered. Now every time I sign into a 3rd party email account using the Windows Live 2011 email client it prompts me for a Windows Live Mail Sign in. I cancel but if I exit and open again the same sign on comes on. To stop this from happening first sign into the Windows Live Mail.
Customer: yes. yes. Simit: In order to stop it from logging in automatically, you can just click on Sign Out at the top right. In order to stop it from logging in automatically, you can just click on Sign Out at the top right. Simit: Then when you log in again, just unchech the box that says Remember my Password.
•. When you're looking at your Hotmail, if you look at the top of the window, you'll see a list of several links, including the .net Sign Out button: Click on the Sign Out button. It'll log you out, and take you to the MSN home page. Now, return to Hotmail page, and you'll be required to sign back in: 
The second option is to sign in to your computer using the local account. You will not be automatically signed into Windows Live services, or sync your settings from computer to computer. RESOLVED:I clicked on the “Sign in to Windows Live” button in the email client and there it was! The “remember me” box was ticked and as I entered first letter of my email address, it auto-filled the rest of my address and it also filled the password box.