IMEI is short for International Mobile Equipment Identity and is a unique number given to every single mobile phone, typically found behind the battery. IMEI numbers of cellular phones connected to a GSM network are stored in a database (EIR-Equipment Identity Register) containing all valid mobile phone equipment.
IMEI number (International Mobile Equipment Identity) is a 15 or 17 digit unique number to identify mobile devices, as well as some other devices. It is usually found printed on the phones back under the battery.
IMEI stands for International Mobile Equipment Identity and is a unique identifier for a mobile device. IMEI is a form of ESN (Electronic Serial Number) .
1 Most phones will tell you when the number is displayed if it is an IMEI or MEID number. 2  If your phone doesn't you can verify which number it is by checking what carrier you use. 3  GSM networks like AT&T and T-Mobile use IMEI numbers. 4  CDMA networks such as Sprint, Verizon, and US Cellular use MEID numbers.
IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) number of a mobile phone is a 15 digit number unique to a mobile handset. Just key in *#06# on your mobile phone and it will display its IMEI number in most phones.
The IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) is a unique 17 or 15 digit code used to identify an individual mobile station to a GSM or UMTS network. The IMEI number provides an important function; it uniquely identifies a specific mobile phone being used on a mobile network.
1 Dial *#06# on your phone. 2  Most phones display the serial number (IMEI) when this code is dialed. 3  On a Dual-SIM phone, you will see two IMEI numbers, please enter the first IMEI in this case. 4  If you have a Lumia phone, go to Settings About More information, and find your serial number (IMEI).
The IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) is a unique number to identify GSM, WCDMA, and iDEN mobile phones, as well as some satellite phones. The IMEI is only used for identifying the device and has no permanent or semi-permanent relation to the subscriber.
An IMEI is only used to identify the device and does not relate to a specific individual or organization. Other numbers such as the ESN (Electronic Serial Numbers) and MEID (Mobile Equipment Identifiers) can link an individual to a phone.