You can safely keep the rice in the fridge-preferably in an airtight plastic container-for up to four days. When you're ready to use the rice, cook it thoroughly, either in the oven or microwave, or by frying it in hot oil.
1 How long does cooked rice last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; rice should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
Cooked Food: Leftover, cooked foods should be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container and eaten within 4-5 days. Food, whether cooked or not, should not be left at room temperature for more than 4 hours otherwise the risk of food poisoning increases.
The main risk you have with rice are Bacillus cereus (aka Fried Rice Syndrome) and the Aspergillus genus of mold species that love starch rich environments and can cause you serious pain and damage. In a professional kitchen all cooked food is disposed of after 3 days in the fridge.
Confidence votes 181. Answer: Cooked foods should be used within 3 days of refrigeration. ----------------------------------------. Leave cooked rice uncovered until it's cooled slightly.
You can get food poisoning from eating reheated rice. However, it's not the reheating that causes the problem but the way the rice has been stored before it was reheated.
RICE: Cooked rice may be stored safely in your refrigerator for up to one week. SALADS: Egg, tuna, ham, chicken and macaroni salads can be kept safely for 3-5 days.
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately.
Answer by Chazah. Confidence votes 181. Answer: Cooked foods should be used within 3 days of refrigeration. ----------------------------------------. Leave cooked rice uncovered until it's cooled slightly. Refrigerate in its cooking container and cover when cold.
---------------------------------------- Answer: About 3-4 days. I never have any problem with storing cooked rice in the fridge, but make sure its cooled and place in an airtight container. It never goes dry, hard or loses its flavor and I've been doing this for over 20yrs.