About Mindspark Interactive Network. Mindspark is a business unit of IAC that focuses on interactive products and web portals and operates IAC's interactive products and web portals such as Life123, Myway.com and Excite. The myWebSearch Toolbar is a web-browser add-on that provides search function to the browser menu. The toolbar was required in many of Mindspark products, allowing user to query myWebSearch search engine.
Mindspark toolbars are similar to other browser plugins, which cause redirect issues, including, for example, babylon toolbar and delta search toolbar amongst many others. The Mindspark company develops various toolbars and extensions for Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, and Mozilla Firefox. Internet users can download these browser plugins from their homepage, however, they commonly install together with free software downloaded from the Internet, or via deceptive banner advertisements.
MindSpark is a toolbar...PUP.Optional.MindSpark is the specific name used by Malwarebytes Anti-Malware to detect it. In many cases these issues are the result of unwanted toolbars, add-ons/plug-ins, and browser extensions which come bundled with other free software you download. 
Mindspark is a computer based self-learning programme that helps the child improve her skills in Maths. Through an intelligent program logic, it allows each student to follow a learning path that is based on her need at a pace she is comfortable with. A key advantage of Mindspark is the fact that it successfully harnesses the power of new technologies to bolster learning. An intelligent computer system uses a complex adaptive logic to decide what problem to serve up to a student next, based on her response to the current problem and problems answered earlier.
A search of the web indicates that MindSpark appears to be a legit company... but it is a bit ambiguous. I'd try your add/remove programs control panel and see if it can be normally uninstalled. If it's an unwanted toolbar in IE the easiest way to get rid is to do a system restore to a date before it was foisted upon you. Some toolbars won't show up on the Add and Remove Programs dialog, as they are installed as part of other applications under a different name.
Detected by Malwarebytes. PUP.Optional.MindSpark.A is deemed as potentially unwanted program that performs malicious actions once installed on the computer. This detection by Malwarebytes Anti-Malware program is given to specific software that user may optionally install together with third-party application. To start instantly when browser is opened, PUP.Optional.MindSpark.A installs itself as browser helper object. This also gives the malware to have control on the browser and install its own search engine and toolbar object.
Mindspark Interactive Network, Inc. is an operating business unit of IAC and home to hundreds of popular apps across categories such as lifestyle, entertainment and utilities. Mindspark’s mobile division, mobile developer Apalon which was acquired by Mindspark in 2014, ranks as a top 10 iOS developer of applications worldwide, known for popular apps such as Weather Live, Emoji Keypad, and Calculator Pro.
And it is adware. PUP.Optional.MindSpark it’s technically not a virus, but it does exhibit plenty of malicious traits, such as rootkit capabilities to hook deep into the operating system, browser hijacking, and in general just interfering with the user experience. PUP.Optional.MindSpark is an ad-supported (users may see additional banner, search, pop-up, pop-under, interstitial and in-text link advertisements) cross web browser plugin for Internet Explorer (BHO) and Firefox/Chrome (plugin) and distributed through various monetization platforms during installation.