The smallest planet in regards to both mass and volume is Mercury—this tiny world is nearly 20 times less massive than Earth, and its diameter is about times 2 ½ smaller. In fact, Mercury is closer in size to our Moon than to Earth. The largest planet in our solar system by far is Jupiter, which beats out all the other planets in both mass and volume. Jupiter’s mass is more than 300 times that of Earth, and its diameter is about 11 times larger than Earth’s diameter. 
The smallest planet in the Solar System is Mercury (the biggest planet is Jupiter). For the longest time, the smallest planet was considered to be Pluto, but now Pluto isn’t a planet any more, so we’re back to Mercury. Mercury measures 4879 km along its equator. Just for comparison, Earth is 12,742 km across. So Mercury is only 38% the diameter of Earth
Mercury is the smallest actual planet of the eight  comprising the solar system. It is actually smaller (but more  massive) than the moons Ganymede and Titan. Mercury has ab … out 5.5%  of the mass of Earth.    Previously, the dwarf planet Pluto was considered the smallest  planet. Mercury is the smallest of the 8 major planets with about 5.5% of the mass of Earth. It is smaller but more massive than the largest moons of Jupiter and Saturn.
Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. Even though it is the smallest planet, Ganymede a moon of Jupiter is larger than Mercury Pluto might have been the smal … lest planet, but it has now been reclassified as a dwarf planet.. There might well be billions of smaller planets outside fo
Jupiter is the largest planet and Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. Extra-solar radii extremes would be HAT-P-32b as the largest and Kepler-42d as the small … est. 9 people found this useful. Even though it is the smallest planet, Ganymede a moon of Jupiter is larger than Mercury Pluto might have been the smal … lest planet, but it has now been reclassified as a dwarf planet..
If we put our planets in ‘size order’ they would be listed as the following, from large to small: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Earth, Venus, Mars, and Mercury. Since we lost Pluto as an official planet, it appears that Mercury is now considered the smallest planet in the solar system. 
Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. Even though it is the smallest planet, Ganymede a moon of Jupiter is larger than Mercury. Pluto might have been the smallest planet, but it has now been reclassified as a dwarf planet.. There might well be billions of smaller planets outside for solar system. The smallest exoplanet found so far is about twice the size of the Earth. Mercury is the smallest of the 8 major planets with about 5.5% of the mass of Earth. It is smaller but more massive than the largest moons of Jupiter and Saturn.