Lanolin’s role in nature is to protect wool and skin against the ravages of climate and the environment; it also seems to play a role in skin (integumental) hygiene. Lanolin and its many derivatives are used extensively in products designed for the protection, treatment and beautification of human skin. The wool from one Merino sheep will produce about 250–300 ml of recoverable wool grease. Lanolin is extracted by washing the wool in hot water with a special wool scouring detergent to remove dirt, wool grease (crude lanolin), suint (sweat salts), and anything else stuck to the wool.
by RealizeBeautyEd. Lanolin, also known as wool fat is the sheep equivalent of sebum (the stuff that makes our skin and hair greasy). It consists of liquid waxes and is produced by the sheep to give it some protection from the elements. 
The human uses of lanolin are very similar to the sheep’s. It is used as an emollient in cosmetics, skin care, hair care, toiletries, and personal care products. It is also a common ingredient in medicine, especially dermatological agents. In nature, the lanolin that sheep secrete makes their wool water-resistant and protects their coats from the environment. Lanolin is a byproduct of wool farming (an inherently cruel industry) and is gathered after the sheep has been shorn.
Lanolin is a waxy substance derived from sheep’s wool, and is sometimes referred to as wool wax, wool grease and, less frequently, wool fat. In nature, the lanolin that sheep secrete makes their wool water-resistant and protects their coats from the environment. Lanolin is a byproduct of wool farming (an inherently cruel industry) and is gathered after the sheep has been shorn. The fleece is cleaned through a process called scouring, in which it is submerged in a hot detergent solution. The lanolin is then collected from the solution by high-speed centrifugation
Lanolin is a fatty substance that is only found on animals that grow wool, such as sheep. Pure lanolin is a powerful moisturizer that can promote the smoothness and translucency associated with healthy, youthful skin. Historically, lanolin has been the choice for dry skin and aging skin. Lanolin cream works by forming an oily layer on top of the skin to trap moisture loss from the skin. This gives your skin the translucent texture and hydrated look and feel. Lanolin is such a powerful moisturizer that it is used for industrial use.
wool fat or wool grease that is refined and incorporated into many commercial preparations. Lanolin is a by-product of the process that accompanies the removal of sheep's wool from the pelt. In its crude form it is a greasy yellow wax of unpleasant odor. This odor disappears when the lanolin is emulsified and made into salves, creams, ointments, and cosmetic
Lanolin is a by-product of the process that accompanies the removal of sheeps' wool from the pelt. In its crude form it is a greasy yellow wax of unpleasant odor which disappears when the lanolin is emulsified and made into salves, creams, ointments and cosmetics. Lanolin is a by-product of the process that accompanies the removal of sheep's wool from the pelt. In its crude form it is a greasy yellow wax of unpleasant odor.
Lanolin (from Latin lāna, ‘wool’, and oleum, ‘oil’), also called wool wax or wool grease, is a wax secreted by the sebaceous glands of wool-bearing animals. Lanolin used by humans comes from domestic sheep breeds that are raised specifically for their wool. The wool from one Merino sheep will produce about 250–300 ml of recoverable wool grease. Lanolin is extracted by washing the wool in hot water with a special wool scouring detergent to remove dirt, wool grease (crude lanolin), suint (sweat salts), and anything else stuck to the wool.
Lanolin Lanolin is the smelly pale-yellow natural oil found on sheep's wool. As a waste product in wool processing, it's also known as wool oil, wool wax, wool fat, or wool grease. It's a natural water repellant  the function of which, as it's not too hard to guess, is to waterproof the sheep. Lanolin also has anti-fungal and antibacterial properties that protect the sheep's skin from infection. Derived from the animal's oil glands, lanolin is a mixture of wool fat and 25-30% water.
Lanolin cream is rich in fatty acids for free radical protection and non greasy hydration. Lanolin is another name meant for wool fat or wool grease that is derived from domestic sheep. Its naturally occurring lanolin is similar to the natural substances found in human skin. When Lanolin is combined with vitamin-e or other ingredients, it helps it to be absorbed by the skin deeper at the cellular level. Historically, lanolin has been the choice for dry skin and aging skin. Lanolin cream works by forming an oily layer on top of the skin to trap moisture loss from the skin. This gives your skin the translucent texture and hydrated look and feel. Lanolin is such a powerful moisturizer that it is used for industrial use.