Becoming a sports medicine physician requires obtaining a bachelor's degree and a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree. During their undergraduate years, students will need to take pre-med classes in biology, anatomy and chemistry. Medical school is a 4-year program in which the last two years include clinical rotations. 
After these educational requirements are met, sports medicine physicians must complete a medical residency and fellowship before continuing on to obtain a state license. Education and training required to become a sports medicine physician should take about 15 years in total. There is a step-by-step educational process required to obtain a sports medicine license in the United States. First, it is necessary to complete a four-year bachelor’s degree in pre-med at an accredited four-year university.
How to Become a Sports Medicine Doctor. Sports medicine doctors or sports doctors treat patients suffering from athletic or sports injuries. Follow this guide on how to become a sports medicine doctor and earn a typical sports medicine doctor salary. To become a sports doctor, having a medical background and sufficient training is expected. Browse accredited sports medicine doctor degree programs on-campus and online. Sports medicine focuses preventing, diagnosing, and treating conditions and injuries related to athletic activity and exercise. As of this year, sports medicine doctors with less than 1 year experience earned average annual salaries between $40,695 and $148,869. Those with 1 to 4 years experience earned annual salaries between $110,000 and $160,573, according to data from Payscale (2014).
A sports medicine doctor has extensive training in musculoskeletal medicine so that they can treat injuries and conditions related to physical activity, such as fractures, sprains and strains. Sports medicine doctors may also treat chronic illnesses that can affect physical performance, such as asthma and diabetes. Step 4: Complete a Residency. Once you are a licensed physician, you must begin residency training. Aspiring sports medicine doctors may choose to complete their residency in a primary care specialty, such as family medicine, internal medicine or pediatrics. However, you may also choose to enter a residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation or emergency medicine or orthopedic surgery
Since sports medicine is a subspecialty, doctors must get a certification of added qualification (CAQ) in sports medicine. To prepare for this, doctors complete a two-year fellowship in sports medicine at a hospital, rehabilitation facility or university athletic department. These two years expose doctors to different types of athletic-related injuries and methods of diagnosing and treating them. The field of sports medicine is evolving. In addition to working with athletic teams and in private physicians’ offices, sports medicine doctors sometimes work in fitness centers, hospitals and clinics.
New physicians must complete either a three-or five-year residency before continuing on to a two-year fellowship. Becoming a primary care physician requires three years of residency in family medicine and other practices. Orthopedic surgeons must complete five years of surgical training. There is a step-by-step educational process required to obtain a sports medicine license in the United States. First, it is necessary to complete a four-year bachelor’s degree in pre-med at an accredited four-year university.
A prospective sports medicine physicians must complete a four-year pre-med degree. This degree can be obtained at any accredited university, online or on-campus. Applicants to medical school must also take and pass the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT). The MCAT is a standardized, multiple-choice exam. There is a step-by-step educational process required to obtain a sports medicine license in the United States. First, it is necessary to complete a four-year bachelor’s degree in pre-med at an accredited four-year university.
To become a sports medicine physician in Canada, you must begin by earning a baccalaureate degree, typically in a field such as biology. Once you have earned your bachelor’s degree, you will need to complete three or four year Medical Doctor (MD) degree program at an accredited university. Education Needed to Become a Sports Medicine Physician in the U.S. To become a sports medicine physician in the United States, you must begin by earning a baccalaureate degree, typically in pre-med program. Once you complete your bachelor’s degree, you must complete a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) or a Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree