Subway Franchise Cost /Initial Investment/ Subway Franchise Income. The capital required to open a Subway franchise is $80,000 and the Subway franchise fee is $15,000 with a total investment of $116,000. We currently don’t have information on the average Subway franchise income. 
Startup Costs. According to subway.com, required start-up costs for a Subway franchise range between $99,000 and $243,000, depending on the location and whether you intend to purchase a used building, lease a facility or build a new restaurant from the ground up. Once a Subway franchise is up and running, franchisees are responsible for the same range of costs as other restaurants, including food and labor costs. Food costs include direct costs for ingredients such as meat, produce and soda fountain syrup and shrinkage costs from inventory that is expired, stolen or damaged.
Franchise Capital Requirements. The SUBWAY® franchise has some of the lowest start-up costs in the industry. Your complete investment will depend on your location, size, and the extent of renovations required. There are traditional and nontraditional locations for SUBWAY® franchises.
Tim Boyle/Getty Images. Subway is one of the cheapest major fast-food restaurants to franchise. To open one restaurant, the company requires that potential franchisees have liquid assets of at least $30,000 and a net worth of $80,000 to $310,000, according to Entrepreneur. 
Franchise Fees. All aspiring Subway franchise owners must pay a franchise fee to the parent organization. As of 2011, the franchise fee is currently set at $15,000, which is due in a single lump sum. Franchise fees are a minor revenue component for the franchiser compared with royalty payments. Once a Subway franchise is up and running, franchisees are responsible for the same range of costs as other restaurants, including food and labor costs. Food costs include direct costs for ingredients such as meat, produce and soda fountain syrup and shrinkage costs from inventory that is expired, stolen or damaged.
Be part of a Winning Team with the #1 Franchise! With MORE THAN 38,000 global locations, the SUBWAY® system is the largest restaurant chain in North America and is poised to become the #1 Quick Service Restaurant chain in the world. 
SUBWAY®. Quick Summary. Be part of a winning team with the #1 franchise! Since its founding, the SUBWAY® franchise system has experienced phenomenal growth, and is committed to becoming the #1 Quick Service Restaurant chain in the world with over 41,000 global locations. Add To Info Request Cart.
Subway Franchise. Submarine sandwich restaurant chain. In 1965, 17-year-old Fred DeLuca and family friend Peter Buck opened Pete's Super Submarines in Bridgeport, Connecticut. With a loan from Buck for only $1,000, DeLuca hoped the tiny sandwich shop would earn enough to put him through college. 
SUBWAY® is ranked the #1 Franchise in the Quick Service Restaurant industry. The SUBWAY® franchise is growing at a remarkable pace. With more than 37,000 stores throughout the world, SUBWAY® has more locations than any other Quick Service Restaurant. 