Urad dal is rich in iron, folate, fibre, potassium. It is also a good source of calcium which is important for vegetarians and elderly people who require high amounts of calcium for maintaining bone health. It also boosts your energy and keeps you active. Chana dal: A variety of dal which is deliciously thick. Chana dal is rich in B-vitamins which help energise you. It is full of fibre which helps diabetics to control their blood sugar levels. It also has potassium and folic acid. The fibre in it helps lower cholesterol levels preventing heart problems.
Made with moong dal, pomegranate, carrots, and raw mangoes, this chaat packs a very healthy punch. Moong dal is rich in protein and calcium, and the other fruits and vegetables added will boost your vitamin intake. Carrots are a good source of dietary fibre that can keep you full and satiated for a longer time. Ingredients: 1  1/2 cup yellow moong dal(split yellow gram). 2  1/2 cup grated carrots. 
While dal is a good source of protein for vegetarians, let this not be your only source. Eat a well balanced diet with a good amount of protein for your lifestyle. For the non-vegetarians: Do not count it as protein and get your protein fix from eggs and meat instead, as this is a cleaner form of protein. If you were to get your protein needs from dal alone you would have to consume a huge amount of dal and therefore you would naturally consume a lot of carbs along with that. For someone who is fit and active, dal is not considered a sufficient source of protein for this very reason.
While dal is a good protein source it needs to be supplemented with protein in a purer form. Even for those who are not very active, dal along with paneer, dahi, nuts, and tofu is a must. But for those who work out heavily and are trying to get lean, and build lean muscle, a protein supplement or even eggs is important. If you were to get your protein needs from dal alone you would have to consume a huge amount of dal and therefore you would naturally consume a lot of carbs along with that. For someone who is fit and active, dal is not considered a sufficient source of protein for this very reason.
Daal-Kadhi. Moong Dal (yellow dal) is a healthy Indian comfort food prepared from yellow split lentil (green split gram without skin) and many spices. It is rich in protein and a staple food in India and main source of protein for vegetarians. Serve it with rice and roti for healthy wholesome meal. 1 To cook dal using pan instead of pressure cooker in step-3 and step-4 (in above recipe), follow the given steps. 2  Remaining steps are same as given above. 3  Pour 2 cups water in a saucepan or deep kadai. 4  Add (soaked and drained) dal, salt and turmeric powder in it. 5  Boil it on low flame until dal is cooked.
If you are looking for a protein-friendly diet, then opt for urad dal. This dal is one of the richest sources of proteins and Vitamin B. Urad dal is also good for women as it has iron, folic acid, calcium, magnesium, potassium which makes it a healthy pulse. Urad dal is also rich in fibre which makes it easy to digest. Some types of dals are good for the heart as well. For example, urad dal benefits the health as it is good for the heart. It is one of the healthy pulses for vegetarians as it boosts energy in the body and has rich iron content which fights several health issues. Here are some of the amazing health benefits of including urad dal (black gram) in your diet.
Protein Rich. It is a protein-rich dal for vegetarians. For those who do not eat meat or fish, have black gram as it is rich in protein which is much required by the body. For strong bones and a healthy body, have urad dal. It is one of the healthy pulses for vegetarians as it boosts energy in the body and has rich iron content which fights several health issues. Here are some of the amazing health benefits of including urad dal (black gram) in your diet.
Lobiya Dal. Lobiya dal or black eyed peas are rich in proteins and rich in an important trace mineral zinc. There are very few vegan sources of zinc that is essential for men. Bengal Gram Dal. Chana dal or Bengal gram dal is one of the richest vegan source of dietary proteins. It is also rich in trace minerals like copper, manganese etc. Having this dal helps keep diabetes at bay.
Moong dal is rich in protein and used in a variety of traditional vegetable dishes. They have a nutty flavor and are easy to cook. Moong is relatively easy to digest. 