For an example, a human gamete contains only 23 chromosomes where as a human somatic cell contains 46 chromosomes. Germ cells are the cells which give rise to gametes. Meiosis takes place during gametogenesis (process of gamete production) giving rise to haploid cells. • Somatic cells contain homologous pairs of chromosomes, whereas gametes contain only unpaired chromosomes. • Somatic cells form internal and external structures of the body, whereas gametes do not. • Somatic cells are found almost everywhere in the body, whereas gametes are restricted to certain parts.
Unlike the somatic cells, gametes are haploid cells, which carry unpaired chromosomes. A gamete of a particular multicellular organism always carries only half the number of chromosomes carried by a somatic cell of that particular organism. • Somatic cells contain homologous pairs of chromosomes, whereas gametes contain only unpaired chromosomes. • Somatic cells form internal and external structures of the body, whereas gametes do not. • Somatic cells are found almost everywhere in the body, whereas gametes are restricted to certain parts.
In humans, n = 23. Gametes contain half the chromosomes contained in normal diploid cells of the body, which are also known as somatic cells. Haploid gametes are produced during meiosis, which is a type of cell division that reduces the number of chromosomes in a parent diploid cell by half. The term haploid can also refer to the number of chromosomes in egg or sperm cells, which are also called gametes. In humans, gametes are haploid cells that contain 23 chromosomes, each of which a one of a chromosome pair that exists in diplod cells.
In animals, somatic cells are produced by mitosis and ________ are produced by meiosis. After telophase I of meiosis, the chromosomal makeup of each daughter cell is. A) diploid, and the chromosomes are composed of a single chromatid. B) diploid, and the chromosomes are composed of two chromatids. C) ha
Haploid describes a cell that contains a single set of chromosomes. The term haploid can also refer to the number of chromosomes in egg or sperm cells, which are also called gametes. In humans, gametes are haploid cells that contain 23 chromosomes, each of which a one of a chromosome pair that exists in diplod cells. The number of chromosomes in a single set is represented as n, which is also called the haploid number
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A. gametes The reason gametes are produced by meiosis is because meiosis creates 4 'daughter' cells from the original 'parent' cell, but each daughter cell contains only half the chromosomes of the parent. 
In animals somatic cells are produced by mitosis and answer here are produced by meiosis. a. gametes b. clones c. zygotes d. spores e. Gametes are your haploid sex cells which are formed by meiosis. Gametes combined to form a zygote which is a diploid cell. Spores are haploid plant sex cells. Clones doesn`t even make sense ..
Gametes are an organism's reproductive cells. They are also referred to as sex cells. Female gametes are called ova or egg cells, and male gametes are called sperm. Gametes are haploid cells, and each cell carries only one copy of each chromosome. These reproductive cells are produced through a type of cell division called meiosi
Gametes (sperm and ova) are haploid cells. The haploid gametes produced by most organisms combine to form a zygote with n pairs of chromosomes, i.e. 2 n chromosomes in total. The chromosomes in each pair, one of which comes from the sperm and one from the egg, are said to be homologous. Cells and organisms with pairs of homologous chromosomes are called diploid. For example, most animals are diploid and produce haploid gametes. During meiosis, sex cell precursors have their number of chromosomes halved by randomly choosing one member of each pair of chromosomes, resulting in