Turn off more accessible mode. Skip directly to content SIMATIC HMI-Efficient to a new levelWith SIMATIC HMI, we offer a complete, integrated Human Machine Interface suite that includes best-in-class products and systems for all HMI tasks. 
HMI or Human Machine Interface is simply the way by which humans interact with machines. An HMI in terms of the InduSoft Web Studio platform is a control panel that is easily designed, implemented, and maintained/modified simply by creating or modifying it in the InduSoft Development Environment.
The user interface, in the industrial design field of human–machine interaction, is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur. The user interface or human–machine interface is the part of the machine that handles the human–machine interaction. Membrane switches, rubber keypads and touchscreens are examples of the physical part of the Human Machine Interface which we can see and touch.
HMI. HMI (Human Machine Interface) is a User Interface where interaction between a human and a manufacturing or process control system occurs. The HMI provides graphics-based visualization of a control system. The outcome of interaction with an HMI is effective operation and control of a process.
HMI. An acronym for Human Machine Interface. An HMI is a software application that presents information to an operator or user about the state of a process, and to accept and implement the operators control instructions. Typically information is displayed in a graphic format (Graphical User Interface or GUI). 
Hydrargyrum medium-arc iodide, or HMI, is the brand name of Osram brand for a metal-halide gas discharge medium arc-length lamp manufactured for film and entertainment applications. Hydrargyrum is Latin for mercury (Hg). 
The Hypnosis Motivation Institute, HMI, is a non-profit nationally accredited hypnosis training college and clinic of hypnotherapy that has been serving Southern California for more than 47 years. HMI was founded in 1968 by Dr. John Kappas. It is this clinical experience that provides the foundation for HMI's Hypnotherapy Certification Training and Internship program. The Hypnosis Motivation Institute strives to offer the most extensive and thorough hypnotherapy training and internship program available.
HMI stands for H uman M achine I nterface. This is the interface between the operator and the controller. The HMI is the controller operating panel. The panel comprises a numeric keypad and a LCD screen that displays text. The keypad is used to input data into the application, such as Timer values. The PLC's Display screen can show operator messages, variable information from the program and system information. HMI messages are created in the Display Edito
Generally, the goal of user interface design is to produce a user interface which makes it easy (self explanatory), efficient, and enjoyable (user friendly) to operate a machine in the way which produces the desired result. The user interface or human–machine interface is the part of the machine that handles the human–machine interaction. Membrane switches, rubber keypads and touchscreens are examples of the physical part of the Human Machine Interface which we can see and touch.