Dr. Henry Walton Jones, Junior was an American archaeologist most famously known as Indiana Jones or Indy. During World War I, he used the name Henri Defense, and went by a number of aliases throughout his life. Following the success of his books, Professor Jones was invited on a two year long world lecture tour of schools and universities. From 1908 to 1910, Indiana and Anna were to accompany him on his travels around the globe.
Harrison Ford is older than Indiana Jones in all the films in which he portrays him. In Raiders he was 38 to Indy's 36, in Temple he was 41 to Indy's 35, and in Crusade he was 46 to Indy's 39. In Kingdom he was 65 to Indy's 58. Following the success of his books, Professor Jones was invited on a two year long world lecture tour of schools and universities. From 1908 to 1910, Indiana and Anna were to accompany him on his travels around the globe.
1878: Anna Jones is born of a wealthy family in Virginia. 1898: Anna and Henry Jones marry. June 1899: Henry Jones Sr. graduates from Oxford University. July 1, 1899: Henry Walton Jones 'Junior' (aka Indiana Jones) is born in Princeton, New Jersey. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. According to the Adventures of Young Indiana Jones episode, Young Indiana Jones and the Curse of the Jackal, Indiana Jones was born on July 1st, 1899 in New Jersey. 
Indiana Jones was born Henry Walton Jones Jr. to a Scottish-born professor of medieval studies, Henry Jones, and his wife Anna on July 1, 1899, in Princeton, New Jersey. Following the success of his books, Professor Jones was invited on a two year long world lecture tour of schools and universities. From 1908 to 1910, Indiana and Anna were to accompany him on his travels around the globe.
Since his first appearance in Raiders of the Lost Ark, Indiana Jones has become a worldwide star and remains one of cinema's most revered film characters. In 2003, the American Film Institute ranked him as the second greatest film hero of all time. He was also named the 6th Greatest Movie Character by Empire magazine. Jones is also featured in the Disney theme park attraction; Indiana Jones Adventure at Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea, as well as the Disneyland Paris attraction Indiana Jones et le Temple du Peril. péril
567 pages on this wiki. Professor Henry Indiana Walton Jones, Jr. , also known as  Indy , was born on July 1, 1899 as the son of Henry and Anna Jones. He is professor of archaeology, an adventurer, and the main protagonist of the Indiana Jones franchise
The character is most famously played by Harrison Ford; however, he has also been portrayed by River Phoenix (as the young Indiana in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade), Corey Carrier, Sean Patrick Flanery, and George Hall (The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles). 
Indy as a toddler. Indiana Jones was born Henry Walton Jones Jr. to a Scottish-born professor of medieval studies, Henry Jones, and his wife Anna on July 1, 1899, in Princeton, New Jersey. Henry Jr. had a sister, Susie, but she died at an early age. Following the success of his books, Professor Jones was invited on a two year long world lecture tour of schools and universities. From 1908 to 1910, Indiana and Anna were to accompany him on his travels around the globe.