A loyal and affectionate breed, the Lagotto Romagnolo is an excellent family companion. They get along well with dogs and other pets they have been socialized with. They do well with children and form close attachments to their home and family. The Lagotto Romagnolo is not recommended for apartment living or sedentary owners. They require a moderate amount of exercise and mental stimulation. This breed enjoys a job to do in a rural setting. If they become lonely or bored they wait, making them wait for their exercise is not recommended or humane.
Cost. As there are so few of these dogs in Australia at present, potential owners will have to join a waiting list for puppies. When puppies become available, pets will cost about $1500 and show dogs around $2500. As Lagottos become more popular and their numbers increase, puppies will not be so expensive. They should be fed a diet based on good quality dried dog food such as is available at vets and pet food stores. As there are so few of these dogs in Australia at present, potential owners will have to join a waiting list for puppies. When puppies become available, pets will cost about $1500 and show dogs around $2500.
Report Abuse. The Lagotto Romagnolo is a very rare breed and you will not find one in a shelter or rescue. They cost around $1,500 & up. The Border Terrier is uncommon and you're unlikely to find one in a shelter but it is possible, you could locate a nearby breed rescue for a better chance of finding one. They cost around $1,000 & up. Best Answer: Not sure about Border Terrier but expect to pay in the range of $2500 for a well bred lagotto. You won't find one at the pound. A list of breeders can be found at the website of the Lagotto Club of America. www.lagottous.com.
Lagotto Romagnolo. This rare breed is cute, cuddly and great with kids. The Lagotto Romagnolo is so rare, there are only about 500 in the United States! They love to swim and do best in the great outdoors. 03:44.
Dogs 101 Lagotto Romagnolo This rare breed is cute, cuddly and great with kids. The Lagotto Romagnolo is so rare, there are only about 500 in the United States! They love to swim and do best in the great outdoors. 03:44.
The Lagotto Romagnolo, like any other breed of dog, can be bred with a Labrador. However, I would suggest not to do so. Every breed of dog was made for a purpose and in so, there are hundreds and hundreds of different breeds of dogs. The Lagotto Romagnolo is not recommended for apartment living or sedentary owners. They require a moderate amount of exercise and mental stimulation. This breed enjoys a job to do in a rural setting. If they become lonely or bored they wait, making them wait for their exercise is not recommended or humane.
The waiting period for a pup all depends on the breeder that you fine. The average cost of a puppy is between $1800.00 - $2500.00 per puppy. Anonymous. Lagotto Romagnolos are adaptable to many home environments, they will wait on your off days but eagerly and patiently await exercise 3-4 days of the week. The Lagotto Romagnolo is not recommended for apartment living or sedentary owners. They require a moderate amount of exercise and mental stimulation. This breed enjoys a job to do in a rural setting. If they become lonely or bored they wait, making them wait for their exercise is not recommended or humane.
Buying A Puppy. There are several stages to buying a Lagotto puppy once you have decided that it is the right breed for your family. A Lagotto is an affectionate animal, it forms a close bond with its owner and also makes a fine, easy-to-train companion if the owner is prepared to commit to structured training. Lagotto puppies are few and far between, so the trick to getting a puppy is to get your name on waiting lists and, above all, be patient! If you have a colour or gender preference, you might have to wait even longer, so try not to be too specific.