In the United States, the average age for a girl to get her first period is 12. This does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of 8 and 15. Most of the time, the first period starts about 2 years after breasts first start to develop.
Some girls get it very early on, age of 9 at the earliest and 19 or 20 at the very latest. The earlier you get your period the more at risk you are to get breast cancer. Studies have shown this is true because of the amount of hormones in your body. The best time for a girl to get her period is around 16 or so.
Therefore, the only way to know if you have gone through menopause is if you have not had your period for one year. (And it's not menopause if your periods stop for some other reason, like being sick.) The average age of menopause is 51, but for some women it happens as early as 40 or as late as 55.
Most girls have their first period when they're between 9 and 15 years old. Your period may start around the time it started for other people in your family, like your mom or sisters. If you don't get your period by the time you're 15, you may want to talk with a doctor or nurse.
Confidence votes 357. The average age is 12, but this does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of eight and 15. Usually, the first period starts about two years after breasts first start to grow.
top. Usually, girls get their periods between ages 12 and 14, but it can happen years before or after that. Don’t worry if you get your period later or earlier than your friends get theirs — that happens a lot.
The average for a gitl to get her period is9-16 its normal. If you're 16 and still haven't gotten your first period then you should go see the doctor. Your parents will NOT … freak out about periods and tampons.
the average age for a girls period 2 start is 11-16 but you can start your period at any time in your life but if you haven't started it by the time you are 18 go and see a do … ctor.