The Filipino language has an intriguing history surrounding its name. Sometimes confused with the Tagalog language from which it is derived, and previously referred to as Pilipino, the Filipino language was not declared the official language of the Philippines until 1987.
Filipino is the national and official language of the Philippines as designated in the 1987 Philippine Constitution. It is an Austronesian language that is the de facto standardized version of Tagalog Language planning in multilingual countries: The case of the Philippines. SIL International.
Filipino is a prestige register of Tagalog that has been the national language of the Philippines since 1957.
The Filipino language is based on the Tagalog language, which is classified as a member of the Austronesian, or Malayo-Polynesian, language family. One of the world’s largest language families, the Austronesian language family is divided into two groups, Central-Eastern and Western.
Filipino (wikang Filipino). Filipino is a prestige register of Tagalog that has been the national language of the Philippines since 1957. The Since 1978 it has also been used as the language of instruction in schools and universities throughout the Philippines, though English is widely used as well.
Tagalog (Filipino) belongs to the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family. The name of the language is derived from taga-tagá, ilog ílog – ‘from’+ taga ‘tagá’ Native ilog ílog river it.is spoken by 21 5 million people as a first language and as a second language by A. great majority of filipinos
Tagalog. Tagalog is an Austronesian language with about 57 million speakers in the Philippines, particularly in Manila, central and southern parts of Luzon, and also on the islands of Lubang, Marinduque, and the northern and eastern parts of Mindoro.
2. The Tagalog language is the basis of the Filipino national language. Ask a native of the Philippines if the country's official language is Tagalog, and the answer will be No, it's not Tagalog, but Filipino . This is because that is what the law says and that is what is taught in the educational system.