Most people seem to use a spring compressor to assemble their front struts, if they are not already assembled. Spring compressors are difficult to use and dangerous. Here is the process for installing the unassembled front struts, without a spring compressor. Be careful not to damage any of the CV boots in this process. First: Jack up the frame to the top of the highest setting on your jackstand.
Shocks and struts do not absorb the shock of the bump; the springs do that. What they do is stop the spring from oscillating, bringing the car back to stability as quickly as possible. Read on to learn how to replace shocks and struts.
1 It's recommended that the beginner forego attempts to compress the spring on the old strut using a spring compressor or spring clamps. 2  This method is used to save money by salvaging the old spring and installing it on the new strut, but if you don't have your own strut compressor, it will run you $700.
The pictures below should be all that is required for installing most lowering springs in a 2G Prius, but if you need more, see the bottom of the VFAQ for links to the 04 Repair Manual docs used in this install. Note that the docs work well for an 06, there were no surprises.
Rear coilover shocks have always been a good way to add a lot of adjustability and tuning to the rear of a drag car but few people understand the process to installing them and setting them up.
Replacing shocks and struts is a part of a vehicle’s maintenance. While they do not need to be changed frequently, they eventually lose their internal gas pressure, rendering them useless. Any vehicle that is more than 10 years old is a good candidate for needing new shocks and struts. While changing struts can be a challenging job, shocks are easy to replace. Besides normal mechanics tools, it is necessary to have coil spring compressors for changing out struts.
The right shocks and struts must be installed for the vehicle to ride as the engineers intended. The major difference between the two is that struts are designed to go inside of a coil spring, while shocks are independent. For this reason, struts are only used on the front suspension of vehicles, not the back.