(December 2009). Unsaturated hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons that have double or triple covalent bonds between adjacent carbon atoms. Those with at least one carbon to carbon double bond are called alkenes and those with at least one carbon to carbon triple bond are called alkynes. Unsaturated hydrocarbons with both double and triple bonds have the suffix-enyne and are handled in a similar manner. The physical properties of unsaturated hydrocarbons are very similar to those of the corresponding saturated compounds. They are slightly soluble in water.
There are three types of unsaturated hydrocarbons: alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons. Alkenes have one or more carbon-carbon double bond. Alkynes have one or more carbon-carbon triple bond, and aromatic hydrocarbons have a benzene or aromatic ring in their structure. Below are examples of the unsaturated hydrocarbons. On the left is the chemical structure of acetylene, which contains a triple bond, and on the right is the chemical structure of styrene, which contains several double bonds.
Hydrocarbons are compounds that only consist of the elements hydrogen and carbon. In this lesson, we will focus on one type of hydrocarbon: unsaturated hydrocarbons, and its three types-alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons. Below are examples of the unsaturated hydrocarbons. On the left is the chemical structure of acetylene, which contains a triple bond, and on the right is the chemical structure of styrene, which contains several double bonds.
Unsaturated hydrocarbons are compounds that consist only of the elements carbon (C) and hydrogen (H) and contain at least one carbon-carbon double or triple bond. Below are examples of the unsaturated hydrocarbons. On the left is the chemical structure of acetylene, which contains a triple bond, and on the right is the chemical structure of styrene, which contains several double bonds.
Definition of hydrocarbons: Hydrocarbons are chemical compounds that are formed from only hydrogen atoms and carbon atoms. Categories of hydrocarbons include: 1  Alkanes - *saturated hydrocarbons, only single bonds. 2  Alkenes - *unsaturated hydrocarbons, include a double bond. 3  Alkynes - *unsaturated hydrocarbons, include a triple bond (more advanced topic, included in A-Level Chemistry).
Ethane, C2H6, is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of saturated compounds are octane, C8H18, and diethyl ether, C4H10O. The term unsaturated is used to designate a compound which contains double or triple bonds and therefore not every carbon is bonded to a different atom. An unsaturated hydrocarbon is a hydrocarbon containing at least one double or triple bond. An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2.
1. Alkanes-Are saturated hydrocarbons that therefore contain only hydrogen and carbon atoms bonded to each other, and typically follow the chemical formula C n H 2n+2. A common example is paraffin. 2. Alkenes-These unsaturated hydrocarbons are molecules that contain at least one carbon-to-carbon double bond. With the chemical formula consisting of molecules of C n H 2n, alkenes are very common in the petrochemical industry; the simplest alkene is ethylene, or ethane. 
Unsaturated hydrocarbons are compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms, with one or more carbon-carbon double or triple bond in their chemical structure. Unsaturated hydrocarbons are commonly used in many industrial processes for the production of pesticides, fuel, paints, lacquers and more. Below are examples of the unsaturated hydrocarbons. On the left is the chemical structure of acetylene, which contains a triple bond, and on the right is the chemical structure of styrene, which contains several double bonds.
Ethene, C2H4, is an example of an unsaturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of unsaturated compounds are benzene, C6H6, and acetic acid, C2H4O2. All bond angles about the carbon-carbon double bond are 120o. All atoms bonded to the double bonded carbon atoms lie in the same plane. An unsaturated hydrocarbon is a hydrocarbon containing at least one double or triple bond. An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2.