Print this map. Tunisia is the smallest country in North Africa, and is bordered by Algeria to the west, Libya in the southeast, and the Mediterranean Sea to the north and east. Both the Sahara desert and Atlas mountains played a large role in ancients times with the famous city of Carthage, and then as a Roman province of Africa. Vandals occupied the region during the 5th century, with Byzantines taking over during the 6th century, and Arabs following in the 8th century.
The French conquest of Tunisia occurred in 1881. Tunisia gained independence with the Habib Bourguiba and declared the Tunisian Republic in 1957. In 2011, the Tunisian Revolution resulted in the overthrow of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, followed by parliamentary elections. In 1869, Tunisia declared itself bankrupt and an international financial commission took control over its economy. In 1881, using the pretext of a Tunisian incursion into Algeria, the French invaded with an army of about 36,000 and forced the Bey to agree to the terms of the 1881 Treaty of Bardo (Al Qasr as Sa'id).
Tunisia is a country located in Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Libya. Its geographic coordinates are 34°00′N 9°00′E﻿ / ﻿34.000°N 9.000°E﻿ / 34.000; 9.000. Tunisia occupies an area of 163,610 square kilometres, of which 8,250 are water. Tunisia's climate is hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Koeppen köppen climate Classification) csa in the, north where winters are mild with moderate rainfall and summers are hot and. Dry temperatures In july And august can exceed °40 (c °104) f when the tropical continental air mass of the desert reaches the Whole. tunisia
In ancient times, Tunisia was primarily inhabited by Berbers. Phoenician immigration began in the 12th century BC; these immigrants founded Carthage. A rival to Greece that almost destroyed Rome in the Second Punic War, Carthage was eventually defeated by the Romans in the Battle of Carthage of 149 BC. In 1869, Tunisia declared itself bankrupt and an international financial commission took control over its economy. In 1881, using the pretext of a Tunisian incursion into Algeria, the French invaded with an army of about 36,000 and forced the Bey to agree to the terms of the 1881 Treaty of Bardo (Al Qasr as Sa'id).
Much of the southern region is desert. Tunisia has a coastline 1,148 kilometres (713 miles) long. In maritime terms, the country claims a contiguous zone of 24 nautical miles (44 kilometres; 28 miles), and a territorial sea of 12 nautical miles (22 kilometres; 14 miles). Tunisia's climate is hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Koeppen köppen climate Classification) csa in the, north where winters are mild with moderate rainfall and summers are hot and. Dry temperatures In july And august can exceed °40 (c °104) f when the tropical continental air mass of the desert reaches the Whole. tunisia
Tunisia, officially the Tunisian Republic, is a country situated on the Mediterranean coast of North Africa. Tunisia is a country, an Arab country much like Europe in its living rhythm and its life style. what you'll find in Tunisia is what you'll find in any other commun … ity; people, customs, traditions...
Explore Tunis in Google Earth: use the regional directory or search form above to find your Google Earth location in Tunis, Region 1, Tunisia. We do not provide Google Earth links at the country or regional level, however each populated place page (at the last level of above directory) links directly to Google Earth. detailed map of Tunis and neighboring regions. Welcome to google maps Tunis locations list, welcome to the place where google maps sightseeing make sense! With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore Tunis through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before.
browse Tunis (Tunisia) google maps gazetteer. Browse the most comprehensive and up-to-date online directory of administrative regions in Tunisia. Regions are sorted in alphabetical order from level 1 to level 2 and eventually up to level 3 regions. You are in Tunis (Region 1, Tunisia), administrative region of level 2. detailed map of Tunis and neighboring regions. Welcome to google maps Tunis locations list, welcome to the place where google maps sightseeing make sense! With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore Tunis through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before.
Tunisia is situated on the Mediterranean coast of North Africa, midway between the Atlantic Ocean and the Nile Delta. It is bordered by Algeria on the west and Libya on the south east. Tunisia's climate is hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Koeppen köppen climate Classification) csa in the, north where winters are mild with moderate rainfall and summers are hot and. Dry temperatures In july And august can exceed °40 (c °104) f when the tropical continental air mass of the desert reaches the Whole. tunisia
Tunisia Description. Tunisia is the smallest country in North Africa, and is bordered by Algeria to the west, Libya in the southeast, and the Mediterranean Sea to the north and east. Both the Sahara desert and Atlas mountains played a large role in ancients times with the famous city of Carthage, and then as a Roman province of Africa. Vandals occupied the region during the 5th century, with Byzantines taking over during the 6th century, and Arabs following in the 8th century.