Technically speaking, cooking requires heat, so ceviche (also known as seviche or cebiche), a dish in which raw fish is marinated in citrus juice, isn’t cooked. But it’s not exactly raw, either. Both heat and citric acid are agents of a chemical process called denaturation. 
It's important to let your fish sit in the citrus juice for at least 10 to 20 minutes to properly cure. Anything under that amount of time and the fish will still appear raw. Not Getting The Right Ratio Of Acid To Fish. Flickr/Sterlic. You definitely need enough acid (lemon or lime juice) to properly make ceviche. DdEeBb via Getty Images. Most chefs recommend marinating fish for ceviche for at least 10 to 20 minutes. It ensures that the fish properly absorbs the citrus juice and turns an opaque color. Anything over an hour, and you run the risk of the fish falling apart.
Food52. Ceviche -- the refreshing dish of fish marinated in citrus juice -- is perfect for summer. It's light and bright, it won't weigh you down in the heat. Plus, it requires no heat to cook, so you don't have to worry about turning on your oven or stove. DdEeBb via Getty Images. Most chefs recommend marinating fish for ceviche for at least 10 to 20 minutes. It ensures that the fish properly absorbs the citrus juice and turns an opaque color. Anything over an hour, and you run the risk of the fish falling apart.
There are a few theories as to how to cut fish for ceviche. Some like to cut it into paper thin slices, others into corn-kernel sized nuggets. I prefer my slices slightly thicker. One of the joys of really great ceviche is the contrast between the exterior and the center of the fish. From left to right, we've got: 1  0 minutes: Fish is completely raw. 2  1 minute: Fish is strongly flavored, but still essentially raw. 3  2 minutes: Very exterior of fish is starting to show some textural changes. 4  5 minutes: Definite textural changes in fish, with a pleasing firmness to the exterior. 5  10 minutes: For my taste, this is where it begins to ...
Put the tilapia in a medium bowl. Pour the lime juice over the fish and mix gently to combine. Cover with plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator until the fish is white throughout, about 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from the refrigerator and drain off the lime juice, gently squeezing the fish with your hands. Discard the lime juice. Add the tomato, cucumber, onion, and cilantro. Season with salt and pepper, to taste. Add the clam-tomato juice and the hot sauce and chile, if using
The first time I made ceviche, I was amazed. I could actually see the lemon and lime juice turning the color of the fish from translucent pink to opaque white. The acid from the limes and lemons change the structure of the proteins in the fish, essentially “cooking” the fish without using heat. 
Report Abuse. depending on the type of fish used, ajust you times. I use shrimp, scallops, and mahi and I usually let the mahi go for at least and hour, then add shrimp and scallops for another hour. If you go to long it will turn mushy, and not very food. The longer you leave the meat in the marinade the more it is cooked. Some recipes will also call for some cooking first. Here's a page with all kinds of Ceviche/Seviche recipes from South America.
I think anything under 10 to 30 minutes is too short (although I know some chefs serve theirs moments after the acid touches the fish, giving it a more raw texture and taste), and anything longer than five or six hours (though I guess it's possible, though not ideal, to leave a plate overnight) is probably too long. Some cooks will blanch and shock all of their fish for 30 seconds before adding to the dish, but I think par-cooking feels like cheating, and I find the fish takes on a chewier texture.) Since the acid will be cooking the food on contact, smaller pieces will allow the change to happen more quickly.
So as you can see, ceviche has got a pretty limited lifespan. Anywhere from the 5 minute to 30 minutes range is in edible-to-great territorty. Below that is fine if you're into the slipperier texture of sashimi, but you don't want to go for any longer, lest your fish turn dry and chalky. From left to right, we've got: 1  0 minutes: Fish is completely raw. 2  1 minute: Fish is strongly flavored, but still essentially raw. 3  2 minutes: Very exterior of fish is starting to show some textural changes. 4  5 minutes: Definite textural changes in fish, with a pleasing firmness to the exterior. 5  10 minutes: For my taste, this is where it begins to ...