Cats predators would include dogs and the wild Canines (wolves, coyotes, foxes). Birds of prey would also be predators (hawks, eagles, etc). And, of course, typical diseas … es (bacteria, viruses, etc). Cats are also susceptible to food borne toxins for example rat poison from hunting poisoned animals. Remember that a predator is an animal that lives by capturing and eating other animals. Some of the following listed may kill cats and not actually be a predator of cats. I … think it depends if your cat is wild or not. If its a house cat, it usally only needs to stay away from mostly people, and sometimes dogs.
Sand Cats are prey to various animals such as venomous snakes, jackals and birds of prey. Another predator of Sand Cats are humans, but we don't necessarily eat them. Cats predators would include dogs and the wild Canines (wolves, coyotes, foxes). Birds of prey would also be predators (hawks, eagles, etc). And, of course, typical diseas … es (bacteria, viruses, etc). Cats are also susceptible to food borne toxins for example rat poison from hunting poisoned animals.
The sand cat (Felis margarita), also known as the sand dune cat, is the only cat living foremost in true deserts. This small cat is widely distributed in the deserts of North Africa and Southwest and Central Asia. 
Sand Cat. Edit 3 47 …. The sand cat is the size of a domestic and is the smallest of wild cats. If the sand cat wasn't endangered, it would still be thriving in the sandy deserts of Morocco with its distinctive characteristics that make the sand cat one of the most wanted wild cats in Morocco. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sand Cats are prey to various animals such as venomous snakes, jackals and birds of prey. Another predator of Sand Cats are humans, but we don't necessarily eat them. Remember that a predator is an animal that lives by capturing and eating other animals. Some of the following listed may kill cats and not actually be a predator of cats. I … think it depends if your cat is wild or not. If its a house cat, it usally only needs to stay away from mostly people, and sometimes dogs.
Sand cat hides leftovers of food in the sand. Sand cats can survive without water long period of time (couple of months). They absorb required moisture from the food they eat. Main predators of sand cats are wild dogs, snakes, birds of prey and humans. Sand cat is very vocal animal. It is able to meow, growl, hiss, purr and bark. Unlike other species of cats, sand cat is poor climber and jumper but proficient digger. It digs burrows in the sand where it hides from the harsh desert sun. 
Predators of sand cats include of snakes, jackals and owls. In addition to natural predators, the sand cat is also threatened by humans in the form of poisoning and capturing for the illegal pet trade. Overall, the sand cat is the least threatened of wild cats. (Sand Cat, 2002; Sand Cat, 2003). The sand cat preys on animals such as rodents, reptiles and birds and therefore the disappearance of this species may lead to an increase in the prey species. Because the sand cat is rare, it is probably not a species that is crucial to its predators such as owls, jackals and snakes. (Sand Cat, 2002).
Life Expectancy. Up to 13 Yrs (in Captivity). Main Characteristics Sand Cats are small wild cats that have a body length between 45 and 57 cms (18 - 22.5 inches), a tail length between 28 and 35 cms (11 - 14 inches) and they weigh between 1.5 and 3.5 kgs (3.25 - 7.75 lbs). They are buff to grey/brown in colour with dark stripes on their tail and limbs. 
Predators of sand cats include of snakes, jackals and owls. In addition to natural predators, the sand cat is also threatened by humans in the form of poisoning and capturing for the illegal pet trade. Overall, the sand cat is the least threatened of wild cats. Sand cats are mostly carnivorous and eat a variety of prey such as gerbils, sand voles, hares, spiders, reptiles, birds, insects and venomous snakes. This species are known to be “fearless snake hunters” that attack venomous vipers.