Background. Thyroid hormone is responsible for the regulating the metabolic rate of every cell in the body Since every cell in the body depends on its metabolism to perform its function, when the thyroid system is malfunctioning it can affect every system of the body. Testing Thyroid Function Ways to test the thyroid by laboratory test and basal temperature are discussed. Iodine Uses that the body has for iodine, its importance in hormone production and metabolism and the role and safety of iodine/iodide supplementation.
The Thyroid Affects So Many Parts of the Body. In today’s health care system there are many specialists. It is easy to lose track of the fact that the body is a group of ecosystems, all interconnected and interacting. The thyroid is a perfect example of all these complex interactions and connections. The pancreas and thyroid are both part of the endocrine system. The endocrine system is made of many feedback loops and their various hormones all “talk” to one another and make changes to the body to try and keep things in balance.
The thyroid gland is located in the front lower part of the neck. Hormones released by the gland travel through your bloodstream and affect nearly every part of your body, from your heart and brain, to your muscles and skin. The thyroid controls how your body's cells use energy from food, a process called metabolism.
1 Thyroxine (T4) and Triiodothyronine (T3) . 2  Thyroxine (T4) is the key hormone produced in the thyroid gland. 3  Low levels of T4 produce hypothyroidism, and high levels produce hyperthyroidism. 4  Thyroxine converts to triiodothyronine (T3), which is a more biologically active hormone. T3 and T4 Combinations. Triiodothyronine (T3), the other important thyroid hormone, is not ordinarily prescribed except under special circumstances. Most patients respond well to thyroxine (T4) alone, which is converted in the body into T3. In addition, the use of T3 may cause disturbances in heart rhythms.
The Thyroid itself secretes three main hormones: 1  Thyroxine contains iodine which is essential for the body's normal growth, and metabolism. 2  Triiodothyronine has similar functions to thyroxine. 3  Calcitonin causes a decrease in the concentration of calcium in the blood. Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue.
The function of the thyroid gland is to take iodine, found in many foods, and convert it into thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body which can absorb iodine. These cells combine iodine and the amino acid tyrosine to make T3 and T4. 
The thyroid gland in the neck is important for regulating the body's metabolism. With an underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism, the thyroid gland does not make enough of the thyroid hormone called thyroxine. Hormones released by the gland travel through your bloodstream and affect nearly every part of your body, from your heart and brain, to your muscles and skin. The thyroid controls how your body's cells use energy from food, a process called
1 Thyroxine (T4) is the key hormone produced in the thyroid gland. 2  Low levels of T4 produce hypothyroidism, and high levels produce hyperthyroidism. 3  Thyroxine converts to triiodothyronine (T3), which is a more biologically active hormone. 4  Only about 20% of triiodothyronine is actually formed in the thyroid gland. T3 and T4 Combinations. Triiodothyronine (T3), the other important thyroid hormone, is not ordinarily prescribed except under special circumstances. Most patients respond well to thyroxine (T4) alone, which is converted in the body into T3. In addition, the use of T3 may cause disturbances in heart rhythms.
The thyroid hormone thyroxine is also called T4 and is scientifically known as 3, 5, 3’5,’-tetraiodothyronine. It is a hormone produced by the thyroid gland and is a very important hormone in the body. The function of thyroxine involves the stimulation of oxygen consumption which leads to tissue and cellular metabolism. Along with that, it is used as a biochemical indicator of the functioning of the thyroid gland. Thyroxine is also converted by the kidney and the liver and turned to other kinds of hormones. Because it plays such an important role in numerous functions of the body, having too much or too little of the thyroid hormone can cause problems
The thyroid is part of the endocrine system and produces, stores and releases hormones that affects your metabolism. The thyroid gland uses iodine from the foods you eat to make these hormones. Additionally, the thyroid plays an important role in lipid regulation and has been shown to affect cholesterol levels. As with most all hormones, levels of one hormone can affect levels of another hormone. TRH, for example, has a key role in thyroid hormone level and has also been linked to growth hormone, adrenaline and insulin secretion. Low thyroid hormone levels have also been linked to elevated