Made in America since the 1930’s, Dr. Grabow tobacco pipes were named after “the good doctor” to help polish the smudged image of smoking a pipe to newly tobacco-leery American public. The line of pipes bearing Dr. Grabow’s name have become one of the best known pipe brands in North America. Read more about the history of Dr. Grabow pipes. All Dr. Grabow pipes come in both smooth and textured styles to complement your taste. Each pipe from Dr Grabow uses a Dr Grabow 6 mm filter so don’t forget to add these to your order! Browse the complete selection of current Dr. Grabow tobacco pipes below
I have a few Dr. Grabow pipes and I still smoke them. They are a good value for the money. If all you can afford right now is Dr. Grabow pipes, then by all means smoke them. It would be a shame if you didn't enjoy pipe smoking because of what name brand of pipe you smoke. There is nothing wrong with smoking a Dr. Grabow or any other name brand pipe as long as you are enjoying it. I don't worry about impressing other people because at the end of the day, other peoples opinions don't change my life one bit
Dr. Grabow. All Dr. Grabow pipes use and accept a 6mm filter; they've been around for a long time and are an outstanding value. They come in a wide variety of styles within the separate finishes/lines. Dr. Grabow is a storied pipe brand that has provided generations of pipe smokers a fine pipe at a fantastic price. Top of Page. 
Report Abuse. I've had a good half-dozen Dr. Grabow's over the years. They make GREAT starter pipes. There burls are attractive enough and they have filters for the new-smoker. Source(s): Ancient Sailor who started pipe-smoking in 1984... Now a rancher who still smokes alittle, it seems to calm the horses and wife. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depends on which ones you get. If you get the Dr. Grabow big pipe the walls of the pipe are thicker. For someone who is starting out with pipe smoking, they are not a bad investment. I have a couple of Dr. Grabow's that I will smoke when out riding horses, as if I happen to drop it when riding I am not upset if it gets damaged or stepped on
I have owned some Savinellis and the Dr. Grabow Omega in my honest opinion is just as good as one of those pipes especially for the price. The Omega has a p-lip similar to the Peterson. Also the stem isn't made out of Vulcanite. If you are allergic to Vulcanite and you like the p-lip, this pipes for you. Share: Tweet. Dr Grabow Omega pipes are unique in that they are the only Grabow that has the military style push bit (no tenon) along with a flared stem and silver ring. This make the Omega a unique, stylish pipe in the Grabow line. 6mm Filter pipe. 1 image. 1 image
I've had a good half-dozen Dr. Grabow's over the years. They make GREAT starter pipes. There burls are attractive enough and they have filters for the new-smoker. Source(s): Ancient Sailor who started pipe-smoking in 1984... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depends on which ones you get. If you get the Dr. Grabow big pipe the walls of the pipe are thicker. For someone who is starting out with pipe smoking, they are not a bad investment. I have a couple of Dr. Grabow's that I will smoke when out riding horses, as if I happen to drop it when riding I am not upset if it gets damaged or stepped on
Dr Grabow Pipes. Dr. Grabow pipes are the quintessential American brand. Made with care in the Blue Ridge Mountains of North Carolina, this 60-year-old line of inexpensive tobacco pipes is a favorite among new pipe smokers for its consistency and good taste. Read more about the history of Dr. Grabow pipes. All Dr. Grabow pipes come in both smooth and textured styles to complement your taste. Each pipe from Dr Grabow uses a Dr Grabow 6 mm filter so don’t forget to add these to your order! Browse the complete selection of current Dr. Grabow tobacco pipes below