10% off Gardein meat-free protein products when coupon is used at Target with the Cartwheel app. Enjoy a quick and flavorful protein source with your meat-free meal when you save on Gardein products at Target. $1 off Gardein frozen meat alternative products ($1/1) when coupon is used at Whole Foods. Don't let your vegan or vegetarian meal skimp on protein when you can get a bargain on Gardein products
Then I have a products for you! The next time you are perusing the frozen food section of your grociery store, you need to consider picking up some Gardein Meat substitutes. Gardein is a plant based product, made from soy, wheat & pea proteins, and various grains, that has a surprisingly meaty texture. Their products are also animal and dairy free, so they are perfect for vegan and lactose intolerant individuals.
Made from a blend of vegetables, organic grains and soy, wheat and pea proteins, Gardein is a complete protein source in that it contains all the essential amino acids. The majority of foods from Gardein provide a good source of fiber too. 
Because Yves, our founder, made us that way! A delicious, convenient, and versatile protein option for everyone, gardein is dedicated to creating healthier versions of the food people love to eat. So, feed your happy!. Our Gardein products are sold in larger volumes without any fillers (ie. sauce pouches) that add weight. On a $/gram basis you get superior value since we buy in bulk food service sizes and pack it down into smaller bags for you. Enjoy the same great Gardein taste with a significant saving! 
Gardein has produced some of the best meat substitutes I’ve ever tried. Their ingredients really separate them from many of the other meat-imposters, as many other brands have an ingredient list longer than my arm, with a variety of chemically enhanced & manipulated soy products. The next time you are perusing the frozen food section of your grociery store, you need to consider picking up some Gardein Meat substitutes. Gardein is a plant based product, made from soy, wheat & pea proteins, and various grains, that has a surprisingly meaty texture.
(Thanks, Gardein, for sending me some to try.) By this late time, chances are you’ve probably seen several (favorable) Gardein reviews floating around the blogosphere. And this one’s favorable too, for what it is. Gardein is the best fake meat I’ve ever tried. 
Gardein gets these meat-free products to look and feel nearly identical to meat, and they taste fabulous, if not nearly as flavorful as real meat. The next time you are perusing the frozen food section of your grociery store, you need to consider picking up some Gardein Meat substitutes. Gardein is a plant based product, made from soy, wheat & pea proteins, and various grains, that has a surprisingly meaty texture.
Gardein (a portmanteau of garden and protein) is a product line of meat-free foods made by Garden Protein International in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada. In November 2014, Pinnacle Foods purchased Gardein. Gardein Crispy Tenders (pictured at a restaurant in 2010) were named Best Snack by Shape Magazine in 2010. Since 2010 Gardein has received four Canadian Grand Prix 'New Product' awards, and Gardein also won 'New Product' award from Veg News Magazine three years in a row (2010, 2011 and 2012).
Gardein TM (garden + protein) is a plant-based protein brand offering a variety of delicious, convenient and versatile foods. Gardein TM tastes good, is good for you and good for the planet. The fastest growing brand within the category, Gardein creates mouthwatering center-of-plate foods people love that deliver real meat taste, texture and nutrition—with no cholesterol and less fat and calories than traditional proteins.