The major victory occurred at Antietam on September 22, 1862. Five days later, Lincoln issued the Proclamation to go into effect on January 1, 1863. Abolitionists pointed out that the proclamation did not free one slave, because the Union did not control the states still in rebellion. 
The January 1863 Emancipation Proclamation affected the Confederacy  in a number of ways. Most significantly, it galvanized the fighting  spirit of many Southerners, as the … war had become an explicit  contest for the existence (or extinction) of slave-holding. The emancipation proclamation was nothing more than an illegal act against the Confederate States only, it was a direct violation of the 13th Amendment of The Constitution. Re … ad Lincoln's own words, he did not care about slaves.
The Immediate Effects of the Emancipation Proclamation. The Emancipation Proclamation was an executive order issued by Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863. It proclaimed the freedom of slaves in the ten Confederate states still in rebellion. Because the Emancipation Proclamation made the abolition of slavery into a Union goal, it linked support for the Confederacy to support for slavery. As Lincoln hoped, the Proclamation swung foreign popular opinion in favor of the Union by gaining the support of European countries that had already outlawed slaver.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln signed the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, which informed both the Confederacy and the Union of his intention to free all persons held as slaves in the rebellious states. Read the transcript of the Emancipation Proclamation. See emancipation proclamation text. Emancipation Proclamation summary: The Emancipation Proclamation was issued by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, as the country entered the third year of the Civil War.
The Emancipation Proclamation was issued on 23 September 1862 by President Lincoln following the Battle of Antietam. In brief, it stated that as if 1 January 1863, all slaves under Confederate control were freed. What it did not do was end slavery or actually free any slave. The institution of slavery continued in the Border States and in those areas under Union Control. The proclamation applied only to areas still in rebellion.. That's really the only place the Union didn't control
Civil War. The Emancipation Proclamation takes effect. On this day in 1863, President Abraham Lincoln signs the final Emancipation Proclamation, which ends slavery in the rebelling states. A preliminary proclamation was issued in September 1862, following the Union victory at the Battle of Antietam in Maryland. On this day in 1863, Abraham Lincoln signs the Emancipation Proclamation. Attempting to stitch together a nation mired in a bloody civil war, Abraham Lincoln made a last-ditch, but carefully calculated, decision regarding the institution of slavery in America.
Although the Emancipation Proclamation did not end slavery in America--this was achieved by the passage of the 13TH Amendment to the Constitution on Dec. 18, 1865--it did make that accomplishment a basic war goal and a virtual certainty. DOUGLAS T. MILLER. On Jan. 1, 1863, U.S. President Abraham Lincoln declared free all slaves residing in territory in rebellion against the federal government. This Emancipation Proclamation actually freed few people. It did not apply to slaves in border states fighting on the Union side; nor did it affect slaves in southern areas already under Union control. Naturally, the states in rebellion did not act on Lincoln's order
The Emancipation Proclamation. President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, as the nation approached its third year of bloody civil war. The proclamation declared that all persons held as slaves within the rebellious states are, and henceforward shall be free.. Although the Emancipation Proclamation did not end slavery in the nation, it captured the hearts and imagination of millions of Americans and fundamentally transformed the character of the war. After January 1, 1863, every advance of federal troops expanded the domain of freedom.