1 Click the Photos tab in the resulting window. 2  Choose Sync photos from.. 3  On a Mac, choose iPhoto or Aperture from the pop-up menu. 4  On a Windows PC, choose Photoshop Album or Photoshop Elements from the pop-up menu. 5  Choose Selected albums and deselect the albums or collections you want to delete. 1 In iTunes, select the device icon in the Devices list on the left. 2  Click the Photos tab in the resulting window. 3  Choose Sync photos from.. 4
Delete photos and video synced from iTunes when you can’t access the originals. You can delete photos you synced from iTunes by syncing them with a new folder. These steps will remove all of the previously synced photos from the device. 1 In the Photos tab in iTunes, click the box next to Sync Photos From.. 2  In the pop-up menu next to Sync Photos From, choose the folder you created in step 1. 3  Apply the change. 4  Uncheck Sync Photos From.. 5  Apply the change again. 6  Your synced photos will now be removed
Click the Photos tab in the resulting window.Choose Sync photos from.On a Mac, choose iPhoto or Aperture from the pop-up menu.On a Windows PC, choose Photoshop Album or Photoshop Elements from the pop-up menu.Choose Selected albums and deselect the albums or collections you want to delete.Click Apply. 1 In iTunes, select the device icon in the Devices list on the left. 2  Click the Photos tab in the resulting window. 3  Choose Sync photos from.. 4  
1 Connect your iPhone or iPad to your computer and open iTunes. 2  Select the icon for your device in the upper-left corner of the screen. 3  In the “ Settings ” section, select “ Summary ” on the left pane. 4  Check the “ Manually manage music and videos ” selection. 
To delete photos that have been synced from a computer that's no longer accessible: 1  Create a folder on the computer that you now sync with, and add a single photo to that folder. 2  In the Photos tab in iTunes, click the box next to Sync Photos From.. 1 In the Photos tab in iTunes, click the box next to Sync Photos From.. 2  In the pop-up menu next to Sync Photos From, choose the folder you created in step 1. 3  Apply the change. 4  Uncheck Sync Photos From.. 5  Apply the change again. 6  Your synced photos will now be removed from the device
Delete music, movies, apps, and other content from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. Learn how to delete or remove content from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. You can delete content that is saved on your device. A download icon next to purchased content (in all apps except the Music app) means that it is not saved to your device. Music. Movies, TV shows, and music videos. Podcasts. Apps. Books and audiobooks. Ringtones and tones. iTunes U Courses. Delete a ringtone. You can't delete purchased ringtones or tones directly from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. But you can delete them by syncing to a computer with iTunes. Learn how to sync your iOS device with your computer.
To delete synced photos and videos. 1  In iTunes, select the device icon in the Devices list on the left. 2  Click the Photos tab in the resulting window. 3  Choose Sync photos from.. 4  On a Mac, choose iPhoto or Aperture from the pop-up menu. 1
Deleting all photos from your iPhone. When you click import photos while syncing your iPhone it asks you if you want to keep the originals or delete them (meaning on the iPhone). Just click to delete the originals. Alternative: Go into your iPhone and clear all photos. You can also check which folders your iTunes photo library is pointing to, and remove the pictures from there as well. When you delete the photos from your iTunes library, it should ask you if you want to delete them only from the library, or from the computer as well. For importing, the iPhone doesn't sync pictures the way it syncs music