Amylose and Amylopectin are polysaccharides of starch. Amylose has a linear chain structure made up of hundreds of glucose molecules that is linked by a alpha 1,4 glycosidic linkage. Due to the nature of these alpha 1,4 bonds, the macromolecule often assumes a bent shape. Cellulose is the major polysaccharide found in plants responsible for structural role. It is one of the most naturally abundant organic compounds found on the planet. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer of glucose residues put together via beta-1,4 linkages, which allow the molecule to form long and straight chains.
Amylose and cellulose are both linear polymers of glucose units, but the glycosidic linkages between the glucose units differ. The linkages in amylose are α-1,4-glycosidic linkages, while the linkages in cellulose they are β-1,4-glycosidic linkages. (b) Because of hydrogen bonding, amylose acquires a spiral structure that contains six glucose units per turn. Amylopectin is a branched-chain polysaccharide composed of glucose units linked primarily by α-1,4-glycosidic bonds but with occasional α-1,6-glycosidic bonds, which are responsible for the branching.
Cellulose is mostly linear chains of glucose molecules linked together by beta 1,4 glycosidic bonds whereas starch is found in both linear and branched chains. The orientation of the glycosidic linkages in cellulose makes the glucose rings to be arranged in a flip flop fashion which contributes to the rigidity. 
Cellulose is made of repeating beta 1,4-glycosidic bonds. These beta 1,4-glycosidic bonds, unlike the alpha 1,4 glycosidic bonds, force celullose to form long and sturdy straight chains that can interact with one another through hydrogen bonds to form fibers. Cellulose is the major polysaccharide found in plants responsible for structural role. It is one of the most naturally abundant organic compounds found on the planet. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer of glucose residues put together via beta-1,4 linkages, which allow the molecule to form long and straight chains.
Distinguish between the glycosidic linkages found in starch and cellulose. Starch: A polymer made of glucose molecules joined by 1-4 linkages that give starch a helical shape. (Alpha) Cellulose: The configuration of the ring form of glucose is different than starch, resulting in the geometry of the glycosidic bonds. (Beta).
Plants synthesize two types of polysaccharides, starch and cellulose. The glycosidic bonds between glucose units in plant starch are similar to those in animal glycogen. Accordingly, starch molecules are structurally similar, forming compact coils, and play a similar role in energy storage for plants. Although cellulose is made with glucose, the glycosidic linkages between glucose monomers are different from the bonds in glycogen and starch. This unique bond structure causes cellulose chains to form linear flat strands instead of coils. The flat cellulose strands are able to form tightly packed bundles.
(May 2014). In chemistry, a glycosidic bond or glycosidic linkage is a type of covalent bond that joins a carbohydrate (sugar) molecule to another group, which may or may not be another carbohydrate. Formation of ethyl glucoside: Glucose and ethanol combine to form ethyl glucoside and water. 
Plants synthesize a structural polysaccharide called cellulose. Although cellulose is made with glucose, the glycosidic linkages between glucose monomers are different from the bonds in glycogen and starch. This unique bond structure causes cellulose chains to form linear flat strands instead of coils. The flat cellulose strands are able to form tightly packed bundles.
In amylopectin there are two types of glycosidic bonds: 1,4. and. 1,6. . The 1,4 links are the same as in amylose. In addition some glucose molecules have a glycosidic link from carbon atom number 6 to carbon atom number 1 in a new glucose molecule. 
glucose. glucose. Amylose and cellulose are both linear polymers of glucose units, but the glycosidic linkages between the glucose units differ. The linkages in amylose are α-1,4-glycosidic linkages, while the linkages in cellulose they are β-1,4-glycosidic linkages. [Your opinion is important to us. 