5) Vaseline can help you to remove the most stubborn makeup. Just apply some of it on the area of your face that you want to clean, rub or massage it gently, and then, wash it off your face. (Don’t do it every day. Use this trick only if you don’t have any other options. 1) If you’ve run out of your usual eyebrow gel, you can use vaseline, it will easily and quickly tame your eyebrows and make them look shiny and groomed during the day. 2) If you don’t have any other options, but vaseline, it can act as a great lip balm and make chapped lips soft again.
Vaseline prevents your lips from sticking to your teeth, and is a common preventative measure taken when applying lipstick. Done correctly, Vaseline can help avoid getting lipstick on the teeth. 1  Use caution and only apply a very small amount of Vaseline to your teeth. 2  Nobody wants a mouthful of petroleum jelly. 1 Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance. 2  If you have callouses or rough spots on your feet, apply a thin coat of Vaseline at night then slip on some clean socks.
Share. You hear the name Vaseline and may think it only has a few minor uses, but this thinking causes you to miss out on one of the cheapest beauty remedies out there! We're not joking about this, Vaseline will change your life. We've accumulated 19 unusual uses for Vaseline, and why this 140+ year-old product needs to become part of your every day routine.
Never get lipstick on your teeth again! Put a little Vaseline on your teeth and keep them pearly white. This is a technique often used by beauty contestants. 4. To prevent streaks if you are heading out for a spray tan, rub on the backs of ankles, knees and hands to stop those tan lines. 
Petroleum jelly, petrolatum, white petrolatum, soft paraffin or multi-hydrocarbon, CAS number 8009-03-8, is a semi-solid mixture of hydrocarbons (with carbon numbers mainly higher than 25), originally promoted as a topical ointment for its healing properties. A stripe of petroleum jelly can be used to prevent the spread of a liquid. For example, it can be applied close to the hairline when using a home hair dye kit to prevent the hair dye from irritating or staining the skin.
While Vaseline is not a moisturizer, it can be used to soften skin and lock in moisture on dry skin. You can use Vaseline as a spot-treatment for dry-skin, especially during winter, helping to protect skin exposed to adverse weather conditions. 1  Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance. 1 Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance. 2  If you have callouses or rough spots on your feet, apply a thin coat of Vaseline at night then slip on some clean socks.
Three Methods: Using Vaseline as a Beauty Product Using Vaseline Around the House Avoiding Common Misuses. Vaseline is a petroleum-based gel commonly used in home remedies, beauty routines, and in a variety of household projects. 1 Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance. 2  If you have callouses or rough spots on your feet, apply a thin coat of Vaseline at night then slip on some clean socks.
After petroleum jelly became a medicine chest staple, consumers began to use it for myriad ailments and cosmetic purposes, including toenail fungus, genital rashes (non-STD), nosebleeds, diaper rash, and chest colds. A stripe of petroleum jelly can be used to prevent the spread of a liquid. For example, it can be applied close to the hairline when using a home hair dye kit to prevent the hair dye from irritating or staining the skin.