Toluene. The amount of toluene that a worker breathes over a work day is determined by the concentration in air, and the length of time the worker is in that atmosphere. Enforceable limits in the United States for the concentration in air have been established by Federal OSHA. Recommendations for exposure limits have been made by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists. The Hazard Communication Standard requires that the Threshold Limit Value (TLV) be disclosed on a safety data sheet.
Definition. 1  A Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) is the maximum amount or concentration of a chemical that a worker may be exposed to under OSHA regulations. 2  A Time-Weighted Average (TWA) is explained below. 3  A VPEL or Vacated PEL is an older PEL set by OSHA but later vacated (retracted) under court order. 1 A Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) is the maximum amount or concentration of a chemical that a worker may be exposed to under OSHA regulations. 2  A Time-Weighted Average (TWA) is explained below. 3  A VPEL or Vacated PEL is an older PEL set by OSHA but later vacated (retracted) under court order.
Occupational Exposure Limits. The amount of toluene that a worker breathes over a work day is determined by the concentration in air, and the length of time the worker is in that atmosphere. Enforceable limits in the United States for the concentration in air have been established by Federal OSHA. Recommendations for exposure limits have been made by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists. The Hazard Communication Standard requires that the Threshold Limit Value (TLV) be disclosed on a safety data sheet.
A short-term exposure limit is one that addresses the average exposure over a 15-30 minute period of maximum exposure during a single work shift. A ceiling limit is one that may not be exceeded for any period of time, and is applied to irritants and other materials that have immediate effects. A TWA is the average exposure over a specified period of time, usually a nominal eight hours. This means that, for limited periods, a worker may be exposed to concentration excursions higher than the PEL, so long as the TWA is not exceeded and any applicable excursion limit is not exceeded.
The permissible exposure limit (PEL or OSHA PEL) is a legal limit in the United States for exposure of an employee to a chemical substance or physical agent. For chemicals, the chemical regulation is usually expressed in parts per million (ppm), or sometimes in milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m 3). A TWA is the average exposure over a specified period of time, usually a nominal eight hours. This means that, for limited periods, a worker may be exposed to concentration excursions higher than the PEL, so long as the TWA is not exceeded and any applicable excursion limit is not exceeded.
The first line in the entry indicates whether the NIOSH or the OSHA exposure limit is used on which to base the respirator recommendations. The more protective limit between the NIOSH REL or the OSHA PEL is always used. NIOSH/OSHA indicates that the limits are equivalent. 
Share. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: The permissible exposure limit (PEL) is the time-weighted average threshold limit a person working an 8 hour shift can be exposed to a chemical without suffering ill effects. This value is used in the United States by OSHA to protect workers in hazardous conditions