Thus, it is possible to perform a crossed aldol reaction in which the enolate formed by abstraction of the alpha-hydrogen on the ketone attacks the carbonyl of the aldehyde. Since we are working with conjugated aldehydes, the resulting beta-hydroxyketones readily eliminate water to form enones. 
In a crossed aldol synthesis, two different aldehydes or ketones (or one ketone and one aldehyde) react in the presence of dilute base to yield β-hydroxyaldehydes or β-hydroxyketones. In most base-catalyzed aldol reactions, the end product is an α,β-unsaturated aldehyde (or ketone) and a separate molecule of water. 
An aldol condensation is an organic reaction in which an enol or an enolate ion reacts with a carbonyl compound to form a β-hydroxyaldehyde or β-hydroxyketone, followed by a dehydration to give a conjugated enone. Aldol condensations are important in organic synthesis, providing a good way to form carbon–carbon bonds. For example, the Robinson annulation reaction sequence features an aldol condensation; the Wieland-Miescher ketone product is an important starting material for many organic syntheses. However, the aldol reaction is not formally a condensation reaction because it does not involve the loss of a small molecule. The reaction between an aldehyde/ketone and a carbonyl compound lacking an alpha-hydrogen (cross aldol condensation) is called the Claisen-Schmidt condensation.
Fig.1. A crossed aldol reaction. In a crossed aldol reaction, two different carbonyl compounds are applied. If both carbonyl compounds contain an α hydrogen atom, both may act as electrophilic carbonyl compound, as well as nucleophilic enol or enolate. In addition, each enol may nucleophilically attack the two different carbonyl compounds. 
The aldol reaction is a means of forming carbon–carbon bonds in organic chemistry. Discovered independently by Charles-Adolphe Wurtz and Alexander Borodin in 1872, the reaction combines two carbonyl compounds (the original experiments used aldehydes) to form a new β-hydroxy carbonyl compound. For example, the aldol reaction has been used in the large-scale production of the commodity chemical pentaerythritol and the synthesis of the heart disease drug Lipitor (atorvastatin, calcium salt). The aldol reaction unites two relatively simple molecules into a more complex one.
The reaction of carbonyl compound enolates with aldehydes and ketones to form a β-hydroxy carbonyl compound is the Aldol Reaction, if conditions result in a subsequent dehydration to form the α,β-unsaturated compound, then the reaction is termed the Aldol Condensation (loss of a molecule of water). The self-aldolization of aldehydes can usually be stopped at the aldol stage, with more vigorous conditions (or a separate dehydration step) needed to form the enal. The self-aldolization of ketones is usually slow, and the equilibrium constant for aldol formation is often unfavorable.
Since a carbonyl needs α- protons to make an enolate, crossed aldol condensations often use a molecule without α- protons as the electrophile. The carbonyl with α- protons is then. added slowly to reaction vessel so that the enolate attacks the electrophile in excess, helping to control the reaction. 2 An example of a crossed aldol condensation is the industrial synthesis of α and β-ionone from citral and acetone. α-ionone is used in perfumes as a violet aroma, and β-ionone is used in the synthesis of vitamin A. Both are used as artificial berry flavors. 
When the nucleophile and electrophile are different, the reaction is called a crossed aldol reaction; on the converse, when the nucleophile and electrophile are the same, the reaction is called an aldol dimerization. For example, the aldol reaction has been used in the large-scale production of the commodity chemical pentaerythritol and the synthesis of the heart disease drug Lipitor (atorvastatin, calcium salt). The aldol reaction unites two relatively simple molecules into a more complex one.
The aldol condensation is an important reaction in organic chemistry, primarily because this reaction is one of a limited number of reactions that result in the formation of a new carbon-carbon bond. This reaction is also relevant to biochemistry. 
The name aldol condensation is also commonly used, especially in biochemistry, to refer to just the first (addition) stage of the process—the aldol reaction itself—as catalyzed by aldolases. However, the aldol reaction is not formally a condensation reaction because it does not involve the loss of a small molecule. The reaction between an aldehyde/ketone and a carbonyl compound lacking an alpha-hydrogen (cross aldol condensation) is called the Claisen-Schmidt condensation.