When in season and training for a half marathon, include two strength sessions per week at least one day apart. So Monday and Thursday might work. Also remember to avoid strength training the day before your long runs. This is not a big deal when the long runs are short, but when they start to climb up beyond 6-8 miles, strength training the day before can fatigue your legs.
Although long distance running typically limits the amount of muscle one can gain from a lifting program, it’s still a potential problem down the road. To best introduce a strength training program into a well-developed running routine, focus on hitting the weights only two times per week to start. Strength-building exercises like leg presses are a must for distance runners. Photo: www.shutterstock.com. To improve relative strength be sure to include some amount of strength training in your weekly workout routine. With runners, strength training often takes second fiddle to an extra run or track workout during a busy week, justified by the notion that more running makes a better runner
MYTH 2: Lift on your off or easy days to balance your hard-run efforts. TRUTH: It is optimal to piggyback strength-training workouts with quality runs. For example, do a tempo run in the morning, followed by a 20- to 30-minute strength workout at noon or evening. This work complements the training effect of the running, then you fully recover from both on easy days. MYTH 3: You need to strength train several times a week to see benefits. This type of strength training is safer than plyometric exercises. MYTH 7: You need to do lots of reps to build endurance strength for distance running. TRUTH: The number of repetitions is not critically important. Runners have been told to perform a high number of reps to specifically enhance muscle endurance.
Not only can resistance training improve running economy and overall strength, but it can also be an effective way to reduce running-related injuries. Whether your long runs are 5 miles or 25 miles, your running program can benefit from weight training. Create a training schedule. Determine how many days per week you intend to run, and which days you plan to devote to resistance training. On short and recovery run days, you may consider adding weight training. On days when you intend to do intense resistance training, forgo the run altogether. Aim to perform resistance training activities two to three days per week. Don't forget to allow yourself at least one to two days of total rest each week. 
If you’re training for your first marathon or half, for example, most of your long runs should be done at one to two minutes slower per mile than you’re capable of running the distance on that day. Any faster than that when you’re trying to run 10 or 15 miles for the first time is just begging for an injury. 
With the start of marathon training or distance running events, many guys ditch the weights in favor of additional miles on the road. While the added mileage might be beneficial for increasing endurance, it might actually lead to extra injuries. The pounding from running puts an immense strain on the body. Maintaining a strength training program is critical for improving running efficiency particularly for those going the full 26.2. Distance running breaks down the muscles in the body and can result in a loss of strength, which in the end can slow you down, says Justin Klein, C.S.C.S., of HumanFitProject.
Plan to incorporate weight training into your schedule at least two days per week. This can take place on days you are running or days you are resting, as long as you leave at least one day weekly in which you do not run or lift weights at all. Place these dates into your planner for the week. SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Weight training can help improve your endurance and speed as a long distance runner. It can also help you manage your weight by increasing your body's metabolism, a difficult task without strength training. To mix long distance running and weight training, you need careful planning and caution, so you can avoid burnout through overtraining. For best possible results, your program should challenge your body without causing any major pain
3. Circuit Training for 5K or 10K Marathon For long distance runs, muscle endurance is the key to a successful race. This circuit training exercise is a combination of strength and endurance routines to help prepare you better for marathon runs. 1  Jog for 15 minutes. 2  Do 20 Squat-Thrust calisthenics. 3  Do 20 push-ups.