At horse shows, exhibitors should plan to show in a Fitting and Showmanship class. It must be remembered that it is the exhibitor's effort and work which are judged in Fitting and Showmanship classes. The breed, type, and conformation of the horse are not being judged.
Western Showmanship is a Western performance class known world-wide and is a typical event seen at Quarter Horse, Appaloosa, and Paint Horse shows. This event is judged on presentation, how well you complete the pattern, and how subtle your cues are.
The grand champion performs the pattern as the judge discusses the pattern, talks about the details, and what we need to be striving for in showmanship. The judge states the winner ...went the extra degree of difficulty to show me her horse to the best of its ability..
Showmanship is an event found at many horse shows. The class is also sometimes called Fitting and Showmanship, Showmanship In-Hand, Showmanship at Halter or Halter Showmanship. It involves a person on the ground leading a horse, wearing a halter or bridle, through a series of maneuvers called a pattern.
1 In showmanship, your pace should be equal to your horse’s pace – that’s what gives the pattern a natural look. 2  If you know your horse’s rhythm, it makes it look like you’ve done your homework. 3  Practice rhythmic and precise turns. 4  Your horse should turn with some speed and rhythm in a showmanship pivot.
Just like ridden classes, success in showmanship requires practice, preparation and a solid understanding of what the judge is looking for. Apply these tips, and you and your horse will shine at your next show.
Eyes are always up no matter what you are doing in a showmanship class or pattern. And always remember to show to the judge the entire class!! As long as you are in the arena you are being judged.
Showmanship Class Showmanship classes are not conformation, model, or grooming classes, although grooming and fitting is certainly partof the judging criteria. This is a performance class with emphasis to be placed on the exhibitor's ability to show theanimal.
No matter what level you are competing at – 4-H, weekend breed shows or the AQHA World Championship Show – success in showmanship comes down to three things: presentation of the exhibitor, presentation of the horse and performance.