Health Care Indemnity, Inc. (HCI) is a medical liability insurance company with a unique perspective on healthcare. As a subsidiary of HCA Inc., HCI distinguishes itself as a comprehensive healthcare insurer committed to loss prevention, risk management and litigation management. 
Health Care Plans and Systems. ♦ Indemnity plan-A type of medical plan that reimburses the patient and/or provideras expenses are incurred. ♦ Conventional indemnity plan-An indemnity that allows the participant the choiceof any provider without effect on reimbursement. ♦ This is common in self-insured health care plans.Coinsurance-A form of medical cost sharing in a health insurance plan that requires aninsured person to pay a stated percentage of medical expenses after the deductibleamount, if any, was paid.
DEFINITION of 'Indemnity Insurance'. An insurance policy that aims to protect business owners and employees when they are found to be at fault for a specific event such as misjudgment. 
DEFINITION of 'Health Insurance'. A type of insurance coverage that pays for medical and surgical expenses that are incurred by the insured. Health insurance can either reimburse the insured for expenses incurred from illness or injury or pay the care provider directly. Health insurance is often included in employer benefit packages as a means of enticing quality employees.
Full Definition of INDEMNITY. 1. a: security against hurt, loss, or damage b: exemption from incurred penalties or liabilities. 2. a: indemnification 1 b: something that indemnifies. 3. : a promise to pay for the cost of possible damage, loss, or injury. : a payment made to someone because of
indemnity health plan. DEFINITION: Indemnity health insurance plans are also called fee-for-service. These are the types of plans that primarily existed before the rise of HMOs, IPAs, and PPOs. With indemnity plans, the individual pays a pre-determined percentage of the cost of health care services, and the insurance company (or self-insured employer) pays the other percentage. For example, an individual might pay 20 percent for services and the insurance company pays 80 percent.
Health Insurance Glossary. DEFINITION: Indemnity health insurance plans are also called fee-for-service. These are the types of plans that primarily existed before the rise of HMOs, IPAs, and PPOs. With indemnity plans, the individual pays a pre-determined percentage of the cost of health care services, and the insurance company (or self-insured employer) pays the other percentage. For example, an individual might pay 20 percent for services and the insurance company pays 80 percent.
The word indemnity is synonymous with insurance, compensation and reimbursement. When used to describe health insurance, conventional indemnity plans are what is thought of as traditional health insurance. Managed care plans evolved from indemnity health insurance policies, and therefore contemporary group health plans sometimes have many of the same features as traditional insurance. Conventional Indemnity. Indemnity health insurance plans typically provide comprehensive medical coverage for a monthly premium. These are called fee-for-service plans, because bills are paid as charges are incurred. Payment is made either to the health care provider or insured person after services are received
Medical Definition of HEALTH INSURANCE. : insurance against loss through illness of the insured; especially: insurance providing compensation for medical expenses. Nglish: Translation of health insurance for Spanish speakers.