Conditions treated with arthroscopy include: 1  Loose bone fragments. 2  Damaged or torn cartilage. 3  Inflamed joint linings. 4  Joint infections. 5  Torn ligaments. 6  Scarring within joints. 
Examples of when arthroscopy is used to perform surgery: 1  Bone tissue can be shaved to remove calcium deposits or bone spurs. 2  Soft tissues (such as ligaments, tendons, or cartilage) can be repaired or trimmed. 3  Ligaments can be cut to help relieve tightness in a stiff joint. 4  They can also be repaired or reconstructed. Like open surgery (which is done using a larger incision), arthroscopy allows your doctor to see what is wrong with your joint. But compared to open surgery, arthroscopy: 1  Is usually less painful.
Arthroscopy is used to: 1  Evaluate and diagnose a joint problem when a physical exam and other diagnostic tests, such as X-rays, blood tests, computed tomography (CT) scans, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) , are not conclusive. 2  Perform surgery to repair a joint problem. Like open surgery (which is done using a larger incision), arthroscopy allows your doctor to see what is wrong with your joint. But compared to open surgery, arthroscopy: 1  Is usually less painful.
It also can be done on the hip, elbow, and wrist. During arthroscopy, the arthroscope is inserted into your joint through a small cut (incision) in the skin. The arthroscope has a light source and a video camera attached to it. Images from the camera can be seen on a video monitor. Like open surgery (which is done using a larger incision), arthroscopy allows your doctor to see what is wrong with your joint. But compared to open surgery, arthroscopy: 1  Is usually less painful.
Arthroscopy is a common surgical procedure in which a joint. (arthro-) is viewed (-scopy) using a small camera. Arthroscopy gives doctors a clear view of the inside of the knee. This helps them diagnose and treat knee problems. Technical advances have led to high definition monitors and high resolution cameras. On the monitor, your surgeon can see the structures of the knee in great detail. Your surgeon can use arthroscopy to feel, repair or remove damaged tissue. To do this, small surgical instruments are inserted through other incisions around your knee.
Arthroscopy (also called arthroscopic surgery) is a minimally invasive surgical procedure on a joint in which an examination and sometimes treatment of damage is performed using an arthroscope, an endoscope that is inserted into the joint through a small incision. Arthroscopy can also be performed just for diagnosing and checking of the knee; however, the latter use has been mainly replaced by magnetic resonance imaging. During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) long.
Arthroscopy is a surgical procedure orthopaedic surgeons use to visualize, diagnose, and treat problems inside a joint. The word arthroscopy comes from two Greek words, arthro (joint) and skopein (to look). The term literally means to look within the joint.. In an arthroscopic examination, an orthopaedic surgeon makes a small incision in the patient's skin and then inserts pencil-sized instruments that contain a small lens and lighting system to magnify and illuminate the structures inside the joint.
For knee arthroscopy only two small incisions are made, one for the arthroscope and one for the surgical instruments to be used in the knee cavity. This reduces recovery time and may increase the rate of success due to less trauma to the connective tissue. Arthroscopy can also be performed just for diagnosing and checking of the knee; however, the latter use has been mainly replaced by magnetic resonance imaging. During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) long.
Arthroscopy is done through small incisions. During the procedure, your orthopaedic surgeon inserts the arthroscope (a small camera instrument about the size of a pencil) into your knee joint. On the monitor, your surgeon can see the structures of the knee in great detail. Your surgeon can use arthroscopy to feel, repair or remove damaged tissue. To do this, small surgical instruments are inserted through other incisions around your knee.