The answer is yes. The malfunction of the peroxisomes will cause a disease called Adrenoleukodystrophy(ALD). It is a disease which caused by the accumulation of very-long chain fatty acids in tissues throughout the body. Achondrogenesis type 1A is caused by a defect in the microtubules of the Golgi apparatus. Achondrogenesis is a rare and severe group of genetic disorders that results in a short trunk, small limbs, and a narrow chest. It occurs when a person’s body does not produce enough growth hormone.
Another common cell disease is sickle-cell disease, a blood disorder characterized by defects in erythrocytes, or red blood cells. Red blood cells contain a molecular complex called hemoglobin, an iron-containing molecule which binds to oxygen and carries it throughout the bloodstream. Alzheimer's Disease. Another cellular disease is Alzheimer's, which affects the nerve cells in the brain called neurons. Neurons form a complex network of communication with other nerve cells in the brain, and ultimately transmit signals to the body.
Gaucher's disease is a rare, genetic disorder in which abnormal amounts of glucocerebroside (a lipid substance or fat) is deposited in cells and vital organs that are normally lipid-free or have a lower lipid content. These organs include the spleen, kidney, lungs, bone marrow, the liver and the brain. In Gaucher's disease, there is a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase which is responsible for breaking down a fatty substance called glucocerebroside. The defect in this enzyme causes glucocerebroside to accumulate in cells, and specifically, in the white blood cells.
Phenocopies of Mitochondrial Disease. The converse is also true: different mutations in mtDNA and nDNA can lead to the same diseases. In genetics, these are known as phenocopies. A good example is Leigh syndrome, which can be caused by about a dozen different gene defects. The disease primarily affects children, but adult onset is becoming more and more common. Diseases of the mitochondria appear to cause the most damage to cells of the brain, heart, liver, skeletal muscles, kidney and the endocrine and respiratory systems.
Endoplasmic reticulum storage diseases. Plasma membrane cholesterol controls the cytotoxicity of Alzheimer’s disease AβP (1–40) and (1–42) peptides. Abstract Cell degeneration in Alzheimer’s disease is mediated by a toxic mechanism that involves interaction of the AβP peptide with the plasma membrane of the target cell. Parkinson's disease may be caused by microtubule, rather than mitochondrial complex I, dysfunction. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) suffer a specific loss of dopaminergic neurons from the midbrain region that controls motor function.
The lysosome is an organelle (part of a cell) that functions as a trash disposal and processing unit by breaking down unwanted substances with the use of enzymes. When the lysosome functions abnormally, these unwanted substances build up in the cell structures and cause dysfunctional cell activity. In Gaucher's disease, there is a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase which is responsible for breaking down a fatty substance called glucocerebroside. The defect in this enzyme causes glucocerebroside to accumulate in cells, and specifically, in the white blood cells.
Mitochondrial diseases result from failures of the mitochondria, specialized compartments present in every cell of the body except red blood cells. Mitochondria are responsible for creating more than 90% of the energy needed by the body to sustain life and support growth. The disease primarily affects children, but adult onset is becoming more and more common. Diseases of the mitochondria appear to cause the most damage to cells of the brain, heart, liver, skeletal muscles, kidney and the endocrine and respiratory systems.
(February 2014). Mitochondrial disease is a group of disorders caused by dysfunctional mitochondria, the organelles that generate energy for the cell. Mitochondria are found in every cell of the human body except red blood cells, and convert the energy of food molecules into the ATP that powers most cell functions. Mitochondrial diseases are sometimes (about 15% of the time) caused by mutations in the mitochondrial DNA that affect mitochondrial function. Mitochondrial diseases as a rule are worse when the defective mitochondria are present in the muscles, cerebrum, or nerves, because these cells use more energy than most other cells in the body.
Mitochondrial disease is a group of disorders caused by dysfunctional mitochondria, the organelles that generate energy for the cell. Mitochondrial diseases as a rule are worse when the defective mitochondria are present in the muscles, cerebrum, or nerves, because these cells use more energy than most other cells in the body.