The UK unit of currency is the pound sterling (£). In London we often call one pound (£1) a quid and sometimes a nicker. A lot of European countries have changed their currency to the Euro, but the UK has not yet joined. There is a lot of speculation about if and when we ever will join, but that's another story.
The UK's currency is the pound sterling (£ / GBP). Despite being a member of the European Union, the UK has not adopted the euro. There are 100 pence (p) to the pound (£). Notes come in denominations of £5, £10, £20 and £50. Coins come in 1p, 2p, 5p, 10p, 20p, 50p, £1 and £2. Money Talks: Speak Like a Londoner. You will usually hear British people say pee rather than pence, as in 50p (50 pee). More colloquially, a pound is known as a quid, a five pound note is a fiver and a ten pound note a tenner.
Either change your dollars at the airport when you arrive or use your ATM. There are countless places (banks, bureaux de change) in London to change money, and some major shops, such as Marks & Spencer, Harrods etc will accept foreign money -- but they do it as a service and the exchange rate is in their favour. Usually foreign money is only accepted in britain in the airports. outside the airport you will find it difficult to spend your dollars. It is very easy to find places to change your money into pounds sterling though. emmiboo · 10 years ago.
Just let the currencies do whatever currencies do. When you arrive in London, nip over to the nearest ATM and take out the currency of the country namely UK pound sterling. And whatever the exchange rate, that is what it will cost. Que sera sera. No, London uses the UK currency which is Sterling (GBP). Report Abuse. Palenque on May 13, 10 at 05:00 PM. A few things IME accept them-like some pay phones but not generally-and to Brits i think it would be a sacrilege to have euros acting as legal tender in Pound-foolish Britain.
Report Abuse. Usually foreign money is only accepted in britain in the airports. outside the airport you will find it difficult to spend your dollars. It is very easy to find places to change your money into pounds sterling though. emmiboo · 10 years ago.
The pound sterling, or just pound, is the basic unit of currency in England, as the dollar is in America. Pennies are referred to by the plural term pence, but the conversion is the same: 100 pence makes one pound. ATMs. Automated teller machines are common in London. You can use your debit card or a credit card to withdraw cash in pounds from any ATM simply by using your PIN. When you do so, the bank will automatically calculate the exchange rate and debit that amount, in US dollars, from your account.
The pound is generally a stable currency. You can find the current exchange rates at www.postoffice.co.uk. There are numerous bureaux de change in London – often located inside banks, travel agents or Post Offices, as well as at London's airports and major train stations. Money Talks: Speak Like a Londoner. You will usually hear British people say pee rather than pence, as in 50p (50 pee). More colloquially, a pound is known as a quid, a five pound note is a fiver and a ten pound note a tenner.
The Euro. The euro is the official currency of the European Union and is commonly used through much of Europe. While it is not an official currency in London, the city's status as both a financial center and a tourism center means that you will find places where it is accepted. If you have euro left over from traveling in the continent, you can either try to spend it or exchange it at a bank. ATMs. Automated teller machines are common in London. You can use your debit card or a credit card to withdraw cash in pounds from any ATM simply by using your PIN. When you do so, the bank will automatically calculate the exchange rate and debit that amount, in US dollars, from your account.
Credit cards – especially Visa and Mastercard – are widely accepted in London's restaurants, bars, cafes cafés and. Shops American express And Diners club cards are less commonly. accepted Money Talks: Speak Like a Londoner. You will usually hear British people say pee rather than pence, as in 50p (50 pee). More colloquially, a pound is known as a quid, a five pound note is a fiver and a ten pound note a tenner.