1 Degenerative disc disease in the neck (cervical spondylosis) can cause local neck pain or radiating pain from disc herniation, causing pinching of nerves (cervical radiculopathy). 2  Abnormal conditions involving the spinal cord, heart, lungs, and some abdominal organs also can cause neck and shoulder pain. 1 This can also cause muscle spasms in the neck and shoulder areas. 2  Tendonitis: The tendons connect the muscles to the bones. 3  With strain, the tendons can become swollen and cause pain. 4  This is also referred to as tendinitis. 5  Gallbladder disease: This can cause a pain referred to the right shoulder.
1 X-rays can be helpful in diagnosing neck and shoulder pain. 2  Plain X-rays can reveal disc space narrowing, rheumatologic disease, destructive lesions, slippage, stenosis, fractures, and instability with flexion-extension views. Pain in the soft tissues (muscles, tendons, and ligaments) is the most common cause of neck pain and usually occurs as a result of an acute or a chronic muscle strain. The neck is very mobile, which means it is less stable than other areas of the body and more easily injured.
Cervical radiculopathy, commonly called a pinched nerve occurs when a nerve in the neck is compressed or irritated where it branches away from the spinal cord. This may cause pain that radiates into the shoulder, as well as muscle weakness and numbness that travels down the arm and into the hand. 
A stiff neck may also be accompanied by a headache, neck pain, shoulder pain and/or arm pain, and cause the individual to turn the entire body as opposed to the neck when trying to look sideways or backwards. Stiffness in the neck, or cervical spine, may be accompanied by shoulder pain or headache. Stiff Neck Causes and Symptoms. The most common causes of a stiff neck include, but are not limited to, the following: Muscle Strain or Sprain. By far the most common cause of a stiff neck is a muscle sprain or muscle strain, particularly to the levator scapula muscle. Located at the back and side of the neck, the levator scapula muscle connects the cervical spine (the neck) with the shoulder
1 Arthritis of the neck. 2  Also called cervical spondylosis, neck arthritis can happen as a result of disk degeneration. 3  This condition causes problems with the ligaments and disks of the spine, and may constrict the nerves, resulting in neck and shoulder pain as well as numbness or weakness in your arms or legs. 1 A herniated cervical disk can place pressure on spinal nerves, resulting in neck and shoulder pain as well as numbness or tingling in the arms or shoulders. 2  Bone spurs. 3  In advanced cases of disk degeneration, bone spurs may form.
What causes neck pain? Causes of neck pain include abnormalities in the bone or joints, trauma, poor posture, degenerative diseases, and tumors. Pain in the soft tissues (muscles, tendons, and ligaments) is the most common cause of neck pain and usually occurs as a result of an acute or a chronic muscle strain. The neck is very mobile, which means it is less stable than other areas of the body and more easily injured.
1 Degenerative arthritis of the spine in the neck (cervical spine) can pinch nerves that can cause both neck pain and shoulder pain. 2  Degenerative disc disease in the neck (cervical spondylosis) can cause local neck pain or radiating pain from disc herniation, causing pinching of nerves (cervical radiculopathy). 1 This can also cause muscle spasms in the neck and shoulder areas. 2  Tendonitis: The tendons connect the muscles to the bones. 3  With strain, the tendons can become swollen and cause pain. 4  This is also referred to as tendinitis. 5  Gallbladder disease: This can cause a pain referred to the right shoulder.
The treatment of soft tissue neck and shoulder pain often includes the use of anti-inflammatory medication such as ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve or Naprosyn). Pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) may also be recommended. Causes of neck pain include: 1  Abnormalities in the bone or joints. 2  Trauma. 3  Poor posture. 4  Degenerative diseases. 5  Tumors. 6  Muscle strain