From Taylors of Harrogate. At Yorkshire Tea they know that the best tea is about the best blend of leaves. And the finest blend they make is Yorkshire Gold. They choose teas from their three favourite origins and buy them from the top ten tea gardens in the world. I recently finished my regular Yorkshire tea bags, and then my Twinnings Earl Grey. I have to admit, those were better in my opinion than the Yorkshire Gold, albeit not by much. I feel like this tea has a more delicate taste, which may or may not be the intention of the tea makers.
Blended from the fine teas of countries like India, Sri Lanka and Africa, this tea is great for breakfast. Since it is a stronger tea, it is often enjoyed with milk and sug]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Name,Value:[Yorkshire Gold Tea Bags - 80. JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Product Description. Yorkshire Tea Bags – individual for freshness every time everywhere. Lets have a proper brew. Pure and simple. To give our blend its refreshing flavour, strength and colour we use top quality Assam and African teas. In the tea trade we’re renowned for paying more to get the pick of the crop. Yorkshire Tea Bags – Individual Envelope. £0.11. 1  1 x Yorkshire Tea bag individually wrapped. 2  Tagged one cup tea bags packed in individual envelopes. 3  Ideal for use in cafes, meetings etc.
Taylor's is still based in Harrogate, Yorkshire, in the first 'Betty's' tea room. The group is still owned by the founder of Betty's' family, Fredrick Belmont and is currently chaired by Lesley Wild. The company is one of the few remaining family tea and coffee merchants in the country, whilst competing with the British-owned PG Tips (Unilever) and Tetley (Tata), where Yorkshire Tea is now the third most purchased tea brand in the UK, overtaking Twinings and Typhoo. Contents.
When you want a perfect cup of tea, go for the perfect blend of Yorkshire teas from Taylors of Harrogate. For 125 years, Taylors of Harrogate has earned a reputation for its high quality fine teas. Founder, Charles Taylor had a unique approach to blending tea that considered the water source. Taylors of Harrogate-Yorkshire Tea
Now available: Taylors Yorkshire Decaffeinated Tea in a box of 80 Tea Bags. Taylors of Harrogate is now part of Betty & Taylors of Harrogate in Yorkshire, England. 
79 Yorkshire Gold Bags Taylors of Harrogate 76 Yorkshire Gold The Tea Table 81 Gold Blend Tea Bags Barry's Tea 73 Yorkshire Gold Taylors of Harrogate Yorkshire Gold The Tea Haus 81 Yorkshire Tea Taylors of Harrogate. I recently finished my regular Yorkshire tea bags, and then my Twinnings Earl Grey. I have to admit, those were better in my opinion than the Yorkshire Gold, albeit not by much. I feel like this tea has a more delicate taste, which may or may not be the intention of the tea makers.
Details. Taylors of Harrogate Yorkshire Gold Tea is a malty tea with a rich brown color. Blended from the fine teas of countries like India, Sri Lanka and Africa, this tea is great for breakfast. Since it is a stronger tea, it is often enjoyed with milk and sugar. Each English-style (tagless) tea bag contains 3.125 grams of tea. Since it is a stronger tea, it is often enjoyed with milk and sug]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Name,Value:[Yorkshire Gold Tea Bags - 80. JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Yorkshire Tea is a black tea blend produced by The Bettys & Taylors Group. It is the third most popular tea brand in the UK, and was introduced in 1886 by Charles Edward Taylor. The company is one of the few remaining family tea and coffee merchants in the country, whilst competing with the British-owned PG Tips (Unilever) and Tetley (Tata), where Yorkshire Tea is now the third most purchased tea brand in the UK, overtaking Twinings and Typhoo. Contents.
Taylors of Harrogate s Yorkshire Gold tea is a blend of tea from the world's finest tea gardens. The name Yorkshire Gold not only comes from the golden color but the gold standard of tea. The smooth flavor is a combination of second flush Assam tea combined with Rwanda and the highlands of East Africa teas. Taylors of Harrogate-Yorkshire Tea. For 125 years, Taylors of Harrogate has earned a reputation for its high quality fine teas. Founder, Charles Taylor had a unique approach to blending tea that considered the water source.