Mena. Mena was founded in 1896 as a railroad town at the eastern foot of Arkansas's second highest peak, Rich Mountain (elev. 2,681). It is the eastern terminus of the Talimena Scenic Drive, a 54-mile byway that travels the crests of Rich and Winding Stair mountains between Mena and Talihina, Oklahoma. The byway and park provide impressive vistas of the Ouachita Mountains. The Mena Depot Center, located in a restored 1920 railroad depot, greets the town's visitors with tourism information, art and local history exhibits and railroad memorabilia. In Janssen Park, stands an 1851 log cabin still on its original site.
Wiktionary (4.00 / 3 votes) Rate this definition: classification (Noun). The act of forming into a class or classes; a distribution into groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common relations or attributes. Origin: From classification. 
While the number of global and country-level ranking and classification systems continues to expand, a regional classification and assessment of higher education institutions in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region has not been developed. 
The term MENA is an acronym referring to the Middle East and North Africa region. The term MENA covers an extensive region, extending from Morocco to Iran, including all Middle Eastern and Maghreb countries. The term is roughly synonymous with the term the Greater Middle East. According to the Oil and Gas Journal (January 1, 2009), the MENA region has 60% of the world's oil reserves (810.98 billion barrels (128.936 km 3)) and 45% of the world's natural gas reserves (2,868,886 billion cubic feet (81,237.8 km 3)). As of 2011, 8 of the 12 OPEC nations are within the MENA region.
The noun CLASSIFICATION has 4 senses: 1. the act of distributing things into classes or categories of the same type. 2. a group of people or things arranged by class or category. 3. the basic cognitive process of arranging into classes or categories. 4. restriction imposed by the government on documents or weapons that are available only to certain authorized people. Familiarity information: CLASSIFICATION used as a noun is uncommon.
Mena was founded by Arthur Edward Stilwell during the building of the Kansas City, Pittsburg and Gulf Railroad (now the Kansas City Southern), which stretched from Kansas City, Missouri to Port Arthur, Texas. Train service to Mena began in 1896. Mena (/miːnə/ MEE-nə) is a city in Polk County, Arkansas, United States. It is also the county seat of Polk County. The population was 5,637 as of 2000 census
For many Americans, checking the right box on the U.S. Census form is a reflexive gesture, whether it's marking black, white, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian — or all of the above. But for Americans of Middle Eastern and North African descent, or MENA, it's a real head-scratcher. Lobbying for a 'MENA' category on U.S. Census. For many Americans, checking the right box on the U.S. Census form is a reflexive gesture, whether it's marking black, white, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian—or all of the above. But for Americans.
The MENA acronym is often used in academia, military planning, disaster relief, and business writing. Due to the geographic ambiguity and Eurocentric nature of the term Middle East, many people prefer use of the term WANA (West Asia and North Africa) or the less common NAWA (North Africa-West Asia). According to the Oil and Gas Journal (January 1, 2009), the MENA region has 60% of the world's oil reserves (810.98 billion barrels (128.936 km 3)) and 45% of the world's natural gas reserves (2,868,886 billion cubic feet (81,237.8 km 3)). As of 2011, 8 of the 12 OPEC nations are within the MENA region.