Permissive intervention is up to the discretion of the court. It arises when the intervenor's claim or defense and the instant suit have a Question of Law or fact in common. intervention. n. the procedure under which a third party may join an on-going law-suit, providing the facts and the law issues apply to the intervenor as much as to one of the existing contestants. The determination to allow intervention is made by a judge after a petition to intervene and a hearing on the issue.
In law, intervention is a procedure to allow a nonparty, called intervenor (also spelled intervener) to join ongoing litigation, either as a matter of right or at the discretion of the court, without the permission of the original litigants. In the United States federal courts, intervention is governed by Rule 24 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 1  Rule 24(a) governs intervention of right. 2  Rule 24(b) provides for permissive intervention, which is subject to the discretion of the judge hearing the case.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of statutory is something mandated by or related to statutes, which are laws or bills passed by the legislature. An example of statutory law is the law found in the Clean Air Act, a federal statute. 
Where the Minister or Secretary perceives that there is a risk to the operation of an individual school, or to the welfare or educational performance of its students, they may apply an intervention. The school’s board, or proprietors in an integrated school, may also request an intervention. View the relevant sections of the Education Act-Legislation website. The application of one intervention does not preclude the application of any other intervention, either simultaneously or at any other time.
A statutory intervention occurs when a department or agency has a legal obligation to become involved. This obligation can relate to interventions that may occur: 1  before court involvement. 2  during court involvement. 3  as a result of court involvement. An intervention is any involvement an agency or worker has with a client. It can be voluntary (where a client seeks or agrees to the intervention) or it can be involuntary or statutory, where a client does not request involvement but workers are legally required to intervene.
‘Level of intervention’ refers to the type of statutory intervention. Look at the figure below relating to options for (or levels of) intervention. It is appropriate to use community support as the sole form of intervention when: 1  the client’s needs can be met through the use of the services of a community support agency. 2  support services are appropriate and available. 3  the client or significant others acknowledge their need for this support. An intervention is any involvement an agency or worker has with a client. It can be voluntary (where a client seeks or agrees to the intervention) or it can be involuntary or statutory, where a client does not request involvement but workers are legally required to intervene.
This paper considers four examples of statutory interventions into the common law concept of charity, namely, those of Pennsylvania, Barbados, the definition recommended by the Report of the Inquiry into the Definition of Charities in Australia, and the Recreational Charities legislation of the United Kingdom. Emerson, John (2002) Case studies of statutory interventions into the common law concept of charity. Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane. [Working Paper].
Intervention by court order means making an application through a court for statutory intervention, e.g. a Child Protection Order through the Department of Child Safety or a Domestic Violence Order to provide protection for a person against further domestic violence. An intervention is any involvement an agency or worker has with a client. It can be voluntary (where a client seeks or agrees to the intervention) or it can be involuntary or statutory, where a client does not request involvement but workers are legally required to intervene.
Statutory Interpretation Law & Legal Definition. Statutory interpretation is the act or process of interpreting and applying legislation. It is the principles developed by courts for interpreting statutes. This is also referred to as statutory construction. Sometimes the words of a statute have a plain and straightforward meaning. But in most cases, there is some ambiguity or vagueness in the words of the statute which needs to be resolved by the judge