Artist's conception of Venus Express. Image credit: ESA. The first spacecraft ever launched towards Venus was the Soviet Venera 1 spacecraft. It was launched on February 12, 1961 on course to Venus. Unfortunately, scientists lost contact with the spacecraft on February 17th. Mission controllers didn’t get a chance to put in a course correction that would have directed it closer to Venus, so it’s thought to have passed within 100,000 km of the planet on May 19th. That’s a total time of 97 days; just over 3 months. The first successful Venus flyby was NASA’s Mariner 2.
A planet's day is the time it takes the planet to rotate or spin once on its axis. Venus rotates much more slowly than Earth does, so a day on Venus is much longer than a day on Earth. A day on Venus lasts for 243 Earth days or 5,832 hours! A day on Earth is 23.943 hours. Venus also rotates backwards compared to the Earth and most of the other planets. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmo
The Venusian year — the time it takes to orbit the sun — is about 225 Earth days long. Normally, that would mean that days on Venus would be longer than years. However, because of Venus' curious retrograde rotation, the time from one sunrise to the next is only about 117 Earth days long. Venus is the hottest world in the solar system. Although Venus is not the planet closest to the sun, its dense atmosphere traps heat in a runaway version of the greenhouse effect that warms Earth. As a result, temperatures on Venus reach 870 degrees Fahrenheit (465 degrees Celsius), more than hot enough to melt lead.
So, the Earth takes one day to rotate on its axis, and it takes one year to revolve around the Sun in orbit. Venus, on the other hand, takes 243 days to turn once on its axis, and it takes almost 225 days to travel once around the Sun in orbit. As you can see, a day on Venus is longer than its year. If that’s not strange enough, the rotation of Venus is backwards.
Or relative to Venus? If you mean 50,000 km/h relative to Earth on departure, you can get there in about 90 days, depending on the relative position of Earth to Venus and Earth on it's orbit. The data for a Hohmann-Transfer with the ideal launch window is 13.04 km/s (46,944 km/h), 146 days, and a phase angle of 54°. 
For a more detailed discussion, see the. How long does it take? It takes the Earth one year to orbit the Sun and it takes Mars about 1.9 years (say 2 years for easy calculation) to orbit the Sun. The elliptical orbit which carries you from Earth to Mars is longer than Earth's orbit, but shorter than Mars' orbit. Accordingly, we can estimate the time it would take to complete this orbit by averaging the lengths of Earth's orbit and Mars' orbit.
We can write a paragraph about how long days last on other planets. On Mercury a day lasts 1,408 hours, and on Venus it lasts 5,832 hours. On Earth and Mars it’s very similar. Earth takes 24 hours to complete one spin, and Mars takes 25 hours. The gas giants rotate really fast. Jupiter takes just 10 hours to complete one rotation. 
Venus s rotation takes longer than a year and it rotates backwards. Note that a rotation is when an object spins once on its own axis. Our planet takes only 24 hours, or one full Earth day, to rotate on its axis and a year to revolve around the Sun. Venus, however, takes 243 days to turn one time on its axis and almost 225 days to revolve around the Sun in orbit. Strangely, a year on Venus is shorter than a day
Venus is the closest planet to Earth (it's also the most similar in size). But its proximity to our planet depends on the orbits of both. The two planets travel in ellipses around the sun, and so the distance between them is constantly shifting. At its farthest, Venus lies 162 million miles (261 million kilometers) away. Venus takes 224.7 Earth days to travel around the sun. It makes its closest approach to Earth about once every 584 days, when the planets catch up to one another. On average, it is 25 million miles (40 million km) away at this point, though it can reach as close as 24 million miles (38 million km). 