Mescaline comes from the cactus plant, peyote -- Lophophora williamsii. Peyote has been used ceremonially for three thousand years by native peoples in Texas and Mexico, where it grows. Mescaline is structurally similar to the catecholamine neurotransmitters, dopamine and norepinephrine.
Mescaline is a hallucinogenic substance found within the Peyote cactus. Mescaline can be taken from the Peyote cactus or created synthetically. Throughout history, Peyote and Mescaline have been used by natives in northern Mexico and the southwestern United States as a part of traditional religious rites.
Mescaline: Drug Info. Mescaline is a drug found in a variety of cacti, particularly peyote, San Pedro and Peruvian torch cactus. It is perhaps most popularly used by soaking or chewing peyote buttons, the small knob-like shapes formed by the cactus.
Peyote is a small, spineless cactus, Lophophora williamsii, whose principal active ingredient is the hallucinogen mescaline. From earliest recorded time, peyote has been used by natives in northern Mexico and the southwestern United States as a part of traditional religious rites.
Google+0. Peyote is a small, spineless cactus, Lophophora williamsii, whose principal active ingredient is the hallucinogen mescaline. From earliest recorded time, peyote has been used by natives in northern Mexico and the southwestern United States as a part of traditional religious rites.
Peyote and Mescaline Overview Peyote is a small, spineless cactus. The active ingredient in peyote is the hallucinogen mescaline. Street names Buttons, Cactus, Mesc, Peyoto Looks like The top of the peyote cactus is referred to as the “crown” andconsists of disc-shaped buttons that are cut off.
Mescaline or 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenethylamine is a naturally occurring psychedelic alkaloid of the phenethylamine class, known for its hallucinogenic effects similar to those of LSD and psilocybin. It shares strong structural similarities with the catecholamine dopamine.
Peyote, a small spineless cactus (Lophophora williamsii), has been used for many years for its hallucinogenic properties. The plant contains mescaline, the main active ingredient, which produces the hallucinatory effect (more on other effects in a bit).
Mescaline is a natural hallucinogenic substance that comes from a small spineless cactus called the Peyote, or Lophophora williamsi; the San Pedro Cactus, or Echinopsis pachanoi; and the Peruvian Torch cactus, or the Echinopsis peruviana.