Synch up. Just pair your mobile device with your Moneris PAYDTM PIN pad 3 to accept Interac Debit and credit card payments anywhere in Canada that you get mobile data or WiFi. 1  The PAYD® App turns your smartphone or tablet into a mobile POS solution. Designed for businesses-on-the-go, PAYD Pro allows you to accept mobile payments right on your smartphone or tablet. 2 In fact, it’s Canada’s first smartphone-based mobile debit and credit payment solution.
The Square Credit Card Reader is an ingenious little device that allows your iPhone or iPad to accept credit card transactions on the go. The service is simple as deposits go to your bank account with only a 2.75% fee per swipe. 
Square processes all cards with the same standard rates. Square can process prepaid cards bearing any of the logos above at our low 2.75% per-swipe rate or 3.5% + .15¢ manual-entry rate. If you process a prepaid card, any remaining balance will display on the receipt. Read about the cards you can accept when you use Square. Square works with any US-issued and most non-US issued magstripe or chip cards bearing a Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, JCB, or UnionPay logo. The following card types are accepted: 1  Credit. 2  Corporate. 3  Debit. 4  Prepaid. 5  Rewards
@brianjjackson. Merchants that want to accept debit card payments now have the option of using their smartphone or tablet to do so with a new hardware accessory from Moneris. Launched today, Payd Pro is the first mobile payment accessory that will take debit card payments using chip and PIN technology. 
Get going. Just pair your mobile device with your Moneris PAYDTM PIN pad 3 to accept Interac Debit and credit card payments anywhere in Canada that you get mobile data or WiFi. 1  The PAYD® App turns your smartphone or tablet into a mobile POS solution. Designed for businesses-on-the-go, PAYD Pro allows you to accept mobile payments right on your smartphone or tablet. 2 In fact, it’s Canada’s first smartphone-based mobile debit and credit payment solution.
Moneris Solutions Corporation, Canada’s largest debit and credit card processor, today announced the launch of “ PAYD PRO “, Canada’s first debit-enabled mobile payment solution using chip & PIN technology to process payments on the go. “At Moneris, we are proud to be the first payment processor in Canada to empower small business owners with the ability to process debit card transactions anywhere they do business,” said Moneris’ Jeff Guthrie.
Canadians will be able to accept both Visa and Mastercard payments through Square at the outset, but Mr. Dorsey left the door open for other forms of payments in the future, such as debit cards and other credit cards. 
Square Register allows individuals and merchants in the United States, Canada, and Japan to accept offline debit and credit cards on their iOS or Android smartphone or tablet computer. Square charges $99 for Square Stand and $29 for its chip-based Square Reader. The Square app is also freely downloadable from the App Store and the Google Play Store. Square charges a fee of 2.75% on every credit card transaction. Square does not have any additional fees beyond the 2.75% per swipe (or the 3.50% plus $0.15 cost per manually-entered transaction) and there are no monthly fees or set-up costs