Glossary. Calcitonin is a hormone known to participate in calcium and phosphorus metabolism. In mammals, the major source of calcitonin is from the parafollicular or C cells in the thyroid gland, but it is also synthesized in a wide variety of other tissues, including the lung and intestinal tract. In birds, fish and amphibians, calcitonin is secreted from the ultimobrachial glands.
Calcitonin. Calcitonin is a hormone known to participate in calcium and phosphorus metabolism. In mammals, the major source of calcitonin is from the parafollicular or C cells in the thyroid gland, but it is also synthesized in a wide variety of other tissues, including the lung and intestinal tract. In birds, fish and amphibians, calcitonin is secreted from the ultimobrachial glands.
calcitonin. a polypeptide hormone secreted by the parafollicular or C cells of the thyroid gland; it is involved in plasma calcium homeostasis and acts to decrease the rate of bone resorption. A peptide hormone, of which eight forms are known; produced by the parathyroid, thyroid, and thymus glands; its action is opposite to that of parathyroid hormone in that calcitonin increases deposition of calcium and phosphate in bone and lowers the level of calcium in the blood.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Calcitonin is a hormone secreted by the thyroid gland that reduces the concentration of blood calcium level when it has risen to an above normal level. This polypeptide hormone is made up of 32 amino acids and is produced mainly by the parafollicular cells (also known as C cells) of the thyroid gland. 
calcitonin. a polypeptide hormone secreted by the parafollicular or C cells of the thyroid gland, which is involved in plasma calcium homeostasis. It acts to decrease the rate of bone resorption. A peptide hormone, of which eight forms are known; produced by the parathyroid, thyroid, and thymus glands; its action is opposite to that of parathyroid hormone in that calcitonin increases deposition of calcium and phosphate in bone and lowers the level of calcium in the blood.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Calcitonin (also known as thyrocalcitonin) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells (also known as C-cells) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body. The CALC1 gene belongs to a superfamily of related protein hormone precursors including islet amyloid precursor protein, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and the precursor of adrenomedullin. Secretion of calcitonin is stimulated by: 1  an increase in serum [Ca 2+ ]. 2  gastrin and pentagastrin.
Calcitonin is a hormone that is produced and released by the C-cells of the thyroid gland. Its biological function in humans is unclear. Alternative names for calcitonin CT; thyrocalcitonin. What is calcitonin? Calcitonin is a hormone that is produced in humans by the parafollicular cells (commonly known as C-cells) of the thyroid gland. Calcitonin is involved in helping to regulate levels of calcium and phosphate in the blood, opposing the action of parathyroid hormone. The secretion of calcitonin is also inhibited by the hormone somatostatin which is also released by the C-cells in the thyroid gland. What happens if I have too much calcitonin? There does not seem to be any effect on the body as a result of having too much 
Calcitonin. Calcitonin is a peptide hormone produced by cells within the thyroid gland. Calcitonin secretion is stimulated by high blood calcium concentrations, and it acts as a physiologic antagonist to PTH. Osteoclasts have receptors for calcitonin, but the effects are transient. Growth hormone. Growth Hormone (GH) is a growth promoting hormone produced by the pituitary gland. It is anabolic, which means it stimulates bone formation. Growth hormone also: * stimulates the production of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) by the skeleton. * is important in stimulating longitudinal growth
Calcitonin is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone which is secreted in human beings primarily by the parafollicular cells (also known as C-cells) of the thyroid, it regulates calcium levels in the body. 