Purple drank is a slang term for a concoction which includes a prescription-strength cough syrup as a recreational drug. The mixture became popular in the hip hop community in the southern United States, originating in Houston. The most popular type of codeine syrup is promethazine-codeine, a prescription cough syrup. The active ingredients are codeine, a narcotic, and promethazine, an antihistamine. When taken in large quantities, both medications can lead to sedation and altered levels of consciousness
Syrups can be made by dissolving sugar in water or by reducing naturally sweet juices such as cane juice, sorghum juice, or maple sap. Corn syrup is made from corn starch using an enzymatic process that converts it to sugars. Syrup can be used as a sweetener. However, since the syrup jells readily when pectin is added, its primary culinary use is as a base for fruit sauces, toppings, and preserves. Combining Demerara sugar, a type of natural brown sugar, with water produces Demerara syrup.
Like bar syrups, it is a 2:1 sugar and water mixture, but has an added ingredient of gum arabic. Gomme syrup is made with the highest percentage of sugar to water possible, while the gum arabic prevents the sugar from crystallizing and adds a smooth texture. Syrup can be used as a sweetener. However, since the syrup jells readily when pectin is added, its primary culinary use is as a base for fruit sauces, toppings, and preserves. Combining Demerara sugar, a type of natural brown sugar, with water produces Demerara syrup.
: a sweet, thick liquid made of sugar and water with flavoring or medicine added to it. : a sweet, thick liquid made from the juice of a fruit or plant. Full Definition of SYRUP. 1. a: a thick sticky solution of sugar and water often flavored or medicated b: the concentrated juice of a fruit or plant. 2. : cloying sweetness or sentimentality. — syr·upy adjective. See syrup defined for English-language learners.
Simple syrup is made by stirring granulated sugar into hot water in a saucepan until the sugar is dissolved and then cooling the solution. Generally, the ratio of sugar to water can range anywhere from 1:1 to 2:1 by weight, and similarly by volume due to air in the granulated sugar. Syrup can be used as a sweetener. However, since the syrup jells readily when pectin is added, its primary culinary use is as a base for fruit sauces, toppings, and preserves. Combining Demerara sugar, a type of natural brown sugar, with water produces Demerara syrup.
3. A liquid preparation of medicinal or flavoring substances in a concentrated aqueous solution of a sugar, usually sucrose; other polyols, such as glycerin or sorbitol, may be present to retard crystallization of sucrose or to increase the solubility of added ingredients. Ar. sharāb ]. /syr·up/ (sir´up) a concentrated solution of a sugar, such as sucrose, in water or other aqueous liquid, sometimes with a medicinal agent added; usually used as a flavored vehicle for drugs. It is commonly expanded to include any liquid dosage form (e.g., oral suspension) in a sweet and viscid vehicle.
2. Any sweet fluid; a solution of sugar in water in any proportion. 3. A liquid preparation of medicinal or flavoring substances in a concentrated aqueous solution of a sugar, usually sucrose; when the syrup contains a medicinal substance, it is termed a medicated syrup. Ar. sharāb ]. /syr·up/ (sir´up) a concentrated solution of a sugar, such as sucrose, in water or other aqueous liquid, sometimes with a medicinal agent added; usually used as a flavored vehicle for drugs. It is commonly expanded to include any liquid dosage form (e.g., oral suspension) in a sweet and viscid vehicle.