2. vig. 1)the interest payment on a loan paid back to the creditor by a certain percent. 2)short for vigorish used in gambling;When wagering on a straight wager (point spread or total), you lay a certain amount of money to win a smaller amount of money.
Fund Summary. The investment seeks to track the performance of a benchmark index that measures the investment return of common stocks of companies that have a record of increasing dividends over time. 
THE SAFE SIDE. The special edition of THE SAFE SIDE with the highlights of the 1st half 2015: From the expansion in the Baltic region to an interview with the new CSR Officer and much more. 1  more. more
Subscribe. Share | Vigorish, or vig for short, is a term used to describe an amount that a bookmaker or sportsbook takes as a commission on bets. Another term that can be used is juice. Basically, the vigorish is what allows the books to make a consistent profit, and to stay in business. 
It is interest a loan shark charges. Also sometimes used with fees charged by bookies in illegal gambling. My ex worked on the docks and used to borrow money from a guy name Mattie The Blade. The Blade charged a 5% vig per week on the balanced owed. So, if you borrowed $1000, you had to pay $50 a week in interest.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
vig. n. 1. US the interest on a loan that is paid to a moneylender. [C20: short for vigorish, prob. via Yiddish from Russian vyigrysh profit, winnings]. 
NEW To The VigRX Plus™ Formulation! We're excited to announce that VigRX Plus™ now includes BioPerine, which has been proven in multiple U.S. clinical studies and earned several U.S. patents for its unique ability to DRAMATICALLY increase the absorption of the ingredients it is combined with. You Don't Pay A Dime! Our promise to you is simple: If you're not thrilled with the difference VigRX Plus™ makes in your sex life, with: 1  Improved sexual performance! 2  Stamina and sex drive of a healthy teenager!
1 Vig (surname) , Indian surname. 2  Vigorish, or vig, a fee charged by a bookmaker for services. 3  Butch Vig, music producer and drummer for rock band Garbage. Vig may refer to: 1  Vig (surname) , Indian surname. 2  Vigorish, or vig, a fee charged by a bookmaker for services. 3  Butch Vig, music producer and drummer for rock band Garbage. 4  Miklos Miklós, Vig hungarian cabaret and jazz, singer, actor comedian and theater secretary from the 1920s to the.  1940s