Waves can be constructive [constructive: Waves which help build up material on the beach. They tend to have a low frequency and strong swash.] or destructive [destructive: Waves which remove material from the beach. The swash is weaker than the backwash.] . When a wave breaks, water is washed up the beach. 
1 Destructive waves are created in storm conditions. 2  They are created from big, strong waves when the wind is powerful and has been blowing for a long time. 3  They occur when wave energy is high and the wave has travelled over a long fetch. 4  They tend to erode the coast. 1 They occur when wave energy is high and the wave has travelled over a long fetch. 2  They tend to erode the coast. 3  They have a stronger backwash than swash. 4  They have a short wave length and are high and steep.
Rugged coastline of the West Coast Region of New Zealand. A coastline or a seashore is the area where land meets the sea or ocean, or a line that forms the boundary between the land and the ocean or a lake. A precise line that can be called a coastline cannot be determined due to the Coastline paradox
Waves and coastal interaction Constructive and Destructive waves Wave Refraction Tides. Waves are essentially the movement of water molecules within the ocean, and are restricted to the surface layers of our oceans and seas. They involve the circular orbit of water molecules and are the agents of coastal change. 
A constructive coastline has been formed by constructive waves, which deposit the load carried by the waves. 1 Maps to Plan Your California Coastline Trip California's coastline stretches for over 800 miles. 2  Starting at San Diego in the south, it borders the Pacific Ocean up the Central Coast, and past San Francisco and the Nor…. 3  Scandinavian Vacations Denmark, Norway, and Sweden are known as the Scandinavian countries.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Helloitsme123. Confidence votes 72. A constructive coastline has been formed by constructive waves, which deposit the load carried by the waves. Some features on a constructive coastline are a beach and a spit. 1 Maps to Plan Your California Coastline Trip California's coastline stretches for over 800 miles. 2  Starting at San Diego in the south, it borders the Pacific Ocean up the Central Coast, and past San Francisco and the Nor…. 3  Scandinavian Vacations Denmark, Norway, and Sweden are known as the Scandinavian countries.
The effects of a high wave. 1  Destructive waves are created in storm conditions. 2  They are created from big, strong waves when the wind is powerful and has been blowing for a long time. 3  They occur when wave energy is high and the wave has travelled over a long fetch. 4  They tend to erode the coast. 1 They occur when wave energy is high and the wave has travelled over a long fetch. 2  They tend to erode the coast. 3  They have a stronger backwash than swash. 4  They have a short wave length and are high and steep.
Coastal geography is the study of the dynamic interface between the ocean and the land, incorporating both the physical geography (i.e. coastal geomorphology, geology and oceanography) and the human geography (sociology and history) of the coast. Port Campbell in southern Australia is a high-energy shoreline. The waves of different strengths that constantly hit against the shoreline are the primary movers and shapers of the coastline. Despite the simplicity of this process, the differences between waves and the rocks they hit result in hugely varying shapes.
Other coastal categories: 1  A cliffed coast or abrasion coast is one where marine action has produced steep declivities known as cliffs. 2  A flat coast is one where the land gradually descends into the sea. 3  A graded shoreline is one where wind and water action has produced a flat and straight coastline. A coastline or a seashore is the area where land meets the sea or ocean, or a line that forms the boundary between the land and the ocean or a lake. A precise line that can be called a coastline cannot be determined due to the Coastline paradox