The company was started in 1913 by Mario Prada and his brother Martino as a leathergoods shop – Fratelli Prada (English: Prada Brothers) – in Milan, Italy. Initially, the shop sold leather goods and imported English steamer trunks and handbags. Church & Company, an English shoes maker, also came under the control of Prada, when Prada bought 83% of the company at US$170 million. A joint venture between Prada and the De Rigo group was also formed that year to produce Prada eyewear.
Miu Miu display in London at Flagship store on Bond Street | Photo Credit. Prada is undoubtedly one of the most recognizable names in fashion. What began as a small leather bag manufacturer in Italy is now a household name synonymous with style and luxury. And behind it all is one name-Miuccia Prada. 1 But the Prada name is most famous due to the success of his grand-daughter, Miuccia, born 1949. 2  While it was Mario Prada who started creating the magnificent bags we know and love today, it was Miuccia who introduced the men and women's clothing lines in the early 90s.
PRADA. Prada was founded in 1913 by Mario Prada, Miuccia Prada's grandfather, in Milan. Located in the prestigious Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, Prada was an exclusive, stylish store selling luggage, accessories and luxury goods, in fine materials and of sophisticated workmanship. 
Miuccia Prada, Fashion Designer. Prada was founded in 1913 in Milan, Italy as a manufacturer of leather bags. What is known today as Prada is mostly the work of the founders grand daughter Miuccia Prada. Miuccia Prada was born in 1949. After university, she entered the family business 1978 and soon revolutionized the appearence of its products.
Prada Marfa is located relatively close to Donald Judd 's Chinati Foundation. The minimalism of Prada's usual displays that are mimicked in this work play off the minimalism that Judd is known for as an artist. Prada Marfa is a permanently installed sculpture by artists Elmgreen and Dragset, situated 1.4 miles (2.3 km) northwest of Valentine, Texas, just off U.S. Highway 90 (US 90), and about 26 miles (42 km) northwest of the city of Marfa.
1 Prada's branch lines include: Miu Miu, Granello, Prada Uomo, and Prada Donna. 2  Miu Miu was introduced in 1992 - Miu Miu being Miuccia's nickname; the line is based off of her own personal style. 3  A year after that, she won a Council of Fashion Designers of America International Award. 1 But the Prada name is most famous due to the success of his grand-daughter, Miuccia, born 1949. 2  While it was Mario Prada who started creating the magnificent bags we know and love today, it was Miuccia who introduced the men and women's clothing lines in the early 90s.
GROUP PROFILE. Prada was founded in 1913 by Mario Prada, Miuccia Prada's grandfather, in Milan. Located in the prestigious Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, Prada was an exclusive, stylish store selling luggage, accessories and luxury goods, in fine materials and of sophisticated workmanship. The Prada brand is part of the Prada Group, a global powerhouse in the luxury goods market, as well as a business icon. The group's business model, capable of combining industrialized processes with sophisticated workmanship, top quality and the level of detail characteristic of craft production, set a world precedent.
Younger Years. Famed fashion designer Miuccia Prada was born Maria Bianchi Prada on May 10, 1949, in Milan, Italy. She was the youngest granddaughter of Mario Prada, who started the Prada fashion line in 1913 by manufacturing well-crafted, high-end suitcases, handbags and steamer trunks for the Milanese elite. Once a member of the Italian Communist Party and a mime student, Prada was an unlikely entrepreneur when she took over her family's luggage business in 1978. She first dazzled the fashion world in 1985 with a series of black nylon handbags and backpacks. Prada is now a billion-dollar company.
Miuccia Prada is an Italian fashion designer best known as the head of Prada, a fashion powerhouse that specializes in luxury goods for men and women. Once a member of the Italian Communist Party and a mime student, Prada was an unlikely entrepreneur when she took over her family's luggage business in 1978. She first dazzled the fashion world in 1985 with a series of black nylon handbags and backpacks. Prada is now a billion-dollar company.