Membranous urethra: The membranous urethra is the shortest part of the urethra that connects the prostatic to the spongy urethra. Features of membranous urethra include: The membranous urethra is 1 to 2 cm long and extends from the tip of the prostate to the bulb of the penis located at its upper end. Prostatic urethra: The prostatic urethra is that part of the urethra that passes through the prostate. Features of the prostatic urethra are listed below: The prostatic urethra is around 2.5 cm long and extends from the base of the bladder or bladder neck to the membranous urethra.
1 The membranous urethra is the shortest and narrowest part of the male urethra. 2  This section measures approx. 3  0.5 - 0.75 inches (12 - 19 mm) in length and is the section of the urethra that passes through the male urogenital diaphragm. The urethra is part of the urinary system. In females and males,  the urethra carries urine from the bladder out of the body through  the urinary meatus. In males, the ureth … ra also carries ejaculate  out of the body.
1 The membranous urethra is the shortest and narrowest part of the male urethra. 2  This section measures approx. 3  0.5 - 0.75 inches (12 - 19 mm) in length and is the section of the urethra that passes through the male urogenital diaphragm. 1 Membranous Urethra. 2  The membranous urethra is the shortest and narrowest part of the male urethra. 3  This section measures approx. 4  0.5 - 0.75 inches (12 - 19 mm) in length and is the section of the urethra that passes through the male urogenital diaphragm.
1 0.5 - 0.75 inches (12 - 19 mm) in length and is the section of the urethra that passes through the male urogenital diaphragm. 2  The external urethral sphincter (muscle) is located in the urogenital diaphragm (as for the female urethra). The urethra is part of the urinary system. In females and males,  the urethra carries urine from the bladder out of the body through  the urinary meatus. In males, the ureth … ra also carries ejaculate  out of the body.
Figure: MU 3 The Spongiose Urethra This is the longest part of the male urethra. Measuring about 15cm with a diameter of 6mm, it extends from the perineal membrane to the external urethral meatus of the glans penis. It is located in the perineum within the substance of the corpus spongiosus of the penis. It is the widest and most distensible part of the male urethra. 3. Membranous Urethra: This part measures about 1cm in length, with a 6mm wide stellate lumen and traverses the urogenital diaphragm – A muscular sheet. 4. Spongiose Urethra: This is about 15cm long with a 6mm wide slit-like lumen.
Histology of Male Urethra. The urethra in the male is longer than the urethra of females. The male urethra is 7 to 8 inches lengthwise. The male urethra fuctions as a conduit for urine and semen. The male urethra is divided into three sections: prostatic urethra, membranous urethra, and spongy (penile) urethra. Histology of the Spongy Urethra. The third part of the urethra is the spongy urethra. The spongy urethra is also called the penile urethra. This is the longest section of the male urethra. It travels through the corpus spongiosum of the penis.
1 The prostatic urethra begins at the neck of the bladder and includes all of the section that passes through the prostrate gland. 2  It is the widest and most dilatable part of the male urethral canal. 3  Membranous Urethra. 4  The membranous urethra is the shortest and narrowest part of the male urethra. The urethra is part of the urinary system. In females and males,  the urethra carries urine from the bladder out of the body through  the urinary meatus. In males, the ureth … ra also carries ejaculate  out of the body.
The first part, next to the urinary bladder, passes through the prostate gland and is called the prostatic urethra. The second part, a short region that penetrates the pelvic floor and enters the penis, is called the membranous urethra. The third part, the spongy urethra, is the longest region. This portion of the urethra extends the entire length of the penis, and the external urethral orifice opens to the outside at the tip of the penis. The final passageway for the flow of urine is the urethra, a thin-walled tube that conveys urine from the floor of the urinary bladder to the outside. The opening to the outside is the external urethral orifice. The mucosal lining of the urethra is transitional epithelium.
About. The urethra is the tubular part of the urinary system that carries the urine from the urinary bladder to the exterior of the body. It is made up of fibrous tissue and muscle, and is lined by mucus membrane. The urinary system functions to remove waste material from the body. Prostatic urethra: The prostatic urethra is that part of the urethra that passes through the prostate. Features of the prostatic urethra are listed below: The prostatic urethra is around 2.5 cm long and extends from the base of the bladder or bladder neck to the membranous urethra.