By Regina Bailey. Definition: Heterozygous refers to having two different alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Homozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r).
Average heterozygosity is measured by comparing the nucleotide sequences of DNA samples, and then averaging the data from the comparison. Average heterozygosity refers to the number of individuals in a population that are heterozygous for a certain trait.
Average heterozygosity refers to the average percentage of loci that are heterozygous in a population. Average heterozygosity is measured by looking at changes in karyotypes. The human genome consists of approximately 3 billion base pairs.
Similarly, the greater a population's average heterozygosity then generally the greater the genetic variability within that population. Note that here average has number of loci found in the denominator, that is, it is the fraction of individuals that are heterozygous at a given locus averaged over all loci.
It is my understanding that average heterozygosity, as an average, must be taken from across many loci. So if there is an average heterozygosity of 0.25 for example, you could theoretically have quite diverse heterozygosities from locus to locus. As such, you should not impute too much about the allele frequency of a given locus from an average heterozygosity that is
Formal description of the fraction of genetic loci within a population that consist within individuals of two different alleles. The greater a population's genetic variation then the greater will be its average heterozygosity, at least so long as random mating is occurring.
1. heterozygosity-the state of being heterozygous; having two different alleles of the same gene. state-the way something is with respect to its main attributes; the current state of knowledge; his state of health; in a weak financial state.
Humans contain two copies of each gene, one from the father and one from the mother, which sometimes are referred to as the alleles of a gene. If a mutation occurs in just one copy of the gene then that individual is considered heterozygous.