A skin abscess, also called a boil, is a bump that appears within and on the surface of the skin. This bump is usually filled with pus or translucent fluid, and is the result of a bacterial infection. A skin abscess may appear on any part of the body. However, they are most commonly found on the back, face, and chest. Skin abscesses can also appear in areas of hair growth, such as the underarms or groin.
An abscess (Latin: abscessus) is a collection of pus that has built up within the tissue of the body. Signs and symptoms of abscesses include redness, pain, warmth, and swelling. The swelling may feel fluid filled when pressed. 
An abscess is a painful collection of pus, usually caused by a bacterial infection. An abscess can develop anywhere in the body. This article focuses on two types of abscess: 1  skin abscesses – which develop under the skin. 2  internal abscesses – which develop inside the body, in an organ or in the spaces between organs. 
A dental abscess (also termed a dentoalveolar abscess, tooth abscess or root abscess), is a localized collection of pus associated with a tooth. The most common type of dental abscess is a periapical abscess, and the second most common is a periodontal abscess. 
An abscess is a tender mass generally surrounded by a colored area from pink to deep red. Abscesses are often easy to feel by touching. The middle of an abscess is full of pus and debris. Painful and warm to touch, abscesses can show up any place on your body. Abscess Causes. Abscesses are caused by obstruction of oil (sebaceous) glands or sweat glands, inflammation of hair follicles, or minor breaks and punctures of the skin. Germs get under the skin or into these glands, which causes an inflammatory response as your body's defenses try to kill these germs.
Abscesses usually form because of an infection or because a foreign object becomes trapped in your body. When your body fights an infection or tries to destroy a foreign object trapped inside, white blood cells fill the affected tissues, and the resulting fluid is called pus. 
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. An abscessed tooth is a painful infection at the root of a tooth or between the gum and a tooth. It's most commonly caused by severe tooth decay. Other causes of tooth abscess are trauma to the tooth, such as when it is broken or chipped, and gingivitis or gum disease. 
Abscesses are usually caused by specific microorganisms that invade the tissues, often by way of small wounds or breaks in the skin. An abscess is a natural defense mechanism in which the body attempts to localize an infection and wall off the microorganisms so that they cannot spread throughout the body. If an abscess is deep in tissue, drainage is done by means of a sinus tract that connects it to the surface. In a sterile abscess, the contents are not the result of pyogenic bacteria. Abscesses are able to form in about any location on the body. 2 an abscess that develops anywhere along the root length of a tooth.
Skin Abscess Overview. A skin abscess is a localized collection of pus that generally develops in response to infection or to the presence of other foreign materials under the skin. An abscess is typically painful, and it appears as a swollen area that is warm to the touch. The skin surrounding an abscess often appears pink or red. Abscesses can develop in many parts of the body, but they usually involve the skin surface. Skin abscesses are also referred to as boils.
Abscesses are usually caused by specific microorganisms that invade the tissues, often by way of small wounds or breaks in the skin. An abscess is a natural defense mechanism in which the body attempts to localize an infection and wall off the microorganisms so that they cannot spread throughout the body. 2 an abscess that develops anywhere along the root length of a tooth. It is usually characterized by pain caused by the pressure of pus against the nerve tissue within the tooth or within the periodontal tissues, redness caused by blood accumulation, and swelling caused by the suppuration.