They can withstand the cold better than many other species of tortoise and this makes them a very a smart choice in Northern climates. They live about 50 years, so your pet may well outlive you, unless you plan on living longer than 50 more years. The females are usually slightly larger than the males. A distinctive characteristic of the Horsfield tortoise is that they have four toes on each foot and bumps at the back of the thighs on the hind legs. When you own a Horsfield’s tortoise, you own the first animal ever to leave the Earth’s orbit. The Soviet Zond 5 mission in September 1968 took two Horsfield’s tortoises around the Moon and returned them safely to Earth
Welcome to Horsefield Tortoise Care. My name is Charlie and I have been caring for tortoises for several years now. I have gained a ton of knowledge since the beginning. I am a big advocate as a owner myself and its my goal to pass this information on to you. 
A few edible plants and vegetables that are suitable for feeding to your Horsefield tortoise include dandelions (leaves and flowers), dry hay, grasses, bramble, chick weed, nasturtium, mustard, sunflower, mint, clover, water cress, turnip, carrot, cabbage, barley, apple, broad beans, rose petals and sow thistles. Housing. Tortoises require both an indoor and outdoor enclosure if they are to stay healthy and happy. Indoor enclosures should be in the form of a tortoise table, which is well ventilated and as large as possible. Tortoises are an active species, so the more room you can allow them the better. Vivariums are not an ideal indoor enclosure for tortoises because they seem to have trouble recognising see-through barriers like glass, which can cause unnecessary stress for your Horsefield’s tortoise
The Horsefield tortoise is an herbivore and not a carnivore. They will eat meat if you give it to them so be sure to keep any meat out of his housing. Protein is important for a Horsefield tortoise but excessive protein can be damaging. 1  Any meat (protein). 2  Peas (protein). 3  Beans (protein). 4  Any animal meat (protein). 5  Iceberg lettuce (no nutrients). 6  Head lettuces (no nutrients). Advanced guide. This is the only guide that is made just for the Horsefield Tortoise. Includes everything on buying, housing, food, breeding, hibernation and health issues. All of the information you need to know specifically about your one type of pet, the Horsefield tortoise, is in this care guide.
A place for your Horsefield Tortoise to hide. Horsefield Tortoises will appreciate a place to hide within their enclosure. This can be in the form of plants, rocks and stones, branches, commercially produced hides or a large plant pot on its side. When designing the set up it is important to consider the potential hazards of the items you place within it. Housing. Tortoises require both an indoor and outdoor enclosure if they are to stay healthy and happy. Indoor enclosures should be in the form of a tortoise table, which is well ventilated and as large as possible. Tortoises are an active species, so the more room you can allow them the better. Vivariums are not an ideal indoor enclosure for tortoises because they seem to have trouble recognising see-through barriers like glass, which can cause unnecessary stress for your Horsefield’s tortoise
The Horsefield Tortoise is a herbivore. These tortoises should be fed grasses, leafy greens, vegetation and flowers of non-poisonous plants and weeds. They require a well-balanced diet to keep them healthy so you can also give them food pellets occasionally. Research is necessary to make sure the correct diet is given.
The Horsefield tortoise is a small tortoise, ranging from about 15 to 25 cm in size. Females grow slightly larger than the males and males have a slightly longer tail that is tucked to the side. These tortoises have four toes and have a life span of about 75 years. These tortoises should be fed grasses, leafy greens, vegetation and flowers of non-poisonous plants and weeds. They require a well-balanced diet to keep them healthy so you can also give them food pellets occasionally. Research is necessary to make sure the correct diet is given.
How to care for a Hermann tortoise. Hermann tortoises (testudo hermanni) are one of the most popular species of tortoise to keep as pets and it’s easy to see why. They have a level of individual personality that is rare in reptiles, and they can be very charming and funny. The tray should be large enough for the tortoise to get into for a soak, but less than 10cm deep so there is no chance of drowning. Lay a substrate of mixed compost and sand to a depth of about 5cm, and you have a place your tortoise will love. In addition to the UV light, a heat lamp should be provided.