1. amoeba-naked freshwater or marine or parasitic protozoa that form temporary pseudopods for feeding and locomotion. ameba. rhizopod, rhizopodan-protozoa characterized by a pseudopod. Amoebida, Amoebina, order Amoebida, order Amoebina-the animal order including amoebas. endameba-any ameba of the genus Endamoeba. 1. (Animals) any protozoan of the phylum Rhizopoda, esp any of the genus Amoeba, able to change shape because of the movements of cell processes (pseudopodia). They live in fresh water or soil or as parasites in man and animals.
Some amoebas can cause disease in humans, the best known being amoebic dysentery, or amoebiasis, caused by the organism Entamoeba histolytica. It is transmitted through water contaminated by sewage. These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. An amoeba is a type of unicellular organism usually found in water around decaying vegetation, in wet soil and in animals such as humans. It is relatively advanced, and can extend and retract blob-like arms called pseudopodia, which it can use to grasp food particles and to propel itself through microscopic terrain
noun. An example of an amoeba. An example of an amoeba. The definition of an amoeba is a one-celled organism, common in water and soil, possessing no set cell organs, structure, or defining shape. (plural amoebae or amoebas). ( 1 biology) A genus of unicellular protozoa that moves by means of temporary projections called pseudopodia. ( 2 mathematics) The graph of the real part of the logarithms of a polynomial equation in complex numbers.
Acanthamoeba. An amoeba (also ameba, amoeba amœba or) amoeboid is a type of cell or organism which has the ability to alter its, shape primarily by extending and retracting. Pseudopods amoebae do not form a single taxonomic, group but are found in every major lineage of eukaryotic. organisms Microbiologists often use the terms amoeboid and amoebae interchangeably for any organism that exhibits amoeboid movement. In older classification systems, most amoebae were placed in the class or subphylum Sarcodina, a grouping of single-celled organisms that possess pseudopods or move by protoplasmic flow.
Amoeba is a genus of single-celled amoeboid protists in the family Amoebidae. The type species of the genus is Amoeba proteus, a common freshwater organism, widely studied in classrooms and laboratories. 
Amoeba. Amoeba (also spelled ameba) is a genus of protozoa that moves by means of temporary projections called pseudopods (false feet), and is well-known as a representative unicellular organism. 
An amoeba (pronounced uh-MEE-buh) is any of several tiny, one-celled protozoa in the phylum (or primary division of the animal kingdom) Sarcodina. Amoebas live in freshwater and salt water, in soil, and as parasites in moist body parts of animals. The amoeba moves by continually changing its body shape, forming extensions called pseudopods (false feet) into which its body then flows. The pseudopods also are used to surround and capture food—mainly bacteria, algae, and other protozoa—from the surrounding water.
: any of a large genus (Amoeba) of naked rhizopod protozoans with lobed and never anastomosing pseudopodia, without permanent organelles or supporting structures, and of wide distribution in fresh and salt water and moist terrestrial environments; broadly: a naked rhizopod or other amoeboid protozoan. 
An amoeba (also ameba, amoeba amœba or) amoeboid is a type of cell or organism which has the ability to alter its, shape primarily by extending and retracting. pseudopods Microbiologists often use the terms amoeboid and amoebae interchangeably for any organism that exhibits amoeboid movement. In older classification systems, most amoebae were placed in the class or subphylum Sarcodina, a grouping of single-celled organisms that possess pseudopods or move by protoplasmic flow.