detailed map of Bunbury and near places. Welcome to the Bunbury google satellite map! This place is situated in Cheshire County, North West, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 53° 7' 0 North, 2° 39' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Bunbury. See Bunbury photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Bunbury in United Kingdom.
The Bunbury Arms at Stoak, Chester enjoys an ideal location – just off both the M56 and the M53 and a mile from the Cheshire Oaks shopping centre at Ellesmere Port. Join The Bunbury bar & restaurant team! 
Some prominent gentlemen of the county of Cheshire met in Bunbury on 23 December 1642 and drew up the Bunbury Agreement. The terms of the agreement were intended to keep Cheshire neutral during the English Civil War. Bunbury Locks is a working wharf with some high-rise staircase locks and canal horse stables. Bunbury Mill is a watermill dating from 1844, although there has been a mill on this site since 1290. Following damage caused by a flood in 1960, the mill closed in 1966.
Bunbury is a civil parish in Cheshire East, England. It contains 31 buildings that are recorded in the National Heritage List for England as designated listed buildings. Of these, one is listed at Grade I, the highest grade, one is listed at Grade II*, the middle grade, and the others are at Grade II. The parish contains the settlements of Bunbury, Bunbury Heath, and Lower Bunbury, with surrounding countryside. Many of the listed buildings are houses, cottages, farmhouses and farm buildings, some dating back to the 17th century and timber-framed. The other buildings are a church and associated structures, a public house, a former school, an active school, and a watermill.
Bunbury is a village and civil parish in the unitary authority of Cheshire East and the ceremonial county of Cheshire, England, south of Tarporley, north west of Nantwich, and on the Shropshire Union Canal. According to the 2001 Census, the parish had a population of 1,308. Bunbury Locks is a working wharf with some high-rise staircase locks and canal horse stables. Bunbury Mill is a watermill dating from 1844, although there has been a mill on this site since 1290. Following damage caused by a flood in 1960, the mill closed in 1966.
The church of St. Boniface at Bunbury Church ranks with that of St. Oswald at Malpas in its beauty and range of interesting historical features. In the church you can obtain a small pamphlet from which the details below have been abstracted. A meeting was arranged on 23 December at Bunbury between Henry Mainwaring and Mr. Marbury of Marbury Hall for Parliament and Lord Kilmorey and Orlando Bridgeman for the Royalists. The latter was the son of the Bishop of Chester. These four agreed The Peace of Bunbury under which fighting would cease in Cheshire. They would combine to escort any forces from elsewhere out of the county and would not let other forces pass through the county
Bunbury is a very special school and we are proud of our pupils and their successes. We are a Church of England Primary School with strong links to St Boniface Church, Bunbury and the community. We believe that the relationships we develop with our children and their families enables us to create a warm and welcoming ethos which is so evident throughout our school.
Bunbury Aldersey C of E Primary school is in School Lane. The parish church is dedicated to Saint Boniface and is built on the highest point of the village. Bunbury Locks is a working wharf with some high-rise staircase locks and canal horse stables. Bunbury Mill is a watermill dating from 1844, although there has been a mill on this site since 1290. Following damage caused by a flood in 1960, the mill closed in 1966.