Features a 1.5-mile racetrack and road course. Kansas Speedway is home to two NASCAR races and is the premier motorsports facility in the Midwest. Loading Map
It has some of the big city amenities with a small town down-home appeal. Kansas City, Kansas is the third largest city in the state of Kansas and is the county seat of Wyandotte County. The city was incorporated in 1886 and for 73 years was governed by a three-member elected Board of Commissioners. Kansas City has four school districts that provide services to public and private students living in Wyandotte County. The Kansas City, Kansas Schools is the largest school district and consists of 49 schools.
The Kansas Speedway is an auto racetrack adjacent to the Village West area in western Wyandotte County. The speedway, which is used for races that are part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup and other racing series, is a 1.5 miles (2.4 km) tri-oval with turns which bank at a 15° angle. Wyandotte County also includes the independent cities of Bonner Springs and Edwardsville. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 145,786 residents. It is situated at Kaw Point, which is the junction of the Missouri and Kansas rivers.
On April 1, 1997, voters unanimously approved to consolidate the governments of the City of Kansas City, Kansas (the “City”) and Wyandotte County, Kansas (the “County”), into one jurisdiction; The Unified Government of Wyandotte County/Kansas City, Kansas effective October 1, 1997. Kansas City has four school districts that provide services to public and private students living in Wyandotte County. The Kansas City, Kansas Schools is the largest school district and consists of 49 schools.
Kansas City (often abbreviated as KCK to differentiate it from its adjacent namesake, Kansas City, Missouri) is the third-largest city in the state of Kansas, the county seat of Wyandotte County, and the third-largest city of the Kansas City metropolitan area. Wyandotte County also includes the independent cities of Bonner Springs and Edwardsville. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 145,786 residents. It is situated at Kaw Point, which is the junction of the Missouri and Kansas rivers.
5 degrees on the backstretch. Road Course: A 6 turn 2.37-Mile Road Course twists through the infield. Location: The speedway is strategically located at the intersection of I-435 and I-70 in Kansas City, Kan., about 15 miles west of downtown Kansas City. The total 1.28 miles of SAFER walls around Kansas Speedway is the longest length at any of the tracks with SAFER walls on the NASCAR circuit. The SAFER wall at Kansas Speedway is about 40 inches high, and extends about 30 inches from the wall.
Kansas Speedway is a 1.5-mile (2.4 km) tri-oval race track in Kansas City, Kansas. It was built in 2001 and it currently hosts two annual NASCAR race weekends. The Verizon IndyCar Series also raced at here until 2011. The speedway is owned and operated by the International Speedway Corporation. International Speedway Corporation began exploring the idea of building a racing facility in the midwest in 1996. Attention was turned towards the Kansas City area in 1997. Officials considered both the Missouri and Kansas side of the city but eventually settled with the Kansas side because of better funding.
In 1998, Integra Realty Resources – Kansas City responded to a request for proposal by the Unified Government of Wyandotte County (UG) and the International Speedway Corporation (ISC). At that time, ISC had selected a site to construct a NASCAR racing facility in western Wyandotte County. 
Kansas Speedway is conveniently located at the intersection of Interstate 435 and Interstate 70 in Wyandotte County, Kan., about 15 miles west of downtown Kansas City, Kan. Built in 2001, Kansas Speedway is a 1.5 mile tri-oval suitable for all types of racing, and can seat more than 72,000 spectators. In addition, the Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway is scheduled to open in early 2012. The casino will be located on Turn 2 of the Speedway and will feature the newest slot machines, table games, a high-energy lounge and a variety of dining and entertainment options.