Protein Encoding Gene. Protein encoding gene (PEG), protein coding sequence (CDS), and open reading frame (ORF) are nearly synonymous terms. In the FIG ID, the feature type for a protein encoding gene is. Protein encoding genes are commmonly described as structural or regulatory. Structural genes encode enzymes and structural proteins. 
For example: 1  One gene can encode more than one protein (even up to 1,000). 2  The human genome contains about 21,000 protein-encoding genes, but the total number of proteins in human cells is estimated to be between 250,000 to one million. 3  Proteins are dynamic. For example: 1  One gene can encode more than one protein (even up to 1,000). 2  Proteins are dynamic. 3  Proteins are co-and post-translationally modified. 4  Proteins exist in a wide range of concentrations in the body.
A gene is a segment of DNA that encodes function. A chromosome consists of a long strand of DNA containing many genes. A human chromosome can have up to 500 million base pairs of DNA with thousands of genes. Second, that mRNA is translated to protein. RNA-coding genes must still go through the first step, but are not translated into protein. The process of producing a biologically functional molecule of either RNA or protein is called gene expression, and the resulting molecule is called a gene product.
Most genes contain the information needed to make functional molecules called proteins. (A few genes produce other molecules that help the cell assemble proteins.) The journey from gene to protein is complex and tightly controlled within each cell. It consists of two major steps: transcription and translation. Together, transcription and translation are known as gene expression. Translation, the second step in getting from a gene to a protein, takes place in the cytoplasm. The mRNA interacts with a specialized complex called a ribosome, which “reads” the sequence of mRNA bases. Each sequence of three bases, called a codon, usually codes for one particular amino acid.
1 One gene can encode more than one protein (even up to 1,000). 2  The human genome contains about 21,000 protein-encoding genes, but the total number of proteins in human cells is estimated to be between 250,000 to one million. 3  Proteins are dynamic. For example: 1  One gene can encode more than one protein (even up to 1,000). 2  Proteins are dynamic. 3  Proteins are co-and post-translationally modified. 4  Proteins exist in a wide range of concentrations in the body.
In the last few decades, we have been focused on genes that encoded proteins. Indeed, based on the genetic code, pieces of the genome that encode proteins are relatively easy to find. However the discovery of microRNAs as well as other RNAs that do not encode for proteins, indicates that there is much more to the genome than protein coding genes. 
Table 1 shows that the number of pseudogenes in the human genome is on the order of 13,000, and in some chromosomes is nearly the same as the number of functional protein-coding genes. Gene duplication is a major mechanism through which new genetic material is generated during molecular evolution. The total length of the human genome is over 3 billion base pairs. The genome is organized into 22 paired chromosomes, plus the X chromosome (one in males, two in females) and, in males only, one Y chromosome. These are all large linear DNA molecules contained within the cell nucleus.
These alleles encode slightly different versions of a protein, which cause different phenotype traits. Colloquial usage of the term having a gene (e.g., good genes, hair colour gene) typically refers to having a different allele of the gene. Second, that mRNA is translated to protein. RNA-coding genes must still go through the first step, but are not translated into protein. The process of producing a biologically functional molecule of either RNA or protein is called gene expression, and the resulting molecule is called a gene product.
The human genome is the complete set of nucleic acid sequence for humans (Homo sapiens), encoded as DNA within the 23 chromosome pairs in cell nuclei and in a small DNA molecule found within individual mitochondria. Human genomes include both protein-coding DNA genes and noncoding DNA. The total length of the human genome is over 3 billion base pairs. The genome is organized into 22 paired chromosomes, plus the X chromosome (one in males, two in females) and, in males only, one Y chromosome. These are all large linear DNA molecules contained within the cell nucleus.