Iodine's main role in animal biology is as constituents of the thyroid hormones, thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). 
Thyroxine. Hormone produced by the thyroid glands to regulate metabolism by controlling the rate of oxidation in cells; thyroxine is 65% iodine. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
The thyroid gland produces the hormones thyroxine, triiodothyronine, and calcitonin. Thyroxine and triiodothyronine are produced by thyroid folliclar cells. Thyroid cells absorb iodine from certain foods and combine the iodine with tyrosine, an amino acid, to make thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). The hormone T4 has four atoms of iodine, while T3 has three atoms of iodine. One of the many hormones produced by the pituitary gland is thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). When levels of T4 and T3 are too low, TSH is secreted to stimulate the thyroid to produce more thyroid hormones.
thyroxine, thyroxin. a hormone of the thyroid gland that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine. The chemical name for thyroxine is tetraiodothyronine (symbol, T 4); it is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin, the storage form.
The thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and its prohormone, thyroxine (T4), are tyrosine-based hormones produced by the thyroid gland that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism. Iodine is necessary for the production of T 3 and T 4. Thyroxine is produced by attaching iodine atoms to the ring structures of tyrosine molecules. Thyroxine (T 4) contains four iodine atoms. Triiodothyronine (T 3) is identical to T 4, but it has one less iodine atom per molecule.
thyroxine. a thyroid hormone that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine, occurring naturally as l-thyroxine; its chemical name is tetraiodothyronine. It is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin and released from the gland by the action of a proteolytic enzym
The thyroid hormones (THs)—thyroxine (T4) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3)—circulate in blood by reversibly binding to carrier proteins. Although only 0.3% or less of T3 and T4 circulates unbound, it is this free hormone fraction that is metabolically active at the tissue and cellular level. 
Thyroxine. (3,5,3’,5’,-tetraiodothyronine), the principal thyroid hormone in vertebrate animals and man, produced by the thyroid follicles. Thyroxine is synthesized by iodination of the amino acid tyrosine and the oxidative condensation of two diiodotyrosine molecules with the splitting off of alanine. A hormone secreted by the thyroid gland. Thyroxine (structure 1) is quite similar chemically and in biological activity to triiodothyronine (2). Both are derivatives of the amino acid tyrosine and are unique in being the only iodine-containing compounds of importance in the economy of all higher forms of animal life.
thyroxine. a thyroid hormone that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine, occurring naturally as l-thyroxine; its chemical name is tetraiodothyronine. It is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin and released from the gland by the action of a proteolytic enzyme. a hormone of the thyroid gland that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine. The chemical name for thyroxine is tetraiodothyronine (symbol, T 4); it is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin, the storage form.