April 22, 2005 Introduction and GI Regulation Ron Lynch, Ph.D. 626-2472 Functional Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal O bjectives: 1. Identify the location of each organ along the alimentary canal, and in general terms, the contribution each makes to the gastrointestinal system.
Objectives Chapter 23 1. Describe the function of the digestive system, and differentiate between organs of the alimentary canal and accessory digestive organs. 2. List and define the major processes occurring during digestive system activity. 3. Describe stimuli and controls of digestive activity.
Name the major organs of the digestive system. 17.2 General Characteristics of the Alimentary Canal 3. Describe the structure of the wall of the alimentary canal. 4. Explain how the contents of the alimentary canal are mixed and moved. 17.3 Mouth 5. Describe the functions of the structures associated with the mouth.
The walls of the alimentary canal organs from the esophagus to the large intestine are made up of the same four basic tissue layers, or tunics: 1  The mucosa is the innermost layer, a moist membrane that lines the cavity, or lumen, of the organ. 2  The serosa is the outermost layer of the wall of GI organs.
The walls of the alimentary canal organs from the esophagus to the large intestine are made up of the same four basic tissue layers, or tunics: The mucosa is the innermost layer, a moist membrane that lines the cavity, or lumen, of the organ.
1 Anatomy of the Digestive System: Organs of the Alimentary Canal CHAPTER 14p. 412-423 Divisions of Digestive System 1. Alimentary Canal or Gastrointestinal Tract (GI)-digests and absorbs food• coiled hollow tube with 2 openings• mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine2.
The digestive system includes the organs of the alimentary canal and accessory structures. The alimentary canal forms a continuous tube that is open to the outside environment at both ends. The organs of the alimentary canal are the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. The accessory digestive structures include the teeth, tongue, salivary glands, liver, pancreas, and gallbladder.