The rods and cones of the retina are connected with the optic nerve which leaves the eye slightly to the nasal side of the center of the retina. The point at which the optic nerve leaves the eye is called the blind spot because there are no rods and cones in this area. The optic nerve passes through the optic foramen of the skull and into the cranial cavity. 
blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each eye. visual pathway. As the optic nerve leaves the back of the eye, it travels to the optic chiasm, located just below and in front of the pituitary gland (which is why a tumor on the pituitary gland, pressing on the optic chiasm, can cause vision problems).
The optic nerve leaves the orbit (eye socket) via the optic canal, running postero-medially towards the optic chiasm, where there is a partial decussation (crossing) of fibres from the temporal visual fields (the nasal hemi-retina) of both eyes. 
Optic Nerve. The Optic Nerve, also called Cranial Nerve II, is the nerve that transmits visual information from the Retina to the Brain. Optic Disc. The Optic Disc or Optic Nerve head is the point in the eye where the optic nerve fibers leave the retina. Due to absence of light sensitive rods and cones of the retina at this point, it is not sensitive to light and thus is also known as The Blind Spot or Anatomical Blind Spot
The area of the retina where the optic nerve leaves the eye is called the. 
The area of the retina where the optic nerve leaves the eye is called the A. pupil. B. cornea. C. visual cortex. D. lens E. blind spot Thanks! e. blind spot there are no light-sensing cells (rods/cones) where the optic nerve passes through the retina, which is why it is, literally, a blind spot. :). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blind_spot_...
Optic Disc & Optic Nerve. The optic disc is a round area in the back of the eye where retinal nerve fibers collect to form the optic nerve. The optic disc is sometimes called the optic nerve head because it is the head of the optic nerve as it enters the eye from the brain
Nervous Layer. The optic disc is a round area in the back of the eye where retinal nerve fibers collect to form the optic nerve. The optic disc is sometimes called the optic nerve head because it is the head of the optic nerve as it enters the eye from the brain. It is located slightly to the nasal side of the globe. The optic disc is a round area in the back of the eye where retinal nerve fibers collect to form the optic nerve. The optic disc is sometimes called the optic nerve head because it is the head of the optic nerve as it enters the eye from the brain