The energy source harnessed to turn the generator varies widely. Most power stations in the world burn fossil fuels such as coal, oil, and natural gas to generate electricity. Others use nuclear power, but there is an increasing use of cleaner renewable sources such as solar, wind, wave and hydroelectric. 
Electric Power. From incandescent bulbs to fluorescents to LEDs, learn more about the long history of the light bulb. Electricity -- the flow of electrical power -- is a secondary energy source, generated by the conversion of primary sources of energy, like fossil, nuclear, wind or solar. 
Hydro Power. Hydro Power is one of the cleanest, most environmentally safe sources of renewable energy. In addition to the clean electricity it offers us, hydro power plants create lakes that offer an assortment of recreational opportunities: swimming, boating and fishing. Nuclear. There are many great benefits to nuclear power: it's inexpensive, it's safe, and it provides emission-free energy. Georgia Power utilizes two nuclear facilities: Plant Vogtle and Plant Hatch. Read more about how nuclear energy works, our plants, and the environmental advantages to using nuclear power.
Biomass can be burned to produce electricity, or be converted to a gas and used for fuel. Geothermal energy uses hot water or steam from deep beneath the earth’s surface to produce electricity. Hydroelectric power plants use the energy of falling water to spin generator turbines. Solar energy can also be used to produce electricity. Solar cells change the radiant energy of the sun into electrical energy. Some calculators and portable radios are powered by solar cells. Many power plants use fossil fuels. The fossil fuel is burned to produce heat, which is used to make steam. The steam is then used to turn the blades of a turbine. Some power plants run on nuclear power, which is another nonrenewable resource.
Alternative energy is energy provided from sources other than the three fossil fuels: coal, oil, and natural gas. Alternative sources of energy include nuclear power, solar power, wind power, water power, and geothermal energy, among others. Solar energy can be used to heat buildings and water and to produce electricity. However, the Sun does not always shine, and the process of collecting solar energy and storing it for use at night and on cloudy days is difficult and expensive. Solar energy systems can be either passive or active.
Solar power is energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. Solar energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the world.
Benefits of Renewable Energy Use. Renewable energy — wind, solar, geothermal, hydroelectric, and biomass — provides substantial benefits for our climate, our health, and our economy: Each source of renewable energy has unique benefits and costs; this page explores the many benefits associated with these energy technologies. 
Nuclear power is an alternative energy source that can be obtained from either the splitting of the nuclei of atoms (nuclear fission) or the combining of the nuclei of atoms (nuclear fusion). In either of these two reactions, great amounts of energy are released. Solar energy can be used to heat buildings and water and to produce electricity. However, the Sun does not always shine, and the process of collecting solar energy and storing it for use at night and on cloudy days is difficult and expensive. Solar energy systems can be either passive or active.
Solar energy is a flexible energy technology: solar power plants can be built as distributed generation (located at or near the point of use) or as a central-station, utility-scale solar power plant (similar to traditional power plants). Solar energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the world.
Electricity has been generated at central stations since 1882. The first power plants were run on water power or coal, and today, rely mainly on coal, nuclear, natural gas, hydroelectric, wind generators, and petroleum, with a small amount from solar energy, tidal power, and geothermal sources.