College Wrestling. Wrestling History-NCAA. Wrestling is one of the few sports that can be traced back to the beginnings of recorded history. There are cave drawings in France that are over 15,000 years old. Babylonian and Egyptian and Babylonian relief’s depict wrestling bouts where wrestlers are using most of the holds known to the modern-day sport. Wrestling was a big part of ancient Greek literature and legend. Back then wrestling was the number one sport in Greece and also one of the most brutal. The ancient Romans adopted the sport with much enthusiasm but devised rules to eliminate most of the brutality..
There is no one person who is recorded as the inventor of sumo wrestling, as it is an ancient Japanese sport that traces back centuries with no record of its originators. Prof … essional sumo, which can still be seen today, can trace its roots back to the Edo Period in Japan's history, which lasted from 1603 to 1868. History has it that the Greeks did, indeed, wrestle. No doubt. But the Chinese have records that predate the Greeks by at least 500 years and speak to wrestling as a pre … -requisite for military service.   Here's something to consider.
First milestones. The first real traces of the development of wrestling date back to the times of the Sumerians, 5000 years ago. The Epic of Gilgamesh written in cuneiform, the sculptures and the low reliefs, are numerous sources that reveal the first refereed competitions, accompanied by music. During the ancient Olympic Games, from 708 B.C., wrestling was the decisive discipline of the Pentathlon. In fact, it was the last discipline to be held – after the discus, the javelin, the long jump and the foot race – and it designated the winner of the Pentathlon, the only crowned athlete of the Games.
Answer   Professional Wrestling was never formally invented by anyone, its just a highly dramatised version of the amateur styles. It was around the 1920's though w … hen the fake professional wrestling became popular due to the gold dust trio Ed Lewis, Billy Sandow and Toots Mondt. 2 people found this useful. History has it that the Greeks did, indeed, wrestle. No doubt. But the Chinese have records that predate the Greeks by at least 500 years and speak to wrestling as a pre … -requisite for military service.   Here's something to consider
There is no one person who is recorded as the inventor of sumo wrestling, as it is an ancient Japanese sport that traces back centuries with no record of its originators. Prof … essional sumo, which can still be seen today, can trace its roots back to the Edo Period in Japan's history, which lasted from 1603 to 1868. History has it that the Greeks did, indeed, wrestle. No doubt. But the Chinese have records that predate the Greeks by at least 500 years and speak to wrestling as a pre … -requisite for military service.   Here's something to consider
Answer  wrestling can be 2 upto any number you want to be precise wrestling was invented in 1899 and was made official in 1901  Answer  Wretling it's self was probably started as soon as we became human, I mean if we did go straight from chimps then, then it started there. Look at Chimps, apes, monkey! History has it that the Greeks did, indeed, wrestle. No doubt. But the Chinese have records that predate the Greeks by at least 500 years and speak to wrestling as a pre … -requisite for military service.   Here's something to consider.
Nobody invented WWE. The only thing the McMahons did was make it what it is today. Wrestling is all traced back to ancient times. Basically, though, it goes like this: Jess McMahon created the CWC, and joined NWA in 1953. Report Abuse. The greeks invented wrestling but WWE was invented by Vinnie's Dad....Vinnie Sr....who's not a wussy Shelia!! And another partner who was bought out by Vinnie Sr. Source(s): www.obsessedwithwrestling.com and greek history.
It was invented in 1100 A.D. It means hand-to-hand combat and is  one of the oldest English words.   WWE Wrestling was made in the late 50's when it was called WWF. History has it that the Greeks did, indeed, wrestle. No doubt. But the Chinese have records that predate the Greeks by at least 500 years and speak to wrestling as a pre … -requisite for military service.   Here's something to consider