With additional education and work experience, the BLS said it is possible for biotechnology technicians to be promoted to positions with supervisory duties, such as scientist, technologist or laboratory supervisor. Be a Biotechnology Technician: Step-by-Step Career Guide. Research the requirements to become a biotechnology technician. Learn about the job description and read the step-by-step process to start a career in biotechnology.
A biotechnology technician assists scientists in research or development in a variety of laboratory settings, using knowledge of molecular and cellular biology, genetics and chemistry to conduct experiments. Be a Biotechnology Technician: Step-by-Step Career Guide. Research the requirements to become a biotechnology technician. Learn about the job description and read the step-by-step process to start a career in biotechnology.
Some employers will require college education for this position, such as an associate's degree, while others require a bachelor's degree in biology, biotechnology, or a related field. Knowledge of scientific research is essential in this job, though some employers will offer on-the-job training. (United States). The average pay for a Research Technician, Biotechnology is $43,592 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this career. Experience has a moderate effect on salary for this job. $30,102 - $67,498
Technicians working in biotechnology apply the knowledge and techniques they have gained from basic research to product development. Biological technicians also may work in private industry and assist in the study of a wide range of topics concerning mining and industrial production. They may test samples in environmental impact studies, or monitor production processes to help ensure products are not contaminated. Biological technicians typically do the following: Set up, maintain, and clean laboratory instruments and equipment, such as microscopes, scales, and test tubes. 1  Gather and prepare biological samples, such as blood, food, or bacteria cultures, for laboratory analysis. 2  Conduct biological tests and experiments.
Biotechnology lab technicians may test DNA, examine cell cultures and splice genes as part of a laboratory's research or product development team. These professionals typically work under the supervision of a more experience lab technician or scientist. Some employers may prefer lab technicians who hold a bachelor's degree in biotechnology or biology. Common core courses in certificate, associate's degree and bachelor's degree programs include quality control, biochemistry, bioinformatics, microbiology and laboratory measurement techniques.
A biotechnology technician working in the area of agricultural and food science is usually involved in many kinds of animal, fiber, or food research. These technicians typically conduct experiments and other tests in order to improve the quality and yield of various crops. Technicians employed in environmental science typically perform various types of laboratory tests to help determine sources of pollution. Biotechnology technicians usually work with materials on a molecular level. Biotechnology involves diverse areas, such as forensic science and agricultural research.
A biotechnology technician working in the chemical industry will typically assist a chemical engineer or chemist in the development of new types of chemicals or other related products. Technicians employed in environmental science typically perform various types of laboratory tests to help determine sources of pollution. Biotechnology technicians usually work with materials on a molecular level. Biotechnology involves diverse areas, such as forensic science and agricultural research.
The growth of the biotechnology industry means that students don't need a Ph.D or masters degree to enter the field. Many Biotechnology Laboratory Technicians have an Associates degree or certificate and are an extremely important, and growing portion of the biotechnology job market. The biotechnology laboratory technician's primary responsibility is to assist other scientists and the tasks that they perform vary greatly. Laboratory technicians may monitor and set up instruments, check on and record test results and other basic tasks. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A biotechnology technician is a person who typically works in a laboratory assisting scientists in the research, development, and testing of various forms of biotechnology. Technicians employed in environmental science typically perform various types of laboratory tests to help determine sources of pollution. Biotechnology technicians usually work with materials on a molecular level. Biotechnology involves diverse areas, such as forensic science and agricultural research.