Graceland is a mansion on a 13.8-acre (5.6 ha) estate in Memphis, Tennessee that was home to Elvis Presley. It is located at 3764 Elvis Presley Boulevard in the vast Whitehaven community about 9 miles (14.5 km) from Downtown and less than four miles (6 km) north of the Mississippi border. It currently serves as a museum. It was opened to the public on June 7, 1982.
email. Walk in the footsteps of the King of Rock 'n' Roll at Elvis' home, Graceland. The full Graceland experience will take you from Elvis' humble beginnings through his rise to superstardom. See how a rock 'n' roll legend lived and relaxed with family and friends. 
Graceland: From 1956 until 1957, Elvis and his family lived at 1034 Audubon Drive in Memphis. It wasn't long, however, before it became apparent that the Presleys needed more privacy and security than the Audubon Drive home could provide. So in 1957, Elvis bought Graceland for $102,000 from Ruth Brown Moore. Graceland was Elvis' final home in Memphis and it is where he died in 1977. Visitors to Graceland will experience more than just a tour of Elvis Presley's mansion
A closer panorama of the Elvis House and pond - 250k. The Elvis House is located on Victoria Lane in Mahwah, NJ (Right off Campgaw Rd). An article in the Bergen Record 3 years ago mentioned it cost $200/night to power the Christmas Lights and that there were 12 electrical substations on the property to handle the load. Although I arrived early on a weeknight, there was a steady stream of traffic cruising the past the Elvis House in Mahwah. had to shoot each frame as many as 4 times in order to get one that wasn't blocked by a car or SUV. This panorama is 5 separate frames of the Elvis House.
Elvis Presley's former Beverly Hills home was listed for | AP. Elvis Presley's former Beverly Hills home was listed for | AP. Photos by Simon Berlyn with Berlyn Photography. It's been 35 years since Elvis has left the building, but this Beverly Hills mansion will always be known as the late singer's home.
The unique association between Elvis Presley and Graceland, his home in Memphis, Tennessee, for more than 20 years (1957-1977), is so powerful that Elvis and Graceland are essentially interchangeable. Elvis and his parents called Graceland home for the remainder of their lifetimes. Also resident at Graceland was Elvis' maternal grandmother, Minnie Mae Presley, who outlived her son, daughter-in-law and grandson, passing away on May 8, 1980 at the age of 86.
Graceland is about ten miles south of downtown Memphis, Tennessee, on Elvis Presley Boulevard (Highway 51 South - 3764 Elvis Presley Boulevard). The property includes a large house with later additions, a number of outbuildings, ancillary structures, and landscape features. Elvis Presley's Graceland. Elvis and his parents called Graceland home for the remainder of their lifetimes. Also resident at Graceland was Elvis' maternal grandmother, Minnie Mae Presley, who outlived her son, daughter-in-law and grandson, passing away on May 8, 1980 at the age of 86.
Elvis Presley™ is a trademark of The Estate of Elvis Presley, LLC. 
The house and farm that became Elvis Presley's Graceland predated his purchase and residence by almost two decades. The Graceland property was originally established as a 500 acre farm during the American Civil War (1861-1865) by publisher Stephen C. Toof (Owner of the Memphis Daily Appeal). Elvis and his parents called Graceland home for the remainder of their lifetimes. Also resident at Graceland was Elvis' maternal grandmother, Minnie Mae Presley, who outlived her son, daughter-in-law and grandson, passing away on May 8, 1980 at the age of 86.
Elvis Presley's home, Graceland, holds tantalizing secrets. The 2nd floor is private. It's so private that no tours, no television specials nor any photographs have ever been released to the public. It is the one thing, the last thing, regarding Elvis Presley that has yet to be revealed. 