MARYSVILLE, Ohio, U.S.A., November 1, 2007–The first Japanese auto plant to build a car in America turns 25, marking a milestone that brought innovation to the U.S. auto industry and vaulted Honda to a leadership position. The 5,300 associates at Honda's Marysville Auto Plant will not miss a beat as they spend the day building more than 1,800 cars and light trucks. Later this month, they will hit another milestone-production of the plant's nine-millionth vehicle. Honda, First Japanese Automaker To Build A Car In America
The 10 millionth U.S.-built Honda Accord rolled off the assembly line in Marysville on Thursday, a significant milestone for the auto manufacturer that employs nearly 14,000 workers in Ohio and is key to the regional economy. The facility was considered a risk when Honda first started building cars there in 1982. The Accord produced Thursday was also the 20 millionth vehicle Honda has made overall in the U.S. The brand-new vehicle sat side-by-side with USA-001, a 1983 gray Accord that was the first built in Marysville in 1982.
The Honda manufacturing plant in Marysville celebrated Thursday as the 20 millionth vehicle built in the U.S. and the 10 millionth Honda Accord rolled off the assembly line. To celebrate the accomplishment, the company also had the first Accord the plant made on hand at the end of the assembly line. Bill Lackey/Staff. The Accord produced Thursday was also the 20 millionth vehicle Honda has made overall in the U.S. The brand-new vehicle sat side-by-side with USA-001, a 1983 gray Accord that was the first built in Marysville in 1982.
Honda Marysville Auto Plant (MAP) is a Honda manufacturing facility located approximately six miles northwest of Marysville, Ohio and is 42 miles northwest of Columbus, Ohio. 
MARYSVILLE, Ohio — Honda will build its Acura NSX supercar and assemble its performance engine here starting next year. About 100 workers from Honda's other Marysville operations will be chosen to make the NSX. The engine will be assembled at its nearby Anna, Ohio, engine plant. 2012: Honda reveals Acura NSX supercar. About 100 people will build Honda's NSX supercar in Marysville, Ohio, starting next year. The Acura NSX at Marysville, Ohio, before the announcment that the supercar will be built at that plant.
It makes sense that we will renew the dream and build this high-tech, supercar right here in Marysville, Ohio.. The original NSX was Honda's first car with an all-aluminum body. It was built at Honda's Takanezawa, Japan, plant from 1990 to 2004 when production moved to its Suzuka, Japan, plant for a year. About 100 people will build Honda's NSX supercar in Marysville, Ohio, starting next year. The Acura NSX at Marysville, Ohio, before the announcment that the supercar will be built at that plant.
DAYTON, Ohio  Honda Motor (HMC) plans to stop making motorcycles in the USA in spring 2009 and transfer the work to Japan. A Marysville, Ohio, plant, built in 1979, turned out 44,000 large Gold Wing touring and VTX cruiser motorcycles last year and employs 450 workers. Honda said there will be no layoffs and that the workers will fill jobs at its other operations in Ohio. Honda employs about 13,000 at five plants in Ohio. Besides motorcycles, they make the Accord, Civic, Element, CR-V and Acura TL and RDX.
Honda Marks 30 Years of U.S. Manufacturing. On Nov. 1, 1982, the first U.S.-built Honda Accord rolled off the manufacturing line in Marysville, Ohio. Now, more than 17 million vehicles later, Honda is commemorating its 30th anniversary of U.S. auto operations. For the first time in 23 years, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has issued a Production Certificate to a new company making jet engines in America. Honda Aero, Inc. is responsible for the production of HF120 turbofan engine at its new, state-of-the-art production facility in Burlington, North Carolina.
In 1982, Honda was the first Japanese car manufacturer to build car plants in the US, starting with an Accord plant in Marysville, Ohio. They now have four plants located in Ohio: two in Marysville (the Marysville Auto Plant and the Marysville Motorcycle Plant), Anna, and East Liberty. 