Escrow Time Periods. The typical time from escrow to closing in California is 30 to 60 days. California's escrow period could take up to 90 days in some cases, such as when seller repairs take longer than anticipated. There are actually a wide array of factors that can potentially affect the length of escrow in California
A lender's policy lasts until the mortgage is paid in full. An owner's policy remains in force as long as you or your heirs have an interest in the property. If challenges to title arise after the property has passed to your heirs, the title insurance company would defend the title for them as it would for you. 
Best Answer: I have had a transaction close in less than 4 business days. And escrow can last as long as both parties are agreeable to the terms and conditions. But typically most properties are in escrow for 4-6 weeks. If you are the seller, the longer it takes to close on a property, it is best to have a higher escrow deposit in place for your own protection. 
For four years in a row, the time it took to go from contract to close was 30 days for a normal transaction between 2005 and 2008 according to C.A.R.'s Annual Housing Market Survey. In the last two years, with the current tough underwriting standards for mortgage loans, escrow is taking a bit longer—about 40 days. But actually the length of time it takes to close escrow is the same as it was in 2003 (just prior to the mortgage frenzy of '04, '05, and ‘06). This shows the market returning to somewhat normal conditions as escrow companies are taking their time to review, document, and close the transaction. I tell my clients right now that even though we are shooting for a 30 day escrow is typically going to be 40 -45 days mostly because lenders are taking extra time with appraisals and document reviews.
Conventional financing is typically between 20 and 30 days. FHA financing usually 30 to 45 days and VA financing is usually 35 to 50 days. Two other main factors are who your lender/loan officer is and the condition of the property. Those are the general guidelines for how long it takes to close escrow. MultiInstanceUrlPhrase: zillow 1 MultiInstanceUrlPhrase: www zillow com advice thread how long is escrow 400247 1 Js-Redirect-Candidate: 1 Found-Date: 3795 Found-Time: 720 Found-Seconds: 0 Doc-Conversion-Classification: 1 Document-CRC-32: 1953826073 Document-Length: 142088 Document-URL: http://www.zillow ....
2. Ask your lender what loan-to-value ratio is required for removal of escrow from a mortgage loan. Typically, lenders require you to establish a loan-to-value ratio of between 65 and 80 percent. This ratio is the difference between the balance of your mortgage loan and the appraised value of your home
BUT, without an escrow account you will need to pay the taxes (every six months) directly to the tax assessor and you will have to pay your hazard insurance premium (usually once a year) directly to your insurance carrier. You pay a little more on your monthly payment and the lender holds the funds and disburses them to the correct parties when due. The mortgage company makes nothing off the escrow account-it's for paying the taxes and insurance. Interest is calculated on the principal balance of the loan ONLY
Most lenders require that it be paid through an escrow account for the length of the mortgage-check your loan agreement. After the loan is paid off, you'll make the payments each year yourself directly to the taxing authority and to the insurance company. Judy · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. You pay a little more on your monthly payment and the lender holds the funds and disburses them to the correct parties when due. The mortgage company makes nothing off the escrow account-it's for paying the taxes and insurance. Interest is calculated on the principal balance of the loan ONLY