It has been studied that the “strained” water from boiling vegetables like carrots, cabbages, eggplant and peppers, contains minerals and phytonutrients that can help produce several beneficial effects in the body including weight loss.
Calories from protein and fat are at 6% and 5% respectively. 2. High in Carbohydrates. The total carbohydrate content of a cup of cooked eggplant is almost 3% of the Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) for carbohydrates. Carbohydrates from dietary fiber are at an amazing 2.5 grams which is 10% of the RDA for fiber.
Nutritional breakdown of eggplant (aubergine). One cup of raw eggplant contains 20 calories, 0.8 grams of protein, 4.82 grams of carbohydrate, 0.15 grams of fat and 2.5 grams of dietary fiber. A one-cup serving meets 10% of daily fiber needs, 5% potassium, 3% vitamin C, 5% vitamin B-6, 1% iron and 2% magnesium.
Eggplant is a vegetable that meets multiple requirements to be part of a diet to lose weight. On the one hand, contains a high percentage of water, vitamins and minerals that act as natural antioxidants, which help to burn fat. It also contains potassium eggplant stimulating removing liquid retained in the body.
Since eggplant is already low in calories, it makes a great part of a healthy, low-calorie diet. One cup of raw eggplant contains 20 calories, 0.8 grams of protein, 4.82 grams of carbohydrate, 0.15 grams of fat and 2.5 grams of dietary fiber. A one-cup serving meets 10% of daily fiber needs, 5% potassium, 3% vitamin C, 5% vitamin B-6, 1% iron and 2% magnesium.
Although eggplant does not contain high concentrations of individual vitamins, small amounts of several water-and fat-soluble vitamins in combination with the other nutrients in this vegetable make it a healthful food choice. Eggplant contains niacin, also known as vitamin B-3.
Niacin. Eggplant contains niacin, also known as vitamin B-3. This water-soluble vitamin incorporates into various enzymes that break down fats, proteins, carbohydrates and alcohol to produce energy. Niacin-dependent enzymes also participate in your body's production of fatty acids and cholesterol.