A Seattle University study examining the costs of the death penalty in Washington found that each death penalty case cost an average of $1 million more than a similar case where the death penalty was not sought ($3.07 million, versus $2.01 million). According to state and federal records obtained by The Los Angeles Times, maintaining the California death penalty system costs taxpayers more than $114 million a year beyond the cost of simply keeping the convicts locked up for life.
With 11 executions spread over 27 years, on a per execution basis, California and federal taxpayers have paid more than $250 million for each execution. It costs approximately $90,000 more a year to house an inmate on death row, than in the general prison population or $57.5 million annually. The Attorney General devotes about 15% of his budget, or $11 million annually to death penalty cases. The cost of a system in which the number of death-eligible crimes was significantly narrowed would be $130 million per year. The cost of a system which imposes a maximum penalty of lifetime incarceration instead of the death penalty would be $11.5 million per year. Read the report.
The additional cost of confining an inmate to death row, as compared to the maximum security prisons where those sentenced to life without possibility of parole ordinarily serve their sentences, is $90,000 per year per inmate. The cost of a system in which the number of death-eligible crimes was significantly narrowed would be $130 million per year. The cost of a system which imposes a maximum penalty of lifetime incarceration instead of the death penalty would be $11.5 million per year. Read the report.
Posted on March 4, 2013 by Chris | 2 Comments. The costs of executing a death row inmate vary by state. In all states the cost of execution is considered very extravagant and usually climbs the scale into the millions of dollars. A lot of states simply cannot afford the death penalty. This is three times higher than what it would cost to imprison one inmate in the highest security prison cell available for 40 years. All in all, states spend millions if not billions of dollars and huge chunks of their budgets on executing death row inmates.
For instance, in the State of North Carolina inmates on death row have cost the state over one billion dollars more than inmates not on death row since 1976. In Texas, one death penalty case costs the state about 2.3 million dollars. This is three times higher than what it would cost to imprison one inmate in the highest security prison cell available for 40 years. All in all, states spend millions if not billions of dollars and huge chunks of their budgets on executing death row inmates.
1 In Colorado, housing a death row prisoner is roughly 17% more expensive than housing an inmate as part of the general population. 2  It costs the state 15% more per year to house a death row inmate than to house an inmate who has received a sentence of life with no possibility of parole. 1 It costs the state 15% more per year to house a death row inmate than to house an inmate who has received a sentence of life with no possibility of parole. 2  This does not include the cost of hearing appeals.
That translates to $37.2 million for each of the state’s five executions since the state reenacted the death penalty. The study estimates that the average cost to Maryland taxpayers for reaching a single death sentence is $3 million - $1.9 million more than the cost of a non-death penalty case. According to state and federal records obtained by The Los Angeles Times, maintaining the California death penalty system costs taxpayers more than $114 million a year beyond the cost of simply keeping the convicts locked up for life.
Times Topic: Capital Punishment. According to the organization, keeping inmates on death row in Florida costs taxpayers $51 million a year more than holding them for life without parole. North Carolina has put 43 people to death since 1976 at $2.16 million per execution. Perhaps the most extreme example is California, whose death row costs taxpayers $114 million a year beyond the cost of imprisoning convicts for life. The state has executed 13 people since 1976 for a total of about $250
In Colorado, it costs 20 times as much to prosecute a capital murder case as it costs to prosecute a first degree murder case where the death penalty is not sought. 1  In Colorado, housing a death row prisoner is roughly 17% more expensive than housing an inmate as part of the general population. 1 It costs the state 15% more per year to house a death row inmate than to house an inmate who has received a sentence of life with no possibility of parole. 2  This does not include the cost of hearing appeals.