How to write about it: e.g. The sibilant sounds in ‘softly, sweetly, sickly’ creates a soft, gentle mood, which turns sinister on ‘sickly’ as the sounds flow across the line. The unusual shift in mood within the same, sibilant sound, creates a disturbing effect. Plosive /b/ /p/ /t/ /d/ sounds create an abrupt, sharp, sometimes shocking effect. Choose examples with care. Two per poem would be enough. Use your own judgement. Sibilant WARNING: This is actually one of the most common sounds in English, so be careful to make sure the writer is deliberately using it for effect.
plo·sive. adj. Of, relating to, or being a speech sound produced by complete closure of the oral passage and subsequent release accompanied by a burst of air, as in the sound (p) in pit or (d) in dog. n. A plosive speech sound. plo•sive. 1. of or pertaining to a consonant characterized by momentary complete closure at some part of the vocal tract causing stoppage of the flow of air, followed by sudden release of the compressed air. 2. a plosive consonant, as (p) or (d); stop.
plo·sive. adj. Of, relating to, or being a speech sound produced by complete closure of the oral passage and subsequent release accompanied by a burst of air, as in the sound (p) in pit or (d) in dog. n. A plosive speech sound
• PLOSIVE SPEECH SOUND (noun). The noun PLOSIVE SPEECH SOUND has 1 sense: 1. a consonant produced by stopping the flow of air at some point and suddenly releasing it. Familiarity information: PLOSIVE SPEECH SOUND used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Hypernyms (plosive speech sound is a kind of...): obstruent (a consonant that is produced with a partial or complete blockage of the airflow from the lungs through the nose or mouth). Meronyms (parts of plosive speech sound): implosion (the initial occluded phase of a stop consonant).
Voiceless plosive and fricative consonants occur in more languages than voiced ones, but voiced types are nonetheless relatively common. How frequent it is for a contrast between voiced and voiceless plosives and fricatives to occur in languages and how such contrasts are distributed will be the focus of this chapter. A language will only be counted as having a contrast between voiced and voiceless plosives or fricatives if there is a pair of sounds in which the place of articulation and all other principal characteristics of the pair apart from the voicing category are the same.
In phonetics, a plosive consonant also known as an oral stop is a consonant that is made by blocking a part of the mouth so that no air can pass through, and the pressure increases behind the place where it is blocked, and when the air is allowed to pass through again, this sound is created. 
In the most common type of stop sound, known as a plosive, air in the lungs is briefly blocked from flowing out through the mouth and nose, and pressure builds up behind the blockage. The sounds that are generally associated with the letters p, t, k, b, d, g in English words such pat, kid, bag are examples of plosives. 
The English Plosive Sounds. Plosive (also known as stops, mutes, occlusives, explosives) sounds are formed by the air being completely blocked in the mouth and then suddenly released. A plosive is a consonant articulation with the following characteristics: We have 6 Plosive sounds in English: /p/b/t/d/k/g/. The Plosive consonant sounds are generally described on three bases: Some phoneticians opine that the degree of breath and muscular effort involved in the articulation between the groups voiceless and voiced are not the same. In other words, manner of articulation describes how the sound is produced. In the articulation of the plosive sounds, four phases can be distinguished: (i) Closing phase: In this stage the two organs move very close to one another and create a complete closure or blockade. (ii) Hold/occlusion/compression phase: In this stage the air is held behind the closur