FIJI Water is water from an artesian aquifer, bottled at the source in Fiji. By definition, artesian water comes from a natural chamber called an aquifer found deep within the earth, protected by layers of clay and rock. There is no opening, not even a porthole to the surface. Yes, FIJI Water really is from Fiji, a tropical archipelago of over 300 islands located in a remote corner of the South Pacific. On Viti Levu, one of Fiji’s largest islands, is the remote Yaqara Valley. This is the source of Fiji Water, and the location of our bottling plant.
None of this has tarnished Fiji Water’s sparkling reputation, thanks in part to a $5 million “Fiji Green” marketing campaign that has managed to make drinking Fiji bottled water seem somehow “green.”. It just goes to show you once again that you can’t judge a book … or a bottle … by its cover. The slogan on Fiji Water's website -- And remember this, we saved you a trip to Fiji -- seems like a dark joke to those who are aware of the conditions there. Fiji Water is now America's leading imported water.
FIJI Water is natural artesian water from the remote islands of Fiji. Beginning as rainfall, FIJI Water filters through layers of volcanic rock over hundreds of years. As it makes its way to an underground aquifer, the water collects such nourishing minerals as silica, fluoride and other electrolytes. 1 What is the Island of Fiji Although it is referred to as an island, Fiji is actually an archipelago composed of 332 islands.
For 20 years, the Fiji Water company has been tapping an aquifer in Fiji for its bottled water and paying a tax of one-third of a cent per liter. Now the Fiji government wants 15 cents per liter. Well, Fiji Water actually comes from an aquifer in Fiji. It's true. The water in that square bottle comes all the way from the South Pacific right to your local 7-Eleven. But this week Fiji Water nearly lost its claim to fame.
In 2006, FIJI Water ran an advertisement stating, The label says Fiji because it's not bottled in Cleveland . This was taken as an insult by the city's water department. The Cleveland Water Department ran tests comparing a bottle of FIJI Water to Cleveland tap water and some other national bottled brands. In November 2010, Fiji deported FIJI Water director of external affairs, David Roth, for interfering in Fiji's domestic affairs, leading to the resignation of interim defence and immigration minister, Ratu Epeli Ganilau.
FIJI Water is a brand of bottled water derived, bottled, and shipped from Fiji. It is available in 330ml, 500ml, 1 liter and 1.5 liter bottles. According to marketing materials, the water comes from an artesian aquifer in Viti Levu. FIJI Water is headquartered in Los Angeles, California. In November 2010, Fiji deported FIJI Water director of external affairs, David Roth, for interfering in Fiji's domestic affairs, leading to the resignation of interim defence and immigration minister, Ratu Epeli Ganilau.
Mr. FISHMAN: Fiji Water has turned out to be very, very important to Fiji. It's a small nation. The total GDP of Fiji is just $3.7 billion. Fiji Water is actually the number one export of any kind from the country in dollar value and it's only been around for a little more than a decade. Well, Fiji Water actually comes from an aquifer in Fiji. It's true. The water in that square bottle comes all the way from the South Pacific right to your local 7-Eleven. But this week Fiji Water nearly lost its claim to fame.
Fiji is an archipelago of more than 332 islands, of which 110 are permanently inhabited, and more than 500 islets, amounting to a total land area of about 18,300 square kilometres (7,100 sq mi). The farthest island is Onu-i-Lau. Fiji has one of the most developed economies in the Pacific due to an abundance of forest, mineral, and fish resources. Today, the main sources of foreign exchange are its tourist industry and sugar exports.