It is believed that Ormus elements are meant to be an integral part of our physiology, from our skin, nails and hair, all the way to the blood, brain and the rest of our organs, into the DNA structure itself. Ormus elements are believed to restore the original DNA structure, possibly even assisting in its evolution.
Ormus elements appear to be isolated or micro-cluster bits of atomic materials that are closer, as previously mentioned, to the pure energy state of the vacuum (aether or zero point). Ormus elements can have the visible appearance (when isolated and dried) of silicon-like, ceramic powdery substances.
ELEMENTS It is believed that the other 32 elements could consist of Ormus. The water molecules have a very unique shape and structure allowing it to be able to fit the Ormus molecule.
What is ORMUS. Ormus (Orme) is a class of physically distinct atomic mineral substances that are unique forms of matter that appear to be closer to the state of aether or vacuum or pure energy than normal matter such as the common mineral and atomic compounds found on Mendeleyev's Periodic Table of the Elements.
Ormus is a superconductor. These elements resonate with the primal energy, the zero point from which all life originates and which is a quantum potential of possibilities. Ormus is one with this endless source of energy, which can be found in the air, the soil, plants, stones and the sea.
(Redirected from Ormus). ORMUS, also called ORMEs (Orbitally Rearranged Monoatomic Elements) and m-state materials, is a fictitious group of substances exhibiting many miraculous properties, such as healing powers and superconductivity at room temperature. They were supposedly discovered in 1975 by David Hudson, a cotton farmer from Arizona.
The original ORMUS elements are a group of elements in the center of the periodic table. These eight metals include: ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, and silver (known as the “light platinum group”), osmium, iridium, platinum, and gold (known as the “heavy platinum group”).
Each of the elements, that can be transformed this way, keep their individual elemental properties through the transition from metal to ORME and to metal again. Some of these properties are common to both the metallic state and the ORMUS state. For example, the m-state rhodium gives water a sticky feel.