Health-Wire. A bacterial infection of the throat and tonsils caused by streptococcal or the strep bacteria is commonly known as strep throat. Symptoms of the inflammation lead to severe sore throat. Symptoms make treatment necessary. Various medicines and antibiotics are available for these throat infections. A A. Strep bacteria or the streptococcal bacteria cause infection in the throat and tonsils. Initial symptoms lead to severe sore throat. There are numerous types of streptococcal bacteria. Based on the type of bacteria, symptoms of the inflammation vary. Some cause mild strep throat symptoms and others may be severe.
Guest. Yes, if you have strep throat and your doctor gave you an antibiotic. It is a medicine that kills bacteria and usually the antibiotic used for strep throat is a form of penicillin. You can take penicillin as a pill, a liquid, or a shot. My mom gave me acetaminophen to get rid of aches, pains, and fever, tea and warm chicken soup
Antibiotics used to treat throat infection. Antibiotics are the mainstay treatment for bacterial throat infections like strep throat and are used primarily to prevent rare but more serious complications like rheumatic fever. 
Types. Antibiotics are drugs that deteriorate or kill bacteria. Two of the most common antibiotics used for strep throat and tonsillitis are penicillin and erythromycin. These are useful when the doctor suspects Streptococcus or another bacteria hindered by these drugs. Treatment. The doctor will probably recommended bed rest, plenty of fluids and over-the-counter pain relievers for your throat infection along with the antibiotic. It is extremely important that the entire bottle of antibiotics be taken whether it is a seven-or 10-day prescription.
Antibiotics are the treatment of choice for a confirmed strep throat infection. 1  Antibiotics will reduce the time you are contagious. 2  You are usually not contagious 24 hours after starting antibiotics. It is possible for you to carry the strep bacteria in the throat and not have any symptoms. Antibiotics for the carrier state are usually not needed unless you have a history of rheumatic fever or frequent infections or infections are occurring frequently in the family.
A sore throat will often get better by itself, as the body’s immune system can usually take care of the infection without any treatment. Antibiotics aren’t helpful for most people with a throat infection. Most throat infections are caused by a virus, so antibiotics won’t help. Antibiotics don’t kill viruses. Even when a throat infection is caused by bacteria, antibiotics are only recommended for people who are more likely to get complications of a throat infection or develop tonsillitis. 
Why It Is Used. Antibiotics may be prescribed if you have strep throat. Your doctor may diagnose strep throat by talking to you, examining you, and looking in your mouth. The doctor also may lightly rub the back of your throat with a long cotton swab, to test for strep bacteria. Penicillin is often the first choice of antibiotic for strep throat unless you are allergic to it. Most antibiotics are taken for 10 days. Or a single shot of penicillin may be given. The shot does not help you get better any faster than other types of penicillin
Tonsillitis and strep throat are the most common throat infections. The symptoms of these are headache, fever, sore throat, swollen red tonsils, pain when you swallow, white patches on your tonsils or throat, and swollen glands in your jaw or throat. Treatment. The doctor will probably recommended bed rest, plenty of fluids and over-the-counter pain relievers for your throat infection along with the antibiotic. It is extremely important that the entire bottle of antibiotics be taken whether it is a seven-or 10-day prescription.
Antibiotics That Treat a Sore Throat. Antibiotics for a sore throat. Several different conditions cause sore throats. The most common conditions are those that are due to infections. While viral throat infections are more common, they usually cause less severe symptoms and do not require antibiotics. Augmentin is a combination antibiotic, containing amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, and can effectively treat bacterial infections that cause more severe sore throats. Physicians also use it to treat infections for which amoxicillin has failed to provide relief.