Many ingredients in our daily diet are good natural sources of magnesium. There are various natural sources of magnesium that also contain potassium. Leafy vegetables, cereals, milk products, nuts, legumes, and fruits are all good food sources of magnesium. Among fruits, bananas are one of the richest natural sources of magnesium. They are also rich in potassium. Raisins contain magnesium as do figs. Figs, good sources of potassium and magnesium, help treat acute constipation.
Green leafy vegetables, especially spinach, are a good source of magnesium. Supplementing our diet with an adequate quantity of natural sources of magnesium will prevent being prone to diseases such as asthma, diabetes, and osteoporosis. Broccoli is another good food source of magnesium. Among fruits, bananas are one of the richest natural sources of magnesium. They are also rich in potassium. Raisins contain magnesium as do figs. Figs, good sources of potassium and magnesium, help treat acute constipation.
Food. Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages. Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources [ 1, 3 ]. In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2
The majority of good magnesium sources contain only about 10% or less of recommended daily amounts, as seen in a list of the magnesium content in common food sources of magnesium. Those that do contain more, such as certain nuts, fish and whole grains, are often eaten in too small quantities by the average person. 
It's not that these foods are good magnesium sources, just that we eat (or drink) a lot of them. Diets rich in green leafy vegetables, legumes, nuts, and seeds —and to a lesser extent, whole grains —would be the best way for you to limit your risk of having magnesium deficiency. Only three of our WHFoods qualify as an excellent source of magnesium—spinach, Swiss chard, and beet greens. Joining them as very good sources are three additional foods (pumpkin seeds, turnip greens, and summer squash).
Print. The sources of magnesium include food, water, and supplements. While clearly a “good” source of magnesium is one that is readily available and easily absorbed, most experts recommend a combination of sources, taking advantage of both dietary magnesium and absorbable magnesium supplements. Traditionally, foods highest in magnesium content are green vegetables, whole grain cereals, nuts and beans, and seafood. According to USDA food charts (see a complete chart of magnesium rich foods), the five foods with the highest magnesium per typical serving are: 1  Halibut. 2  Mackeral. 3  Boiled spinach.
Magnesium Rich Food Sources. Green vegetables such as spinach are good sources of magnesium because the center of the chlorophyll molecule (which gives green vegetables their color) contains magnesium. Some beans, peas, nuts, seeds, and whole, unrefined grains are also good sources of magnesium. You should note that refined grains are generally low in magnesium. When white flour is processed, the magnesium rich germ and bran are removed. “Hard” water usually contains more magnesium than “soft” water. Try to include as many foods rich in magnesium in your diet as possible, and supplement the shortfall with AlgaeCal, a natural source of magnesium, calcium and many other minerals you need. Below is a list of foods that are a good source of magnesium.
Basic Description. Magnesium is a key mineral in human metabolism, and found in small to medium amounts in many of the World's Healthiest Foods. Vegetables (especially green leafy ones), nuts and seeds, and legumes are your best WHFoods sources for magnesium. Only three of our WHFoods qualify as an excellent source of magnesium—spinach, Swiss chard, and beet greens. Joining them as very good sources are three additional foods (pumpkin seeds, turnip greens, and summer squash).
While there are few food sources that are strikingly high in magnesium content, a large number of foods contain relevant amounts of this important mineral. In fact, almost half of our World's Healthiest Foods are rated as good, very good, or excellent sources of magnesium. Only three of our WHFoods qualify as an excellent source of magnesium—spinach, Swiss chard, and beet greens. Joining them as very good sources are three additional foods (pumpkin seeds, turnip greens, and summer squash).