Sleep apnea (or sleep apnoea in British English) is a sleep disorder characterized by pauses in breathing or instances of shallow or infrequent breathing during sleep. Each pause in breathing, called an apnea, can last for several seconds to several minutes, and may occur, by definition, at least 5 times in an hour. Sleep apnea is often diagnosed with an overnight sleep test called a polysomnogram, or sleep study. There are three forms of sleep apnea: central (CSA), obstructive (OSA), and complex or mixed sleep apnea (i.e. a combination of central and obstructive) constituting 0.4%, 84%, and 15% of cases, respectively.
Sleep studies are the most accurate tests for diagnosing sleep apnea. There are different kinds of sleep studies. If your doctor thinks you have sleep apnea, he or she may recommend a polysomnogram (poly-SOM-no-gram; also called a PSG) or a home-based portable monitor. CPAP is the most common treatment for sleep apnea. A CPAP machine uses mild air pressure to keep your airway open while you sleep. If your doctor thinks that you have sleep apnea, he or she may schedule a split-night sleep study.
There, a sleep specialist can help you decide on your need for further evaluation. Such an evaluation often involves overnight monitoring of your breathing and other body functions during sleep. Home sleep testing may also be an option. Tests to detect sleep apnea may include: 1  Nocturnal polysomnography. 2  During this test, you're hooked up to equipment that monitors your heart, lung and brain activity, breathing patterns, arm and leg movements, and blood oxygen levels while you sleep
If you think you may suffer from obstructive sleep apnea or some other sleep breathing disorder, there are several simple tests you can take that may suggest you should discuss the possibility with your health care provider. 
Home sleep tests. In some cases, your doctor may provide you with simplified tests to be used at home to diagnose sleep apnea. These tests usually involve measuring your heart rate, blood oxygen level, airflow and breathing patterns. Such an evaluation often involves overnight monitoring of your breathing and other body functions during sleep. Home sleep testing may also be an option. Tests to detect sleep apnea may include: 1  Nocturnal polysomnography.
In this article. If you have symptoms of sleep apnea, your doctor may ask you to have a sleep apnea test, called a polysomnogram. This may be done in a sleep disorder center or even at home. The recordings are analyzed by a qualified sleep specialist to determine whether or not you have sleep apnea or another type of sleep disorder. If sleep apnea is determined, you may be asked to do further sleep testing in order to determine the best treatment option. Sleep Apnea and Other Causes of Fatigue.
A sleep test, called polysomnography is usually done to diagnose sleep apnea. There are two kinds of polysomnograms. An overnight polysomnography test involves monitoring brain waves, muscle tension, eye movement, respiration, oxygen level in the blood and audio monitoring. 1 In addition, there are two videos available.  What is Sleep Apnea?  is a 17-minute video that explains in lay terms, what sleep apnea is, what the consequences may be, how diagnostic testing is performed, different treatment options and how C-PAP works.
A sleep specialist might use the results from a home-based sleep test to help diagnose sleep apnea. He or she also might use the results to see how well some treatments for sleep apnea are working. Home-based testing is appropriate only for some people. CPAP is a treatment for sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. In obstructive sleep apnea, the airway collapses or becomes blocked during sleep. A CPAP machine uses mild air pressure to keep your airway open
On the night of your sleep study if you are in a sleep center lab, you will be assigned to a private bedroom in the sleep center or hospital. Near the bedroom will be a central monitoring area, where the technicians monitor sleeping patients. You will be hooked up to equipment that may look uncomfortable. The recordings are analyzed by a qualified sleep specialist to determine whether or not you have sleep apnea or another type of sleep disorder. If sleep apnea is determined, you may be asked to do further sleep testing in order to determine the best treatment option. Sleep Apnea and Other Causes of Fatigue.
Take the sleep apnea test below to see if you may be suffering from this potentially dangerous sleep disorder. Then, if you have any indicators, see your doctor right away. If left untreated, sleep apnea can lead to life-threatening conditions including heart disease, stroke, and other degenerative illnesses. The following sleep test is for your own evaluation. There's nothing to submit. To confirm a diagnosis, your doctor will need to administer a formal, clinically based apnea test. So, use this online test is an informational tool-but not for diagnosis purposes. To begin, choose your answer from the drop-down boxes. Then, add up the number of yes answers you have.