Lactobacillus rhamnosus is a facultative anaerobic lactic acid bacterium (see my microbe page) and is frequently isolated from the human gastrointestinal mucosa, starting in the mouth, of healthy individuals. It is also present in the female vagina and urinary tract. One of the health benefits that seems to be a general L. rhamnosus characteristic is an anti-inflammatory effect. Potent, direct anti-inflammatory activity on human GI tract cells studied in vitro were noticed as long as the probiotic bacteria were alive. Heat-killed or irradiated bacteria did not have the same effect.
Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, also known as  L. rhamnosus GG or LGG is a probiotic bacteria with many health benefits. As you learned on the Lactobacillus rhamnosus general page, this species of bacteria has some unique characteristics depending on the strain. LGG stands alone as being one of the most different strains currently known in this probiotic species.
Lactobacillus rhamnosus is a bacterium that originally was considered to be a subspecies of L. casei, but later genetic research found it to be a species of its own. It is a short Gram-positive facultative anaerobic rod that often appears in chains. While Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (ATCC 53103) is able to survive the acid and bile of the stomach and intestine, is claimed to colonize the digestive tract, and to balance intestinal microflora, evidence suggests that Lactobacillus rhamnosus is likely a transient inhabitant, and not autochthonous.
The type strain, the strain designated as the representative of the species, is Lactobacillus rhamnosus ATCC 7469. This strain has been shown to translocate from the intestines in mice to the spleen and liver, and has caused rare, but serious infections in severely ill people. One of the health benefits that seems to be a general L. rhamnosus characteristic is an anti-inflammatory effect. Potent, direct anti-inflammatory activity on human GI tract cells studied in vitro were noticed as long as the probiotic bacteria were alive. Heat-killed or irradiated bacteria did not have the same effect.
Lactobacillus rhamnosus is a probiotic bacterium that helps eliminate and prevent the growth of harmful bacteria in the intestines. Many consumers may be familiar with lactobacillus probiotics, which are touted today by some yogurt manufacturers as an aid in digestion and in promoting regular bowel activity. 
Lactobacillus rhamnosus is a probiotic or beneficial type of bacteria. This form of bacteria may be obtained by increasing dietary intake of certain fermented foods, such as plain yogurt. Lactobacillus rhamnosus cannot adhere to the lining of the urinary tract as it can to the intestinal tract, so the ability to rid bacteria from the urinary tract is not as great as in the intestinal tract.
Background. Lactobacillus acidophilus is a member of the Lactobacillus genus of bacteria. These bacteria can be found in the mouth, intestine, and vagina. L. acidophilus is thought to benefit health, since it produces vitamin K and lactase. However, L. acidophilus cannot make many other vitamins and amino acids
The Lactobacillus Rhamnosus and L. Reuteri species are most commonly found in the healthy female genito-urinary tract and are most helpful to supplement in order to regain control over dysbiotic bacterial overgrowth during an active infection. While Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (ATCC 53103) is able to survive the acid and bile of the stomach and intestine, is claimed to colonize the digestive tract, and to balance intestinal microflora, evidence suggests that Lactobacillus rhamnosus is likely a transient inhabitant, and not autochthonous.
Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (ATCC 53103) is a strain of L. rhamnosus that was isolated in 1983 from the intestinal tract of a healthy human being; filed for patent on 17 April 1985, by Sherwood Gorbach and Barry Goldin, and the 'GG' derives from the first letters of their surnames. While Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (ATCC 53103) is able to survive the acid and bile of the stomach and intestine, is claimed to colonize the digestive tract, and to balance intestinal microflora, evidence suggests that Lactobacillus rhamnosus is likely a transient inhabitant, and not autochthonous.