ADPi (founded as the Adelphean Society) was the first secret society for women and it was indeed founded first, followed by Phi Mu (the Philomathean Society). Pi Beta Phi (founded as I.C. Sorosis) was founded in 1867 (as stated earlier). As ecukd said, it all depends on what you consider a sorority. Kappa Alpha Theta was the first women's organization founded with Greek letters...whereas Gamma Phi Beta was the first organization to use the word sorority. After considering all of this, I'd think that ADPi was the first secret organization for women, Theta's the first women's GLO, and GPhiB's the first sorority. 
Alpha Phi Alpha, the first intercollegiate Greek-letter fraternity established for African American Men, was founded at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York by seven college men who recognized the need for a strong bond of brotherhood among African descendants in this country. 
During this period of time, women's Greek-letter societies were also founded. There are three firsts among them. Alpha Delta Phi sorority is believed to be the first secret sisterhood for college women, being founded as the Adelphean Society, at Wesleyan Female College, Macon, Georgia in 1851. (The word sorority came into usage later). However, Pi Beta Phi did not officially adopt a Greek-letter name until 1888. Kappa Alpha Theta, founded in 1870 at DePauw in Indiana, was the first Greek-letter society for women. Kappa Kappa Gamma Fraternity was founded in the same year at Monmouth College, Illinois.
The first fraternity in North America to incorporate most of the elements of modern fraternities was Phi Beta Kappa, founded at the College of William and Mary in 1775. 
The first Greek letter organization was Phi Beta Kappa, which was founded on December 5, 1776 at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, VA, the second oldest institution of higher learning in America (Harvard is the oldest). On November 9, 1874, Sigma Kappa was founded at Colby College in Waterville, Maine, and on November 11 Gamma Phi Beta followed Alpha Phi at Syracuse. Alpha Chi Omega was founded at DePauw in 1885 and Delta Delta Delta was organized at Boston University in 1888. The same year I.C.
Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority was founded on January 15, 1908 on the campus of Howard University in Washington, DC. Its founders were among the fewer than 1,000 Negroes enrolled in higher education institutions in 1908 and the 25 women who received Bachelor of Arts degrees from Howard University between 1908 and 1911. 
Sigma Phi was the first of the union Triad to establish a branch organization when it placed its Beta chapter at Hamilton College in 1831. One year later Alpha Delta Phi was founded by the students at Hamilton to rival the Sigma Phi's. On November 9, 1874, Sigma Kappa was founded at Colby College in Waterville, Maine, and on November 11 Gamma Phi Beta followed Alpha Phi at Syracuse. Alpha Chi Omega was founded at DePauw in 1885 and Delta Delta Delta was organized at Boston University in 1888. The same year I.C.
Pi Beta Phi sorority, founded in 1867 at Monmouth College in Illinois, was the first organization of college women actually established as a national college women's fraternity.. (The word sorority came into usage later). However, Pi Beta Phi did not officially adopt a Greek-letter name until 1888. Kappa Alpha Theta, founded in 1870 at DePauw in Indiana, was the first Greek-letter society for women. Kappa Kappa Gamma Fraternity was founded in the same year at Monmouth College, Illinois.
On March 15, 1921, the first NPHC fraternity, Omega Psi Phi, was founded at Penn State. Omega Psi Phi operated a chapter home on Allen Street and was the lone NPHC fraternity until the late 1950's. There was rapid expansion of NPHC fraternities and sororities during the 1980's and 90's. In 1926, the first women's sorority arrived on campus in the form of Chi Omega sorority. Other sororities started to spring up on campus with Pi Beta Phi, Phi Mu, and Kappa Alpha Theta joining Chi Omega. Sororities occupied the cottages still found on campus to this day.
Alpha Delta Pi is counted as the first sisterhood, having been founded as the Adelphean Society in 1851. Pi Beta Phi came into being in 1867 as the first organization of college women established as a national college fraternity. Kappa Alpha Theta was organized in January 1870, as the first Greek-letter society for women. On November 9, 1874, Sigma Kappa was founded at Colby College in Waterville, Maine, and on November 11 Gamma Phi Beta followed Alpha Phi at Syracuse. Alpha Chi Omega was founded at DePauw in 1885 and Delta Delta Delta was organized at Boston University in 1888. The same year I.C.