Industries. The highest levels of employment for systems engineers were in the computer systems design and software publishing industry. The computer systems design industry paid an average salary of $96,830 per year, and the software publishing industry paid an average salary of $100,840 per year. Salaries and job opportunities for high-paying industries often increase for those who obtain a master’s degree. 
Typically reports to a supervisor or manager. View Systems Engineer III Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Systems Engineer III Categories: IT -- All Systems Engineer IV Salaries Responsible for the planning and engineering of an organization's systems infrastructure. A certain degree of creativity and latitude is required. Typically reports to a supervisor or manager. View Systems Engineer II Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Systems Engineer II Categories: IT -- All Systems Engineer III Salaries Responsible for the planning and engineering of an organization's systems infrastructure.
Systems Engineer Salary. Systems Engineer average salary is $70,517, median salary is $68,000 with a salary range from $20,000 to $950,000. Systems Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Systems Engineer salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Systems Engineer I in the United States is $64,242 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Systems Engineer I in the United States are expected to make less than $64,242. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $64,242. 1  Salary. The annual salary for someone with the job title Systems Engineer I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Average Systems Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide are 59% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
The table below looks at the statistics for the Systems Engineer role in IT jobs advertised across the UK. Included is a guide to the average salaries offered in IT jobs that have cited Systems Engineer in their job title over the 3 months to 15 October 2015 with a comparison to the same period in the previous 2 years. The table below looks at the demand and provides a guide to the average salaries quoted in IT jobs citing Systems Engineer within the UK over the 3 months to 15 October 2015.
Systems Engineer in Seattle, WA. Average Systems Engineer salaries for job postings in Seattle, WA are 8% higher than average Systems Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide. 
(United States). Generous salaries abound for Senior Systems Engineers in the United States, with average pay above six figures ($98K) per year. Senior Systems Engineers flock to The Boeing Company for generous paychecks, where average earnings of $122K lead the pack in compensation; however, The Boeing Company also provides employees with a wide spectrum of compensation ranging from $79K at one end to $167K at the other end.