Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Jaidyn in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Jaidyn in Nautical Flags page. Jaidyn is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jai-dyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1516 in baby name popularity for girls with 144 occurrences.
What does Jaidyn mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Jaidyn is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Jaidyn is G-d has heard, G-d will judge, thankful. Jaidyn is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jai-dyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1516 in baby name popularity for girls with 144 occurrences.
There is a minor Jadon in the Old Testament, but this is no biblical revival. Cross Jacob with Aidan, and voila: the sound of the times. The name's popularity shot up starting in 1998, when celebrity parents Will Smith and Jada Pinkett chose this male twist on mom's name. From The Baby Name Wizard by Laura Wattenberg.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Jaidyn. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Jaidyn, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you consider naming your baby Jaidyn we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Local language versions of biblical names of Hebrew origin such as Hannah and David are still widely internationally popular today. Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Jaidyn is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jai-dyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1516 in baby name popularity for girls with 144 occurrences.
The meaning of Jaidyn is “God is gracious, from Jade”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Jaidyn we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jaidyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jaidyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Jaidyn we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The name Jaidyn is of American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Jaidyn we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Comments and insights on the name Jaidyn: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Jaidyn: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Jaidyn: | Edit. Jai/Jay. Jade. Jaidy. Jayjay. The name's popularity shot up starting in 1998, when celebrity parents Will Smith and Jada Pinkett chose this male twist on mom's name. From The Baby Name Wizard by Laura Wattenberg.