TERATE® polyols. INVISTA’s TERATE® polyols are aromatic polyester polyols used in polyisocyanurate and polyurethane foams, as well as a variety of CASE (Cast, Adhesive, Sealant and Elastomer) applications. TERATE® Polyols. INVISTA's TERATE® polyols are aromatic polyester polyols used in polyisocyanurate (PIR) and polyurethane (PUR) foams, as well as a variety of CASE
A polyol is an alcohol containing multiple hydroxyl groups. In two technological disciplines the term polyol has a special meaning: food science and polymer chemistry. In polymer chemistry, polyols are compounds with multiple hydroxyl functional groups available for organic reactions. A molecule with two hydroxyl groups is a diol, one with three is a triol, one with four is a tetrol and so on.
A polyether polyol is the polymeric reaction product of an organic oxide and an initiator compound containing two or more active hydrogen atoms. Other commonly used initiators for the manufacture of flexible foam polyols are listed below. 2.17 Blends of these initiator compounds are also used. 2.18-2.19. In actual practice, two side reactions preclude the production of a pure polyol from any chosen initiator compound. The first side reaction involves the formation of a diol when oxide adds to water. Water is usually present in small amounts in the initiator compound, in the catalyst and in the incoming oxide feed
What are polyols? Polyols are sugar-free sweeteners. Polyols are carbohydrates but they are not sugars. They are used cup-for-cup [volume-for-volume] in the same amount as sugar is used, unlike acesulfame potassium, aspartame, saccharin, and sucralose which are used in very small amounts. Experts in diabetes management advise that if less than 10 grams of sugar replacers (polyols) is consumed, that serving is considered a free food.. Above 10 grams, subtract half of the grams of sugar replacers (polyols) from the grams of total carbohydrate and then calculate the exchanges.
Main article: Sugar alcohol. Sugar alcohols, a class of polyols, are commonly added to foods because of their lower caloric content than sugars; however, they are also, in general, less sweet, and are often combined with high-intensity sweeteners. In polymer chemistry, polyols are compounds with multiple hydroxyl functional groups available for organic reactions. A molecule with two hydroxyl groups is a diol, one with three is a triol, one with four is a tetrol and so on.
What kinds of products use sugar replacers (polyols) as sweetening ingredients?In the U.S., they are now used in a wide range of sugar free foodand other products, including chewing gums, candies, ice cream, baked goods and fruit spreads. As part of a sugar free diet, polyols assist in the maintenance of good oral health, aid in weight loss or weight management, and reduce overall dietary glycemic load. For more details on any specific polyol (or sugar alcohol), please visit the links provided on this site.Frequently Asked Questions.
The functional group used as the starting point for a polymeric polyol need not be a hydroxyl group; there are a number of important polyols which are built up from amines. A primary amino group (-NH 2) often functions as the starting point for two polymeric chains, especially in the case of polyether polyols. In polymer chemistry, polyols are compounds with multiple hydroxyl functional groups available for organic reactions. A molecule with two hydroxyl groups is a diol, one with three is a triol, one with four is a tetrol and so on.
Natural oil polyols, also known as NOPs or biopolyols, are polyols derived from vegetable oils by several different techniques. The primary use for these materials is in the production of polyurethanes. Most NOPs qualify as biobased products, as defined by the United States Secretary of Agriculture in the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002.