Hi everybody-I'm glad to see a new post on this page with some comments. I'm in Jenks, OK (suburb of Tulsa) at a large antique mall. My rent is $125 for a 6x6 space, which comes out to about $3.50 per square foot. The mall also gets a 10% commission on each item sold. One perk is that they have a large open furniture floor where dealers are allowed to have up to 3 pieces for 2 months at a time, space permitting, in addition to our booth space.
How to Rent Space at an Antique Mall. Selling antiques and collectibles can be profitable, but the overhead of maintaining a brick and mortar shop is prohibitive for some people. One solution is to rent space at an antique mall where individual dealers have separate spaces in a shared building to offset costs. To find the ideal antique mall space for you, follow some basic steps. Tips. 1  Before you decide to rent space at an antique mall, ask the management how often it has space available. 2  If the mall experiences a steady turn over, then it may be an indicator of a management problem.
I started with a small booth and I am now in an 8 X 8 both. Prices vary greatly by region, you can expect to pay $150.00 to $300.00 a month for a booth, but of course the sky is the limit on cost and size. On top of my rent I pay the mall owners a percentage of my sales. I pay rent plus 10% of sales. You are so appreciated my dear friend! I was so excited to see this post as I am a recent renter of a booth in an antique, collectible and craft mall.I rent a 6x6 space for $100 a month and do not have to pay a precentage at all of my sales.
The most important factor when you rent space at an antique mall is whether there is sufficient shopping traffic to result in sales. You should make several visits on different days and times spread through a month to verify that there is a steady supply of customers. Tips. 1  Before you decide to rent space at an antique mall, ask the management how often it has space available. 2  If the mall experiences a steady turn over, then it may be an indicator of a management problem.
Save. If you've been toying with the idea of opening your own antique shop, take that notion for a test drive by setting up shop at a local antique mall. Here, many different dealers rent space to display their wares, creating a one-stop shopping bonanza for collectors. 1  How to Decorate an Antique Mall Booth. 
I have a booth in a small antique mall in a small town (Pop. 3000). Rent is $100 per month for a 10 x 10 spot plus working 2 days a week. No commissions are taken unless we have items out on the floor that not in our booth. My rent is $125 for a 6x6 space, which comes out to about $3.50 per square foot. The mall also gets a 10% commission on each item sold. One perk is that they have a large open furniture floor where dealers are allowed to have up to 3 pieces for 2 months at a time, space permitting, in addition to our booth space.
Advice On Renting An Antique Booth. Let's talk turkey...and I am not referring to Thanksgiving, I'm talking about renting a booth space in an Antique Mall or Antique group shop. Where is this Antique Mall or group shop you are considering? If you have to bring an Eagle Scout with you to find it you may be in trouble. On the other hand if the antique store is located on a main road, has been around for a long time and has a waiting list, that's a positive sign.
How much will the space cost you? Generally, a booth rents for $2 to $3 per square foot per month; that would be$200 to $300 per month for a 10-by-10 booth. The price also depends on the booth's location in the building. The locked showcases vary, from $50 (at Benbrook Antique Mall) to $75 (at Montgomery Street Antique Mall) for a 2-foot-wide case that is usually 7 feet tall. Also, a fee of 2 to 8 percent is charged per sales transaction for bank fees and administration. Shoppers are enticed to spend at all price levels, from a 1945 postcard of Clovis, N.M., addressed to My Darling for $1 to a 100-year-old $14,975 Italian walnut buffet. Tarrant County boasts about 10 antiques malls where individuals rent space to sell merchandise that they select, display and monitor.