This is carnauba wax, also known as palm wax or Brazil wax, which comes from the leaves of the Copernicia prunifera palm grown only in Brazil. The wax is obtained by beating the wax off of the dried palm fronds and then refining it for use.
Turtle Wax Carnauba Cleaner Wax can be applied by hand or by machine. The cleaning properties of the wax will actually be enhanced by machine application. The resulting level of shine and finish clarity will be superior to hand application alone.
Back then, everyone knew that Carnauba paste wax was what you used on your car to protect it. When I got my first car in 1976, I continued the tradition of cleaning and protecting the paint with paste wax. At the time, synthetic waxes (sealants) were not common on retail shelves or they were seen as snake oil products.
Cleaner/Waxes are also referred to as One-Step products or All-In-One products. Cleaner/waxes can be used to restore neglected paint to good to excellent condition depending upon how bad of condition the paint is in and the cleaning ability or strength of the cleaning agents in the cleaner/wax.
Carnauba was is just one of the products that are derived from the carnauba tree. That there are many brands that will have the wax as a component of the polish. Not many are actually indicated for use by beginners, and especially for car polishing.
Carnauba wax is an ingredient in many foods and household products. Here's a look at what carnauba wax is made of and the properties that make it such as useful chemical.
Brazilian Carnauba Cleaner Wax is designed to be the one-step plan for paint preservation. Cleaner Wax is formulated to clean and protect in just one application. We use the same Brazilian #1 yellow carnauba that makes our Pure Carnauba Wax so special, and combined it with a light polish that will smooth minor flaws and make your paint snap.
1 Carnauba wax is a protectant and it also creates a hydrophobic surface on the car. 2  You will find that lower quality waxes are not really hydrophobic and they also cause water to “sheet” on the surface of the car. 3  The wax is protective of the car paint job and can deepen the shine