Doxycycline is a tetracycline antibiotic. It fights bacteria in the body. Doxycycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, and chlamydia, periodontitis (gum disease), and others. Doxycycline is also used to treat blemishes, bumps, and acne-like lesions caused by rosacea. Doxycycline will not treat facial redness caused by rosacea. Doxycycline may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Generic 100 mg doxycycline capsules. In addition to the general indications for all members of the tetracycline antibiotics group, doxycycline is frequently used to treat Lyme disease, chronic prostatitis, sinusitis, pelvic inflammatory disease, acne, rosacea, and rickettsial infections. Doxycycline is a broad-spectrum antibiotic of the tetracycline class. Like other agents of this class it kills bacteria and protozoa by inhibiting protein production. Doxycycline came into use in 1967.
A: Doxycycline can be used for a number of different infections as follows: acne, anthrax, gum diseases, and rosacea, as well as bacterial infections such as chlamydia, typhus, tick bites, pneumonia, syphilis, gonorrhea, Lyme disease, plaque, malaria, and some urinary tract infections. Like all antibiotics, doxycycline will not treat colds, the flu, or other infections caused by viruses or fungi. A 2014 study found that a low dose of 40 milligrams (mg) of slow-release doxycycline daily could be an effective and safe therapy for ocular rosacea, or rosacea that affects the eyes.
doxycycline monohydrate. DOXYCYCLINE is a tetracycline antibiotic. It kills certain bacteria or stops their growth. It is used to treat many kinds of infections, like dental, skin, respiratory, and urinary tract infections. It also treats acne, Lyme disease, malaria, and certain sexually transmitted infections.
A: Doryx (doxycycline hyclate) is a tetracycline-type antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections (e.g., Rickettsial infections, sexually transmitted infections, respiratory tract infections, ophthalmic infections, Anthrax, adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne, and prophylaxis of malaria). Like all antibiotics, doxycycline will not treat colds, the flu, or other infections caused by viruses or fungi. A 2014 study found that a low dose of 40 milligrams (mg) of slow-release doxycycline daily could be an effective and safe therapy for ocular rosacea, or rosacea that affects the eyes.
Chemical Classification: Tetracycline (class). Uses For doxycycline monohydrate. Doxycycline is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. It is also used to treat pimples and abscesses (usually on the face) that are caused by rosacea, also known as acne rosacea or adult acne. DOXYCYCLINE is a tetracycline antibiotic. It kills certain bacteria or stops their growth. It is used to treat many kinds of infections, like dental, skin, respiratory, and urinary tract infections. It also treats acne, Lyme disease, malaria, and certain sexually transmitted infections
Listen. DOXYCYCLINE (dox i SYE kleen) is a tetracycline antibiotic. It kills certain bacteria or stops their growth. It is used to treat many kinds of infections, like dental, skin, respiratory, and urinary tract infections. Calcium-containing foods and Doxycycline 100mg Capsule(Doxycycline Monohydrate). Close. Calcium-containing foods and Doxycycline(Doxycycline Monohydrate). Take Doxycyline with plenty of fluid to reduce the risk of irritation to the stomach or esophagus (tube leading from mouth to stomach).
A: Doxycycline is a medication that is used to treat various infections such as lyme disease, urinary tract infections, and pneumonia. Doxycycline is in the class of antibiotics called tetracyclines that work by inhibiting the growth of bacteria giving the immune system a chance at eliminating the infection. Like all antibiotics, doxycycline will not treat colds, the flu, or other infections caused by viruses or fungi. A 2014 study found that a low dose of 40 milligrams (mg) of slow-release doxycycline daily could be an effective and safe therapy for ocular rosacea, or rosacea that affects the eyes.
Doxycycline is an antibiotic used for treating bacterial infections. The drug is also sold under the brand names Oracea, Doryx, Monodox, Periostat, and Vibramycin. Doxycycline is in a class of medications called tetracyclines, and it's a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which means it works against a wide range of bacteria. Like all antibiotics, doxycycline will not treat colds, the flu, or other infections caused by viruses or fungi. A 2014 study found that a low dose of 40 milligrams (mg) of slow-release doxycycline daily could be an effective and safe therapy for ocular rosacea, or rosacea that affects the eyes.