Butterflies and moths can do very well with traces of disease. When stress occurs, however, the disease often takes over and causes major health problems and often death. From watching the caterpillar or adult we can rarely tell if they have a disease unless it is active and causing problems. Mold and mildew in the container can cause bacteria problems in your caterpillars. EGG CONTAMINATION. If a female butterfly is diseased, often disease particles (protozoan spore or virus particle) will be either on or in the egg. Remember, the first thing the caterpillar eats is its eggshell. When the caterpillar eats the contaminated eggshell, it will contract the disease. If the egg has the disease on the surface, there is a good chance of washing it off with a bleach solution. Simply soak the eggs in a 98% water/2% bleach solution for thirty second
When lupus begins, it can look a lot like rheumatoid arthritis, which causes joint pain and swelling, or fibromyalgia, which causes fatigue and pain. One aspect that sets lupus apart is the combination of skin rashes with joint pain and fatigue. Symptoms may be limited to the skin, but more often lupus also causes internal problems such as joint pain. In severe cases, it can damage the heart, kidneys, and other vital organs. Although there's no cure, there are treatments that can minimize the damage.
Known more formally as a malar rash, a butterfly rash is most commonly associated with the autoimmune disease lupus, though it can also be present in other conditions and particularly other autoimmune conditions. 
A tell-tale sign of lupus is a butterfly-shaped rash across the cheeks and bridge of the nose. Other common skin problems include sensitivity to the sun with flaky, red spots or a scaly, purple rash on various parts of the body, including the face, neck, and arms. Some people also develop mouth sores. Symptoms may be limited to the skin, but more often lupus also causes internal problems such as joint pain. In severe cases, it can damage the heart, kidneys, and other vital organs. Although there's no cure, there are treatments that can minimize the damage.
Causes of Butterfly rash listed in Disease Database: Other medical conditions listed in the Disease Database as possible causes of Butterfly rash as a symptom include: 1  C2 deficiency, hereditary. 2  C4 deficiency, hereditary. 3  Chlorpromazine. 4  Discoid lupus erythematosus. 5  Ethotoin. 6  Granulosis rubra nasi. 7  Hydralazine. 8  Isoniazid. 9  Levomepromazine. 
Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is an inherited variant affecting the skin and other organs. Butterfly children is the term given to those born with the disease, as their skin is seen to be as delicate and fragile as a butterfly's wings. Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is caused by genetic defects (or mutations) within the human COL7A1 gene encoding the protein type VII collagen (collagen VII). 
Lupus is a widespread and chronic (lifelong) autoimmune disease that, for unknown reasons, causes the immune system to attack the body’s own tissue and organs, including the joints, kidneys, heart, lungs, brain, blood, or skin. 1 The lupus butterfly rash presents itself in around 40% of lupus sufferers*. 2  Bloom Syndrome: This is a kind of syndrome that causes abnormalities in the pattern of chromosomal arrangement in a person. 3  One of its effects in the development of rashes on the epidermis including butterfly or malar rash.
A butterfly rash is a reddish rash on the face that spreads over the bridge of the nose and across the cheeks, making the shape of a butterfly. A butterfly rash, also called a malar rash or flush, is most commonly associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, or lupus, a chronic autoimmune disease. About 50% of people with lupus have a butterfly rash (Source: PubMed Health). Lupus is a chronic autoimmune disease that can have a serious and widespread effect on the body, including the skin, joints, muscles, and other organs. Butterfly rash and other symptoms of lupus are the result of tissue inflammation throughout various parts of the body