Alpine tundra in North-Western Transbaikalia. Alpine tundra is a type of natural region or biome that does not contain trees because it is at high altitude. The high altitude causes an adverse climate, which is too cold and windy to support tree growth. Some animals of alpine tundra environments include the kea, marmot, mountain goat, chinchilla, Himalayan tahr, yak and pika.
Alpine tundra is broadly defined as the zone of low-growing herbaceous or shrubby plants found above the tree line (the uppermost elevation where trees occur). This definition is inadequate for the Great Basin, where subalpine forest is not always present to form a tree line. A more apt definition of alpine tundra in Nevada is the zone above the upper limit of sagebrush-dominated shrublands.
Definition of ALPINE. 1. often not capitalized: of, relating to, or resembling the Alps or any mountains. 2. often not capitalized: of, relating to, or growing in the biogeographic zone including the elevated slopes above timberline. 3. Definition of ALPINE. 1. : a plant native to alpine or boreal regions that is often grown for ornament. 2. capitalized: a person possessing Alpine physical characteristics. ADVERTISEMENT.
Alpine tundra occurs in mountains worldwide. The flora of the alpine tundra is characterized by dwarf shrubs close to the ground. The cold climate of the alpine tundra is caused by the lack of greenhouse effect at high altitude, and is similar to polar climates. Some animals of alpine tundra environments include the kea, marmot, mountain goat, chinchilla, Himalayan tahr, yak and pika.
Definition of SUBALPINE. 1. : of or relating to the region about the foot and lower slopes of the Alps. 2. : of, relating to, or inhabiting high upland slopes and especially the zone just below the timberline. 
For the climate of the mountains named the Alps, see Climate of the Alps. White Mountain, an alpine environment at 4,300 metres (14,000 ft) in California. Alpine climate is the average weather (climate) for the regions above the tree line. This climate is also referred to as a mountain climate or highland climate. In the Koeppen köppen climate, classification the alpine climate is part Of Group, e along with the polar, climate where no month has a mean temperature higher than °10 (c °50). f
The Alpine life zone is the highest life zone in Colorado. Its elevation is from 11,500 feet above sea level and higher. Weather up here is really cold, wet, and windy. The weather can change from sunny and calm to stormy really fast ! 
alpine zone. A Dictionary of Ecology | 2004 |. © A Dictionary of Ecology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. alpine zone A region that occurs above the baumgrenze and below the snow line on temperate and tropical mountains. alpine zone A region that occurs above the tree-line and below the snow-line on temperate and tropical mountains. The vegetation is characterized by an absence of trees, and varies greatly with aspect, the greatest contrasts being between the wet side and the dry, leeward side of the mountains concerned