Be the first to review this Drug. Clotrimazole is an anti-fungal medication used to treat yeast infections of the vagina, skin, and mouth. It is commonly used for athlete's foot, jock itch, body ringworm, and oral thrush. Lotrimin is one of the brand names of clotrimazole. There are several other brand names, and this medicine is also used in combination products. The drug prevents the growth of fungi by interfering with the production of the membrane that surrounds fungal cells. Clotrimazole comes as a cream, powder, and lotion to apply to the skin.
A small, discoid or rhombic body composed of solidifying paste containing an astringent, antiseptic, or demulcent drug, used for local treatment of mouth or throat. Troches are meant to dissolve in the mouth and are also called lozenges and pastilles. Synonym(s): lozenge, morsulus. [L. trochiscus fr. Lozenge A form of oral medication formulated as a discoid solid containing a therapeutic agent in a flavored base; a troche is placed in the mouth and allowed to slowly dissolve, releasing its active ingredient–eg, analgesic, antibiotic, antihistaminic, antiseptic, antitussive, decongestant, local anesthetic. Cf Pill.
Troche: A small medicated lozenge designed to dissolve. For example, to soothe the throat as a cough drop. Strictly speaking, a troche should be circular since the word derives from the Greek trokhiskos meaning a little wheel.. Pronounced trOh-key. 
The recommended dose is one troche five times a day for fourteen consecutive days. Only limited data are available on the safety and effectiveness of the clotrimazole troche after prolonged administration; therefore, therapy should be limited to short term use, if possible. 
Side effects are not likely to occur with clotrimazole. Continue to take clotrimazole and talk to your doctor if you experience. 1  nausea or stomach upset, 2  vomiting, 3  itching, or. 4  an unpleasant sensation in the mouth.
So you and your doctor have decided to replace your decreasing hormones with natural hormones instead of the synthetic alternatives. Congratulations! But don’t stop here. The next puzzle piece is how to get the hormones inside your body where they can exert their beneficial effects. None of your circulating hormones are secreted into your digestive tract as a means of total body distribution. Glands typically secrete hormones into the local circulation where, eventually, they reach complete systemic circulation. This is physiologically natural. Hormone delivery via the digestive tract is not.
The vehicle or base of the troche is usually sugar, made adhesive by admixture with acacia or tragacanth, fruit paste, made from black or red currants, confection of rose, or balsam of tolu. Synonym(s): lozenge, morsulus, pastil (2) , pastille, trochiscus. [L. trochiscus fr. Lozenge A form of oral medication formulated as a discoid solid containing a therapeutic agent in a flavored base; a troche is placed in the mouth and allowed to slowly dissolve, releasing its active ingredient–eg, analgesic, antibiotic, antihistaminic, antiseptic, antitussive, decongestant, local anesthetic. Cf Pill.
The troche dosage form is a large, slowly dissolving tablet (lozenge) containing 10 mg of clotrimazole dispersed in dextrose, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone, and magnesium stearate. Side effects are not likely to occur with clotrimazole. Continue to take clotrimazole and talk to your doctor if you experience. 1  nausea or stomach upset, 2  vomiting, 3  itching, or. 4  an unpleasant sensation in the mouth.
Troche is a commune in the Correze corrèze department in Central. france 