Promethazine hydrochloride (promethazine hydrochloride injection) is indicated for the following conditions: 1  Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma. 2  In anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute symptoms have been controlled. Promethazine hydrochloride (promethazine hydrochloride injection) tablets and promethazine hydrochloride (promethazine hydrochloride injection) rectal suppositories are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age. (See WARNINGS, Use in Pediatric Patients).
Usual adult dosage is 50 mg Phenergan with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the required amount of a belladonna alkaloid. Postoperative sedation and adjunctive use with analgesics may be obtained by the administration of 12.5 to 25 mg in children and 25- to 50-mg doses in adults. Each dosage strength also contains the following: 12.5 mg−FD&C Yellow 6 and saccharin sodium; 25 mg−saccharin sodium; 50 mg−FD&C Red 40. Each rectal suppository of Phenergan contains 12.5 mg, 25 mg, or 50 mg promethazine HCl with ascorbyl palmitate, silicon dioxide, white wax, and cocoa butter.
As an adjunct to preoperative or postoperative medication, 25 to 50 mg promethazine hydrochloride (promethazine hydrochloride injection) in adults may be combined with appropriately reduced doses of analgesics and atropine-like drugs as desired. Promethazine hydrochloride (promethazine hydrochloride injection) tablets and promethazine hydrochloride (promethazine hydrochloride injection) rectal suppositories are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age. (See WARNINGS, Use in Pediatric Patients).
Opioids, while very effective analgesics, may have some unpleasant side-effects. Patients starting morphine may experience nausea and vomiting (generally relieved by a short course of antiemetics such as phenergan). Pruritus (itching) may require switching to a different opioid. They are distinct from anesthetics, which reversibly eliminate sensation. Analgesics include paracetamol (known in the US as acetaminophen or simply APAP), the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates, and opioid drugs such as morphine and oxycodone.
Dosage must be individualized. Excessive amounts of promethazine HCl (promethazine hydrochloride) relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain. 
An opiate is any drug derived from the seeds of opium poppies, such as opium or heroine. However, there are lots of synthetic drugs with similar effects which are also conside … red opiates, such as oxy-cotton and percasettes.   PS. please forgive my spelling. Promethazine is an antihistamine and as such is not nor does it contain any opiates. However, most antihistamines will make you sleepy and a little dopey, and this one is no … exception. 7 people found this useful.
Potentiation of narcotic analgesics with phenothiazines have been used for preoperative and postoperative analgesia for a number of years by the podiatric community. The agents most frequently cited in studies are the combination of meperidine with either the phenothiazines chlorpromazine, trimeprazine, or promethazine. 
Opioid analgesics are useful agents for treating pain of various etiologies; however, adverse effects are potential limitations to their use. Strategies to minimize adverse effects of opioids include dose reduction, symptomatic management, opioid rotation, and changing the route of administration. 
An analgesic or painkiller is any member of the group of drugs used to achieve analgesia, relief from pain. Analgesic drugs act in various ways on the peripheral and central nervous systems. They are distinct from anesthetics, which reversibly eliminate sensation. Analgesics include paracetamol (known in the US as acetaminophen or simply APAP), the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates, and opioid drugs such as morphine and oxycodone.
The narcotic antagonist, naloxone hydrochloride, may be administered when significant respiratory depression occurs with promethazine, phenylephrine and codeine; any depressant effects of promethazine are not reversed with naloxone. Diazepam may be used to control convulsions. Each 5 mL of reddish-orange, strawberry-flavored syrup (by Actavis Mid Atlantic) contains promethazine hydrochloride 6.25 mg, phenylephrine hydrochloride 5 mg, codeine phosphate 10 mg; and alcohol 7% and is available in 4 fluid ounce (118 mL), 8 fluid ounce (237 mL), and one pint (473 mL) bottles.