The spacecraft continued to orbit the earth with all its systems off until it reentered earth's atmosphere on April 14, 1958 and burned up on reentry. Laika proved that it was possible for a living being to enter space. Her death also sparked animal rights debates across the planet. 
We did not learn enough from this mission to justify the death of the dog. For other uses, see Laika (disambiguation) . Laika (Russian: лайка; c. 1954 – November 3, 1957) was a Soviet space dog who became one of the first animals in space, and the first animal to orbit the Earth. Three dogs were trained for the Sputnik 2 flight: Albina, Mushka, and Laika. Soviet space-life scientists Vladimir Yazdovsky and Oleg Gazenko trained the dogs. To adapt the dogs to the confines of the tiny cabin of Sputnik 2, they were kept in progressively smaller cages for periods of up to 20 days.
Between 1951 and 1952, the Soviet R-1 series rockets carried nine dogs altogether, with three dogs flying twice. Each flight carried a pair of dogs in hermetically sealed containers that were recovered by parachute. Of these early space-bound hounds, a few have been remembered by name. On August 15, 1951, Dezik and Tsygan (Gypsy) were launched. These two were the first canine suborbital astronauts. For several years, there had been a serious debate among scientists about the effects of prolonged weightlessness. American and Russian scientists utilized animals-mainly monkeys, chimps and dogs-in order to test each country's ability to launch a living organism into space and bring it back alive and unharmed.
Alan Shepard became the first American in space when the Freedom 7 spacecraft blasted off from Florida on May 5, 1961. Ten years later, Shepard would leave Earth's atmosphere again to become the fifth man to walk on the moon — and the first one to play golf there. 
The first type dog on the moon was a jack russle terrier. the name of the dog was maciy and it might have died up on the moon but it made history for us on earth. for conclusion there was a dog up on the moon and if a person ever says no dog has been on the moon you can say to them THAT THERE ARE LIEING you can tell them the truth. 
On April 11, 2008, Russian officials unveiled a monument to Laika. A small monument in her honour was built near the military research facility in Moscow that prepared Laika's flight to space. It features a dog standing on top of a rocket. She also appears on the Monument to the Conquerors of Space in Moscow. Three dogs were trained for the Sputnik 2 flight: Albina, Mushka, and Laika. Soviet space-life scientists Vladimir Yazdovsky and Oleg Gazenko trained the dogs. To adapt the dogs to the confines of the tiny cabin of Sputnik 2, they were kept in progressively smaller cages for periods of up to 20 days.
Alexei Leonov, a Soviet cosmonaut, was the first person to step outside of his spacecraft while in Outer Space, on March 18, 1965. He spent 12 minutes as he floated as far as 17.5 feet from his Voskhod 2 craft, enjoying the first space walk ever. Alan Sheppard was launched into space aboard Mercury 3 on May 5, 1961 to become the first American in space. His craft did not achieve orbit, but rose to a height of 116 miles and traveled 303 miles before safely parachuting into the Atlantic Ocean.
The Soviet Union stunned the world on Nov. 3, 1957, with the launch of Sputnik 2. On board the small satellite was a little dog, Laika, the first animal to orbit Earth. However, Laika was not the first animal in space. The United States and the U.S.S.R. had been putting animals atop rockets since 1947. Laika, a mixed-breed dog, was the first living being in orbit. The dogs reached space on July 22, 1951, but did not orbit. They were the first mammals successfully recovered from spaceflight. After Laika, the Soviet Union sent two more dogs, Belka and Strelka, into space on Aug. 19, 1960. The animals were the first to actually orbit and return alive.
Laika's coffin circled the Earth 2,570 times and burned up in the Earth's atmosphere on 4 April 1958. First dog in space died within hours. The dog Laika, the first living creature to orbit the Earth, did not live nearly as long as Soviet officials led the world to believe. Laika had been a stray. An astonished world witnessed the launch of Sputnik 2 weighing 113 kg (250 lbs) and carrying the first living thing to go into orbit-the dog Laika. The animal had been a stray wandering the streets of Moscow when she was captured and prepared for a space mission.