A United States President can be elected to two 4-year terms per the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution (ratified in 1951). However, Franklin D. Roosevelt served four terms (a … nd died in office) prior to that time, the most of any US president. Four years is one term. US presidents can only serve two for four year terms, for a total of eight years. The controlling law is the 22nd Amendment to the US Constitution.
The US President can serve a maximum two full terms. One term is four years. A president who finishes another president's term which has less than two years to go, can still … serve two more full terms. Therefore, in theory, it is possible to serve for 10 years in this special case. Four years is one term. US presidents can only serve two for four year terms, for a total of eight years. The controlling law is the 22nd Amendment to the US Constitution.
The total amount one person can SERVE as President is 10 years: if someone becomes president due to the death or resignation of the president and serves less than two years, that person is still eligible to be elected to two four-year terms. he will then be allowed to run and serve 2 full 4 year terms. if however the president dies in office with more than 2 years remaining on that term the vice-president takes over and serves out the(beyond the 2 yr) term, he then can only run and be elected to 1 full 4 year term.
Best Answer: 2 terms for a total of 8 years (4 years per term). Check out http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._presid... for more info on the terms, conditions, and requirements to be a U.S. President. The law changed after Roosevelt was elected 4 times in a row. It stated that a president may only serve 2 terms. Yes before 1951 a president could be elected numerous times, after FDR it was changed so a president could only serve 2 full terms, for a total of 8 years. However, if they were a vice president before and the serving president dies or leaves office they can finish their term, and serve 2 complete terms.
A United States President can be elected to two 4-year terms per the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution (ratified in 1951). However, Franklin D. Roosevelt served four terms (and died in office) prior to that time, the most of any US president. The 22nd Amendment also establishes that a President who serves more than 2 years through succession to the office is limited to only one elected term.
The US President can serve a maximum two full terms. One term is four years. A president who finishes another president's term which has less than two years to go, can still … serve two more full terms. Therefore, in theory, it is possible to serve for 10 years in this special case. However, Franklin D. Roosevelt served four terms (and died in office) prior to that time, the most of any US president. The 22nd Amendment also establishes that a President who serves more than 2 years through succession to the office is limited to only one elected term.
In order to be elected, one must be at least 35 years old. Also, each candidate must be a natural-born U.S. citizen and have lived in the U.S. for at least 14 years. When elected, the President serves a term of four years. The most one President can serve is two terms, for a total of eight years. Before 1951, the President could serve for as many terms as he wanted. However, no one had tried. After two terms as President, George Washington chose not to run again. 
Term Limit. American presidents are elected for four-year terms. While the 22nd Amendment limits presidents to two full terms in office, it also allows for them to serve two years at most of another president's term. That means the most any president can serve in the White House is 10 years. U.S. presidents are limited to serving only two full terms in the White House under the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, which reads in part: No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice..
Currently, the president can only serve two terms of four years. When Franklin D. Roosevelt was president, there was no limit on how many terms the president could serve. But in 1951, an amendment was added to the US Constitution limiting the president to only serving two terms. Yes before 1951 a president could be elected numerous times, after FDR it was changed so a president could only serve 2 full terms, for a total of 8 years. However, if they were a vice president before and the serving president dies or leaves office they can finish their term, and serve 2 complete terms.
Under the 22nd Amendment, a US President may be elected to two at most 4-year terms of office. However, a Vice President who succeeds an elected President and serves more than two years of that President's term may only be elected to one term. Four years is one term. US presidents can only serve two for four year terms, for a total of eight years. The controlling law is the 22nd Amendment to the US Constitution.