The Estates of Briarwood’s main focus is to keep our neighborhood safe and beautiful while fostering close knit relationships among our homeowners. Built around 12 acres that consist of a fountained pond with ducks, parks and wooded trails, the Estates of Briarwood is an excellent community for you to call home. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. My friend, the Briarwood section of Queens is a little quite neighborhood in eastern Queens, which is a also safe. Therefore, since you're about a 10 minutes walk from the Briarwood–Van Wyck Boulevard subway station on the E and F lines, you're going to be fine walking late a night. Good luck Native New Yorker. just wondering how safe the area is. it's about a ten minute walk from the subway. my soon-to-be block has a strip of houses and just looks like at night time it can get creepy because there aren't many lights. but seems like a quiet area nonetheless.
Briarwood is a middle class neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens. It is located northwest of Jamaica and roughly bounded by Queens Boulevard, Parsons Boulevard, Union Turnpike, and Hillside Avenue. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community Board 8. It lies in the northern half of the 11435 zip code. 
Near the LIRR train station is Jamaica. A couple stops away is Briarwood, at the subway stop Briarwood-Van Wyck Blvd. I lived here. Very safe. You are next to one of the best high schools (Archbishop Malloy). I'm heavily considering a place in the southern end of Briarwood, near the Jamaica LIRR train station, as it would allow me an easy train commute out to Long Island for work. More specifically, I'm looking west of Sutphin Blvd and anything north of the train tracks. Is this area safe?
Briarwood is also home to the Catholic Archbishop Molloy High School. Robert A. Van Wyck is a middle school located in Briarwood that holds 1,300 students from grades 6-8. The area is serviced by the IND Queens Boulevard Subway Line (E and F) of the NYC Subway. The station is found at Van Wyck Boulevard. The economic activity within Briarwood is primarily confined to small restaurants, delis, markets, and other small businesses. There are few major landmarks in the neighborhood and the area is relatively small.
Briarwood. Briarwood is a neighborhood of nearly five hundred one and two story single family homes. Briarwood homes are three or four bedroom and have two or three car garages. Most homes are between 1¸800 and 3¸000 square feet of living space; many are over 3¸000 square feet. 