In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes
Adipose Tissue is a loose fibrous connective tissue that is packed with many fat cells (called  adipocytes ): Adipose tissue forms a thick layer under the skin, around the kidneys and in the buttocks. More generally, it is found at the same locations throughout the body as areolar connective tissue. 
Knowledge center. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) , also known as brown fat, is one of two types of fat humans and other mammals have-the other type is known as white or yellow fat. Human newborns and hibernating mammals have high levels of brown fat. Brown fat's main function is to generate body heat. 
Adipocytes contain droplets of stored fat (triglycerides) that can be used for energy. These cells swell or shrink depending on whether fat is being stored or used. Other types of cells that comprise adipose tissue include fibroblasts, white blood cells, nerves, and endothelial cells. Adipose tissue is a lipid storing type of loose connective tissue. Also called fat tissue, adipose is composed primarily of adipose cells or adipocytes.
The two types of adipose tissue are white adipose tissue (WAT), which stores energy, and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which generates body heat. The formation of adipose tissue appears to be controlled in part by the adipose gene. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Adipose tissue is a type of connective tissue which plays an important role in the functioning of the body. Better known simply as “fat,” this tissue makes up around 15-20% of the body weight of an average person. Adipose tissue, or fat, makes up about 15-20% of a person's body weight. Pregnant women may develop additional deposits of adipose tissue to build up reserves for breastfeeding.
Medical Definition of ADIPOSE TISSUE. : connective tissue in which fat is stored and which has the cells distended by droplets of fat. See adipose tissue defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Adipose tissue is one of the main types of connective tissue. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat is one of two types of fat or adipose tissue (the other being white adipose tissue, or white fat) found in mammals. It is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. Its primary function is to generate body heat in animals or newborns that do not shiver. 