The classic pesto is customarily made with crushed pine nuts, garlic, basil, olive oil and Parmigiano-Reggiano. It seems so simple, but these five ingredients go so well together. You can use a mortar and pestle but a blender, food processor or even a mini-chopper is much easier. 
[ˈpesto]) is a sauce originating in Genoa in the Liguria region of northern Italy (pesto alla genovese), and traditionally consists of crushed garlic, basil, and European pine nuts blended with olive oil, Parmigiano-Reggiano (Parmesan cheese), and Fiore Sardo (cheese made from sheep's milk). The ancient Romans ate a paste called moretum, which was made by crushing cheese, garlic and herbs together. Basil, the main ingredient of modern pesto, likely originated in India and was first domesticated there. Basil took the firmest root in the regions of Liguria, Italy and Provence, France.
Pin it. A jar of pesto, made from basil or other greens, is a delightful summer treat. While we love it tossed with fresh pasta, of course, we've also found that this fresh, garlicky sauce can be a versatile ingredient in all sorts of other dishes! 
Basil pesto, of course! Here is a simple recipe. Note that pesto is always made to taste, based on the ingredients at hand. So adjust the ingredients to your taste. Most pesto recipes call for Parmesan cheese, we often use Romano which has a stronger flavor. 
Pesto alla genovese is made with Genovese basil, salt, garlic, Ligurian extra virgin olive oil (Taggiasco), European pine nuts (sometimes toasted) and a grated cheese like Parmigiano Reggiano or Grana Padano and pecorino Sardo or pecorino romano. The ancient Romans ate a paste called moretum, which was made by crushing cheese, garlic and herbs together. Basil, the main ingredient of modern pesto, likely originated in India and was first domesticated there. Basil took the firmest root in the regions of Liguria, Italy and Provence, France.
Recipe by: ANDERVAL. Basic pesto, made with basil, olive oil, pine nuts, and Parmesan cheese. This recipe differs from the classic preparation by the addition of parsley. You can add a little extra Parmesan to the mixture if you like.
This creamy pesto sauce is made with basil, Parmesan, garlic, olive oil, and a little bit of butter and cream cheese to give it a rich, creamy texture. Recipe by *DW*. Goat cheese, pear, and bacon are the toppings for this pizza that uses a pre-baked crust and replaces tomato sauce with pesto. 
1 To make the pesto, combine basil, garlic, pine nuts and Parmesan in the bowl of a food processor; season with salt and pepper, to taste. 2  With the motor running, add olive oil in a slow stream until emulsified; set aside. Instructions. 1 
Pesto is a versatile sauce that can be used to make soup. Garlic is often used in making pesto. Olive oil is typically used to make pesto. Chopped tomatoes can be added to basil and olive oil in a variation on traditional pesto. Red bell peppers can be used as a base to make a red pesto. Pesto alla siciliana comes from Sicily.