Sources and Physiological Functions. Folate, vitamins B6, and B12 belong to the group of water-soluble B vitamins that occur naturally in food. Leafy green vegetables (such as spinach and turnip greens), fruits (such as citrus fruits and juices), and dried beans and peas are all natural sources of folate. 
There are two types of vitamins: fat-soluble and water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter. Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter.
Background. Vitamin B12 is an essential water-soluble vitamin that is commonly found in a variety of foods, such as fish, shellfish, meat, eggs, and dairy products. Vitamin B12 is frequently used in combination with other B vitamins in a vitamin B complex formulation. 
Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air. They can also be lost in water used for cooking. Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter.
Water-soluble vitamins. Water-soluble vitamins travel freely through the body, and excess amounts usually are excreted by the kidneys. The body needs water-soluble vitamins in frequent, small doses. These vitamins are not as likely as fat-soluble vitamins to reach toxic levels. But niacin, vitamin B6, folate, choline, and vitamin C have upper consumption limits. Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body's cells and are not excreted as easily as water-soluble vitamins. They do not need to be consumed as often as water-soluble vitamins, although adequate amounts are needed.
Minimizing Losses. Some water-soluble vitamins are often leached out of foods or destroyed before you even eat these foods. Vitamin C, thiamine and folate are destroyed if you cook food for a long time or use high heat and leach out of foods if you cook them in water. Eat a variety of healthy foods to maximize your nutrient intake. Vitamin C and the B-complex vitamins, which include thiamine, folate, biotin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid, niacin and vitamins B-6 and B-12, are all water-soluble vitamins.
Vitamin C. Ascorbic Acid: this is an essential vitamin found mainly in fruits and vegetables. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, and large amounts of vitamin C may cause diarrhea. Vitamin C supports a variety of the body's structures and is essential to the formation of bones. The Vitamins that are added to the water bottle are water soluble vitamins. However, extra doses of water soluble vitamins will not cause vitamin toxicity and will simply be flushed out in the urine. There are nine water soluble vitamins, eight of which are B Vitamins. Water soluble vitamins are vitamins that are not store in the body like fat soluble vitamins are. They are: Vitamin B1: (Thiamine), B2: (Riboflavin), Niacin, and Vitamin B6: Folacin, B12: Pantothenic Acid and Biotin