Our insurance gave us an EOB yesterday the MRI is going to cost us $2700.00 and the contrast dye was $600.00 so in total a 45 minute brain MRI with contrast dye at Aurora St. Lukes in Milwaukee, WI is $3300.00 with Allegiance Medical Insurance. 1 An open MRI is wider than an enclosed MRI and is often recommended for obese patients, those who struggle with claustrophobia, or patients whose joints are being examined. 2  An open MRI typically costs about the same as a conventional MRI, about $1,000-$5,000, depending on the parts of the body
• $1,750 for one scan site. • $250 for additional scan sites. • $100 for emergency or STAT reads of the exam by the radiologist. Please call us at (860) 586-8610 if you have any questions or concerns about how much a dog MRI costs. We are committed to helping all our clients get the MRI scan they need for their dogs and will work with you as much as possible.
Report Abuse. I've heard that MRI scans can cost up to $2000 in some cases!! If you can, hurry and get pet insurance, even if it means having to pay exorbitant rates given your dog's pre-existing conditions. QuickCare Pet Insurance is one of the best deals I have found on the Internet
In some cases, an MRI can produce clearer images than an X-ray or CT scan. Most MRIs are typically covered by health insurance when deemed medically necessary. If deductibles are met, typical out-of-pocket cost consists of copays of $20-$100 for the doctor visit and for the procedure. 1 An open MRI is wider than an enclosed MRI and is often recommended for obese patients, those who struggle with claustrophobia, or patients whose joints are being examined. 2  An open MRI typically costs about the same as a conventional MRI, about $1,000-$5,000, depending on the parts of the body
MRI scans for dogs at Companion MRI are typically $1,750 for one scan site. If an additional anatomical MRI scan site is needed, the cost will be $250 for the additional site. Please call us at (860) 586-8610 if you have any questions or concerns about how much a dog MRI costs. We are committed to helping all our clients get the MRI scan they need for their dogs and will work with you as much as possible.
What is the cost of an MRI? The cost of an MRI study can range from $300 to $10000. There is a huge difference in the cost of an MRI study across the country and even city to city. In addition to pricin … g being very different throughout a region, pricing is also affected by the MRI clinic that you decide to use. How much does an MRI Scan for the lower back cost? MRI scans of the lower back (aka the Lumbar Spine) range in price from $700-$3000 depending on where you get the scan done.
2. An MRI is expensive, with costs often running $2,500 and up per scan. However, this cost, which includes the scan, anesthesia and monitoring, is covered by many pet insurance plans. 3. Another consideration (not necessarily a drawback) is that the dog can’t move during the scan. Shelley’s vet suspected her dog might have a brain tumor, and suggested an MRI to determine if that was indeed the case. “I asked him to repeat himself, as I’d never heard of MRIs for animals and thought maybe I’d heard him wrong,” says Shelley.
The cost of an MRI study can range from $300 to $10000. There is a huge difference in the cost of an MRI study across the country and even city to city. How much does an MRI Scan for the lower back cost? MRI scans of the lower back (aka the Lumbar Spine) range in price from $700-$3000 depending on where you get the scan done.
As far as the average cost of an MRI, a lot depends on the area you are in and the availability/access of one. Where I'm at, one is not that readily accessible so owners have to be prepared to drive quite a distance to reach a facility that has one. This is a referral to the nearest veterinary university. 
My dog just got an MRI yesterday. Total cost including medication: $320.00 USD. That is right, I did not miss a zero. I live in LA and have familiy in Tijuana Mexico. 