One of the most common leg injuries experienced by dogs is a cranial cruciate ligament (CCL) tear, similar to an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury in humans. The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the primary ligaments in the knee of human beings. 
In addition to the collateral ligaments, the elbow joint of the dog is composed of the annular ligament, olecranon ligament, and oblique ligament (Campbell; Denny, 1993 and Evans). 
Collateral Ligaments. These are found on the sides of your knee. The medial or inside collateral ligament (MCL) connects the femur to the tibia. The lateral or outside collateral ligament (LCL) connects the femur to the smaller bone in the lower leg (fibula). The collateral ligaments control the sideways motion of your knee and brace it against unusual movement
The knee is located on the back leg between the femur and the tibia. There are four ligaments present in the knee of dogs. These include the cranial and caudal cruciate ligaments and the medial and lateral collateral ligaments. (figure 1) Each ligament has a different function in stabilizing the knee joint of dogs. Ligaments are strong tissues that connect two bones. Rupture of the cranial cruciate ligament (CCL) is a common problem in dogs. The cranial cruciate ligament in dogs is comparable to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) that is commonly injured in human athletes. Injury to this ligament in people is typically associated with some type of extreme trauma.
Diagnosis of lateral collateral ligament injury is based on palpation, and can be used to determine the severity of the damage. Your veterinarian will test the integrity of the ligament by holding the limb in. extension, and performing a varus stress test. Damage to the lateral collateral ligament specifically, is usually caused by a severe blow to the side of the joint or a twisting motion, especially at high speed. The affected ligament may be stretched, partially torn, or completely ruptured.
The medial collateral ligament (MCL or tibial collateral ligament) is one of the four major ligaments of the knee. It is on the medial (inner) side of the knee joint in humans and other primates. 
Any age, breed, or gender of dog can suffer lateral collateral ligament injuries. Cats can also be affected. In general, stifle injuries tend to occur in larger dogs, especially those that are overweight, and/or extremely active. Damage to the lateral collateral ligament specifically, is usually caused by a severe blow to the side of the joint or a twisting motion, especially at high speed. The affected ligament may be stretched, partially torn, or completely ruptured.
The patellar ligaments are those that hold the patella, or kneecap, in place and allow for its movement when extending and flexing the knee. (diagram of stifle anatomy). Injury to the lateral collateral ligament can result in a complete or partial tear of the ligament. Damage to the lateral collateral ligament specifically, is usually caused by a severe blow to the side of the joint or a twisting motion, especially at high speed. The affected ligament may be stretched, partially torn, or completely ruptured.
1 The cruciate ligaments of the knee are the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL). 2  These ligaments are two strong, rounded bands that extend from the head of the tibia to the intercondyloid notch of the femur. 3  The ACL is lateral and the PCL is medial. Illustration of the ligaments of the knee, including the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments. Cruciate ligaments (also cruciform ligaments) are pairs of ligaments arranged like a letter X. They occur in several joints of the body, such as the knee.