Oxycodone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of oxycodone. The combination of acetaminophen and oxycodone is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and oxycodone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
Percocet. Home » Percocet. Percocet is the brand name for acetaminophen and oxycodone and is a powerful narcotic used to treat moderate to severe pain. The synthetic opioid is one of the most commonly prescribed painkillers. Percocet is available in capsules and tablets. 
Oxycodone/Apap 7.5mg/325mg contains two medications, oxycodone at a dose of 7.5mg and acetaminophen (Tylenol) at a dose of 325mg. Oxycodone (OxyIR) is an opioid analgesic used to treat moderate to severe pain. Oxycodone 5mg contains one medication; oxycodone at a dose of 5mg. Oxycodone/APAP 7.5mg/325mg has a higher oxycodone dose than oxycodone 5mg and it contains an additional medication, acetaminophen. A: Oxycodone is a narcotic pain reliever that is used to treat moderate to severe pain. This medication has a half-life of between 3 and 4.5 hours. This means that half of the dosage is eliminated from the body after 4 hours, and for each consecutive 4 hours another half of what is left over will be eliminated.
Percocet ® is a medicine that contains a combination of acetaminophen and oxycodone. Percocet is the combination of the opioid (or narcotic) medicine oxycodone and the nonnarcotic medicine acetaminophen. Your doctor may have given you Percocet to treat your pain that is moderate or moderately severe. Percocet® is a medicine that contains a combination of acetaminophen and oxycodone.
CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. The pain medicine Percocet ® (oxycodone/APAP) is commonly used for relieving pain following an injury, surgery, or dental procedure. It is also sometimes used for treating migraines, chronic pain, or other types of recurring or long-term conditions that cause pain. 
Oxycodone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of oxycodone. Acetaminophen and oxycodone is a combination medicine used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and oxycodone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Oxycodone can slow or stop your breathing. You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to acetaminophen (Tylenol) or oxycodone, or if you have recently used alcohol, sedatives, tranquilizers, or other narcotic medications. You should not use Xartemis XR if you have severe asthma or breathing problems, or a bowel obstruction called paralytic ileus.
Uses. This combination medication is used to help relieve moderate to severe pain. It contains a narcotic pain reliever (oxycodone) and a non-narcotic pain reliever (acetaminophen). Oxycodone works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain. Acetaminophen can also reduce a fever.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/2/2015. Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen) is a combination drug consisting of oxycodone (opioid drug type) and acetaminophen (analgesic and antipyretic drug type). Percocet is available in the generic form named oxycodone and acetaminophen. The most frequent minor side effects of Percocet include gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms of constipation, nausea, vomiting, upset stomach, somnolence (sleepiness), dizziness, lightheadedness, itching, headache, blurred vision, dry mouth, sweating, and decreases in the ability to feel pain.