In 2010, Greenpeace International added the spiny dogfish to its seafood red list. The Greenpeace International seafood red list is a list of fish that are commonly sold in supermarkets around the world, and which have a very high risk of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries.. Spiny dogfish are fished for food in Europe, the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Chile. The meat is primarily consumed in England, France, the Benelux countries and Germany.
Chondrichthyes (/kɒnˈdrɪkθɨ.iːz/ ; from Greek χονδρ- chondr- 'cartilage', ἰχθύς ichthys 'fish') is a class that contains the cartilaginous fishes: they are jawed vertebrates with paired fins, paired nares, scales, a heart with its chambers in series, and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone. 
There are more than 400 different shark species, most of which can be found in coastal regions. They are present in every ocean of the world, with some species also inhabiting rivers. Sharks belong to the class of cartilaginous fish along side rays and chimeras. While the skeleton of all other fish is made of bone, the skeleton of sharks is made of cartilage. Cartilage is lighter and more flexible than bone allowing the shark to make tight turns quickly and to stay afloat. Sharks are a remarkably diverse group of fish. The largest species – the whale shark – can grow up to 12 meters in length while the smallest species – the dwarf lanternshark – only reaches a size of 17 centimeters.
Close-up of the head. The spiny dogfish has dorsal spines, no anal fin, and white spots along its back. The caudal fin has asymmetrical lobes, forming a heterocercal tail. The species name acanthias refers to the shark's two spines. Spiny dogfish are fished for food in Europe, the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Chile. The meat is primarily consumed in England, France, the Benelux countries and Germany.
Description. The spiny dogfish is one of the most abundant demersal shark species in Atlantic Canada and may be the most abundant shark species worldwide. This shark is a major predator on several commercially significant species such as herring, Atlantic mackerel and squid. As a very long-lived, slow-growing and late to mature shark, spiny dogfish are particularly vulnerable to fishing and slow to recover from over-exploitation. The major threat to this species in Atlantic Canada is bycatch.
The spiny dogfish, spurdog, mud shark, or piked dogfish, Squalus acanthias, is one of the best known species of the Squalidae (dogfish) family of sharks, which is part of the Squaliformes order. Spiny dogfish are fished for food in Europe, the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Chile. The meat is primarily consumed in England, France, the Benelux countries and Germany.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Spiny dogfish shark (Squalus acanthias), also known as the Spiny dogfish, is one of the most common and well known species of dogfish. It is a small species of shark, with an average length of 28-39 inches (70-100 cm), and reaching a maximum weight of 9.8 kg. Spiny dogfish have been found in the stomachs of cod, red hake, and goosefish, as well as other Spiny dogfish. Larger species of sharks, as well as seals and Killer whales also feed on the Spiny dogfish. To defend itself, the Spiny dogfish curls into a bow, and strikes at predators with its spines on the dorsal fins.
Characteristics of life of phylum chordata, class Chondrichthyes… genus squalus species acanthias. Cells: Multicellular Organization: Bilateral symmetry Require energy: predators, mainly boney fish… also canibalistic-PowerPoint PPT Presentation. External Anatomy of the Dogfish Shark. 1  Along the sides of the body is a light-colored horizontal stripe called the lateral line. 2  The line is made up of a series of tiny pores that lead to receptors that are sensitive to the mechanical movement of water and sudden changes of pressure.
The spiny dogfish is one of the most abundant species of shark in the world is also commonly known as the piked dogfish, the codshark and the thorndog. The spiny dogfish is a small-sized shark with a grey coloured body that has a light underside and little white spots on the back of the spiny dogfish. The spiny dogfish also has large eyes and a short snout and unlike many other species of shark, the spiny dogfish does has have an anal fin.