EPIDEMIOLOGY. The incidence and prevalence of fetishistic disorder in the general population are not known. It is not clear whether the rarity of fetishistic disorder as a presenting complaint represents a low prevalence or a lack of reporting by people with the condition. This topic addresses the epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical characteristics, course, assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of fetishistic disorder. Evaluation and management of other sexual and gender identity disorders are discussed separately.
C. The Fetishistic object is not an article of clothing employed in cross dressing, or a sexual stimulation device, such as a vibrator. 1  Specifiers for the diagnosis of Fetishistic Disorder include the type of stimulus which is the focus of attention. Other specifiers are: 1  In a controlled environment where Fetishistic Disorder cannot readily be engaged in, such as an institutional setting. 2  In remission: No distress or impairment of functioning for a five year period, exclusive of a controlled environment (American Psychiatric Association, 2013).
Sexual fetishism or erotic fetishism is a sexual focus on a nonliving object or nongenital body part. The object of interest is called the fetish; the person who has a fetish for that object is a fetishist. While medical definitions restrict the term sexual fetishism to objects or body parts, fetish can also refer to sexual interest in specific activities in common discourse.
Fetishistic disorder can be a multisensory experience, including holding, tasting, rubbing, inserting, or smelling the fetish object while masturbating, or preferring that a sexual partner wear or utilize a fetish object during sexual encounters. An individual with a fetish for a body part (e.g., feet, hair) will focus primarily on the eroticizes non-genital body part during sexual encounter. It is not uncommon for sexualized fetishes to include both inanimate objects and body parts (e.g., dirty socks with feet).
Fetishism is characterized as a disorder when there is a pathological assignment of sexual fixation, fantasies or behaviors toward an inanimate object -- frequently an item of clothing -- such as underclothing or a high-heeled shoe -- or to nongenital body parts -- such as the foot. It is not about the person who has worn the object, rather it is about the object itself. Examples of animate fetish objects include hair, legs and buttocks. Fetishism excludes cross-dressing and objects specially designed for sexual use such as vibrators and dildos.
Definition. Fetishism is a form of paraphilia, a disorder that is characterized by recurrent intense sexual urges and sexually arousing fantasies generally involving non-human objects, the suffering or humiliation of oneself or one's partner (not merely simulated), or children or other non-consenting persons. Description. As stated, a fetish is a form of paraphilia, and in fetishism, the affected person has created a strong association between an object and sexual pleasure or gratification. A fetish is not simply a pleasant memory—it is a dominant component of most sexual situations.
The paraphiliac focus in Fetishistic Disorder (formerly known as Fetishism) involves the eroticization of nonliving objects and/or body parts for sexual gratification. An individual with a fetish for a body part (e.g., feet, hair) will focus primarily on the eroticizes non-genital body part during sexual encounter. It is not uncommon for sexualized fetishes to include both inanimate objects and body parts (e.g., dirty socks with feet).
1 Specifiers for the diagnosis of Fetishistic Disorder include the type of stimulus which is the focus of attention. 2  Body Part(s) (non-genital or erogenous areas of the body-e.g.,feet or hair). 3  This is also referred to as Partialism-preoccupation with a part of the body rather than the whole person. Other specifiers are: 1  In a controlled environment where Fetishistic Disorder cannot readily be engaged in, such as an institutional setting. 2  In remission: No distress or impairment of functioning for a five year period, exclusive of a controlled environment (American Psychiatric Association, 2013).
INTRODUCTION. Fetishistic disorder is one of the numerous forms of sexual disorders classified as paraphilias. Fetishistic disorder is characterized by a distressing and persistent pattern of sexual arousal involving the use of nonliving objects or specific, nongenital body parts. This topic addresses the epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical characteristics, course, assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of fetishistic disorder. Evaluation and management of other sexual and gender identity disorders are discussed separately.
Such individuals could be considered as having a fetish but not fetishistic disorder. A diagnosis of fetishistic disorder requires clinically significant distress or impairment in functioning resulting from the fetish. An individual with a fetish for a body part (e.g., feet, hair) will focus primarily on the eroticizes non-genital body part during sexual encounter. It is not uncommon for sexualized fetishes to include both inanimate objects and body parts (e.g., dirty socks with feet).