1 Between 1606 and 1770 more than 50 European ships made landfall on Australian soil, which was then inhabited solely by Indigenous people. 2  Navigator and astronomer Captain James Cook claimed the whole of the east coast of Australia for Great Britain on 22 August 1770, naming eastern Australia 'New South Wales'. In 1770, Captain Cook 'discovered' the south east coast of Australia, landing in Botany Bay. On 22 August 1770, he claimed the whole of the east coast of Australia at Possession Island, naming eastern Australia New South Wales.
Route of the first voyage of James Cook. The first voyage of James Cook was a combined Royal Navy and Royal Society expedition to the south Pacific Ocean aboard HMS Endeavour, from 1768 to 1771. It was the first of three Pacific voyages of which Cook was the commander. 
1 Navigator and astronomer Captain James Cook claimed the whole of the east coast of Australia for Great Britain on 22 August 1770, naming eastern Australia 'New South Wales'. 2  School A to Z features links to third-party websites and resources. 3  We are not responsible for the content of external sites. In 1770, Captain Cook 'discovered' the south east coast of Australia, landing in Botany Bay. On 22 August 1770, he claimed the whole of the east coast of Australia at Possession Island, naming eastern Australia New South Wales.
James Cook's first ship, in which he circumnavigated New Zealand and sharted the east coast of Australia, was called HMS Endeavour. Captain James Cook's major exploration was arguably his first expedition. On Cook's first journey, departing in 1768, his mission was to chart the transit of Venus. Commanding … the 'Endeavour', Cook went on to search for Terra Australis Incognita, the great continent which some believed to extend round the pole.
ON 26 August 1768, The HMB Endeavour set sail from England's Plymouth Harbour, under the command of Captain James Cook, an accomplished astronomer, navigator and surveyor. The ship's company of 94 men were instructed to make for Tahiti, where they would observe and record the transit of Venus across the face of the Sun. 
Cook's Ships. Captain Cook's most famous ship is Endeavour, in which he sailed on his First Voyage round the world. On his Second Voyage he sailed in Resolution accompanied by Adventure. And on his Third Voyage he sailed in Resolution, again, accompanied this time by Discovery. The names of these four ships are said, by some, to summarise Cook's own character. Only vessel on Cook's First Voyage. Not a ship but a Bark. A table of Cook's Voyages In Whitby Ships. The vessels he sailed in, when and why before he joined the Royal Navy in 1755 ...
Cook's best known ship was the ' Endeavour ', which departed Plymouth, England, on 26 August 1768 on Cook's expedition to observe the transit of Venus from the vantage point of Tahiti. It was on this journey that Cook circumnavigated New Zealand and the eastern coast of Australia. On Cook's second and third journeys, he commanded the ' Resolution ' and the ' Adventure '. On his third journey, Cook also had a consort ship, the Discovery, which was commanded by Charles Clerke, not by Cook himself. Captain James Cook's major exploration was arguably his first expedition. On Cook's first journey, departing in 1768, his mission was to chart the transit of Venus. Commanding … the 'Endeavour', Cook went on to search for Terra Australis Incognita, the great continent which some believed to extend round the pole.
Cook's best known ship was the 'Endeavour', which departed Plymouth, England, on 26 August … 1768 on Cook's expedition to observe the transit of Venus from the vantage point of Tahiti. It was on this journey that Cook circumnavigated New Zealand and the eastern coast of Australia. On Cook's second and third journeys, he commanded the 'Resolution' and the 'Adventure'. On his third journey, Cook also had a consort ship, the Discovery, which was commanded by Charles Clerke, not by Cook himself.
as my interests are far and wide. James Cook commanded three ships, the HM Bark Endeavour, the Resolution and the Adventure. Cook's best known ship was the ' Endeavour ', which departed Plymouth, England, on 26 August 1768 on Cook's expedition to observe the transit of Venus from the vantage point of Tahiti. On Cook's second and third journeys, he commanded the 'Resolution' and the 'Adventure'. On his third journey, Cook also had a consort ship, the Discovery, which was commanded by Charles Clerke, not by Cook himself.