1 Instead, use oils that are low in saturated fats and high in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats such as canola oil, olive oil and flax seed oil. 2  minimize using commercially packaged foods which are high in trans fats. 3  Always read labels to look for trans-fat free alternatives.
Saturated Fats. Saturated fats raise total blood cholesterol as well as LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol). Saturated fats are mainly found in animal products such as meat, dairy, eggs and seafood. Some plant foods are also high in saturated fats such as coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil.
At the end of the day, a good fat is still a fat in terms of calories. Any labels on cooking oil that describe the oil as light, are referring to the taste or color, not the fat or calorie content. All oils are 100 percent fat and are worth around 120 calories per tablespoon.
Monounsaturated fats are called good or healthy fats because they can lower your bad (LDL) cholesterol. Sources of monounsaturated fat include: 1  Avocado. 2  Canola oil. 3  Nuts like almonds, cashews, pecans, and peanuts. 4  Olive oil and olives. 5  Peanut butter and peanut oil. 6  Sesame seeds.
Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body. Fat is essential to your health because it supports a number of your body's functions.
But it's easy to get confused about good fats vs. bad fats, how much fat we should eat, how to avoid artery-clogging trans fats, and the role omega-3 fatty acids play in heart health. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's 2005 Dietary Guidelines recommend that adults get 20%-35% of their calories from fats.
Monounsaturated Fats. Monounsaturated fats (MUFAs) lower total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol) while increasing HDL cholesterol (the good cholesterol). Nuts including peanuts, walnuts, almonds and pistachios, avocado, canola and olive oil are high in MUFAs.
Learn about good and bad fats--such as saturated fat, trans fat, monounsaturated fat, and polyunsaturated fat--and how they're linked to heart disease. When it comes to diet, fats get a bad rap in general. Some of this perception is justified, as certain types of fat and the fat-like substance cholesterol, may play a role in cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and obesity.