Learn how to become a certified facilities manager. Research the job description and the education and certification requirements and find out how to start a career in facilities management. View 10 Popular Schools ». Certification lasts for three years and includes requirements for recertification. Certified Facility Managers need to earn 120 maintenance points that can be met by completing continuing education, professional involvement or development.
FMP credential. IFMA’s Facility Management Professional (FMP) designation is a knowledge-based credential for FM professionals and industry suppliers looking to increase their depth-of-knowledge in the core FM topics deemed critical by employers. 
A certified facility manager is someone who has gained a certification in various aspects of maintaining a commercial or industrial facility. View slideshow of images above. Knowing about compliance with safety law is usually part of the job of a certified facility manager. The facility manager certification, as pointed out by the IFMA, helps to support the credentials of a professional in this field. In a competitive environment, a certified facility manager qualification can make the difference in landing a job. The process for getting the certification is not extremely time intensive. Individuals can learn more by reading up on resources from the IFMA on what it takes to become a certified facility manager
Save. monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. Sponsored by the International Facility Management Association (IFMA), the Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) credential was created to help set a higher standard of professional competency in the areas of operations, maintenance, technology and finance. Determine if you have the minimum education and work experience requirements to apply for certification. For example, if you have a master's degree in facilities management, you need at least three years of experience working as a facilities manager.
The Certified Facility Manager (CFM) credential sets the industry standard for ensuring the knowledge and competence of practicing facility managers. STEPS TO ACHIEVE THE CFM CERTIFICATION. 1  Review candidate eligibility requirements. 2  The CFM is a competency-based certification. 3  Candidates must first meet the education and experience
IFMA's certification process is designed to assess competency in the field through work experience, education and the ability to pass a comprehensive exam that covers 11 competencies that make up the facility management body of knowledge. STEPS TO ACHIEVE THE CFM CERTIFICATION. 1  Review candidate eligibility requirements. 2  The CFM is a competency-based certification. 3  Candidates must first meet the education and experience
The Certified Facility Manager ® (CFM) credential sets the industry standard for ensuring the knowledge and competence of practicing facility managers. IFMA’s certification process is designed to assess competency in the field through work experience, education and the ability to pass a comprehensive exam that covers 11 competencies that make up the facility management body of knowledge.
IFMA's Facility Management Professional (FMP) designation is a knowledge-based credential for FM professionals and industry suppliers looking to increase their depth-of-knowledge in the core FM topics deemed critical by employers. 