The most important treatment for a pulled calf muscle is rest. It sounds simple, but it is vital to rest to allow the muscles to heal and to prevent the injury getting worse. Returning to activity too soon can turn a grade 1 torn calf muscle into a grade 2 or a grade 2 to a grade 3. Ice should be applied to a pulled calf muscle as quickly as possible. Either use a specially designed ice pack or wrap ice cubes in a towel and place them over the affected area for 10 minutes. Leave 2 hours between applications.
View image. A calf strain is a stretch or tear of a muscle or tendon in the back of your leg below your knee. This area of your leg is called the calf. Tendons are strong bands of tissue that attach muscle to bone. This type of injury is often called a pulled muscle. You can strain your calf muscle when you do an activity that involves pushing off forcefully from your toes.
If you strain your calf muscles, you may feel: 1  Sharp pain or weakness in the back of the lower leg. 2  The pain can quickly resolve, or can persist. 3  A throbbing pain at rest with sharp stabs of pain occurring when you try to stand or walk. 4  A feeling of tightness or weakness in the calf area. 
A calf muscle tear is graded from 1 to 3, with grade 3 being the most severe. Grade 1 symptoms. Grade 1 calf strain is a minor tear with up to 10% of the muscle fibers effected. The athlete will feel a twinge of pain in the back of the lower leg. They may be able to carry on playing or competing in mild discomfort. Calf strain explained. The calf muscles consist of the gastrocnemius muscle which is the big muscle at the back of the lower leg and the soleus muscle which is a smaller muscle lower down in the leg and under the gastrocnemius.
If you continue to work this muscle, it may tear. A torn calf muscle takes quite some time to heal, and is very prone to re-injury. There are other issues and injuries that can cause calf pain, but if the pain is severe -- or you hear a pop or snap sound from your leg -- see a doctor immediately. 1 Try a towel stretch to gently stretch your calves. 2  Sit upright with your leg extended in front of you. 3  Place a towel around your foot and hold the ends. 4  Gently pull your toes toward your body until you feel a stretch in your calf muscle. 5  Hold for 5 seconds. 6  Relax. 7  Repeat 10 times. 8  Repeat for the other leg.
3. Get help from a doctor now ›. Scarring: When the calf muscle tears, the muscle usually does not tear completely, it is more like the fibers are lengthened and then scar in. Usually people can return back to an active lifestyle. ...Read more. 
Muscle Strain Overview. Muscle strain, muscle pull, or even a muscle tear refers to damage to a muscle or its attaching tendons. You can put undue pressure on muscles during the course of normal daily activities, with sudden heavy lifting, during sports, or while performing work tasks. 
Calf muscle strain also called 'Tennis Leg' is a term used to describe stretches, tears, or incomplete ruptures of the large calf muscles (gastrocnemius) . Straining your calf muscles, happens when lunging or pushing off one leg to get to a wide ball or serve. 
A calf strain is a tear to one or both of the muscles at the back of the lower leg. We explain symptoms as well as treatment and rehabilitation exercises to return you back to full fitness. Calf strain explained. The calf muscles consist of the gastrocnemius muscle which is the big muscle at the back of the lower leg and the soleus muscle which is a smaller muscle lower down in the leg and under the gastrocnemius.