Valuation of Jewellery for Insurance. The most common reason for seeking a valuation of jewellery is for Insurance purposes and in this case the valuation should reflect the replacement cost of the item at today’s retail cost. We suggest that you speak to your jeweler and see if they recommend a new valuation for your jewellery. […]. Reply. […] If you’ve taken some sensible steps (like photographing the items and having an up to date valuation), you may get an identical replacement but inevitably there’s a lot of heartache and stress […].
Items of jewellery are valued differently for different purposes. You might wonder about the difference between the insurance value of an item and the amount you would get, as a private individual, if you chose to sell the piece. 
Back to top of page. SafeGuard – The UK’s leading Valuation Service, is available from over 1,000 High Street retailers throughout the UK. Determining the value of a piece of jewellery, a watch or an article of silverware, for whatever reason, requires a good deal of skill and experience. We have therefore no vested interest in the product, or its replacement value and promise you an unbiased opinion every time. SafeGuard is a unique valuation and security marking service designed to offer you the very best protection for your jewellery.
It may well be that a valuation of jewellery is required with a view to raising some extra cash. We are all very familiar with the many adverts that currently invite you to sell your old gold and any monies raised by this method will not be representative of the current retail value of the item in question. We suggest that you speak to your jeweler and see if they recommend a new valuation for your jewellery. […]. Reply. […] If you’ve taken some sensible steps (like photographing the items and having an up to date valuation), you may get an identical replacement but inevitably there’s a lot of heartache and stress […].
Your jewellery is carefully assessedand is then valued using current market research. After the appraisal you will receive a valuation certificate which contains a full description of your jewellery, including gram and carat weights, and a statement explaining the reason for the valuation and the intended market. Answer: It is important to have your jewellery reassessed every two or three years to ensure the valuation is current. Prices can fluctuate and insurance companies may request up-to-date information. The revaluation also notes any wear and tear and ensures you are not paying excessive premiums if prices decrease.
As a rule-of-thumb, for an insurance appraisal you can estimate 3/4 hour for the first item and 1/3 hour for each additional item, plus 1/3 to 1/2 hour laboratory time for each stone significant enough to require a certificate. There is a photo/image processing fee of $15 per item. 
People have many reasons to get jewelry appraised. You may choose to get jewelry appraised for liquidation, or you might want to determine the value of your jewelry for homeowner’s insurance or estate tax valuation. You might also need to value your jewelry if you are getting a divorce or valuing your jewelry as collateral. Ad. Tips. 1  Choose an appraiser who is not planning to buy your jewelry. 2  Clean your jewelry thoroughly before you submit it for appraisal. 3  Generally, you should have your jewelry appraised once every 3 to 5 years to ensure that you know its current value.
Valuation Days. Have your jewellery or watches independently valued in our showrooms. Your jewellery is precious and naturally you want to protect it. A professional valuation from Goldsmiths is invaluable for insurance and over the coming weeks, we’ll be hosting a number of valuation days in our showrooms. You’ll then be sent a professional SafeGuard valuation from The Birmingham Assay Office which can be used to prove the value of your jewellery to your insurer. Many jewellers charge a percentage of your jewellery’s value for this service, meaning you never know the cost until the valuation has been completed. At Goldsmiths we prefer to keep things straightforward and simple, charging £60 for the first item and £45 for each subsequent item valued
Many people are very cautious about obtaining a valuation of jewellery due to the perceived cost of the valuation. Costs do vary and it is worth seeking quotations from as many sources as you can from competent valuers before making your decision. We suggest that you speak to your jeweler and see if they recommend a new valuation for your jewellery. […]. Reply. […] If you’ve taken some sensible steps (like photographing the items and having an up to date valuation), you may get an identical replacement but inevitably there’s a lot of heartache and stress […].