1 The forensic nursing field is new. 2  Research schools to find out what programs they offer. 3  SANE programs developed across the country may be the oldest specialty in this field. 4  Check with local officials to find out what positions may be available. Apply to a college with a nationally accredited nursing program to be a registered nurse (RN). You must have your bachelor's degree in nursing to work in most areas of forensic nursing. 3. Take the National Council Licensure Examination upon graduating. You must pass this test to get your nursing license.
Overview. The path to becoming a Forensic Nurse will vary. Although Forensic Nursing is the fastest growing nursing subspecialty, nurses often need to spend significant time and effort to educate employers about the value of having a forensic nurse on staff. Most registered nurses find success in starting as a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner, or SANE. To become a SANE, registered nurses must take a Sexual Assault Examiner Class comprised of 40 hours of classroom training, followed by an average of 40 hours of clinical training.
The International Association of Forensic Nurses (IAFN) has developed a national written certification examination for the sexual assault nurse examiner. To become certified as a SANE-A, you must be a registered nurse (RN) for two years or more and meet all of the eligibility requirements. 
The road to becoming a forensic nurse is long, but with the proper knowledge and determination, you can become a licensed, certified forensic nurse. As a forensic nurse, you can help victims of violent crime, testify in court, and fulfill a host of other important duties. Back to How Do I Become…. High School Preparation. The first step in becoming a forensic nurse is to prepare yourself by taking the appropriate courses in high school. Make sure to take classes such as anatomy, biology, and other science and math courses to give you the head-start you need to enter college to become a nurse.
Forensic Nursing. Forensic nursing as a specialty began in 1992, when the IAFN was founded in Minneapolis. The founders, who worked primarily with victims of sexual assault, recognized a growing need for practicing nurses whose expertise could provide a bridge between medicine and law enforcement. Training. The starting point for a career in forensic nursing is becoming a registered nurse. This requires an associate or bachelor's degree, which takes two to four years, then passing the National Council Licensure Examination for RNs. The next step is formal training in forensics.
Tips. 1  The forensic nursing field is new. 2  Research schools to find out what programs they offer. 3  SANE programs developed across the country may be the oldest specialty in this field. 4  Check with local officials to find out what positions may be available. Apply to a college with a nationally accredited nursing program to be a registered nurse (RN). You must have your bachelor's degree in nursing to work in most areas of forensic nursing. 3. Take the National Council Licensure Examination upon graduating. You must pass this test to get your nursing license.
4. Earn a master's degree in forensic nursing to pursue careers in legal nurse consulting and sexual assault nursing. 1  Specialized training is needed to become a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) in most states. Apply to a college with a nationally accredited nursing program to be a registered nurse (RN). You must have your bachelor's degree in nursing to work in most areas of forensic nursing. 3. Take the National Council Licensure Examination upon graduating. You must pass this test to get your nursing license.