New research says reducing the amount of sitting to less than 3 hours a day can increase life expectancy by 2 years. Researchers from Louisiana State University and Harvard Medical School analysed data from five studies of nearly 167,000 people over 4 to 14 years.
1 Combating sitting disease with added gym-time may not work: most people don’t have time for MORE exercise, and more exercise time may not even reverse sitting disease. 2  Global studies show, on average, we sit 7.7 hours a day, and some results estimate people sit up to 15 hours a day. 3  Calculate your daily sitting time.
The average adult at rest inhales and exhales something like 7 or 8 liters (about one-fourth of a cubic foot) of air per minute. That totals something like 11,000 liters of ai … r (388 cubic feet) in a day.
In particular, the American Cancer Society study finds that women who sit for more than six hours a day were about 40% more likely to die during the course of the study than those who sat fewer than three hours per day. Men were about 20% more likely to die. That large study focused on the numbers of people who died.
Global studies show, on average, we sit 7.7 hours a day, and some results estimate people sit up to 15 hours a day. Calculate your daily sitting time. About Standing The obvious remedy to sitting disease is standing—while you compute or do any number of activities. Here are eight easy ways to stand more.
They say that the average person should walk 10000 steps a day. This would be about 5 Miles (8.1 km). However most people would only do 3 or 4. I do 7 or 8 miles a day but im … quite a walker. Id say on average about 4 or 5.
The results indicate that US life expectancy drops by 2 years when people sit for more than 3 hours a day, and another 1.4 years for watching TV more than 2 hours a day.
In total, Americans are sitting an average of 13 hours a day and sleeping an average of 8 hours resulting in a sedentary lifestyle of around 21 hours a day. While Americans know about the importance of exercise, only 31 percent go to the gym, and 56 percent devote less than $10 per month to staying active.