That's a bit of an odd question. From a chemical standpoint, you could not tell human from fruit DNA -- it's the same basic molecule, just with slightly different sequences of base pairs. From a genetic standpoint, humans and strawberries will share about 60% of their genes. Report Abuse. There are sequences in rice DNA which are the same as sequences in human DNA These sequences are just a few dozen base pairs long but they code for the parts of protein that are the most active. It is no surprise to find that these proteins in both rice and humans are involved in growth regulation
All living creatures on earth share some amount of DNA, including mammals, reptiles, fish, plants, sea sponges, bacteria, and viruses. Humans share much more DNA with mammals … than any other creature. And we share more DNA with lizards than we do fish. This is because mammals split off from the mammal-lizard common ancestor long after the fish-amphibian common ancestor. Humans share as much as 50% of genes with plants, so our relatedness to nuts is around this figure. Humans share very little with a potato. Chromosomes are a  collection of DNA woven around protein. A chromosome may contain as  many as 100,000 to billions of nucleotides in … one chain. Chimpanzee  and humans share a very SIMILAR DNA pattern, where as a potato and  a human being don't.
The structure of the double helix is somewhat like a ladder, with the base pairs forming the ladder’s rungs and the sugar and phosphate molecules forming the vertical sidepieces of the ladder. An important property of DNA is that it can replicate, or make copies of itself. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA).
The structure of DNA DNA forms chromosomes Humans have 46 chromosomes This basic structure of DNA is the same among all organisms, which means the only real difference between our DNA and the DNA of a banana, giraffe, or goldfish is the particular order in which the four nucleotides are arranged. DNA contains the genetic instructions that specify the traits of an organism. In our cells, DNA is found in the nucleus where it is organized into structures called chromosomes. All humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. One set of chromosomes comes from Mom and one set comes from Dad, for a total of 46
In fact, the actual structure of the DNA molecule and how it codes for proteins is the same from bacteria to yeast to plants and animals. The DNA molecule in plants, humans, and all living things are all the same shape -- like a twisted ladder, or a double helix. The backbone of the ladder is made up of sugar and phosphate molecules. Each rung of the ladder is made up of two bases that stick out from the backbone and pair in the middle (a base pair). The building blocks and shape of DNA molecules in humans, plants and every living thing is the same -- we all have the famous A, C, G, and T's. It's the order of these letters that makes us different
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: OK here is your answer DNA in all living things is made up of the same material.....4 nucleotides A,T,C,G. So essentially the answer to your question is YES, plants and animals have the same DNA. The difference is the arrangement of these nucleotides within a DNA strand. If you really want to know if humans and trees have the same genotype, that is, are they the same genetically then the answer is NO. Report Abuse. all dna are made out of same nucleotides its just that the genome is very similar between humans and trees have a very different genome from humans, different enough to be their own species.
As you probably already know, all of the cells in your body started from a single cell. That single cell then divided many, many times to turn into the 50 trillion or so cells that make up you. Almost all of the cells in your body share the same DNA as was found in that first cell*. 