1 An easy and painless procedure, an osteoporosis screening requires you to place your foot in an ultrasound device called a bone densitometer. 2  This device then measures the bone mineral density of your heel. 3  The heel is measured because its bone is similar to that found in the hip, where fractures most often occur. Osteoporosis Screening/Bone Density Test. Osteoporosis is a disease in which bone becomes extremely fragile. Bone is a complex living tissue that can be weakened by poor diet and lack of exercise.
Osteoporosis Screening Discussion. Your doctor’s first step in screening you for osteoporosis will be to find out about your risk for the disease: He will talk to you about your personal health history and any family history of osteoporosis. When you visit your doctor, you should be ready to answer these kinds of questions: This is a machine that measures the bone mineral density (BMD) of your spine and your hips. The DEXA test is brief and painless, and involves lying flat for a few minutes while a wand-shaped device takes readings of your BMD from above.
Bone Density Tests. Click for more information. The test used to diagnose osteoporosis is called a bone density test. This test is a measure of how strong -- or dense -- your bones are and can help your doctor predict your risk for having a fracture. Bone density tests are painless, safe, and require no preparation on your part. The most widely recognized bone density test is a DXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry) scan of the hip and spine. This test shows if you have normal bone density, low bone mass, or osteoporosis.
Bone mineral density (BMD) is related to bone strength. BMD testing is used to diagnose osteoporosis. BMD is measured with a test called a DXA scan. By measuring BMD, doctors can predict the risk of having a bone fracture. 1 Normal: Bones have a density that is healthy. 2  Low bone mass (medically termed osteopenia): Bones show the beginning of bone loss, but not enough to be osteoporosis. 3  Osteoporosis: Bones are weak and porous, and more likely to break.
The goals with testing are to determine whether a person has osteoporosis, has low bone mass and an increased risk of developing the disease, is menopausal and/or hormone-deficient, and/or has an underlying condition that may be causing or exacerbating bone loss. While the BMD test is used to identify low bone density that is indicative of osteoporosis and is non-invasive, a bone scan is a nuclear medicine test used to rule out other serious conditions of the bones. To perform this test, a radioactive tracer is injected into a vein in the arm.
Non-Laboratory Tests. The bone mineral density (BMD) test is the primary test used to identify osteoporosis and low bone mass. One of the preferred and most accurate ways to measure BMD is Dexa-Scan (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry or DXA). It uses a low energy X-ray to evaluate bone density in the hip and/or spine. While the BMD test is used to identify low bone density that is indicative of osteoporosis and is non-invasive, a bone scan is a nuclear medicine test used to rule out other serious conditions of the bones. To perform this test, a radioactive tracer is injected into a vein in the arm.
Screening for Osteoporosis. 1  An easy and painless procedure, an osteoporosis screening requires you to place your foot in an ultrasound device called a bone densitometer. 2  This device then measures the bone mineral density of your heel. Osteoporosis Screening/Bone Density Test. Osteoporosis is a disease in which bone becomes extremely fragile. Bone is a complex living tissue that can be weakened by poor diet and lack of exercise.
Almost 80% of bone density is determined by heredity, and 20% by lifestyle. Bone mineral density tests (BMD) shows how dense bones are and whether you have osteoporosis. The most common osteoporosis test is dual X-ray absorptiometry -- also called DXA or DEXA. It measures people’s spine, hip, or total body bone density to help gauge fracture risk. Read more.