Water build up in the bottom of the fridge is not only annoying but it can be a health hazard as well. While conditions in a refrigerator will keep temperatures down and bacterial growth to a minimum, it does not prevent it completely. Stagnant water at the base of the fridge can be a spot where bacteria will grow. 
So you're exactly correct If water is collecting in the bottom of your refrigerator, the issue is actually your drain inside the freezer. The drain line will back up and the water will drip down the back inside the refrigerator and collect under the crisper drawers when the freezer goes into defrost. You will need to remove everything out of your freezer and remove the back panel inside the freezer.
It is not common, but occasionally the drain pan at the bottom of the refrigerator can develop a crack that allows water to leak. It is normal for a small amount of water to accumulate in the drain pan, but it is not normal for it to escape the pan. A blocked defrost drain is one of the most common causes of water leaking from your refrigerator and is a good place to start troubleshooting. The small drain opening is easily blocked by food particles or ice, preventing water that accumulated during the defrost cycle from draining to the pan.
Water in the bottom of the refrigerator.... I own a Whirlpool Fridge/Freezer and for a little while now water continuously gathers in the bottom of the fridge. If you take off that cardboard, make sure you unplug the refrigerator 1st. There is also a small drain pan. The water that's in the pan comes from the drain inside your refrigerator. If the pan is dry and your getting water inside your refrigerator, check the drain tube.
Best Answer: All self defrosting refrigerators have a drain hole usually at the bottom of the fridge or somewhere on the back wall on the inside. Check your manual for the location. Usually when there is water on the bottom the drain hole is blocked by some sort of debris or frozen closed by an ice build-up. Check the drain hole for blockage and that should be your problem.
Your Maytag fridge has an automatic defrost system that melts the ice from the freezer coils. As the ice melts, it drips to the bottom of the freezer, exits through a drain and collects in a drain pan beneath the body of the refrigerator where the heat from the condenser and motor evaporates the water. 
Best Answer: The water that is collecting on the bottom is because of the humidity in the outside (outside the frig.) air. BUT, that water shouldn't be there. If you can get to the back of your refrigerator (on the outside), At the bottom there's a cardboard piece held in place by some sheet metal screws. If you take off that cardboard, make sure you unplug the refrigerator 1st. There is also a small drain pan. The water that's in the pan comes from the drain inside your refrigerator. If the pan is dry and your getting water inside your refrigerator, check the drain tube.
If your Maytag or Whirlpool bottom mount fridge is leaking water, it might have a blocked drain in the freezer section. The symptoms typically are periodic water on the floor in front of the fridge and a sheet of ice in the bottom of the freezer. 
Water usually collects under the bottom drawers of the fridge when it defrosts the freezer section. The water will run down the back of the fridge and lay in the bottom. There should be a small opening in the back corner for draining the water. Maybe the opening is blocked. Take your food from the freezer and put it in the fridge if you have room. If you have an ice maker you will have to remove it. Usually one screw holds it from the bottom and two from the top. Disconnect the wire harness and put the ice maker to the side.