Lipid-soluble means that something will dissolve in lipids. Generally, nonpolar molecules are lipid-soluble. Water-soluble means that something will dissolve in water. Generally, polar molecules dissolve in water. You can find the rest in your textbook. It is called the hydrophilic, or water-loving, portion of the lipid molecule. In contrast, the two tails of each lipid molecule are non-polar and water insoluble. They are composed of long-chain fatty acids which are hydrophobic, or water-hating, in nature.
Yes – because lipid-soluble molecules are considered hydrophilic b. Yes – because lipid-soluble molecules are considered hydrophobic c. No – because lipid-soluble molecules are considered hydrophilic d. No – because lipid-soluble molecules are considered hydrophobic 35. Facilitated diffusion c. Active transport 2. Molecule X is most likely: a. Lipid soluble and hydrophobic b. Lipid soluble and hydrophilic c. Lipid insoluble and hydrophobic d. Lipid insoluble and hydrophilic 3. A cell was placed in solution and the cell shrank. Thus, the solution was _________________ to the cell and the cell was _________________ to the solution
Report Abuse. HI!! Lipids are hydrophobic substances(hydrophobic means hate for water)'i.e. they are insoluble in water n almost every thing which is insoluble in water is soluble in non-polar solvents.So, lipids are also soluble in non-polar solvents such as:benzene, ether etc. Hope this helps. Source(s): Med student. Best Answer: lipids are soluble in nonpolar substances such as other lipds and fats and things, but are insoluble in polar substances like water..thats why oily stuff floats n water. Source(s): med student. olecranon · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Lipids are a group of naturally occurring molecules that include fats, waxes, sterols, fat-soluble vitamins (such as vitamins A, D, E, and K), monoglycerides, diglycerides, triglycerides, phospholipids, and others. Lipids may be broadly defined as hydrophobic or amphiphilic small molecules; the amphiphilic nature of some lipids allows them to form structures such as vesicles, multilamellar/ unilamellar liposomes, or membranes in an aqueous environment.
1. Lipid solubility: measured by octanol:water partition coefficient in a separatory funnel..... Lipid solubility of a compound is commonly measured by adding it to a mixture of water (polar, hydrophilic phase) and octanol (non-polar, hydrophobic phase) in a separatory funnel. 
Substances that are lipid soluble can pass right through the cell membrane, while those that are water soluble have a tougher time. Let's look at these types of diffusion from the cell's point of view. Lipid-soluble (or fat-soluble) substances include oxygen, carbon dioxide, fatty acids, and some steroid hormones. These molecules can diffuse right through the membrane's lipid bilayer and are not stopped by the hydrophobic fatty acid chains.
The greater the lipid solubility, the more readily a molecule will pass through the membrane, i.e., the greater will be the flux for a given concentration difference Water soluble, lipid-insoluble substances by definition cannot pass through membranes by dissolving in the lipids. It is called the hydrophilic, or water-loving, portion of the lipid molecule. In contrast, the two tails of each lipid molecule are non-polar and water insoluble. They are composed of long-chain fatty acids which are hydrophobic, or water-hating, in nature.
Photo by: Magdalena Żurawska. Lipids are a class of biomolecules that is defined by their solubility in organic solvents, such as chloroform, and their relative insolubility in water. Interactions among lipids and of lipids with other biomolecules arise largely from their hydrophobic (water-hating) nature. Lipids can be divided into two main categories according to their structures: those that are based on fatty acids, and those that are based on isoprene, a branched, five-carbon chain.
LIPIDS Each lipid molecule has a polar head and two non-polar tails. The polarity in the head results from the molecular interaction between the oppositely charged phosphate and nitrogen groups. The resulting dipole makes this part of of the molecule polar and, therefore, water soluble. It is called the hydrophilic, or water-loving, portion of the lipid molecule. In contrast, the two tails of each lipid molecule are non-polar and water insoluble. They are composed of long-chain fatty acids which are hydrophobic, or water-hating, in nature.