Lucian is an unusual given name for males but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#60230 out of 150436, Top 40%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Lucian for boys. Lucian reached its peak position of #371 in the U.S. in the 1880s, and is presently at #608. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the boy name Lucian and affiliated names. Luke (#28 last year) , Luciano (#568) , Lucien and Lucius are the prominent variation forms of Lucian (#608 last year) rated in the Top 1000.
Lucian is a sleeker, more sophisticated version of Lucius that is climbing in tandem with other Lu-starting names, now ranking at Number 608 in the USA and 111 on Nameberry. 
Origin of the name Lucia: Feminine form of Lucius, which is derived from the Latin lux (light). The name was borne by St. Lucia of Syracuse, a 4th-century martyr whose popularity during the Middle Ages led to widespread use of the name. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Latin Meaning: The name Lucia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lucia is: Light. American Meaning: The name Lucia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lucia is: Light. Italian Meaning: The name Lucia is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Lucia is: Graceful Light. Italian. Famous bearer: St Lucia was a virgin martyr who died in the 4th century.
Personal experiences with the name Lucian: | Edit. We named our son Lucian. The reaction to his name is usually favorable especially when they meet him. My son is also named Lucian. The name means light and is a perfect fit for his cheerful and bright demeanor. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Lucian. The name Lucian comes from an Old Roman family name Lucianus which it turn comes from Lucius, an ancient personal name derived from the Latin word “lux” meaning “light” or “to shine”.
Feminine form of LUCIUS. Saint Lucia was a 4th-century martyr from Syracuse. She was said to have had her eyes gouged out, and thus is the patron saint of the blind. She was widely revered in the Middle Ages, and her name has been used throughout Christian Europe (in various spellings). 
Lucian /lu-cian/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced LOO-shun. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Lucian is light. Variant of Lucius. Saint Lucian of Antioch (fourth century) was a noted scholar. Artist Lucian Freud; opera celebrity Luciano Pavarotti. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the boy name Lucian and affiliated names. Luke (#28 last year) , Luciano (#568) , Lucien and Lucius are the prominent variation forms of Lucian (#608 last year) rated in the Top 1000.
French Meaning: The name Lucian is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Lucian is: Form of Luke. 'Light; illumination. American Meaning: The name Lucian is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lucian is: Form of Luke. 'Light; illumination. Latin Meaning: The name Lucian is a Latin baby name.
Lucien /lu-cien/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Latin and Greek derivation, and the name Lucien means light; from Lucanus. Lucien is a version of Lucian (Latin): form of Lucius. Lucien is also a variant of Luke (Greek). Kreatif forms: Lacien, Lecien, Leycien. 