Mantoux Test. The Mantoux skin test is given by using a needle and syringe to inject 0.1 ml of 5 tuberculin units of liquid tuberculin between the layers of the skin (intradermally), usually on the forearm (Figure 1). A tuberculin unit is a standard strength of tuberculin. The tuberculin used in the Mantoux skin test is also known as purified protein derivative, or PPD. For this reason, the tuberculin skin test is sometimes called a PPD skin test. With the Mantoux skin test, the patient's arm is examined 48 to 72 hours after the tuberculin is injected. Most people with TB infection have a positive reaction to the tuberculin. Whether a reaction to the Mantoux tuberculin skin test is classified as positive depends on the size of the induration and the person's risk factors for TB (see Table 1). An induration of 5 or more millimeters is considered a positive reaction for the following people:
Mantoux tuberculin skin test An intracutaneous test used to diagnose TB based on hypersensitivity to tuberculin, a concentrate of TB antigen, the standard preparation of which is PPD–purified protein derivative. See PPD, Tuberculin test, Tuberculosis. a tuberculin skin test in which a solution of 0.1 mL of PPD-tuberculin containing 5 tuberculin units is injected intradermally into either the anterior or posterior surface of the forearm. The test is read 48 to 72 hours after injection.
The Mantoux skin test is given by using a needle and syringe to inject 0.1 ml of 5 tuberculin units of liquid tuberculin between the layers of the skin (intradermally), usually on the forearm (Figure 1). Whether a reaction to the Mantoux tuberculin skin test is classified as positive depends on the size of the induration and the person's risk factors for TB (see Table 1). An induration of 5 or more millimeters is considered a positive reaction for the following people:
Mantoux test. a tuberculin skin test in which a solution of 0.1 mL of PPD-tuberculin containing 5 tuberculin units is injected intradermally into either the anterior or posterior surface of the forearm. The test is read 48 to 72 hours after injection.
1 The TB skin test, also known as the Mantoux test, tells if your body has been exposed to the TB germ. 2  The nurse will inject a small amount of fluid just under the skin of the left forearm. 3  You will see a little bubble or blister appear right away at the injection site. 4  This is normal and it will soon disappear. TB Skin Test (Mantoux Test). 1 
Guide. A tuberculin skin test (also called a Mantoux tuberculin test) is done to see if you have ever been exposed to tuberculosis (TB). The test is done by putting a small amount of TB protein (antigens) under the top layer of skin on your inner forearm. If you have ever been exposed to the TB bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis), your skin will react to the antigens by developing a firm red bump at the site within 2 days. The TB antigens used in a tuberculin skin test are called purified protein derivative (PPD). A measured amount of PPD in a shot is put under the top layer of skin on your forearm.
The Mantoux skin test consists of an intradermal injection of one-tenth of a milliliter (ml) of PPD tuberculin. The size of induration is measured 48–72 hours later. Tuberculin is a glycerol extract of the tubercle bacillus. Purified protein derivative (PPD) tuberculin is a precipitate of species-nonspecific molecules obtained from filtrates of sterilized, concentrated cultures.
The Mantoux test or Mendel-Mantoux test (also known as the Mantoux screening test, tuberculin sensitivity test, Pirquet test, or PPD test for purified protein derivative) is a screening tool for tuberculosis (TB) . Tuberculin is a glycerol extract of the tubercle bacillus. Purified protein derivative (PPD) tuberculin is a precipitate of species-nonspecific molecules obtained from filtrates of sterilized, concentrated cultures.
The Mantoux tuberculin skin test (TST) is the standard method of determining whether a person is infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Reliable administration and reading of the TST requires standardization of procedures, training, supervision, and practice. 