Summary: 1.Rural, suburban, and urban are three different ways of explaining a geographic area based on the population that live there. 2.Rural areas are open and spread out. This is countryside where farming and natural resources are predominantly used for family income.
Rural areas are referred to as open and spread out country where there is a small population. Rural areas are typically found in areas where the population is self-sustaining off of natural resources of the land, or they work in coal, copper, and oil. Suburban areas are references to areas where there are residences. 1.Rural, suburban, and urban are three different ways of explaining a geographic area based on the population that live there. 2.Rural areas are open and spread out. This is countryside where farming and natural resources are predominantly used for family income.
Rural areas are the least populated areas. Suburban areas have a larger population than rural areas; however, urban areas have a larger population than both. These three living areas are very different from one another and are a great way to explain a geographic city or town you are unfamiliar with. 1.Rural, suburban, and urban are three different ways of explaining a geographic area based on the population that live there. 2.Rural areas are open and spread out. This is countryside where farming and natural resources are predominantly used for family income.
Dictionary Definition: Urban-of city: relating to or belonging to a city. Suburban-relating to suburb: relating to, belonging to, or located in a suburb. Rural-outside city: found in or living in the country. Not all agencies use the exact same population break downs or terms (exam. some may use Metropolitan Areas). Furthermore, agencies who use Rural, Urban, and Suburban data, sometimes define the boundaries different than other agencies.
Urban-of city: relating to or belonging to a city Suburban-relating to suburb: relating to, belonging to, or located in a suburb Rural-outside city: found in or living in the country. In reality tho, the settings are not always so set in stone based on the technical definitions. Not all agencies use the exact same population break downs or terms (exam. some may use Metropolitan Areas). Furthermore, agencies who use Rural, Urban, and Suburban data, sometimes define the boundaries different than other agencies.
In this study, the methodology used to explore differences between urban, suburban, and rural students and schools incorporates a control for the concentration of poverty in the school. 
In the Australian region, suburban can also refer to a residential area, which is more or less a subdivision of the city. This scheme is devised for better postal servicing. Lastly, other population and statistics experts commonly agree that suburban areas are places outside the inner, or main, city. Nevertheless, it is important to know that the meaning of an urbanized or suburban territory may be differently perceived among the various countries. Generally, suburban areas (also known as suburbs), pertain to residential districts.
1. Urban areas have a bigger population density compared to suburban areas. 2. Urban areas usually include the inner, or main city, whereas suburban areas are those that are just adjacent to the city, or surround the city. 3. Urban areas are more congested in terms of people and establishments compared to suburban territories. Nevertheless, it is important to know that the meaning of an urbanized or suburban territory may be differently perceived among the various countries. Generally, suburban areas (also known as suburbs), pertain to residential districts.
Urban means to do with a town or city. Rural means to do with the countryside. Rural Urban Suburban are also general designations given by the US government agencies (ofte … n used for determining grants and tax incentives). Not all agencies use the exact same population break downs or terms (exam. some may use Metropolitan Areas). In an urban area, it is like a cluster of homes and people, whereas the rural area is more of the out in the country sort. For example, you may have a small yard in the urban … setting, but own a large yard or even many acres in the rural areas. 19 people found this useful.
I get the difference between urban and rural, obviously, but what are the differences between urban and suburban and suburban and rural? Do different people's description often differ? Not all agencies use the exact same population break downs or terms (exam. some may use Metropolitan Areas). Furthermore, agencies who use Rural, Urban, and Suburban data, sometimes define the boundaries different than other agencies.