The Spotted Turtle is a scavenging omnivore that feeds on a variety of plant and animal life. Its diet is known to include aquatic plants, cranberries, tadpoles, salamander larvae, earthworms and numerous species of aquatic invertebrates including crayfish and snails. Prey is typically consumed underwater. Many Spotted Turtle populations have become isolated or have declined or disappeared due to habitat loss, road mortality and adverse impacts to wetlands. Fortunately, the species is now protected from collection (or collection is regulated) in the states in which it occurs.
The ecosystem of a turtle varies upon which specific species you are referring to. Most turtles, however, prefer being in places that they can bask in the sun in, and that are near constant bodies of water.h. INTERACTIONS & ENERGY / 1. | The coral reef ecosystem is a diverse collection of species that interact with each other and the physical environment. The sun is the initial so … urce of energy for this ecosystem. Through photosynthesis, phytoplankton, algae, and other plants convert light energy into chemical energy.
Aptly-named, the blackish carapace (upper shell) of this species is dotted with small round yellow spots. Adult turtles may have from a dozen or so to well over 100 individual spots. Interestingly, the spots are actually transparent windows in the scutes that overlay yellow pigment deposits. Many Spotted Turtle populations have become isolated or have declined or disappeared due to habitat loss, road mortality and adverse impacts to wetlands. Fortunately, the species is now protected from collection (or collection is regulated) in the states in which it occurs.
The spotted turtle is a small semi-aquatic species known for the bright yellow spots that dot its dark shell. The species is listed as threatened in several states and endangered on the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) Red List of Threatened Species. 1 The spotted turtle is listed as threatened in several states and endangered on the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) Red List of Threatened Species. 2  Spotted turtles are very sensitive to pollution and disappear rapidly with declining water quality.
Much can be learned about the condition of the planet's environment by looking at sea turtles. They have existed for over 100 million years, and they travel throughout the world's oceans. Suddenly, however, they are struggling to survive -- largely because of things people are doing to the planet's oceans and beaches. Major ecological effects of sea turtle extinction. 1. Sea turtles, especially green sea turtles, are one of the very few animals to eat sea grass. Like normal lawn grass, sea grass needs to be constantly cut short to be healthy and help it grow across the sea floor rather than just getting longer grass blades.
An ecosystem is an area that can produce nutrients and sustain life. Ecosystems can be any size, from the vast rainforest of the Amazon to a small woodland area or a tiny po … nd perhaps at the bottom of a garden. There are also different types of ecosystem. INTERACTIONS & ENERGY / 1. | The coral reef ecosystem is a diverse collection of species that interact with each other and the physical environment. The sun is the initial so … urce of energy for this ecosystem. Through photosynthesis, phytoplankton, algae, and other plants convert light energy into chemical energy.
Due to the wide range of areas that sea turtles move in their life they can contribute to the ecosystem by moving carbon to deeper ocean areas through the carbon cycle. 
The spotted turtle's range overlaps that of many other turtles. It can often be found in the same wetlands as wood turtles, bog turtles, snapping turtles, painted turtles, Blanding's turtles, eastern box turtles, common musk turtles, and eastern mud turtles. The spotted turtle is the only species in the genus Clemmys, which was first named in 1828 by Ferdinand August Maria Franz von Ritgen. Johann Gottlob Schneider originally described the species as Testudo guttatai in 1792; however, he is now the authority for the current binomial name, Clemmys guttata.
The spotted turtle (Clemmys guttata), the only extant species of Clemmys, is a small, semi-aquatic turtle that reaches a carapace length of 8–12 cm (3.1–4.7 in) upon adulthood. The spotted turtle is the only species in the genus Clemmys, which was first named in 1828 by Ferdinand August Maria Franz von Ritgen. Johann Gottlob Schneider originally described the species as Testudo guttatai in 1792; however, he is now the authority for the current binomial name, Clemmys guttata.