Another type, temperate coniferous forests, grows in lower latitudes of North America, Europe, and Asia, in the high elevations of mountains. Coniferous forests consist mostly of conifers, trees that grow needles instead of leaves, and cones instead of flowers. Conifers tend to be evergreen, that is, they bear needles all year long.
LOCATION: Taiga, also known as coniferous or boreal forest, is the largest terrestrial biome on earth. It extends in a broad band across North America, Europe, and Asia to the southern border of the arctic tundra. 
Temperate Coniferous Forest. Temperate evergreen forests are found predominantly in areas with warm summers and cool winters, and vary enormously in their kinds of plant life. In some, needleleaf trees dominate, while others are home primarily to broadleaf evergreen trees or a mix of both tree types. Temperate evergreen forests are common in the coastal areas of regions that have mild winters and heavy rainfall, or inland in drier climates or montane areas. Many species of trees inhabit these forests including pine, cedar, fir, and redwood. The understory also contains a wide variety of herbaceous and shrub species.
Coniferous Forest Coniferous forests are home to the world's toughest trees. The evergreen trees in these forests live through extreme weather conditions. Coniferous forest types include the huge boreal forests in the northern hemisphere and the much smaller temperate rain forests, such as America's Pacific Northwest. A large number of animal species make their home in coniferous forests.
Some of the more common conifers are spruces, pines, and firs. Precipitation in coniferous forests varies from 300 to 900 mm annually, with some temperate coniferous forests receiving up to 2,000 mm. The amount of precipitation depends on the forest location. In the northern boreal forests, the winters are long, cold and dry, while the short summers are moderately warm and moist. Coniferous forests consist mostly of conifers, trees that grow needles instead of leaves, and cones instead of flowers. Conifers tend to be evergreen, that is, they bear needles all year long.
By Filip Tkaczyk. Coniferous forest plants are a unique and beautiful part of our world's biodiversity. They provide food, medicine, wildlife habitat, and materials for tools, clothing, shelter, and more. There are many different kinds of forest plants that make up the complex layers of life in the Pacific Northwest. This is one of the more common coniferous forest plants, often showing up in open areas along trails and forest edges. Flowers: The flowers are 5-petaled, white and crinkled, up to about 4 cm across. Fruits: A dome-shaped, raspberry-like fruit.
In most temperate coniferous forests, evergreen conifers predominate, while some are a mix of conifers and broadleaf evergreen trees and/or broadleaf deciduous trees. A pine forest is an example of a temperate coniferous forest. Map of temperate coniferous forest ecoregions of the world. Temperate coniferous forest is a terrestrial biome found in temperate regions of the world with warm summers and cool winters and adequate rainfall to sustain a forest.
Coniferous forests are made up mainly of cone-bearing or coniferous trees, such as spruces, hemlocks, pines and firs. The leaves of these trees are either small and needle-like or scale-like and most stay green all year around (evergreen). All are softwoods able to survive cold termperatures and acidic soil. Larches are one example of a coniferous tree found in some of the coldest regions. Unusually for coniferous trees they are deciduous, that is they shed their leaves in winter. Coniferous trees such as cypresses, cedars and redwoods are found in warmer regions.
A coniferous forest contains evergreen trees that bear cones. Elegant pines grow in this biome, along with spruce, fir, and tamarack. In much of the northern forest, the conifers mingle with deciduous trees, particularly aspen, birch, sugar maple, and basswood. Foundations of today's coniferous forest. The coniferous forest in Minnesota is found in the northern half of the state, but grades into deciduous forest then tallgrass aspen parkland in the northwest. Logging, fire, and development have altered the coniferous forest biome in the past 200 years, yet there are still some untouched conifers existing today.
Location. Most coniferous trees grow in the northern hemisphere where they form forests, which are called taiga or boreal forests. These trees grow wild across many areas in North America, Europe and Asia. Some conifers grow in the Southern Hemisphere in places such New Zealand and Chile. 