Elephantiasis, is a parasitic infection due to filaria worms--a type of nematode. Mosquitoes are the vector that carries the parasite. They must bite a person and inject the w … orm and bacteria in the worm which causes an immune response in the host. It is a tropical disease. Typical symptoms associated with pneumonia include cough, chest pain, fever, and difficulty in breathing. Diagnostic tools include x-rays and examination of the sputum. Treatment depends on the cause of pneumonia; bacterial pneumonia is treated with antibiotics.
Influenza is the most common respiratory virus resulting in CAP. Influenza infection also predisposes to subsequent development of bacterial CAP, referred to as post-influenza pneumonia. Hemophilus and Moraxella are common pathogens, particularly in patients with COPD or intrinsic lung disease. Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Pneumococcus, continues to be responsible for 20 to 50 percent of CAP, and is the single most common pathogen causing CAP. Mycoplasma, Chlamydophila, and Legionella, collectively known as the atypical CAP pathogens, cause 20 - 30% of CAP.
1 Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. 2  Pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniaeMycoplasma pneumoniae is sometimes mild and called  walking pneumonia 3  .. Viruses, such as influenza A (the flu virus) and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) can cause pneumonia. Viruses, bacteria, a fungus, or (in rare cases) parasites or other organisms can cause pneumonia. 1  In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae
Chest X-rays can be used to determine if infection is present in your lungs. However, chest X-rays won’t show your type of pneumonia. Blood tests can provide a better picture of the type of pneumonia. Also, blood tests are necessary to see if the infection is in your bloodstream. The infection may be caused by fungi, bacteria, or viruses. Pneumonia causes inflammation in your lung’s air sacs, also referred to as alveoli. The alveoli fill with fluid or pus, making it difficult to breathe.
Pneumonia is an infection in one or both lungs. The infection may be caused by fungi, bacteria, or viruses. Pneumonia causes inflammation in your lung’s air sacs, also referred to as alveoli. The alveoli fill with fluid or pus, making it difficult to breathe.
CAP is the most common type of pneumonia. The most common causes of CAP vary depending on a person's age, but they include Streptococcus pneumoniae, viruses, the atypical bacteria, and Haemophilus influenzae. Overall, Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia worldwide. Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a highly contagious and deadly type of pneumonia which first occurred in 2002 after initial outbreaks in China. SARS is caused by the SARS coronavirus, a previously unknown pathogen.
Causes and Types of Pneumonia. Pneumonia can be caused by viruses, bacteria, and fungi. In the United States, common causes of viral pneumonia are influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and a common cause of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus).
Pneumonia is a type of lung infection, caused by a virus or bacteria. Symptoms may be difficult breathing with pain that runs through the chest on inhalation, cough, headache … and fever. It is characterized by the collection of fluid in the lung tissues. 
1 In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 3  Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. Viruses, bacteria, a fungus, or (in rare cases) parasites or other organisms can cause pneumonia. 1  In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae