Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: deluge (Noun). A great flood or rain. The deluge continued for hours, drenching the land and slowing traffic to a halt. deluge (Noun). An overwhelming amount of something. The rock concert was a deluge of sound. deluge (Verb). To flood with water. 
Definition Edit. The data deluge refers to the situation where the sheer volume of new data being generated is overwhelming the capacity of institutions to manage it and researchers to make use of it. The ability to generate vast quantities of data is outpacing the development of infrastructures and tools adequate to support data-driven 21st century science and technology.
The noun DELUGE has 3 senses: 1. an overwhelming number or amount. 2. a heavy rain. 3. the rising of a body of water and its overflowing onto normally dry land. Familiarity information: DELUGE used as a noun is uncommon. • DELUGE (verb). The verb DELUGE has 3 senses: 1. fill quickly beyond capacity; as with a liquid. 2. charge someone with too many tasks. 3. fill or cover completely, usually with water. Familiarity information: DELUGE used as a verb is uncommon. Hypernyms (deluge is a kind of...): geological phenomenon (a natural phenomenon involving the structure or composition of the earth). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of deluge): debacle (flooding caused by a tumultuous breakup of ice in a river during the spring or summer). flash flood; flashflood (a sudden local flood of great volume and short duration)
: a large amount of rain that suddenly falls in an area. : a situation in which a large area of land becomes completely covered with water. : a large amount of things that come at the same time. 
A deluge fire sprinkler system, unlike most ordinary systems, mean that the sprinkler heads do not have individual heat-sensitive valves. The sprinkler heads in a deluge syste … m have no valves of their own, meaning they are always open and water will be sprayed out of them when the supply valve is turned on. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Scarlet Deluge means a red flood (basically blood) The Scarlet Deluge means a red flood (basically it means alot of blood).
A big or large amount of something. i.e-in came the deluge of people. Delugein French is Flood in English-a LOT of water coming down! 1 fill quickly beyond capacity; as with a liquid; the basement was inundated after the storm; The images flooded his mind. 2  flood: an overwhelming number or amount; a flood of requests; a torrent of abuse. 3  overwhelm: charge someone with too many tasks.
A deluge fire sprinkler system, unlike most ordinary systems, mean that the sprinkler heads do not have individual heat-sensitive valves. 1 fill quickly beyond capacity; as with a liquid; the basement was inundated after the storm; The images flooded his mind. 2  flood: an overwhelming number or amount; a flood of requests; a torrent of abuse. 3  overwhelm: charge someone with too many tasks.
Synonyms. 1  And then the heavens opened, releasing a deluge of heavy rain that had all three of us scrambling to be the first back in the house. 2  The game ended in a deluge of rain and sleet but to the credit of both teams they continued to play positive football to the end. 1.1 (the Deluge) The biblical Flood (recorded in Genesis 6-8): the world appeared to be emerging still from the waters of the Deluge. More example sentences. 1  A proper interpretation of the rocks arid fossils speaks of a global, dynamic, watery catastrophe: the biblical Deluge.