Mussels are high in sodium, so you should consume them in moderation. Each 6-ounce serving contains 627 milligrams of sodium, which is 42 percent of your daily limit for sodium. Pay close attention to your sodium intake on the days you eat mussels, and avoid sodium-laden foods, such as processed and fast foods. 
The common name mussel is also used for many freshwater bivalves, including the freshwater pearl mussels. Freshwater mussel species inhabit lakes, ponds, rivers, creeks, canals, and they are classified in a different subclass of bivalves, despite some very superficial similarities in appearance. In Cantonese cuisine, mussels are cooked in a broth of garlic and fermented black bean. In New Zealand, they are served in a chili or garlic-based vinaigrette, processed into fritters and fried, or used as the base for a chowder. In India, mussels are popular in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka-Bhatkal, and Goa.
The word mussel is most frequently used to mean the edible bivalves of the marine family Mytilidae, most of which live on exposed shores in the intertidal zone, attached by means of their strong byssal threads (beard) to a firm substrate. In Cantonese cuisine, mussels are cooked in a broth of garlic and fermented black bean. In New Zealand, they are served in a chili or garlic-based vinaigrette, processed into fritters and fried, or used as the base for a chowder. In India, mussels are popular in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka-Bhatkal, and Goa.
The Nutrition of Mussels. Mussels are mollusks found in fresh water and salt water habitats. They are longer and more elongated that other types of edible mollusks like clams. They are frequently found attached and clumped together on wave-washed rocks. To reach market size it takes mussels over a year to grow. Health Benefits of Mussels. 1  Mussels contain lots of vitamin B12. 2  Manganese is also found in large amounts in mussels. 3  Mussels are also a good source of iron and of vitamin c, which helps your body better absorb the iron. 4  Mussels are considered a high quality/complete protein, scoring 106 on the Amino Acid protein quality scale.
Mussels are molluscs with two hinged shells (bivalves) which filter their food from the surrounding water. Mussels can be found attached to gravel, seawall, and rocks in intertidal and subtidal coastal areas. A healthy mussel whose shell is open should close when gently tapped. If the shell is broken or the meat is dry, the mussel should be discarded. Beard, clumps of dark threads attached to the shells, are normal and are used to anchor mussels to rocks and other materials.
To clean mussels, scrub in plenty of cold water to remove barnacles or sand. Discard any that float to the top. Give any open mussels a sharp tap with a knife and discard any that fail to close (they are dead). Remove the 'beard' - a fibrous clump of hairs that sprouts from the shell-by giving it a sharp tug towards the hinge end of the mussel. Place cleaned mussels in a fresh bowl of cold water until ready to use.
Eating More Mussels. Perhaps the simplest ways to prepare mussels is by steaming or boiling -- these cooking methods allow you to easily monitor the cooking progress to avoid overcooking and also offer a reduced-fat cooking option since they do not call for the addition of oil. Enjoy mussels as a source of protein. Mussels, a type of saltwater or freshwater mollusk, count as protein foods under the United States Department of Agriculture ChooseMyPlate nutritional guidelines. Consuming mussels helps you get the 5 to 6.5 ounces of protein foods recommended daily.
Remove the mussels from the shells and add the meat to pasta sauce or a tossed green salad. Add mussels to a seafood or vegetable soup recipe. Make an entire meal at one time. Place mussels on a large piece of aluminum foil and scatter fresh tomatoes, onions and mushrooms around the seafood. 
1 Mussels are also a good source of iron and of vitamin c, which helps your body better absorb the iron. 2  Iron is an essential part of hemoglobin, and helps support healthy immune function. 3  Mussels are considered a high quality/complete protein, scoring 106 on the Amino Acid protein quality scale. Health Benefits of Mussels. 1  Mussels contain lots of vitamin B12. 2  Manganese is also found in large amounts in mussels. 3  Mussels are also a good source of iron and of vitamin c, which helps your body better absorb the iron. 4
Directions. To clean the mussels, put them in a large bowl with 2 quarts of water and the flour and soak for 30 minutes, or until the mussels disgorge any sand. Drain the mussels, then remove the  beard  from each with your fingers. If they're dirty, scrub the mussels with a brush under running water. 