Wayfair Jobs. Wayfair is an ecommerce leader in the home furnishings market, boasting sales of over $600 million in 2012. Behind the scenes of their large-scale operation, big data has been integral in helping to drive their growth. Notably, BI, data science, and data technology have given the company sophisticated capability to wrangle and learn from data, to make smarter decisions in building the company.
Courtesy | Wayfair. While a spokesman for Wayfair declined to comment, a regulatory filing on Friday made clear that the co-founders elected to have their salaries reduced. Those salaries, however, don't include the value realized from prior-year equity awards, which was reported to be $885,403 for each last year. Conine and Shah each have a 28.9 percent stake in the company valued at about $636 million apiece. For 2013, Shah and Conine reported total compensation of $3.6 million, which included the higher salary and $3.1 million in stock awards.
With an unparalleled selection of more than seven million home items from 7,000 suppliers, Wayfair helps people find the... 23 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Wayfair jobs in Boston, MA-Boston jobs. 2  Salary Search: Account Executive salaries in Boston, MA. 1 View all Wayfair jobs in Boston, MA-Boston jobs. 2  Salary Search: Sales Service Consultant salaries in Boston, MA. 3  Learn more about working at Wayfair. 4  Related forums: Boston, Massachusetts-Wayfair - -.
We are the group who makes sure the fun, hardworking, and innovative culture of Wayfair are constants in the work lives of everyone who works here, from category management to the warehouse, from facilities to brand architects, from Boston to London to Sydney. A visit to Wayfair’s office will show that we function in a very team-oriented environment. Employees have ample opportunity to participate in activities outside of the office. Whether it’s for a charitable cause or just a night out to dinner, Wayfair employees know the balance between work and play. Our Core Values.
Wayfair Salary. Wayfair average salary is $67,489, median salary is $59,322 with a salary range from $54,288 to $104,728. Wayfair salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Wayfair salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
Courtesy | Wayfair. Wayfair, the Boston-based online home furnishings retailer, may have generated more than $1 billion in sales last year, but its CEO took home only $80,000 in base salary. Conine and Shah each have a 28.9 percent stake in the company valued at about $636 million apiece. For 2013, Shah and Conine reported total compensation of $3.6 million, which included the higher salary and $3.1 million in stock awards.
$71,386. The heat map shows the distribution of Wayfair LLC H-1B job locations for all occupations in 2014. If you click on the All Occupations drop down, you can choose a specific occupation to see the geographical distribution for that particular SOC code. Wayfair Inc. engages in the e-commerce business. It offers bedroom, living room, kitchen and dining, home entertainment, home office, game room and bar, patio, hallway and entryway, and bathroom furniture.
With an unparalleled selection of more than seven million home items from 7,000 suppliers, Wayfair helps people find the... 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Wayfair jobs in Boston, MA-Boston jobs. 2  Salary Search: Analyst salaries in Boston, MA. 1 View all Wayfair jobs in Boston, MA-Boston jobs. 2  Salary Search: Sales Service Consultant salaries in Boston, MA. 3  Learn more about working at Wayfair. 4  Related forums: Boston, Massachusetts-Wayfair - -.