A left anterior fascicular block occurs when there is an interruption of electrical impulses in the heart. A left anterior fascicular block is commonly associated with a heart attack. LAFB patients should not drink or smoke. A left anterior fascicular block is the medical name given to scarring or other blockage that causes portions of the heart’s left ventricle to shrink or constrict. A left anterior fascicular block will be easily recognized using an ECG. A left anterior fascicular block (LAFB)
Background. 1  In left anterior fascicular block (aka left anterior hemiblock), impulses are conducted to the left ventricle via the left posterior fascicle, which inserts into the infero-septal wall of the left ventricle along its endocardial surface. Left Anterior Fascicular Block. In left anterior fascicular block (aka left anterior hemiblock), impulses are conducted to the left ventricle via the left posterior fascicle, which inserts into the infero-septal wall of the left ventricle along its endocardial surface.
fascicular block, left posterior heart block characterized by delay or interruption of impulse conduction in the posterior inferior division of the left bundle branch, resulting in asynchronous activation of the left ventricle. fascicular block, left anterior heart block characterized by delay or interruption of impulse conduction in the anterior superior division of the left bundle branch, resulting in asynchronous activation of the left ventricle.
Background. 1  In left posterior fascicular block (aka left posterior hemiblock), impulses are conducted to the left ventricle via the left anterior fascicle, which inserts into the upper, lateral wall of the left ventricle along its endocardial surface. Left Posterior Fascicular Block. In left posterior fascicular block (aka left posterior hemiblock), impulses are conducted to the left ventricle via the left anterior fascicle, which inserts into the upper, lateral wall of the left ventricle along its endocardial surface.
Left anterior fascicular block, sometimes abbreviated LAFB, is a cardiac condition, distinguished from left bundle branch block. It is caused by only the anterior half of the left bundle branch being defective. It is manifested on the ECG by left axis deviation. Normal activation of the left ventricle proceeds down the left bundle branch, which consist of three fascicles, the left anterior fascicle, the left posterior fascicle, and the septal fascicle.
The talk page may contain suggestions. (September 2015). A left posterior fascicular block (LPFB) is a condition where the left posterior fascicle, which travels to the inferior and posterior portion of the left ventricle, does not conduct the electrical impulses from the atrioventricular node. 
When blockage is in the anterior fascicle, left anterior hemiblock (or left anterior fascicular block) is said to be present; whereas if the blockage occurs in the posterior fascicle, then left posterior hemiblock (or left posterior fascicular block) is said to be present. 