Atelectasis is a condition of the lung that decreases the deep breathing capability of a person. The entire lung, or a part of it, becomes airless and collapses. Atelectasis is not life-threatening to adults, because normally, only a small part of the lung is affected by it. No doubt, if all the alveoli in the lung have been affected, then it can cause a very severe health problem. Also, if a small part of the lung is affected by atelectasis and it continues to remain untreated, then the alveoli may collapse, which would again result in a serious lung infection.
Lung atelectasis refers to collapse or incomplete expansion of pulmonary parenchyma. Note that the term atelectasis is typically used when there is partial collapse, whereas the term  collapsed lung  is typically reserved for when the entire lung is totally collapsed.
Definition. Atelectasis (at-uh-LEK-tuh-sis) — a complete or partial collapse of a lung or lobe of a lung — develops when the tiny air sacs (alveoli) within the lung become deflated. It's a breathing (respiratory) complication after surgery. Atelectasis is also a possible complication of other respiratory problems, including cystic fibrosis, inhaled foreign objects, lung tumors, fluid in the lung, respiratory weakness and chest injuries. The amount of lung tissue involved in atelectasis is variable, depending on the cause. 
Atelectasis (at-uh-LEK-tuh-sis) is a condition in which one or more areas of your lungs collapse or don't inflate properly. If only a small area or a few small areas of the lungs are affected, you may have no signs or symptoms. If a large area or several large areas of the lungs are affected, they may not be able to deliver enough oxygen to your blood. This can cause symptoms and complications.
1 Different types of pneumonia, an infection of your lungs, may temporarily cause atelectasis. 2  Pneumothorax. 3  Air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, indirectly causing some or all of a lung to collapse. 4  Scarring of lung tissue. 5  Scarring could be caused by injury, lung disease or surgery. 1 Air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, indirectly causing some or all of a lung to collapse. 2  Scarring of lung tissue. 3  Scarring could be caused by injury, lung disease or surgery. 4  In these rare cases, the atelectasis is minor compared with the damage to the lung tissue from the scarring.
I have severe emphysema. A recent CT scan stated severe emphysema with mild dependant atelectasis in both lungs. I understand that means lung collapse, but am not sure what the mild, dependant part of this means and what the significance of the atelectasis is regarding the emphysema. Would appreciate any clarification you could give me.
However, during atelectasis, the lung, or a part of it, collapses. A number of air sacs do not inflate, unable to do their function and fill with air. If only a small part of the lung is affected, clinical manifestations may not be noted, and the rest of the lung can provide enough oxygen to compensate. Atelectasis comes from the Greek words ateles and ektasis with the literal meaning “incomplete expansion”. It pertains to collapse, either complete or partial, of the lung, which may subsequently cause decreased volume and diminished gas exchange. [ 1, 2, 3 ]. An image representing Atelectasis, or collapsed lung.
atelectasis. a collapsed or airless state of the lung, which may be acute or chronic, and may involve all or part of the lung. The primary cause is obstruction of the bronchus serving the affected area. adj., adj atelectat´ic. Symptoms. In acute atelectasis in which there is sudden obstruction of the bronchus, there may be dyspnea and cyanosis, elevation of temperature, a drop in blood pressure, or shock. In the chronic form, the patient may experience no symptoms other than gradually developing dyspnea and weakness.
As a result, they can't take part in gas exchange. If only a small area or a few small areas of the lungs are affected, you may have no signs or symptoms. This is because the rest of the lung can bring in enough oxygen to make up for the collapsed part of the lung. If atelectasis affects a large area or several large areas of the lungs, your body's organs and tissues may not get enough oxygen-rich blood. If only a small area or a few small areas of the lungs are affected, you may have no signs or symptoms. If a large area or several large areas of the lungs are affected, they may not be able to deliver enough oxygen to your blood. This can cause symptoms and complications.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Collapse of lung: Atelectasis of the lung is collapse of part of the lung or the entire lung. This is commonly see on radiologic studies. When it occurs at the lung bases it is typically due to incomplete inspiration. It may occur due to prior infection, surgery, or tumor or lymph node obstruction. The entire lung may collapse due to pressure from an air leak (pneumothorax).