Yes, Crizal No-Glare technology is compatible with most lenses and always compatible on Varilux lenses. To learn more about Varilux progressive lenses, visit www.variluxUSA.com. All Crizal lenses offer the most complete daily protection against the invisible and often irreversible dangers of UV reflection. Crizal lenses have an E-SPF ® index of 25 and provide 25 times more UV protection than going without eyewear.
Reflections: Harmful to your vision In addition to hiding your eyes, the reflection on your lenses is a major source of daily eyestrain and discomfort. Crizal lenses: Improving your eye comfort The Crizal eyeglass lens treatment is the result of a high-tech manufacturing process unique to Essilor. It provides the best transparency and the most efficient protection. Protect Better: The most complete daily UV protection. Crizal is designed to protect your eyes from damaging Ultraviolet (UV) radiation reflections that come from the sides and the back of the lens, therefore helping ensure your visual health over time.
Yes. Crizal ® No-Glare treatment is available with all Varilux lenses and is the best option for a No-Glare treatment for your Varilux lenses. Crizal No-Glare treatment reduces the glare that causes eye fatigue, helping you see with more clarity. Ask your Eyecare Professional for Varilux lenses with Crizal. Progressive lenses feature a continuous field of vision with no lines. Bifocal lenses provide a distinct near and far viewing area, but no intermediate area (3-20 feet away). The different viewing areas are separated by noticeable lines that can be awkward, abrupt, and frustrating to the wearer.
Crizal lenses: Improving your eye comfort The Crizal eyeglass lens treatment is the result of a high-tech manufacturing process unique to Essilor. It provides the best transparency and the most efficient protection. Protect Better: The most complete daily UV protection. Crizal is designed to protect your eyes from damaging Ultraviolet (UV) radiation reflections that come from the sides and the back of the lens, therefore helping ensure your visual health over time.
Essilor International S.A. is a French company that produces ophthalmic lenses along with ophthalmic optical equipment. It is based in Charenton-le-Pont (near Paris), France, and quoted on the Euronext Paris Stock Exchange. As one of the 40 largest companies traded in Paris, it is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 share index. Essilor is responsible for creating Varilux, the world's first progressive lens which corrects presbyopia and allows clear vision in the wearer's near, intermediate and far vision. The company formed from the merger of ophthalmic firms Essel and Silor in 1972
Orma®. The lens everyone can afford. Orma® is Essilor's version of CR39 which was for many years, the world's most popular lens material. Orma® is a lightweight, tough plastic lens that is much safer than glass.It weighs far less than the equivalent glass lens and it very easy to tint. 
Essilor’s Varilux S Series won the award for Most Popular Lens (Progressive), while the Transitions Signature VII won the Most Popular Lens (Best Value) award. Its Crizal Forte UV and Mr Blue were voted the Most Popular Lens Coating/Value Add and Best Value Enhancer (Lab). As one of the 40 largest companies traded in Paris, it is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 share index. Essilor is responsible for creating Varilux, the world's first progressive lens which corrects presbyopia and allows clear vision in the wearer's near, intermediate and far vision. The company formed from the merger of ophthalmic firms Essel and Silor in 1972
Available range Essilor Transitions lenses exist in Brown and Gray colors, are available in a complete range of designs, materials, and prescriptions (single vision, bifocal, and Varilux progressive), and match any kind of frames, even the trendiest ones.Ask more from your lenses, ask for CRIZAL TRANSITIONS lenses! Clearer vision in any lightCrizal Transitions lenses provide you with the most enduring clarity of vision with the best resistance to scratches, smudge, water and dust as well as the optimal protection from harmful UV rays.
They offer natural, comfortable vision to anyone challenged by presbyopia. With over 400 million pairs sold, Varilux is the progressive lens brand most prescribed by Eyecare Professionals and trusted by millions of satisfied wearers. Progressive lenses feature a continuous field of vision with no lines. Bifocal lenses provide a distinct near and far viewing area, but no intermediate area (3-20 feet away). The different viewing areas are separated by noticeable lines that can be awkward, abrupt, and frustrating to the wearer.