Irish Meaning: The name Clancy is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Clancy is: The red-haired soldier's son; ruddy warrior. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. 
Clancy is an infrequently used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Clancy include Clancea, Clancee, Clancey, Clanci, Clancie, Clansea, Clansee, Clansi, Clansie, Clansy, Clansey, Clemens, Climaco, Clímaco, Collens, Collins, Klema, Klemens, Klemenz, klimek And. klimka It is pronounced as KL AE NSiy- †. Clancy is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic and English. From Celtic roots, its meaning is son of Flannchadh, son of the red warrior.
Clancy /clan-cy/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KLAN-see. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Clancy is son of Flannchadh. Surname. Flannchadh is an ancient Irish name meaning red warrior. Kreatif forms: Clanca, Clanco, Clansi. Clancy is a rare first name for men but a very popular last name for all people (#2744 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Clancy for boys. Clancy has not been recorded in the list so far. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).
What does Clancy mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Clancy is of English origin. The meaning of Clancy is son of flannchadh. It is also of Irish origin, where its meaning is son of Flannchadh. Clancy is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Clan-cy. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3441 in baby name popularity for boys with 31 occurrences.
Gender can sometimes be a girl because my name Clancy and I'm a girl.The meaning would be off spring child of a red headed warrior. 1: vote up - 0: vote down. Red haired fighter. 1: vote up - 0: vote down. I think that its the best name ever!! 0: vote up - 0: vote down. 
[ 2 syll. clan-cy, cl-a- ncy ] The baby girl name Clancy is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced KL AE NSiy- †. Clancy has its origins in the Celtic language. It is used largely in English and Irish. The name Clancy means 'son of Flannchadh, son of the red warrior'. It represents the transferred use of the surname as a given name. See Clancy for more information.
Clancy is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Clancy include Clancee, Clancey, Clanci, Clancie, Clansee, Clansi, Clansie, Clansy, Caleena, Calvinna, Claenis, Claennis, Claennys, Claenys, Clansey, Claynnis, Claynnys, Claynys, Claynyss, and Kalma. Clancy has its origins in the Celtic language. It is used largely in English and Irish. The name Clancy means 'son of Flannchadh, son of the red warrior'. It represents the transferred use of the surname as a given name. See Clancy for more information.
[ 2 syll. clan-cy, cl-a- ncy ] The baby boy name Clancy is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as KL AE NSiy- †. Clancy is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic and English. From Celtic roots, its meaning is son of Flannchadh, son of the red warrior. The first name is derived from the Irish surname Mac Fhlannchaidh, meaning 'son of Flannchadh'; the Gaelic Flannchadh means 'red warrior'