The best nuts for a low-carb diet all contain less than 2 grams of saturated fat, or 10 percent of the daily value, per 1-ounce serving, as well as being low in carbs. Munch on an ounce of pecans, and you'll only need to add 1.1 grams of net carbs to your daily total. Peanuts Photo Credit Liquidlibrary/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. While technically a legume instead of a nut, peanuts are also a good snack option for people on a low-carb diet. An ounce only contains 166 calories and 6.1 grams of carbs, including 2.3 grams fiber, making the net carbs 3.8 grams.
Almonds are another relatively low-carb nut, providing 170 calories and 6 grams of carbs, including 3.1 grams of fiber, for 2.9 grams of net carbs in each 1-ounce serving, or 22 nuts. Peanuts Photo Credit Liquidlibrary/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. While technically a legume instead of a nut, peanuts are also a good snack option for people on a low-carb diet. An ounce only contains 166 calories and 6.1 grams of carbs, including 2.3 grams fiber, making the net carbs 3.8 grams.
Concerns. Although almonds and macadamia nuts are both good choices when following a low-carb diet, they are also high in calories. One ounce of almonds contains about 170 calories and a 1-ounce portion of macadamia nuts contains about 205 calories. Consuming almonds or macadamia nuts as part of a low-carb diet helps you to minimize carbohydrate intake while also meeting your body's daily carbohydrate needs. Protein is an important component of low-carb diets, since most low-carb diets are also high-protein diets.
Heart-Protective Monounsaturated Fats. Not only do cashews have a lower fat content than most other nuts, approximately 82% of their fat is unsaturated fatty acids, plus about 66% of this unsaturated fatty acid content are heart-healthy monounsaturated fats, similar to those found in olive oil. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Cashews is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
These nuts provide 3.8 grams of carbs, including 2.7 grams of fiber, much of which passes through your digestive tract intact, so fiber isn't usually included in net carbs for low-carb diets. Peanuts Photo Credit Liquidlibrary/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. While technically a legume instead of a nut, peanuts are also a good snack option for people on a low-carb diet. An ounce only contains 166 calories and 6.1 grams of carbs, including 2.3 grams fiber, making the net carbs 3.8 grams.
Given the broad range of nutritional content of nuts, the categorization of simply being a “nut” is a woefully inadequate classification. For example, some nuts are low in fat and very starchy, like chestnuts, whereas others are high fat and low carb, like macadamia nuts. Most, however, can be incorporated into a healthy diet. Nuts. There are lots of them. And a lot to know about their nutritional content. Nuts are healthy, but can also be high in fat. The nutritional values to your health differ wildly between types, and it can depend on whether the nuts are raw or roasted, plain or salted, etc.
Health Benefits. Not only do cashews have a lower fat content than most other nuts, approximately 82% of their fat is unsaturated fatty acids, plus about 66% of this unsaturated fatty acid content are heart-healthy monounsaturated fats, similar to those found in olive oil. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Cashews is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
Macadamia vs. Almonds. Both macadamia nuts and almonds are appropriate for low-carb diets when consumed in moderation; however, almonds contain slightly more carbs. One ounce of almonds provides about 6 grams of carbohydrates and 1 ounce of macadamia nuts contains about 4 grams of carbs. Consuming almonds or macadamia nuts as part of a low-carb diet helps you to minimize carbohydrate intake while also meeting your body's daily carbohydrate needs. Protein is an important component of low-carb diets, since most low-carb diets are also high-protein diets.
Carbs in Cashews. The favorite choice for the term Cashews is 1 ounce of Cashew Nuts which has about 9 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Cashews is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins