1 Sardines are oily fish sold in cans. 2  They are full of protein and essential nutrient…. 3  Recipes That Use Sardines Sardines are a type of small, oily whose use many say originated from the Mediterranean region near Sardinia-a large island off the southern tip of Italy. All mammals are vertebrates. All corals, insects, worms, jellyfish, snails and starfish are inverte … brates because they have no backbone.
They give birth alive and sometimes hatched    Invertebrates are animals without a backbone … (examples: snails,  starfish, worms). Invertebrates have no bones at all that they can  move by using tentacles. Vertebrates: animals with backbone are called vertebrates. Vertebrate means to have a spinal column or backbone. All mammals are vertebrates. All corals, insects, worms, jellyfish, snails and starfish are inverte … brates because they have no backbone.
Vertebrate means to have a spinal column or backbone. All mammals are vertebrates. All corals, insects, worms, jellyfish, snails and starfish are inverte … brates because they have no backbone.
Sardines are also called pilchards and they common names include several kinds of small and oily fishes within herring family clupeidae. The name sardine actually was used first in English in the fifteenth century. These animals are available at very high prices as these are one of the delicious sea foods. Just like the spiders and snails, lobsters have blue colored blood in their body and that is due to the existence of haemocyanin in their body. Uses: The sardines are one of the best food products for people in many countries. These are included in many recipes.
Vertebrates are animals with a backbone (examples: humans, snakes,  birds). They give birth alive and sometimes hatched    Invertebrates are animals without a backbone … (examples: snails,  starfish, worms). Invertebrates have no bones at all that they can  move by using tentacles. All mammals are vertebrates. All corals, insects, worms, jellyfish, snails and starfish are inverte … brates because they have no backbone.
Sardines (Sardinops sagax) are small silver fish that are also known as pilchards. They filter feed by straining tiny plants and animals (plankton) from the water. Short-lived and fast growing, they grow 0.60mm per day and reach 23cm in length within two years. A shoal of sardines (Sardinops sagax). Pilchards reach sexual maturity in their first year. They have a long breeding season that stretches from September to February. The females each produce many thousands of eggs from which only one female and one male larva needs to reach maturity to keep the population stable.
All other animals are called invertebrates. Invertebrates do not have an. internal skeleton. Examples of invertebrates include sponges, jellyfish, corals, worms, shellfish, octopuses, starfish, spiders and insects. In a modern system of classification, all animals can be divided into two groups – vertebrates and invertebrates. Vertebrates are animals that have. a skeleton inside their bodies. Biologists call this an
Small Fish/Invertebrates. Small fish and invertebrates are a major food source for larger predators in the open ocean. Herrings and Sardines are examples of small fish that are integral in the pelagic zone food chain. 
2 Living things All other animals are called invertebrates. Invertebrates do not have aninternal skeleton. Examples of invertebrates include sponges, jellyfish,corals, worms, shellfish, octopuses, starfish, spiders and insects. Lesson 13/20 More about classifying animals 1 Vertebrates In a modern system of classification, all animals can be divided into twogroups – vertebrates and invertebrates. Vertebrates are animals that havea skeleton inside their bodies. Biologists call this an internal skeleton.