In hair care products, dimethicone is used to provide smoothness, particularly in conditioners and detanglers, where the ingredient helps smooth hair and provide better comb-through. Because dimethicone leaves a sort of covering on the hair strands, it can also make hair appear shinier. The FDA approved dimethicone for personal care products, and it is generally considered to be safe to use. The Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) also evaluated the scientific data and concluded that it was safe for use in cosmetics. The Skin Deep Database also marks this ingredient with a low hazard rating.
What it is. Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer is a flexible silicon polymer. What it does. Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer is used to adjust the thickness of liquid cosmetic products. Side effects. Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer is generally considered to be safe.
spring makeup image by Julia Britvich from Fotolia.com. Dimethicone crosspolymer PEG-8 is actually not one product but two different products, dimethicone crosspolymer and PEG-8. Both are used in skincare and haircare products, usually to give the products a thicker, smoother texture. 
CIR Safety Review: Based on the size of the dimethicone crosspolymer ingredients and the lack of water solubility, the CIR Expert Panel concluded that these ingredients would not penetrate the skin. Dermal irritation and sensitization studies of these ingredient did not identify any adverse effects. Safety Information: The safety of Dimethicone Crosspolymer, Dimethicone/Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer and Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel.
Based on the available data, the CIR Expert Panel concluded that Dimethicone Crosspolymer, Dimethicone Vinyl/Dimethicone Crosspolymer and Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer are safe as used in cosmetics and personal care products. Safety Information: The safety of Dimethicone Crosspolymer, Dimethicone/Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer and Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel.
About DIMETHICONE CROSSPOLYMER: This ingredient is a silicon-based polymer (dimethicone) modified with hydrocarbon side chains in the C3-C20 size range. Show all 791 recent products that contain DIMETHICONE CROSSPOLYMER. EWG provides information on personal care product ingredients from the published scientific literature, to supplement incomplete data available from companies and the government.
Dimethicone Crosspolymer normally comes in transparent gel form. Dimethicone Crosspolymer is a main ingredient of sunscreen cream, sun lotion, sun spray, hand cream, anti aging facial products and so on. The product made by Dimethicone Crosspolymer may be called as mousse powder, sunscreen mousse, silky cream, silky foundation and so on. 
Based on the size of the dimethicone crosspolymer ingredients and the lack of water solubility, the CIR Expert Panel concluded that these ingredients would not penetrate the skin. Safety Information: The safety of Dimethicone Crosspolymer, Dimethicone/Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer and Vinyl Dimethicone/Methicone Silsesquioxane Crosspolymer has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel.