Report Abuse. I do not believe that a colonoscopy is an operation! Had one done about 4 years back and it did not take long but you are in recovery for a while because they put you under to do the scope. MyKidsMom · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The procedure is performed by a doctor experienced in colonoscopy and lasts approximately 30 to 60 minutes. Medications will be put into your vein to make you feel relaxed and drowsy. You will be asked to lie on your left side on the examining table. During a colonoscopy, the doctor uses a colonoscope, a long, flexible, tubular instrument about 1/2 inch in diameter that transmits an image of the lining of the colon so the doctor can examine it for any abnormalities. The colonoscope is inserted through the rectum and advanced to the other end of the large intestine. You will receive two enemas before the procedure because the rectum and lower intestine must be empty so that the intestinal walls can be seen. You will need to try to hold the enema solution for at least five minutes before releasing it. Make sure you arrange for a driver to bring you home after the colonoscopy.
The Day Before. The procedure really begins 24 hours prior to the colonoscopy, when you need to begin preparing for it. Your doctor will prescribe a laxative to empty out the digestive tract.
Colonoscopy is a procedure that enables an examiner (usually a gastroenterologist) to evaluate the inside of the colon (large intestine or large bowel). The colonoscope is a four foot long, flexible tube about the thickness of a finger with a camera and a source of light at its tip. 
With camera on top a flexible tube is inserted to capture rectum and colon from inside is the procedure of test. Its abilities extend to trim off tissues and polyps samples. How long does a colonoscopy take is usually around 30 minutes, but the span may extend if polyp is discovered and removed. Before the start of operation the patient is provided with painkilling drug (Normally via vein) to make the patient comfortable and drowsy in-between the operation. To overcome any possible unease long deep breathe gradually via mouth is handy. How long does a colonoscopy take may vary if tumor, gigantic polyp or something other irregular is witnessed! A bio can be examined for that purpose. A tiny bit of tissue is extracted outside with the help of colonoscope.
How long does a colonoscopy take depends largely on the type of procedure the doctor will perform. To overcome any possible unease long deep breathe gradually via mouth is handy. How long does a colonoscopy take may vary if tumor, gigantic polyp or something other irregular is witnessed! A bio can be examined for that purpose. A tiny bit of tissue is extracted outside with the help of colonoscope.
The Patient Perspective. When receiving a colonoscopy, there are rules that must be followed. Your doctor will tell you the specifics, but essentially nothing should enter the body less than 12 hours prior to the procedure. Food, soda, even cigarette smoke can be detrimental to the successful reading.
The Colonoscopy. The procedure itself can be as short as 15 minutes or can take up to an hour, depending on what your doctor finds. A clear, clean colon with no growth or polyps can be examined quickly. In other cases, the doctor may need to remove polyps or take tissue samples for further testing. The procedure really begins 24 hours prior to the colonoscopy, when you need to begin preparing for it. Your doctor will prescribe a laxative to empty out the digestive tract.
After the procedure. You will stay at the facility where you have the colonoscopy for up to two hours after the procedure while the effects of the sedative wear off. A friend or family member may then drive you home. You can expect to resume your normal activities the day after your colonoscopy. 
Depending on the size and number of polyps, you may need to follow a more rigorous screening schedule in the future. If your doctor finds one or two polyps less than 0.4 inch (1 centimeter) in diameter, a repeat colonoscopy in five to 10 years may be adequate, depending on your other risk factors for colon cancer.