All known prion diseases in mammals affect the structure of the brain or other neural tissue and all are currently untreatable and universally fatal. Prions are not considered living organisms because they are misfolded protein molecules which may propagate by transmitting a misfolded protein state. 
Scientists believe TSEs are caused by the buildup of abnormal forms of prion protein that causes sponge-like holes in the brain. Using special mice, NIAID researchers have found a new prion disease that does not make holes in the brain. Instead, the disease damages brain blood vessels in a process called cerebral amyloid angiopathy, a symptom typical of Alzheimer’s disease.
Mad cow disease is an infectious disease caused by prions that affect the brains of cattle. The actual name of the disease is bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), a name that refers to the changes seen in brain tissue of affected cows. Infection leads to tiny holes in parts of the brain, giving the tissue a sponge-like appearance when viewed with a microscope. These so-called spongy holes cause slow deterioration within the cow's brain and eventually other symptoms develop affecting the whole body. Death follows.
Several conditions fall under the term prion diseases. A prion is a type of protein that can trigger normal proteins in the brain to fold abnormally. Prion diseases can affect both humans and animals and are sometimes transmitted to humans by infected meat products. The most common form of prion disease that affects humans is Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). In most cases, death occurs within a year. Variant CJD. This is an infectious type of the disease that is related to “mad cow disease.” Eating diseased meat may cause the disease in humans. The meat may cause normal human prion protein to develop
Familial prion diseases, which have overlapping signs and symptoms, include familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), Gerstmann-Straeussler-Sträussler scheinker (SYNDROME), gss and fatal familial (INSOMNIA). Ffi THE prnp gene provides instructions for making a protein called prion (PrP). prp The abnormal protein builds up in the brain, forming clumps that damage or destroy neurons. The loss of these cells creates microscopic sponge-like holes (vacuoles) in the brain, which leads to the signs and symptoms of prion disease. The other 85 to 90 percent of cases of prion disease are classified as either sporadic or acquired.
Normal and diseased prions. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and its variants belong to a broad group of human and animal diseases known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). The name derives from the spongy holes, visible under a microscope, that develop in affected brain tissue. The cause of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and other TSEs appears to be abnormal versions of a kind of protein called a prion. 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare neurodegenerative disease that rapidly, progressively and severely affects the brain. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is one cause of dementia and results in the destruction of brain cells in the brain. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease eventually leads to the development of many tiny holes in the brain. The disease was first described by German neurologist Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt in 1920, and shortly afterwards by Alfons Maria Jakob, giving it the name Creutzfeldt-Jakob. Symptoms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease occur most often in the elderly, after the age of 60. Symptoms are due to the destruction of brain cells and include neurological symptoms, such as memory loss, blindness, and poor coordination.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease eventually leads to the development of many tiny holes in the brain. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a seriously disabling and devastating disorder that progressively damages and destroys a person's memory, vision, and ability to think and move voluntarily, and function independently. 
TSEs cause tiny holes to form in brain tissue until it resembles a sponge when viewed under a microscope. Other TSE diseases that affect humans are similar to CJD, but strike different parts of the brain, such as the cerebellum or the brain stem. 