Cauliflower ear, or “hematoma auris”, is a collection of blood between the cartilage of the ear and the skin. When the ear lobe is repetitively struck or bent, as in taking a helmet on and off, the underlying cartilage is traumatized. A blood clot forms under the skin separating the skin from the underlying cartilage. Cauliflower ear is a very preventable condition but if left untreated may create problems down the line. The best way to beat cauliflower ear is prevention and early treatment.
Any trauma to the ear can cause it. Cauliflower ear can even be the result of an infection in the ear lobe. When blood flow is blocked, the affected cartilage may die and, without the supportive tissue, fold in on itself. Scar tissue may form, contributing to a swollen and deformed look. This results in a bumpy or lumpy appearance on part of the ear, similar to a cauliflower. Early treatment can help prevent permanent deformity. Fortunately, the types of injuries that cause cauliflower ear are often preventable by wearing the right type of protective head gear.
Cauliflower ear Definition. It is a malformation of the external ear that often results due to repeated blows. It is commonly seen in wrestlers, boxers, rugby players, and martial artists. Cauliflower-like ears also occur in some diseased animals such as dogs. The painful condition is also known by other names like:
In this article. The term cauliflower ear refers to a deformity of the ear caused by blunt trauma or other injury, such as what may occur during a boxing or wrestling match. Left untreated, the injury leads to a blockage that prevents blood flow and damages tissue. This results in a bumpy or lumpy appearance on part of the ear, similar to a cauliflower. Early treatment can help prevent permanent deformity. Fortunately, the types of injuries that cause cauliflower ear are often preventable by wearing the right type of protective head gear.
The Original Cauliflower Ear Treatment provides the necessary environment for healing. Your Satisfaction is Guaranteed**. Cauliflower ear or hematoma auris or perichondrial hematoma is a condition most common among wrestlers, rugby players, mixed martial artists, and 1920s boxers. If the external portion of the ear suffers a blow, a blood clot or other fluid may collect under the perichondrium
Causes of Cauliflower Ear. The most common cause of cauliflower ear is a hit to the ear -- or repeated hits to the ear -- that leads to hematomas, or small collections of blood that clot and block the flow of blood and nutrients. This results in a bumpy or lumpy appearance on part of the ear, similar to a cauliflower. Early treatment can help prevent permanent deformity. Fortunately, the types of injuries that cause cauliflower ear are often preventable by wearing the right type of protective head gear.
Cartilage damage may also result from piercing the upper ear in the cartilage. Piercing can lead to a type of ear cartilage infection called auricular perichondritis, which can result in cauliflower ear. An even more rare cause of cauliflower ear is from the inflammation of cartilage in relapsing polychondritis. When the ear is struck and a blood clot develops under the skin, or the skin is sheared from the cartilage, the connection of the skin to the cartilage is disrupted, causing cauliflower ear. The cartilage of the ear has no other blood supply except that supplied by the overlying skin.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cauliflower ear (complication of hematoma auris, perichondrial hematoma, or traumatic auricular hematoma) is a condition that occurs when the external portion of the ear suffers a blow, blood clot or other collection of fluid under the perichondrium. As a result, the outer ear becomes permanently swollen and deformed, resembling a cauliflower. The condition is most common among prize-fighters and martial arts competitors such as boxers, mixed martial artists, wrestlers, martial artists, and in full-contact sports such as rugby football.
Cauliflower ear is medically known as an auricular hematoma. The external ear is made of cartilage and it is the shape of the cartilage that gives the ear its distinctive shell-like shape. The cartilage is lined by perichondrium, a tight layer of connective tissue. Auricular hematoma/cauliflower ear occurs when the ear cartilage is injured (from a blow or other form of trauma). Trauma results in fluid or blood collecting between the perichondrium and the cartilage. This blood or fluid can become permanent and scarred, resulting in the appearance of cauliflower ear
Cauliflower ear, medically known as auricular hematoma, is a condition of the outer ear that can cause deformity to the external ear if left treated. The condition results in a distortion of the outer ear resulting in a deformity that looks like the outside of a “cauliflower” over time. 