Create a new document with size 600 x 451px. In layer panel create a new layer, ‘Layer 1’ and fill it with any color. Right click on ‘Layer 1’ and select blending options. Apply gradient effect with the settings as shown below. After applying gradient effect the result will be like this
The easiest way to duplicate a layer in Photoshop is with a keyboard shortcut. First, make sure you have the text layer selected in the Layers palette (selected layers are highlighted in blue), then press Ctrl+J (Win) / Command+J (Mac). Step 1: Create A New Blank Photoshop Document. Let's begin by creating a new blank Photoshop document. Go up to the File menu at the top of the screen and choose New. Or, for a faster way to create a new document, use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+N (Win) / Command+N (Mac). Either way brings up Photoshop's New Document dialog box. Enter in the dimensions you need for your effect
You can also design and create your own typography and other text effects in Photoshop. Follow this step by step tutorial to learn how to make fire typography in Photoshop. Step # 1 -- Opening a New Document. In the first step, launch Adobe Photoshop and load a new document. Fill it with Black color. Now enter any symbol or character of your choice on which you want to create the effect. Here we are using simply a character S in white color. In the next step, go to the Layer menu, select Rasterize and click on the Type option to rasterize the layer. Now select the Eraser tool from the menu and change its Hardness to 0 percent. Use the Eraser to slightly remove the top portion of the character. This will give a nice burnt effect.
How to make fire in Photoshop. Learn how to create fire from scratch using basic tools and shapes already provided in Photoshop. There are no shortcuts in this tutorial, make fire fast and easy without downloading brushes.
Turn the top layer back on. Add another Hue/Saturation adjustment layer as before, and set the clipping as you did with the bottom layer. Change the properties of the top adjustment layer to Hue: 50, Saturation: 100, Lightness: -50. This will make it a yellow color. 16. Select the remaining white shape (middle layer). In the resulting smudge tool adjustment window, use these settings: 1  With these settings, you're going to draw the fire. 2  As with any kind of brush work in Photoshop or other graphics applications, the use of a tablet is recommended.
1 Duplicate the layer twice. 2  You can do this either by dragging the first layer onto the New Layer icon at the bottom of the Layers window, or by pressing Command + J (PC: Ctrl + J) twice. 3  Make the top 2 layers invisible by clicking on the eye next to them. In the resulting smudge tool adjustment window, use these settings: 1  With these settings, you're going to draw the fire. 2  As with any kind of brush work in Photoshop or other graphics applications, the use of a tablet is recommended.
Cancel. When making fire in Photoshop, create a new layer on which to put the type that's going to be made to look like fire. Use the gaussian blur filter when making fire in Photoshop with help from a graphic designer in this free video on Adobe Photoshop tricks. Part of the Video Series: Photoshop Tricks. 
1. Open a document with a text layer, or create a new one. For this example, we used a simple black background with the word FIRE! in Arial Black on a second layer. It's important that the text be on a different layer than the background. 1  If you're using an existing document, work with a copy of the original. In the resulting smudge tool adjustment window, use these settings: 1  With these settings, you're going to draw the fire. 2  As with any kind of brush work in Photoshop or other graphics applications, the use of a tablet is recommended.
Click on the Smudge tool (below the Gradient tool), then click on the brush settings at the top of the window. In the resulting smudge tool adjustment window, use these settings: 1  With these settings, you're going to draw the fire. 2  As with any kind of brush work in Photoshop or other graphics applications, the use of a tablet is recommended.