Volvox is one of the best-known chlorophytes and is the most developed in a series of genera that form spherical colonies. Male colonies release numerous microgametes, or sperm, while in female colonies single cells enlarge to become oogametes, or eggs.   Volvox is found in ponds and ditches, and even in shallow puddles.
Volvox is a green algae the forms colonies of up to 50,00  individual organisms. Each volvox has a nucleus, chloroplasts, a  contractile vacuole, an eyespot, and a pair of f … lagella. The large,  spherical colony usually contains daughter colonies that, once  fully formed, will exit the parental colony. Male colonies release numerous microgametes, or sperm, while in female colonies single cells enlarge to become oogametes, or eggs.   Volvox is found in ponds and ditches, and even in shallow puddles.
Volvox is a polyphyletic genus of chlorophyte green algae in the family Volvocaceae. It forms spherical colonies of up to 50,000 cells. They live in a variety of freshwater habitats, and were first reported by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1700. Volvox diverged from unicellular ancestors approximately 200 million years ago. Volvox is a genus of freshwater algae found in ponds and ditches, even in shallow puddles. According to Charles Joseph Chamberlain, The most favorable place to look for it is in the deeper ponds, lagoons, and ditches which receive an abundance of rain water.
Each mature Volvox colony is composed of numerous flagellate cells similar to Chlamydomonas, up to 50,000 in total, and embedded in the surface of a hollow sphere or coenobium containing an extracellular matrix made of a gelatinous glycoprotein. Volvox is a genus of freshwater algae found in ponds and ditches, even in shallow puddles. According to Charles Joseph Chamberlain, The most favorable place to look for it is in the deeper ponds, lagoons, and ditches which receive an abundance of rain water.
A close-up of individuals cells within the colony, 2 flagella and red eyespot are visible. Volvox is a Chlorophyte, or green alga. It exists as a grand spherical colony. Each little alga within the colony bears two flagella, whip-like hairs. The individual alga are connected to each other by thin strands of cytoplasm that enable the whole colony to swim in a coordinated fashion. In the northern region the eyespots are more developed. This helps the colony to swim towards the light. This differentiation of cells make Volvox quite unique. It is a colony that comes really close to being a multi-celled organism.
Volvox are a colony of individual cells and that live together. The volvox colony can have anywhere between 500-50,000 cells. Although, a 1996 survey 1 estimates that there is an average of 6,000 cells in a volvox. Due to the high number of cells, certain cells in the volvox can be specialized. 
Volvox may be considered to be both unicellular and multicellular. It resembles the one-celled organism Chlamydomonas.. Volvox also has characteristics from those of a … colony because most of the cells are similiar. It also has specialized reproductive cells and the two ends of the colony are different. Male colonies release numerous microgametes, or sperm, while in female colonies single cells enlarge to become oogametes, or eggs.   Volvox is found in ponds and ditches, and even in shallow puddles.
Algae-building bodies from balls, chains, sheets and tubes. Volvox-ball-shaped colony. Building bodies-filamentsMany algae are filaments-chains of cells that form when the plane of cell division is fixed resulting in a '1D' colony. Volvox is a green alga that consists of a hollow ball of cells, which is essentially a 2D colony or sheet folded around and joined together. Each ball, or coenobium, consists of a single layer of superficial cells-it is a colony of cells.
Volvox is one of the best-known chlorophytes and is the most developed in a series of genera that form spherical colonies. Each Volvox is composed of numerous flagellat … e cells similar to Chlamydomonas, on the order of 1000-3000 in total, interconnected and arranged in a glycoprotein-filled sphere (coenobium). Split and merge into it. Answer by Mariamtaju. Confidence votes 18. Unlike most cells which are usually very clear and dont really have a color, volvox is a green shade; since, it is in the green algae group of the protists.