Leaving Children at Home Alone. There is no magic age when a child is ready to stay by him/herself. All children are different, but the National Safe Kids Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. Whether children are home every day after school or once in a while when parents need to run errands, the experience can be made safer by considering the following:
The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. There appear to be very few states with specific regulations about the age of a child left at home alone. The following table lists legal age restrictions for children left at home alone categorized by state within the U.S. Please note that city and county ordinances within each state may have more definitive and restrictive laws.
8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods). It is important to note that no two children are alike, and parents must decide on a case-by-case basis what is best for their child. Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone
Legal age for kids home alone. Some states have laws governing what age you can legally leave them home, ranging from age 8 all the way to age 14. Check out the list here to see the specific laws in your state. Most states, however, do not have laws, leaving the decision up to the parent. The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone, but not all parents think it is that black and white. Find out what they say – and tell us what you think! Many parents very wisely take into account the age of their child, their maturity and proximity to friends, neighbors or relatives. However, there is also the legal aspect to consider before leaving your child
You’re the best judge of when your child is ready to be left at home alone. It’s not just about your child’s age – her maturity is also important. You might feel confident leaving a 12-year-old who’s very responsible, but quite worried about a 15-year-old who takes a lot of risks. Before leaving your child home alone, do a safety check of your house. Inspect things like door and window locks, smoke alarms and lighting. Agree on what to do if the phone rings or someone knocks on the door. You might agree that your child doesn’t answer the phone or the door.
*Age listed is the recommended minimum age a child may be left home alone in lieu of a legally specified age minimum. **City of Albuquerque Ordinance states that children under the age of 11 may not be left home alone. 
Whether a child is going to stay home alone should depend on the child’s maturity and comfort level. A general rule of thumb is that no child less than eight years of age should be left alone for any extended period of time. 
Very few states and/or municipalities have actual laws that dictate when parents can legally leave their children home alone. For the most part, this is because children mature at different rates. A mature 12-year-old may be ready for the responsibility, while a teenager with a history of being impulsive may not. 
Leaving your child home alone... Deciding when your child is ready to stay home alone is a difficult decision for parents. There is no set age, either prescribed by law or by child development experts. It comes down to a judgment call on the part of parents. 1 His age. 2  Experts believe a child should be at least 12 before he is left alone, and at least 15. 3  before he can care for a younger brother or sister. 4  These are the minimum ages. 5  Not every child is ready then.