A Brief History of Physical Comedy Whether it is Charlie Chaplin wobbling into awkward situations, Victor Borge falling off his piano bench, or Jim Carrey contorting his rubbery face and body, this type of broad physical comedy is often called slapstick. 
The name slapstick comes from the original tool of this type of humour-a paddle used to strike the victim (and designed to give a loud sound) when the joke was made to draw attention to the humour. This equipment is also used in the traditional Punch and Judy shows of Britain. The name slap stick originates from the name of a wooden clublike object--called a battacchio--used in Comedy of the Art of Improvisation. The slap stick has two slats that … when struck, produces a loud smacking noise, but the person hit is barely hurt.
It is often refered to as Slapstick Violence,Slaptick Comedy Or Slapstick Humor. Slapstick Violence is basically comedy over people getting Punched,Kicked or even Killed.Often we see Slapstick Violence on Tv Shows On adult Swim And Fox, Alot of Movies And Alot of Anime!... 
Slapstick comedy I was told is those bad movies you see dumb people laughing at, like herherhehr! he fell over. Examples of slapstick comedy are dumb and dumber, dude where's my car and jackass. If I had to define it I would say it is intentional stupidity in order to make someone laugh. The name slap stick originates from the name of a wooden clublike object--called a battacchio--used in Comedy of the Art of Improvisation. The slap stick has two slats that … when struck, produces a loud smacking noise, but the person hit is barely hurt.
Answer: Slapstick humour is a type of physical comedy based on absurd situations, and vigorous, usually violent action. Comoc incolved in such presentations often participate in pratfalls and vilolent physical interaction. The name slap stick originates from the name of a wooden clublike object--called a battacchio--used in Comedy of the Art of Improvisation. The slap stick has two slats that … when struck, produces a loud smacking noise, but the person hit is barely hurt.
A comedy is a very popular type of movie. Some comedy movies have slapstick comedy, in which people just do silly things such as tripping, falling over or embarrassing themselves just to make people laugh. Other comedy movies show funny stories or situations in which people are behaving in a silly manner. Comedy (from Greek: Kωμωδία) may be used in different ways: 1  A comedy is, in modern times, a drama which has a generally funny content and in general a happy ending. 2  The word comedy is also used for television shows or movies that are funny, silly or that
Answer:   Slapstick humour is a type of physical comedy based on absurd  situations, and vigorous, usually violent action. Comoc incolved in  such presentations often participate in pratfalls and vilolent  physical interaction. The name slap stick originates from the name of a wooden clublike object--called a battacchio-- used in Comedy of the Art of Improvisation.
Slapstick vs. Farce. Difference Between Slapstick And Farce. A type of physical humor called slapstick is comedy characterized by rough, noisy horseplay. Slapstick has a long history. It is found in the comedies of ancient Greek and Roman playwrights. Slapstick was also used in the Middle Ages, when short skits called interludes were often presented between the acts of a play. In one such skit, The Flood, Noah’s wife would lean out of a window in the Ark and hit Noah over the head with a rolling pin because of something he said.
Slapstick is essentially physical Comedic Sociopathy —people who aren't you getting hurt in obscene ways (e.g. falling into open sewers and dying); that's comedy. The defining feature of slapstick is its highly exaggerated nature, combined with a lack of serious physical consequences. 1 The oldest surviving slapstick film is The Curtain Pole (1909), in which Mack Sennett's character attempts to obtain and bring back a very long curtain pole. 2  A curtain pole that is way too long to fit inside the carriage he's riding, thus sticking out both sides.
The name slapstick comes from the Italian language word batacchio or bataccio — called the  slap stick  in English — a club-like object composed of two wooden slats used in commedia dell'arte. Slapstick continues to maintain a presence in modern comedy that draws upon its lineage, running in film from Buster Keaton and Louis de Funes funès To Mel brooks to the television Series jackass and comedy movies by The Farrelly, brothers and in live performance From weber And fields To Jackie gleason To Rowan. atkinson