There are two different types of peripherals: input devices, which interact with or send data to the computer (mouse, keyboards, etc.), and output devices, which provide output to the user from the computer (monitors, printers, etc.). Some peripherals, such as touchscreens, can be used both as input and output devices. Common input peripherals include keyboards, computer mice, graphic tablets, touchscreens, barcode readers, image scanners, microphones, webcams, game controllers, light pens, and digital cameras.
A peripheral device is defined as a computer device, such as a keyboard or printer, that is not part of the essential computer (i.e., the memory and microprocessor). These auxiliary devices are intended to be connected to the computer and used. The difference, however, is that these devices can run independently of the computer system, unlike a computer mouse, for example. Internal peripheral devices are often referred to as integrated peripherals.
You are here: Dictionary P-Definitions. Alternatively referred to as an auxiliary device, a peripheral is hardware input device or output device that gives a computer additional functionality. Peripheral devices, however, are not essential for the computer to perform it's basic tasks; they can' be though of as an enhancement to the user's experience
Most people use the term peripheral more loosely to refer to a device external to the computer case. You connect the device to the computer to expand the functionality of the system. For example, consider a printer. Once the printer is connected to a computer, you can print out documents. For example, a printer is an external device that you connect using a cable, while an optical disc drive is typically located inside the computer case. Internal peripheral devices are also referred to as integrated peripherals.
A peripheral device is generally defined as any auxiliary device such as a computer mouse or keyboard that connects to and works with the computer in some way. Other examples of peripherals are image scanners, tape drives, microphones, loudspeakers, webcams, and digital cameras. Common input peripherals include keyboards, computer mice, graphic tablets, touchscreens, barcode readers, image scanners, microphones, webcams, game controllers, light pen
Today's new devices, such as tablets, smartphones and wearable computing devices are considered peripherals as they can be connected and used on a computer system. The difference, however, is that these devices can run independently of the computer system, unlike a computer mouse, for example. Internal peripheral devices are often referred to as integrated peripherals.
One classification of peripherals is input devices. Input devices are the parts that bring information into the computer, like the keyboard, mouse, microphone, and scanner. The input device translates human actions or physical objects (analog data) into an electronic (digital) form the computer can recognize. Another classification of a peripheral is an output device. Output devices translate information stored in the computer and present it in a way that humans can understand it. Typical output devices in a computer system are the monitor, speakers and the printer.
Answer: A computer peripheral, or peripheral device, is an external object that provides input and output for the computer. Some common input devices include: 1  keyboard. 2  mouse. 3  touchscreen. 4  pen tablet. While these are some of the more common peripherals, there are many other kinds as well. Just remember that any external device that provides input to the computer or receives output from the computer is considered a peripheral.