[ad#in_content_500]. And that cash can really cut into the profit a seller is expecting to pocket from the sale of his or her home. A buyer’s closing costs might typically range from 2 to 7 percent of the sales price, or $2,000 to $7,000 on the purchase of a home. 1 In some states the seller must provide a policy of title insurance for the buyer. 2  The cost of the policy depends on the sales price of the home and its cost can vary from a couple hundred dollars to several thousand dollars.
For instance, in Northern California, buyers usually pay the title insurance premium, while sellers usually pay the premium in Southern California. HOUSE HUNTING TIP: Some real estate agents use 1 percent of the expected selling price to estimate a seller's closing cost. 
Typically, home buyers will pay between about 2 and 5 percent of the purchase price of their home in closing costs. So, if your home cost $150,000, you might pay between $3,000 and $7,500 in closing costs. On average, buyers pay roughly $3,700 in closing costs, according to a recent survey. Lenders are required by law to give you a good faith estimate (GFE) of what the closing costs on your home will be within three days of when you apply for a loan. Closing costs vary widely based on where you live and the property you buy. Closing costs often include things such as: 1  A fee for running your credit report. 2  A loan origination fee, which lenders charge for processing the loan paperwork for you. 3  Attorney’s fees.
Cost to sell a house in Pennsylvania. Unlike the home buyer, the closing costs for sellers in Pennsylvania are few, but can be costly. You can use the PA Seller Closing Cost Calculator to estimate the seller's closing costs in Pennsylvania. Estimate 6% X sales price. SELLER PAID CLOSING COSTS. The home seller may be asked to pay a percentage of the sales price or flat dollar amount toward the buyer's closing costs. This cost is a reduction from the profit from the sale of the home.
1 Typically runs $10 to $50 or more. 2  Title insurance. 3  In some states the seller must provide a policy of title insurance for the buyer. 4  The cost of the policy depends on the sales price of the home and its cost can vary from a couple hundred dollars to several thousand dollars. 1 In some states the seller must provide a policy of title insurance for the buyer. 2
Closing costs vary according to where you live, but as the seller you can expect to pay anywhere from 6 percent to 10 percent of the home’s sales price at settlement. This won’t be cash out of your pocket, rather it will be deducted from the profit on your home – unless you are selling with very low equity. Commissions are negotiable and vary somewhat by market, but a typical commission is 6 percent of the sales price of the home split between the listing agent and the buyers’ agent. For a home that sells for $350,000, the commission would come to $21,000. Other fees paid for by the seller may include: 1  Loan payoff costs.
All fees and charges can be negotiated during the real estate transaction. For buyers, coming up with an extra 1 to 2 percent in closing costs can be a bigger deal than a $5,000 reduction in the purchase price. A credit for $5,000 to go toward closing costs will be a much bigger bang for your buck for the buyer. The price reduction won’t amount to much more than a few dollars per month over the length of the home loan. Saving $5,000 at the closing will be money right back in the buyer’s pocket. Related:
Method 1 of 4: Negotiate with the Seller. Typical closing costs are around 2-5% of the purchase price of the home. So on a $100,000 home, the closing costs will be between $2,000 - $5,000. Add this amount to a typical down payment of 20%, or $20,000, and it is easy to see why a home buyer would want to limit closing costs as much as possible. 1  1 Edit step
The seller can pay closing costs based on the terms of the purchase contract. The costs that are covered can be used as a tool for negotiations for both the buyer and the seller of a home. The most common closing cost that a seller will pay is the buyer's loan costs. 
In a closing, both buyers and sellers have costs. Usually, the buyer is faced with more line-item expenses than the seller. For starters, most buyers are getting loans to make the purchase; many of the charges stem from the loan. A buyer should receive a “Truth in Lending” statement early on in the sale process. A credit for $5,000 to go toward closing costs will be a much bigger bang for your buck for the buyer. The price reduction won’t amount to much more than a few dollars per month over the length of the home loan. Saving $5,000 at the closing will be money right back in the buyer’s pocket. Related: