Thank you, -- Troubled TinaDear Tina, Unpaid, federally guaranteed student loans are one of the reasons you can have your disability checks, both Veterans Affairs and Social Security, garnished by the federal government.
Check it for free at myBankrate. The federal government can garnish your benefits for repayment of several types of debts, including federal income taxes, federal student loans, child support and alimony, nontax debt owed to other federal agencies, defaulted federal home loans and certain civil penalties. Unlike nontax debts to other agencies, for which the first $750 of your monthly benefits are off-limits to garnishment, the IRS can take its 15 percent cut, regardless of how little money you're left with. Lump-sum death benefits and Social Security benefits paid to children are not subject to this levy.
Here’s what you need to know about student loan garnishment of your Social Security benefits: #1 Only federal student loans can result in garnishment. If you are retired and living on Social Security, private student loan lenders will have no recourse to dig into your SS benefits. #2 The garnishment will be the lesser of 15% or the difference between your benefit and $750.
A 2005 U.S. Supreme Court case (Lockhart v. U.S.) determined there is no statute of limitations on Social Security offsets to repay student loans. The government can shave off up to 15 percent, provided your remaining monthly benefit doesn't drop lower than $750. Unlike nontax debts to other agencies, for which the first $750 of your monthly benefits are off-limits to garnishment, the IRS can take its 15 percent cut, regardless of how little money you're left with. Lump-sum death benefits and Social Security benefits paid to children are not subject to this levy.
Unfortunately if your student loans are subsidized, federal loans, or government backed student loans the answer is your Social Security can be garnished. 
Last year, 156,000 Americans had their Social Security checks garnished because of student loans they had defaulted on. It's tripled in number from 47,500 in 2006, before the Great Recession. That's according to analysis done by the U.S. Treasury for CNNMoney. What's worse is that even if the unpaid student loan was small, the amount they owe now is usually a lot larger because of compounding interest rates. Older Americans are hit. Retired Americans can start collecting Social Security benefits at 62.
Let's focus on the frightening loss of needed Social Security benefits from people now eligible for Social Security but with delinquent student loans. It used to be that the wisdom was Social Security benefits can't be garnished so that income was safe from creditors. According to the Department of Treasury's Financial Management Service data in 2000, only six people had their Social Security checks garnished for delinquent student loan debt. 
Among the government creditors that can grab a piece of your Social Security check, the strongest arm belongs to the IRS. Via the Federal Payment Levy Program, Social Security benefits are subject to a 15 percent levy to pay delinquent taxes. Unlike nontax debts to other agencies, for which the first $750 of your monthly benefits are off-limits to garnishment, the IRS can take its 15 percent cut, regardless of how little money you're left with. Lump-sum death benefits and Social Security benefits paid to children are not subject to this levy.
The bank must allow you to use up to $2,000 in the account. If you receive $1,000 in Social Security benefits by direct deposit each month, and you have $3,000 in your account, the bank can freeze $1,000 of the $3,000. Your bank protects 2 months’ worth of benefits. If a collector tries to garnish money in your account, your bank must look at your account history to see if you received any Social Security or VA benefits by direct deposit in the last 2 months.
Here’s what you can try to do to fight student loan garnishment of your Social Security benefits: #1 When you first get notice of a student loan garnishment to hit your benefits, you’ll have some heads up. As soon as you get the notice, you have 20 days to request a review. If you are retired and living on Social Security, private student loan lenders will have no recourse to dig into your SS benefits. #2 The garnishment will be the lesser of 15% or the difference between your benefit and $750.