Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. 2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off.
Best Answer: 1) Place eggs in a pan and cover with cold water. 2) Cover the pan tightly and place on high heat. 3) Bring to a boil. 4) Remove from heat. Set timer for ten minutes. 5) When the timer goes off, drain off the water and give the pan a gentle shake, back-and-forth and side-to-side. Report Abuse. Add eggs to an empty pot and cover them with one inch of cold water. Bring to a full boil (lots of large bubbles about the size of your little fingernail), then reduce heat to very low and cover for 16 minutes. Drain hot water and rinse with cool water
A tip to make them more festive: hard boil the eggs, remove the shells, and THEN color them using an egg dying kit for about 30 seconds for each egg. ... Allys5's Group Recipes Page. Allys5's Personal Food Page @ Group Recipes ... Covered Peanut Butter ..... 
How to hard boil eggs without cracking them to later color for Easter eggs is the simplest of your Easter Recipes. The eggs should be thoroughly hard boiled if you intend to later conduct an Easter egg hunt with the hard boiled eggs that your family dyed for Easter.1. 
1 Hard boil the eggs. 2  Do this by placing the eggs into a saucepan with a pinch of salt and covering with water. 3  Bring to the boil and then reduce to a simmer. 4  Simmer for at least ten (10) minutes and then lift the eggs out carefully with a spoon or tongs. 1 Do this by placing the eggs into a saucepan with a pinch of salt and covering with water. 2  Bring to the boil and then reduce to a simmer. 3
Put eggs in a pan and put enough water in the pan to cover them completely by an inch. Don't lower the eggs into the pan or they might crack. Bring to a boil, and then turn down the heat to medium so the water doesn't bubble around the eggs. Cook for 20 minutes, and then run under water for a minute. Spread out on a kitchen towel so they don't roll off the counter. When they're cool-give it about 20 minutes-put in the refrigerator. 2
1 Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil. 4  Turn off the heat and cover the pan. Instructions. 1 
As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Set timer for 17 minutes for large eggs or 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. After 17 or 20 minutes (depending on size of your eggs), remove lid and drain off water from the eggs. 