1 The plural of ramus, literally a branch, as of a plant, nerve, or blood vessel (arterial, venous or lymphatic). 2  Specifically, rami are upward portions on both sides of the mandible. Rami or Ramy is a given name, which is popular among Arabs in the Levant. In Arabic, Rami (رامي) is derived from the verb to throw and means archer or good marksman; literally, the one who throws the arrow, or it's derived from the Arabic verb  Ram.
The superior and inferior pubic rami together are also called as ischiopubic ramus. This ischium forms the inferior posterior pelvis compartment and the bony projections from the ischial tuberosity at the posterior end. Pubic is divided into body, superior ramus and inferior ramus. Both the ramus forms an integral part of the pubic bone and is also very vulnerable to accidental injuries and fractures.
The pubic rami are a group of bones that make up a portion of the pelvic bone. Each of these bones, when referred to individually, is known as a pubic ramus. These bones are generally divided into two separate categories, known as the superior and inferior pubic rami. The pubic rami are four bones at the front of the pubic area that protect internal organs like the bladder. Chiropractic care may be helpful in alleviating pain and discomfort caused by issues in the
1 A given name popular in the Levant. 2  The plural of ramus, literally a branch, as of a plant, nerve, or blood vessel (arterial, venous or lymphatic). 3  Specifically, rami are upward portions on both sides of the mandible. 4  See ramus mandibulae. Rami or Ramy is a given name, which is popular among Arabs in the Levant. In Arabic, Rami (رامي) is derived from the verb to throw and means archer or good marksman; literally, the one who throws the arrow, or it's derived from the Arabic verb  Ram.
ramus autono´micus any of the branches of the parasympathetic or sympathetic nerves of the autonomic nervous system. ramus commu´nicans a branch connecting two nerves or two arteries. ramus (rā´məs) , n 1. a branch of an artery, nerve, or vein. In the. Basle Nomina Anatomica terminology, the term ramus is given to a primary division of a nerve or blood vessel. n 2. any constant branch of a fissure, or sulcus, of the brain. ramus, ascending. n the posterior, vertical portion of the mandible, which extends from the corpus to the condyle, and makes a joint at the temple
ramus. [rā′məs] pl. rami. Etymology: L, branch. a small branchlike structure extending from a larger one or dividing into two or more parts, such as a branch of a nerve or artery or one of the rami of the blood vessel or nerve. ramification, n., ramify v. (rā'mī).
The spinal cord is the most important structure between the body and the brain. The spinal cord extends from the foramen magnum where it is continuous with the medulla to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebrae. It is a vital link between the brain and the body, and from the body to the brain. The spinal cord is 40 to 50 cm long and 1 cm to 1.5 cm in diameter. Two consecutive rows of nerve roots emerge on each of its sides. Spinal nerve rami include the dorsal primary nerves (ramus), which innervates the skin and muscles of the back, and the ventral primary nerves (ramus), which innervates the ventral lateral muscles and skin of the trunk, extremities and visceral organs.
ramus. [rā′məs] pl. rami. Etymology: L, branch. a small branchlike structure extending from a larger one or dividing into two or more parts, such as a branch of a nerve or artery or one of the rami of the blood vessel or nerve. ramus (rā´məs) , n 1. a branch of an artery, nerve, or vein. In the. Basle Nomina Anatomica terminology, the term ramus is given to a primary division of a nerve or blood vessel. n 2. any constant branch of a fissure, or sulcus, of the brain. ramus, ascending. n the posterior, vertical portion of the mandible, which extends from the corpus to the condyle, and makes a joint at the templ
The superior pubic ramus is the major part of pubic bone and also an essential portion of obturator foramen. It is divided into two parts: a medial flattened part and a narrow lateral prismoid portion. Pubic is divided into body, superior ramus and inferior ramus. Both the ramus forms an integral part of the pubic bone and is also very vulnerable to accidental injuries and fractures.