A trait is an element of personality that is relatively stable throughout the lifespan and across contexts. In other words, a trait is a consistent element of self that makes … that person who he is. Traits are the general tendencies you'd list if you were asked to describe your child or your best friend. A trait is a physical characteristic that an organism passes on to  its offspring. Trait is the same as characteristics, which are part  of a person's personality. An exampl … e of a trait is kindness or  sincerity. 4 people found this useful.
A trait may be any single feature or quantifiable measurement of an organism. However, the most useful traits for genetic analysis are present in different forms in different individuals. A visible trait is the final product of many molecular and biochemical processes. An example of a phenotypic trait is hair color; there are underlying genes that control the hair color, which make up the genotype, but the actual hair color, the part we see, is the phenotype.
Blue human eye. A phenotypic trait, or simply trait, is a distinct variant of a phenotypic characteristic of an organism that may be inherited, be environmentally determined or be a combination of the two. For example, eye color is a character or abstraction of an attribute, while blue, brown and hazel are traits. An example of a phenotypic trait is hair color; there are underlying genes that control the hair color, which make up the genotype, but the actual hair color, the part we see, is the phenotype.
Confidence votes 29. In genetics, an attribute which is solely influenced by an individual's environment. Just like there are very few genes which are the only influence to some behavior or another, there are very few solely environmental traits. A trait is a physical characteristic that an organism passes on to  its offspring. Trait is the same as characteristics, which are part  of a person's personality. An exampl … e of a trait is kindness or  sincerity. 4 people found this useful.
Examples of Traits. Environmental traits vary and not all humans have the same traits. For example, a person's environment may determine whether or not she has the trait for criminal behavior or perhaps homosexuality. Surroundings may also determine whether or not a person has the trait for intelligence or craftiness. The nature vs. nurture debate, which may also be called the genetic vs. environmental debate, is an argument over the effects that genes have on the personalities of individuals compared to the effects that the environment has on personality traits.
1 Trait: a characteristic of an organism that can be the result of genes and/or influenced by the environment. 2  Traits can be physical like hair color or the shape and size of a plant leaf. 3  Traits can also be behaviors such as nest building behavior in birds. 1 Phenotypic trait... 2  more. 3  Trait: a characteristic of an organism that can be the result of genes and/or influenced by the environment. 4
The presence of drugs or chemicals in an organism's environment can also influence gene expression in the organism. Cyclops fish are a dramatic example of the way in which an environmental chemical can affect development. Similarly, drugs, chemicals, temperature, and light are among the external environmental factors that can determine which genes are turned on and off, thereby influencing the way an organism develops and functions. Sex-influenced traits are those that are expressed differently in the two sexes. Such traits are autosomal, which means that the genes responsible for their expression are not carried on the sex chromosomes. An example of a sex-influenced trait is male-pattern baldness