In both trust and contract-based schemes, The Pensions Regulator is responsible for ensuring that payments are made from an employer to the members’ pension funds.
Trust-based schemes. Some defined contribution schemes are run by a trust appointed by the employer. These are called ‘trust-based schemes’. You’ll still get your pension if your employer goes out of business.
In a contract based scheme (such as a group personal pension scheme) the employer would appoint a pension provider (normally an insurance company) to run the scheme. There is then a contract between the provider and the employer and the provider makes all the decisions about how the scheme is run.
A trust is a legal arrangement under which trustees hold the assets of the pension scheme in a trust fund for the benefit of the members of the scheme and their dependants, and for the purpose of providing income in retirement.
A workplace pension is a way of saving for your retirement that’s arranged by your employer. Some workplace pensions are called ‘occupational’, ‘works’, ‘company’ or ‘work-based’ pensions.
‐ 3 ‐ Executive Summary Regulatory differences 1. The regulatory differences between trust and contract‐based pensions are deep and complex. This call for evidence does not focus on the most important difference, which is the strong governance provided by trustees that greatly benefits and protects scheme members.
A trust-based DC scheme: • is operated in-house by a company for its own staff. • has a trustee board that plays a similar role to the trustee board of a defined benefit (DB) scheme, in that it: • is responsible for the administration of the scheme. • manages member communication. • ensures the scheme is governed correctly.
Contract Based. This is where a provider establishes the personal pension under deed poll (or a board resolution in Scotland). The provider is the scheme administrator and there are no trustees. However, in practice the board resolution or deed poll will refer to a trust deed and rules.
Under trust law and the Pensions Act 1990, pension scheme trustees must ensure that schemes are run properly and they must protect your rights as a scheme member. They are also responsible for whistle-blowing to The Pensions Authority if they think something is seriously wrong.