Infectivity is the ability of an infectious agent to cause a new infection in a susceptible host, and in directly transmitted diseases it is measured by the secondary attack rate, which is the proportion of susceptible individuals that develop the infection after exposure to a primary case. The development of molecular biology and the intensive use of its methods in the various aspects of the study of infectious diseases have brought a new set of terms to EID. Molecular epidemiology would be “the use of molecular biology techniques in epidemiologic studies”.
Photo Credit: UK Department for International Development. Infectious diseases continue to have a substantial impact on the health of communities around the world. From the global HIV and tuberculosis (TB) epidemics, to the threat of resistant bacteria, to the challenge of emerging and newly identified pathogens. The cluster holds a monthly seminar, sponsors a highly popular certificate in infectious disease epidemiology, and teaches several courses open to the department.
Reservoir. The reservoir of an infectious agent is the habitat in which the agent normally lives, grows, and multiplies. Reservoirs include humans, animals, and the environment. The reservoir may or may not be the source from which an agent is transferred to a host. Human reservoirs. Many common infectious diseases have human reservoirs. Diseases that are transmitted from person to person without intermediaries include the sexually transmitted diseases, measles, mumps, streptococcal infection, and many respiratory pathogens.
Epidemiology is concerned with the incidence of disease in populations and does not address the question of the cause of an individual's disease. This question, sometimes referred to as specific causation, is beyond the domain of the science of epidemiology. The term epidemiology appears to have first been used to describe the study of epidemics in 1802 by the Spanish physician Villalba in Epidemiologia Epidemiología. Espanola española epidemiologists also study the interaction of diseases in, a population a condition known as. a syndemic
Section 1: Definition of Epidemiology. Students of journalism are taught that a good news story, whether it be about a bank robbery, dramatic rescue, or presidential candidate's speech, must include the 5 W's: what, who, where, when and why (sometimes cited as why/how). Epidemiology is the study of the distribution and determinants of health-related states or events in specified populations, and the application of this study to the control of health problems (1).
For other uses, see Epidemic (disambiguation) . An epidemic (from Greek ἐπί epi upon or above and δῆμος demos people) is the rapid spread of infectious disease to a large number of people in a given population within a short period of time, usually two weeks or less. 
Definition of Epidemiology. The word epidemiology comes from the Greek words epi, meaning on or upon, demos, meaning people, and logos, meaning the study of. In other words, the word epidemiology has its roots in the study of what befalls a population.
Medical Definition of INFECTIOUS DISEASE. : a disease caused by the entrance into the body of organisms (as bacteria, protozoans, fungi, or viruses) which grow and multiply there—see communicable disease, contagious disease. 
Infectious diseases constituted the most serious health issue in the world until the beginning of the 20th century when chronic degenerative diseases began to dominate this scenario in developed countries. Plagues and cholera used to devastate significant proportions of the populations of the great European cities. The development of molecular biology and the intensive use of its methods in the various aspects of the study of infectious diseases have brought a new set of terms to EID. Molecular epidemiology would be “the use of molecular biology techniques in epidemiologic studies”.
Epidemiology is the study of the patterns, causes, and effects of health and disease conditions in defined populations. It is the cornerstone of public health, and shapes policy decisions and evidence-based practice by identifying risk factors for disease and targets for preventive healthcare. The term epidemiology appears to have first been used to describe the study of epidemics in 1802 by the Spanish physician Villalba in Epidemiologia Epidemiología. Espanola española epidemiologists also study the interaction of diseases in, a population a condition known as. a syndemic