Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A molded door is a popular door style for interior residential openings. Rather than solid wood or metal, these units consist of hardboard or composite materials with a series of panels or designs pressed into the face of the door. While molded doors consist of a solid piece of material, panel doors often feature trim elements arranged on the face of the door to form panels or patterns. Stile and rail units use a combination of vertical and horizontal wood elements joined together to form patterns.
(See attached.). The new Madison one-panel molded door is one of the doors featured in Alliance Door Products Mid2Mod brochure. This trendspotting 16-page booklet identifies interior & exterior doors that are the perfect choice for Mid-Century to Modern decors. See the PDF, attached below. 
A door is a moving structure used to block off, and allow access to, an entrance to or within an enclosed space, such as a building or vehicle. Similar exterior structures are called gates. Typically, doors have an interior side that faces the inside of a space and an exterior side that faces the outside of that space. 
Molded doors are used extensively in residential applications. These interior doors feature a stable, dense facing made of high density fiberboard-a composite of resin and wood fiber that is certified to be made up of 35% recycled materials collected. Our facings contain NO added urea formaldehyde. 
Molded doors are commonly used as interior doors.. So it can be a panel look on a pocket door, a french door with glass inserts, etc. etc. etc. The big difference being that their exterior design (what you see) is pressed or embossed into the door. From WIKI you get this description. A moulded door has the same structure as that of flush door. The only difference is that the surface material is a moulded skin made of MDF. Skins can also be made out of hardboards, the first of which was invented by William H Mason in 1924.
We also have a full offering of molded panel doors that are best suited for areas where commercial hardware is not required, such as interior doors in the hospitality segment. Doors are available in smooth or textured surfaces with a variety of face design configurations. Mohawk Molded Panel Doors. Mohawk carries a full line of molded panel doors used for a variety of applications. Ideal for commercial applications and to meet ADA requirements, the 6 panel commercial smooth, 2 panel roman and 2 panel square designs add warmth to any project.
Ad. One of the primary benefits of using a molded door rather than a solid wood model is the significant cost savings associated with these units. The hardboard or fiberboard surface allows the door to readily accept paint, and the manufacturing process for these doors makes design options virtually limitless. While molded doors consist of a solid piece of material, panel doors often feature trim elements arranged on the face of the door to form panels or patterns. Stile and rail units use a combination of vertical and horizontal wood elements joined together to form patterns.
Internal Moulded Doors. Moulded doors are the most cost effective solution for your internal doors. Moulded doors have a skin of engineered wood which is moulded-typically into a panel design. Most have a softwood frame to allow for small adjustments in size so you can get the perfect fit. 
A molded door is a regular flat door with art-work or protruding panels adhered on. In the olden days, doors were made from solid planking and molding was added or art work hand carved into the face. This will give you an idea on what a molded door looks like. From WIKI you get this description. A moulded door has the same structure as that of flush door. The only difference is that the surface material is a moulded skin made of MDF. Skins can also be made out of hardboards, the first of which was invented by William H Mason in 1924.