Bowling alleys hire a number of workers to man the counter, process equipment, clean up and interact with customers. Jobs in this area are similar to customer service and front desk jobs in other industries, and generally start at or near the minimum wage for the region where the bowling alley is located. Exactly how much money you will earn working in a bowling alley depends on exactly what kind of position you're filling. An average bowling alley requires workers with a range of skills and levels of compensation.
Some of the Features of this Book: 1  How to start and manage your bowling center. 2  How to develop new customers and accounts for your business. 3  Select from the list of products and services that you can offer in your bowling center. 4  How to choose the best name and location for your center. 5  How to finance your bowling alley. 6  Practical and useful 7  ... Th Download Information: When you purchase your copy of the Start Your Own Bowling Alley, you can immediately download the book to your computer for immediate access. The file will open in Adobe Acrobat Reader as a PDF file.
Average cost in the U.S. to completely build a new center, including land, building, nonbowling equipment, and bowling equipment is $ 90,000-$110,000 per lane. The single largest cost variable is whether or not one leases, purchases or constructs a building. 
I worked for this company for over 5 years. I made 46,000 a year plus I averaged around 5,000 a year on bonuses. That was restaurant general manager. However, I had years of e … xperience. My friend who is the travel center side General manager made 60,000 a year plus her bonuses were quite more than mine. Also there is profit sharing. It pays out on the restaurant side after 5 years, and 10 years on the travel center side. I've seen people get 200,000 dollar checks in profit sharing on the travel center side... and I've seen people get 100,000 on the restaurant side. Mine was 90,000 after 5 years.
Average annual salary for a Bowling Alley Manager is $31976 based on statistics in the U.S. as of 2015. The highest salary recorded was $51521. The lowest salary reported was $20640. These figures will vary on a state to state basis as these are averages across all 50 states. Bonuses for a Bowling Alley Manager are based on the years of experience using statistics from the U.S. as of 2015. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with 15+ years of experience. The average bonus recorded was $850 from people with under 1 year of experience
Bar Staff. Those outside the industry might be surprised how much of a bowling alley's income is from the bar. As in other locations with a bar, the licensed bartender who mixes and serves drinks can expect an annual mean wage of approximately $21,690 working in a location like a bowling alley. Exactly how much money you will earn working in a bowling alley depends on exactly what kind of position you're filling. An average bowling alley requires workers with a range of skills and levels of compensation.
New Center Development Timeline. From concept to completion, QubicaAMF is there for you—every step of the way. From the bowling lane cost to the cost to build a bowling alley from start to finish, we can provide the information you need. See how easy it can be to build a bowling center with QubicaAMF
How to Make a Bowling Alley Successful. Special events draw in extra customers to bowling alleys. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Whether you call your business a bowling alley, bowling center or family entertainment center, a successful business keeps a steady flow of customers through the doors. Everything from the amenities of your bowling alley to the special events you sponsor plays a role in success. Write a marketing plan that spells out how you will promote the bowling alley in the community. Include print, Internet and other forms of advertising, as well as special events and promotions to get more people through the door. Step 4. Expand your target clientele to increase the number of people through the door