Your pulse rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute. And while pulse rates vary from person to person, they are influenced by factors such as age and fitness level. There is also a slight difference in rates by gender, as men tend to have a slightly lower resting and maximum heart rate than women. The normal rate for an adult male is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. For an endurance athlete, the resting heart rate will typically be lower, indicating a more efficient heart function.
Brett. Dear Brett, A heart rate of 38 beats per minute (bpm) can be normal in a well-trained endurance runner at age 60. The heart rate normally lowers at rest. And distance running over four years could cause a reduction in resting heart rate from 60 bpm to 38 bpm. 
Resting Rate. Your resting heart rate is your heart rate while at rest or sitting still. According to the American Heart Association, the best time to check your resting pulse rate is right before you get out of bed in the morning. The normal rate for an adult male is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. For an endurance athlete, the resting heart rate will typically be lower, indicating a more efficient heart function.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath. With.
Remember to take your resting heart rate over at least 3 days so that you can get an average reading. For example if on day one you record 72 bpm (beats per minute) day two you record 78 bpm and on day three you record 72 bpm, then your average is 74 bpm. Look at recording your resting heart rate for a full minute to make the test as accurate as possible. Young children, under 10, have a resting heart rate range from 70 to 120 beats per minute. Adults generally have a resting heart rate of 60 to 100 beats per minute. Resting heart rate is an approximate measurement and one of many tools used for testing your health.
As an example, a man with a resting heart rate of 72 at an age of 40, will be classed as having an average resting heart rate. A young women at 22 years of age with a resting heart rate of 55, would be classed as (athlete), but not all low resting heart rates are a good indication of an individuals fitness. Young children, under 10, have a resting heart rate range from 70 to 120 beats per minute. Adults generally have a resting heart rate of 60 to 100 beats per minute. Resting heart rate is an approximate measurement and one of many tools used for testing your health.
A normal resting heart rate can range anywhere from 40 to 100 beats per minute. Below is a chart relating resting heart rate and fitness level. As can be seen on this chart, your resting heart rate can vary with your fitness level and with age — the fitter you are, generally the lower the resting heart rate. 1 I love that I'm in the athlete bracket with a resting heart rate of 47bpm at 41 years old. 2  I've smoked for over 20 years and I drink a lot more than I should do. 3  Saying that though I am slim and eat healthily to try and balance it out.
What is the normal pulse rate for men? The normal pulse rate range for men and women is 60-100 bpm. Small children (1-10 years) and infants have slightly higher pulse rate than adults. The pulse rate calculated when you are at rest is known as normal or resting pulse rate, or normal / resting heart rate (RHR). The resting heart rate for men may vary according to the age, activity, lifestyle and overall health of a man.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. But a heart rate lower than 60 doesn’t necessarily mean you have a medical problem. Active people often have lower heart rates because their heart muscles don't need to work as hard to maintain a steady beat.