TYPE. Article. ABSTRACT. Yeast use sugar during fermentation (anaerobic respiration) to convert monosaccharides into carbon dioxide and ethanol. Yeast cells were tested for their effectiveness in utilizing a variety of sugars for fermentation. The rate of fermentation in yeast cells was measured by monitoring the pressure build-up over time using the Calculator-Based Laboratory (CBL) system, a pressure probe, and a graphing calculator. 
The rate of fermentation, a series of enzymatic reactions, can be affected by several factors, for example, concentration of yeast, concentration of glucose, or temperature. In this exercise you will investigate the effects of yeast concentration. When oxygen is low, some fungi, including yeast and most plants, switch from cellular respiration to alcoholic fermentation. In this laboratory experiment, the carbon dioxide (CO 2) produced can be used as an indication of the relative rate of fermentation taking place.
Experimental design. The effects of sugar concentration (50% glucose + 50% fructose), temperature, and pH on yeasts growth were tested using a central composite circumscribed design with three repetitions in the centre to account for pure error. Other significant coefficients for yeast T73 were also the linear effect of temperature, and the linear and quadratic effects of sugar concentration (Table 3). The effect of the environmental variables on µ max of T73 can be studied by means of their respective coefficients.
In this context, Charoenchai et al. (1998) reported the effects of temperature, pH, and sugar concentration on the growth rates and cell biomass of several wine yeasts such as Kloeckera apiculata, Torulaspora delbrueckii, Pichia anomala, S. cerevisiae and various Candida species. Other significant coefficients for yeast T73 were also the linear effect of temperature, and the linear and quadratic effects of sugar concentration (Table 3). The effect of the environmental variables on µ max of T73 can be studied by means of their respective coefficients.
It is obvious by the previous chemical reaction that as the yeast concentration increases, so does the anaerobic respiration. Variables: Independent variable: yeast concentration (a variety of yeast solutions are used, in order to determine the effect of changing yeast concentration on respiration rate). Aim: To determine the effects of temperature on the permeability of ... For most of the temperature range, higher temperatures appeared to effect greater permeability, hence higher betacyanin concentration in the solution, and thus greater absorbance. The membrane becomes more permeable at higher temperatures.
The graph shows that the higher the concentration of sugar the lower. the respiration rate. I believe this is because the more amount of. sugar added the more yeast die. This is due to either: 1. The high concentration of ethanol produced as a by-product. poisoning the yeast. 2. The temperature of the reaction being too high causing the yeast to. die or the enzymes to be denatured. 2. The temperature of the reaction, as some of the energy produced. converts into heat energy. At really high temperatures the reaction. will stop because the heat will have denatured the enzymes. 3. When there is a high sugar concentration the sugar molecules. diffuse into the yeast. But when the concentration of sugar is too low. the water in the yeast will diffuse out to equalise the concentration, creating a net of movement of water into an area where there is less. water
Length: 1042 words (3 double-spaced pages). Rating: Red (FREE). - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. Rate This Paper: The Effect of Sugar Level on the Rate of Fermentation. Aim: The aim of this experiment is to find out whether the rate of. Fermentation is affected by the amount of sugar. sugar you add, the more bubbles that appear (the higher the rate of. Fermentation). The reason that the rate of Fermentation is decreased. as more sugar is added is because if there is too much sugar in the. mixture, some of the enzymes in the yeast (zymase) gradually die.
ABLE 2010 Proceedings Vol. 31 Kosinski and Morlok In this laboratory, you will observe both the effect of glucose concentration and of yeast population density on the rate of production of CO 2. Procedure 1. You should have three fermentation vials (each consisting of a thin tube and a thicker tube) at your station. 
A high sugar concentration at the start of fermentation may lead to higher amounts of ethanol produced at the end of the fermentation. This would lower production costs by reducing the water and energy processing requirements for distillation. High sugar concentration is more preferred in industrial bioethanol production, as it can increase the amount of ethanol produced by the end of