No, Africa is the place where they do NOT live. They are Asian  animals, living in countries like India, Benghal, Siberia, China  and Indonesia. 
Dry and wet deciduous forests, grassland and temperate forests, mangrove forests. The Bengal tiger is found primarily in India with smaller populations in Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China and Myanmar. It is the most numerous of all tiger subspecies with more than 2,500 left in the wild. 
Bengal tigers live in India and are sometimes called Indian tigers. They are the most common tiger and number about half of all wild tigers. Over many centuries they have become an important part of Indian tradition and lore. Tigers live alone and aggressively scent-mark large territories to keep their rivals away. 
The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to 3.38 m (11.1 ft) over curves and exceptionally weighing up to 388.7 kg (857 lb) in the wild. India is home to the world's largest population of wild tigers but only 11% of the original Indian tiger habitat remains, and it has become fragmented and degraded. From 1973, India's Project Tiger, started by Indira Gandhi, established over 25 tiger reserves in reclaimed land, where human development was forbidden.
The Bengal tiger is perhaps the most well known of the tiger subspecies the most populous of the tiger species in the wild. Bengal tigers inhabit the Asian countries of India, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. 
Siberian tigers live in eastern Russia, Indochinese tigers and Malayan tigers live in southeastern Asia, Bengal tigers live in India, the South China tiger (from southern China), and Sumatran tigers which live on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, southeast of mainland Asia. There are also Bengal tigers, which live in India, the South China tigers, Indochinese and Malayan tigers, which live in southeast Asia, and Sumatran tigers, which live in Sumatra (an island in Indonesia, southeast of the Asian mainland). tigers live in jungles in Asian countries such as India, Russia and china. They live in throughout eastern Asia in Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, and Indonesia (Sumatra), a tigers habitat is the forest and the wild
Siberian (or Amur) tigers are the world's largest cats. They live primarily in eastern Russia's birch forests, though some exist in China and North Korea. There are an estimated 400 to 500 Siberian tigers living in the wild, and recent studies suggest that these numbers are stable. Though their northern climate is far harsher than those of other tigers, these animals have some advantages.
Distribution of the Tiger. Ever wonder where Tigers live! Well... Most Tigers live in Asia, specifically throughout Southeast Asia, China, Korea and Russia. Tigers like to live in swamps, grasslands,and rain forests. Usually where Tigers live there are trees, bushes, and clumps of tall grass. It shades the Tiger from the sun when it's extremely hot.