The nature of a convergent boundary depends on the type of plates that are colliding. Where a dense oceanic plate collides with a less-dense continental plate, the oceanic plate is typically thrust underneath because of the greater buoyancy of the continental lithosphere, forming a subduction zone. When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America.
The location where the sinking of a plate occurs is called a subduction zone. A transform boundary is where plates slide past each other with no creation or destruction of lithosphere. Plate Margin Examples There are three general types of plate boundaries: divergent, convergent, and transform. Each general type has multiple ‘species’: divergent boundaries can be spreading ocean ridges or continental rift zones; convergent boundaries can occur between two continental plates. 
The Andes are an example of a continental volcanic arc. Such mountains are produced in part by the volcanic activity that is caused by the subduction of oceanic lithosphere. Figure 11 Oceanic-Continental Convergent Boundary Oceanic lithosphere is subducted beneath a continental plate. Figure 15 A transform fault boundary offsets segments of a divergent boundary at an oceanic ridge. Although most transform faults are located within the ocean basins, a few cut through the continental crust. One example is the San Andreas Fault of California.
1 Divergent boundaries -- where new crust is generated as the plates pull away from each other. 2  Convergent boundaries -- where crust is destroyed as one plate dives under another. 3  Transform boundaries -- where crust is neither produced nor destroyed as the plates slide horizontally past each other. As with oceanic-continental convergence, when two oceanic plates converge, one is usually subducted under the other, and in the process a trench is formed. The Marianas Trench (paralleling the Mariana Islands), for example, marks where the fast-moving Pacific Plate converges against the slower moving Philippine Plate.
Transform faults are not limited to oceanic crust and spreading centers; many transform faults are located on continental margins. The best example is the San Andreas Fault on the Pacific coast of the United States. Transform fault (the red lines). A transform fault or transform boundary, also known as conservative plate boundary since these faults neither create nor destroy lithosphere, is a type of fault whose relative motion is predominantly horizontal in either sinistral or dextral direction.
Types of Plate Boundaries and the Results of Each Type. Continental:Oceanic Convergent. Results: Subduction zone, basaltic oceanic crust is more dense than granitic continental crust. Deep Ocean Trenches, Stratovolcanoes and Volcanic Mts. on Land. ex. Cascade Mountains in the Pacific Northwest US and the Andes Mountains in South America. Continental:Continental Divergent. Results: Young plate boundaries, rift valleys that may eventually fill with ocean water creating a new ocean and then it becomes an oceanic-oceanic divergent boundary/mid-ocean ridge. Tension.
With a few exceptions, transform plate boundaries do not exhibit volcanoes. Transform boundaries, in many places, form steps in the mid-ocean ridges. These boundaries mark regions where one oceanic plate slips horizontally by another oceanic plate -- lithosphere is neither created or recycled, but it is conserved.
Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed. Two plates sliding past each other forms a transform plate boundary. Natural or human-made structures that cross a transform boundary are offset—split into pieces and carried in opposite directions. There are three kinds of plate tectonic boundaries: divergent, convergent, and transform plate boundaries. This image shows the three main types of plate boundaries: divergent, convergent, and transform. Image courtesy of the U.S. Geological Survey.
In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plates or fragments of the lithosphere move toward one another and collide. When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America.
An example of a continental-oceanic subduction zone is the area along the western coast of South America where the oceanic Nazca Plate is being subducted beneath the continental South American Plate. When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America.