Variable costs are costs that vary with output. Generally variable costs increase at a constant rate relative to labor and capital. Variable costs may include wages, utilities, materials used in production, etc. In accounting they also often refer to mixed costs. 
Thus, the total fixed costs equal Kr. Labor is the variable input, meaning that the amount of labor used varies with the level of output. In fact, in the short run, the only way to vary output is by varying the amount of the variable input. Total cost in economics includes the total opportunity cost of each factor of production as part of its fixed or variable costs. The rate at which total cost changes as the amount produced changes is called marginal cost.
Economic Definition of average variable cost. Offline Version: PDF. Term average variable cost Definition: Total variable cost per unit of output, found by dividing total variable cost by the quantity of output. 
Variable costs are those costs that vary depending on a company's production volume; they rise as production increases and fall as production decreases. Variable costs differ from fixed costs such as rent, advertising, insurance and office supplies, which tend to remain the same regardless of production output.
DEFINITION of 'Fixed Cost'. A cost that does not change with an increase or decrease in the amount of goods or services produced. Fixed costs are expenses that have to be paid by a company, independent of any business activity. It is one of the two components of the total cost of a good or service, along with variable cost. Next Up.
In economics, average variable cost (AVC) is a firm's variable costs (labor, electricity, etc.) divided by the quantity of output produced. Variable costs are those costs which vary with output. where VC = variable cost, AVC = average variable cost, and Q = quantity of output produced. Average variable cost plus average fixed cost equals average total cost :
In economics, total cost is made up of variable costs + fixed costs. Variable costs (VC) are costs that change based on how many goods you produce or how much of a service you use. Fixed costs (FC) are costs that don't change from month to month and don't vary based on activities or the number of goods used. 
Definition. The Average Variable Cost (AVC) is the total variable cost per unit of output. This is found by dividing Total Variable Cost (TVC) by total output (Q). Total Variable Cost (TVC) is all the costs that vary with output, such as materials and labor.
Economic Definition of variable cost. Offline Version: PDF. Term variable cost Definition: In general, cost that changes with changes in the quantity of output produced. More specifically, variable cost is combined with the adjectives total and average to indicate the overall level of variable cost or the per unit
Defined. Offline Version: PDF. Term variable cost Definition: In general, cost that changes with changes in the quantity of output produced. More specifically, variable cost is combined with the adjectives total and average to indicate the overall level of variable cost or the per unit variable cost