Etymology & Historical Origin-Elin. Elin is the Dutch and Scandinavian equivalent of Helen, but is also used among the Welsh. The Greek Hēlēnē (‘ελενη) has debatable etymologies. The name either comes from the Greek “hēlios” which is the word for “sun” to indicate a sunbeam or ray of light specifically. 
Personal experiences with the name Elin: | Edit. My name is Elin, pronounced like Ellen, named after a Norwegian skier (pronounced it Eh-lin). When people read it they usually pronounce it Eee-lin the first time, but that's never bothered me. Elin means beautiful nymph. my middle name is anwen which has a lot of meanings, intelligent and beautiful are some of them. I love this name and i reccomend it with all my heart.all my life people have told me its a very unusual name. I am proud to be different. i really hope you choose this name because i love it.
Elin /elin/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Welsh and Greek origin, and the meaning of Elin is sun ray. Variant of Elen, from Helen. In Hindi, the name is from Sanskrit meaning woman of intelligence. Related girl name: Ellen. How popular is Elin? Elin is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3727 out of 4276, Top 87%) and also a somewhat prominent surname for all people (#82019 out of 150436, Top 55%).
Elin is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced E-lin. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 733 in baby name popularity for girls with 379 occurrences. It ranked 8262 in popular baby names for boys with 9 occurrences. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Meaning of Elin. Welsh name. In Welsh, the name Elin means-Variant of Helen. Means light or most beautiful woman.. Other origins for the name Elin include-Welsh, Scandinavian, Danish.The name Elin is most often used as a girl name or female name. Welsh Name Meaning-Variant of Helen. Means light or most beautiful woman.
Meanings and history of the name Elin: | Edit. Medieval Scandinavian form of Helen, meaning light. Pronounced: AY-lin. Welsh form of Helen. Pronounced: ELL-in. In Welsh, the word can also mean beautiful nymph. it also means intelligent and beautiful. Elin means beautiful nymph. my middle name is anwen which has a lot of meanings, intelligent and beautiful are some of them. I love this name and i reccomend it with all my heart.all my life people have told me its a very unusual name. I am proud to be different. i really hope you choose this name because i love it.
In Swedish the meaning of the name Elin is: Light. Norse Meaning: The name Elin is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Elin is: Daughter of the Russian king Boleslaw. Welsh Meaning: The name Elin is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Elin is: Means light or most beautiful woman. 
Elin is used chiefly in English, Scandinavian, and Welsh. Its origin is Old French and Old Greek. Elin is a variant of the name Eileen (English, Irish, and Gaelic). Elin is also a variant of the name Ellen (Dutch, English, and Scandinavian) in the English language. Elin is also a variant of the name Helen (English) in the Scandinavian and Welsh languages. Elin is somewhat popular as a baby girl name, and it is also regarded as trendy. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 2000s; before that, it was of irregular use only
Comments and insights on the name Elin: | Edit. In Scandinavia, this name is really pronounced ee-ah-lyn. However in other countries, it's pronounced ee-lyn & like Ellen. Elin means beautiful nymph. my middle name is anwen which has a lot of meanings, intelligent and beautiful are some of them. I love this name and i reccomend it with all my heart.all my life people have told me its a very unusual name. I am proud to be different. i really hope you choose this name because i love it.