Operation involving the mass assembly, deportation, and murder of Jews by the Nazis during the Holocaust. ALLIES. The nations fighting Nazi Germany, Italy, and Japan during World War II; primarily the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union. ANIELEWICZ, MORDECAI (1919-1943). Major leader of the Jewish resistance in the Warsaw Ghetto; killed May 8, 1943. HOLOCAUST. The destruction of some 6 million Jews by the Nazis and their followers in Europe between the years 1933-1945. Other individuals and groups were persecuted and suffered grievously during this period, but only the Jews were marked for complete and utter annihilation.
1 Agudah. 2  Literally, a Hebrew term for union or organization.. 3  Also may refer to the World Agudath Israel (Hebrew: אגודת ישראל), usually known as the Agudah, which was established in the early twentieth century as the political arm of Ashkenazi Torah Judaism and was especially active in Eastern Europe. 1 A form of riot or mob violence directed against a particular group, whether ethnic, religious, or other, and characterized by the killing and destruction of their homes, businesses, and religious centers. 2  The term was originally used to denote extensive violence against Jews. 3  Revier.
Kommando. Kommando is a generic German word meaning unit or command. During World War II it was also the basic unit of organisation of slave labourers in German concentration camps, equivalent to a detail or detachment. In Auschwitz: A Doctor's Eyewitness Account, concentration camp survivor Dr. Miklos Miklós nyiszli describes the-tooth pulling. Kommando these teams of, eight all fine stomatologists and dental surgeons equipped in one hand with a, lever and in the other a pair of pliers for extracting, teeth worked in the. crematoria
1 Literally, a Hebrew term for union or organization.. 2  Also may refer to the World Agudath Israel (Hebrew: אגודת ישראל), usually known as the Agudah, which was established in the early twentieth century as the political arm of Ashkenazi Torah Judaism and was especially active in Eastern Europe. 1 A form of riot or mob violence directed against a particular group, whether ethnic, religious, or other, and characterized by the killing and destruction of their homes, businesses, and religious centers. 2  The term was originally used to denote extensive violence against Jews. 3  Revier.
I´m not sure if I got your question right. If you wanted to know what the means in German, heres the answer: While the English language has just one article (the) there … are three of them in German. You have Der for male words, Die for female words and Das for neutral words. For example you would say Der Hund but Die Blume while in English you would be using the for both words (the dog, the flower) It´s really kind of complicated ´cause without knowing it by learning you can hardly tell what gender aword is.
It is a word used to describe every nation or person that has Germanic roots or language.(Britain,Germany,Iceland,Luxemburg,Belgium,Austria,Norway etc.). For example you would say Der Hund but Die Blume while in English you would be using the for both words (the dog, the flower) It´s really kind of complicated ´cause without knowing it by learning you can hardly tell what gender aword is.
A blockalteste was a block leader in the concentration camps. There were either the German Soldiers assigned to be a block leader of a block of buildings or a prisoner assigned to do the duty. 
accepted...) tribes to the borders of ancient Roman Empire or something alike. On the other hand, the word hermanus in Latin means brother, and we learn that... ancient Germans constituted a kind of political friendship (the Sacred Roman-German Empire) with ancient Romans. For example you would say Der Hund but Die Blume while in English you would be using the for both words (the dog, the flower) It´s really kind of complicated ´cause without knowing it by learning you can hardly tell what gender aword is.
1 Aryan. 2  Derived from a Sanskrit word meaning “noble,” the term was used in Nazi pseudo-scientific jargon to denote a race which had supposedly superior blood and culture. 3  During the Holocaust, “Aryan” came to mean anyone who was not Jewish or Roma (Gypsy). 1 A form of riot or mob violence directed against a particular group, whether ethnic, religious, or other, and characterized by the killing and destruction of their homes, businesses, and religious centers. 2  The term was originally used to denote extensive violence against Jews. 3  Revier.