Air Force. ASVAB Score-Air Force recruits must score at least 36 points the 99-point ASVAB (Note: The Overall ASVAB Score is known as the  AFQT Score , or Armed Forces Qualification Test Score). Exceptions are made, however, for a handful of high school graduates who can score as low as 31. Navy. ASVAB Score-Navy recruits must score at least 35 on the AFQT. The Navy raised this requirement from 31 in 2003 for active duty accessions. Reserve enlistment programs still only require a score of 31. Education-Like the Air Force, the Navy accepts very, very few recruits who don't have a high school diploma
The minimum AFQT score for enlistment in the Navy is 31 if you have a high school diploma, and 50 if you have a GED. In addition to scoring a 50, those with a GED must be at least 19 years old and must be able to prove their work history. GED recruits comprise only 5 to 10 percent of each year's Navy class. For applicants with a high school diploma, the minimum required AFQT score to enlist in the Coast Guard is 40, while GED applicants must score a 50. GED recruits make up only 5 percent of each year's Coast Guard class.
Your ASVAB score includes your Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT) score. For high school graduates, the required score is usually in the lower 30s, while those with a GED are usually required to score at least a 50. A good score for those who have graduated high school is considered to be a 35. For applicants with a high school diploma, the minimum required AFQT score to enlist in the Coast Guard is 40, while GED applicants must score a 50. GED recruits make up only 5 percent of each year's Coast Guard class.
Average ASVAB Score. Depending on what branch of the military you’re interested in, a good ASVAB score will fluctuate. Nationwide and across all branches, the “average” ASVAB score is between 42 and 50. A “blowout” score on the ASVAB is anything 92 and above. A score that high or higher will guarantee you have access to the best MOS available, including nuclear work for the Navy or work as a Ranger in the army. The top score is a 99 (as it is rated on a percentile basis) and the bottom score is a 1.
If you score a 90 you scored higher than 90% of those who took the test. So, the average ASVAB score would be the percentile value that puts you right in the middle of everyone who has taken the test or a score of 50. That score of 50 is also important because it’s the minimum score necessary to qualify for most enlistment bonuses like student load repayment and enlistment bonuses. It’s this percentile that represents your ASVAB score and ranks your results in comparison to others. For example, if you score a 60 on the ASVAB that means that you scored higher than 60% of those who took the test (you’re in the 60th percentile).
Best Answer: 60 percent of Army enlistees have an AFQT score in the Category I-IIIA range, which is: Category I - 93-99 Category II- 65-92 Category IIIA - 50-64 36 percent have: Category IIIB - 31-49 and 4 percent have: Category IVA - 21-30 The highest possible score (it is a percentile, not an overall score) is a 99. It's the AFQT and the GT Score that will let you know what Military Occupation Specality (MOS) you qualify for. You need a 31 on the AFQT to join and a 50 to get any MOS. Also the higher your AFQT the better your bonus will be.
ASVAB scores are measured against the scores of all other test takers; therefore, the average score is by definition 50, because that number falls in the middle of all possible scores. 
Best Answer: The AFQT score is a percentile score, so by definition a 50 is average. I believe that it is designed to be an averagescore for all Americans of military age. 65 might be an average score of people who actually enlist. As far as qualifying for a specific job, the AFQT score won't help you there. You need to look at your line scores. A 59 may equate to line scores that are high enough for medical jobs, but there's no way to tell from the information given.
Army. ASVAB Score-The Army requires a minimum AFQT Score of 31 to qualify for enlistment. However, in recent months, the Army has been approving more and more waivers for those with scores as low as 26 (Category IVA). Navy. ASVAB Score-Navy recruits must score at least 35 on the AFQT. The Navy raised this requirement from 31 in 2003 for active duty accessions. Reserve enlistment programs still only require a score of 31. Education-Like the Air Force, the Navy accepts very, very few recruits who don't have a high school diploma