Emotional Health Definition: Emotional health is defined by the degree to which you feel emotionally secure and relaxed in everyday life. An emotionally healthy person has a relaxed body, an open mind and an open heart. The more emotional health you have, the more self-esteem you have. If you inhibit your emotions and feelings you cannot achieve emotional health. This means an emotionally healthy person is assertive. Emotional Wellness Definition: Emotional health is on a continuum and fluctuates moment by moment. Emotional wellness is at the peak of this continuum. Emotionally wellness is when you has such a high degree of emotional health that you often radiate joy and feel high on lif
emotional. adj. 1. of, characteristic of, or expressive of emotion. 2. readily or excessively affected by emotion. 3. appealing to or arousing emotion: an emotional piece of music. e·mo·tion·al. adj. 1. Of or relating to emotion: an emotional illness; emotional crises. 2. Readily affected with or stirred by emotion: an emotional person who often weeps. 3. Arousing or intended to arouse the emotions: an emotional appeal
(Redirected from Emotional abuse). Psychological abuse, also referred to as emotional abuse or mental abuse, is a form of abuse characterized by a person subjecting or exposing another to behavior that may result in psychological trauma, including anxiety, chronic depression, or post-traumatic stress disorder. As such, clinicians and researchers have offered sometimes divergent definitions of emotional abuse. However, the widely used Conflict Tactics Scale measures roughly twenty distinct acts of psychological aggression in three different categories:
Emotional intelligence is the ability to identify and manage your own emotions and the emotions of others. It is generally said to include 3 skills: 1. Emotional awareness, including the ability to identify your own emotions and those of others; 2. The ability to harness emotions and apply them to tasks like thinking and problems solving; 3. The ability to manage emotions, including the ability to regulate your own emotions, and the ability to cheer up or calm down another person
Usage: Although emotive can be used as a synonym of emotional, as in sense 4, there are differences in meaning that should first be understood. Emotional is the more general and neutral word for referring to anything to do with the emotions and emotional states. e·mo·tion·al. adj. 1. Of or relating to emotion: an emotional illness; emotional crises. 2. Readily affected with or stirred by emotion: an emotional person who often weeps. 3. Arousing or intended to arouse the emotions: an emotional appeal
Emotion is, in everyday speech, a person 's state of feeling in the sense of an affect. Scientific discourse has drifted to other meanings and there is no consensus on a definition. Emotion is often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, and motivation. On some theories, cognition is an important aspect of emotion.
Adj. 1. emotional-determined or actuated by emotion rather than reason; it was an emotional judgment . Antonyms: cerebral, intellectual-involving intelligence rather than emotions or instinct; a cerebral approach to the problem; cerebral drama. 3. emotional-of or pertaining to emotion;  emotional health ; an emotional crisis . 4. emotional-extravagantly demonstrative;  insincere and effusive demonstrations of sentimental friendship ; a large gushing female ;  write unrestrained and gushy poetry . Synonyms: gushy, effusive, gushing.
A similar multicomponential description of emotion is found in sociology. For example, Peggy Thoits described emotions as involving physiological components, cultural or emotional labels (e.g., anger, surprise etc.), expressive body actions, and the appraisal of situations and contexts. Scientific discourse has drifted to other meanings and there is no consensus on a definition. Emotion is often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, and motivation. On some theories, cognition is an important aspect of emotion.