How to Store Baked Apple Pie: • You can keep baked apple pies at room temperature for up to two days. If the pie has been sliced, cover loosely with foil or plastic wrap. • Apple pie will keep for an additional 2-3 days in the refrigerator, loosely covered with foil or plastic wrap. • To freeze, wrap pie tightly with aluminum foil or plastic freezer wrap, or place in heavy-duty freezer bag.
Always bake pies on a baking sheet to prevent spillovers in the oven. Baking a pie with a raw fruit filling will take about an hour. Berry, apple, and pear pies cook for approximately 45 minutes. Most fruit pies bake at a temperature between 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
1 Use lard for the top crust and butter for the bottom. 2  If you don't think it's sweet enough, add half a cup more of sugar. 3  For an extra-flavorful crust, add 2 tsp of cinnamon to the flour, and substitute 5 Tbsp apple cider for the 5 Tbsp water. 1 For an extra-flavorful crust, add 2 tsp of cinnamon to the flour, and substitute 5 Tbsp apple cider for the 5 Tbsp water. 2  Place foil at the bottom of the oven below the pie.
1. Preheat the oven to the temperature that your recipe recommends. Most fruit pies bake at a temperature between 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). Some recipes call for baking the pie in a 450 degree F oven to begin with, then turning down the oven to about 350 degrees F
1 1 Tbsp of lemon juice or apple cider vinegar (to toss with the sliced apples so they don't brown as you slice them). 2  1/2 cup to 2/3 cup sugar, depending on how sweet you like your pie. 3  3 tablespoons all-purpose flour for thickening. 6 Arrange the apple slices in the dough-lined pie plate. Mound the apples in the center. 7 Roll out the second disk of dough, again to 12-inches. Gently place the second round of pie dough over the apples. Trim excess dough with kitchen shears, leaving a 3/4 inch overhang from the edges of the pie pan.
Sprinkle a little sugar and cinnamon over the pie. Cover the edges with foil to prevent over browning. Bake for 25 minutes. Remove the foil and bake for another 20 to 25 minutes, or until it is golden brown. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream. Filling: In a medium bowl combine the apples, with the brown and white sugar
Directions. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. In a medium-mixing bowl cut the shortening and salt into the flour by hand or with a pastry blender hands until it's the texture of cornmeal. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon of ice water over the mixture and mix just until the dough is moistened. Cover the edges with foil to prevent over browning. Bake for 25 minutes. Remove the foil and bake for another 20 to 25 minutes, or until it is golden brown. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream.
1 The length of time you will have to bake the pie depends on how cold your freezer is, how hot the oven is, and the amount of filling in the pie. 2  A good general rule is to bake the pie for 20-45 minutes longer than the recipe specifies for cooking normally. Continue baking the pie for another 45 minutes. 1  The length of time you will have to bake the pie depends on how cold your freezer is, how hot the oven is, and the amount of filling in the pie. 2  A good general rule is to bake the pie for 20-45 minutes longer than the recipe specifies for cooking normally.
Use the pie within 3-4 months of freezing for best quality. • Defrost the apple pie in the refrigerator and then re-heat in a 350˚ F oven until warm (about 30 minutes). How to Store Unbaked Apple Pie: • You can keep unbaked apple pies for up to two days in the refrigerator. Cover loosely with aluminum foil or plastic wrap. If the pie has been sliced, cover loosely with foil or plastic wrap. • Apple pie will keep for an additional 2-3 days in the refrigerator, loosely covered with foil or plastic wrap. • To freeze, wrap pie tightly with aluminum foil or plastic freezer wrap, or place in heavy-duty freezer bag.