The three long bones are your femur, your tibia and your fibula. The fourth bone is your small patella, which is better known as the kneecap. Your femur, or thighbone, is the largest bone in your body. The head of your femur fits into your hip socket and the bottom end connects to your knee. The two bones beneath your knee that make up your shin are your tibia and fibula. Your upper and lower leg are connected by a hinge joint
The patella is a sesamoid bone roughly triangular in shape, with the apex of the patella facing downards.The apex is the most inferior (lowest) part of the patella. It is pointed in shape, and gives attachment to the patellar ligament. The patella is found in most vertebrates such as mice, cats, and birds, but not in whales or most reptiles and amphibians such as snakes or frogs. In humans, the patella is the largest sesamoid bone in the body.
The patella is commonly referred to as the kneecap. It is a small, freestanding, bone that rests between the femur (thighbone) and tibia (shinbone). The femur has a dedicated groove along which the kneecap slides. As a form of protection, both bones also contain cartilage — strong, flexible tissue — in the areas near the patella.
For other uses, see Patella (disambiguation) . Kneecap redirects here. For other uses, see NECAP. The patella (/pəˈtɛlə/), also known as the kneecap or kneepan, is a thick, circular-triangular bone which articulates with the femur (thigh bone) and covers and protects the anterior articular surface of the knee joint. The patella is found in most vertebrates such as mice, cats, and birds, but not in whales or most reptiles and amphibians such as snakes or frogs. In humans, the patella is the largest sesamoid bone in the body.
Picture of the Knee. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The knee is one of the largest and most complex joints in the body. The knee joins the thigh bone (femur) to the shin bone (tibia). The smaller bone that runs alongside the tibia (fibula) and the kneecap (patella) are the other bones that make the knee joint. 
The patella, more commonly known as the kneecap, is the hard, triangular bone that protects the front of the knee joint. Seeming to float in front of the knee joint, it is actually connected by ligaments to the muscles above and below the knee. The patella, also known as the kneecap, is a rounded triangular bone that connects the upper leg to the lower leg. The patella is involved in movements that straighten the leg, such as leg extensions. The knee is the largest and most injured joint in the body. View slideshow of images above.
Most people know the patella as the kneecap. The patella, also known as the kneecap, is a rounded triangular bone that connects the upper leg to the lower leg. The patella is involved in movements that straighten the leg, such as leg extensions. The knee is the largest and most injured joint in the body. View slideshow of images above.
Bones of the knee joint. The knee is made up of four main bones-the femur or thigh bone, the tibia which is known as the shin bone, the fibula or outer shin bone and patella or kneecap. The main movements of the knee joint occur between the femur, patella and tibia
Knee joint is the largest and most complicated joint of human body. Basically, it consists of three bones and two joints. The bones are Femur, Tibia and Patella while the joints are tibiofemoral and patellofemoral joints. 