William Faulkner's novels, such as The Sound and the Fury are also fragmented in form, consisting of disjointed and nonlinear narratives. Modernist literature embraces fragmentation as a literary form, since it reinforces the fragmentation of reality and contradicts Hegelian notions of totality and wholeness. During the First World War, the world witnessed the chaos and destruction of which modern man was capable. The modernist American literature produced during the time reflects such themes of destruction and chaos.
Modernism is a recent period of Western or World Civilization; modernity or modernization is a historical process rather than a period. Modernization or modernity is ongoing since emergence of humanism and modern science in Classical Greece, or at least since the Renaissance. 
Related to the theme of destruction is the theme of fragmentation. Fragmentation in modernist literature is thematic, as well as formal. Plot, characters, theme, images, and narrative form itself are broken. Take, for instance, T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land, which depicts a modern waste land of crumbled cities. During the First World War, the world witnessed the chaos and destruction of which modern man was capable. The modernist American literature produced during the time reflects such themes of destruction and chaos.
noun. 1 The process or state of breaking or being broken into fragments: the fragmentation of society into a collection of interest groups. More example sentences. 1  To my mind it is certainly correct that the government-imposed fragmentations are the cause of our current problems. 1.1 Computing The storing of a file in several separate areas of memory scattered throughout a hard disk. Example sentences. 1  Similar to a disk defragmenter, Registry Compactor analyzes the Registry and checks for fragmentation. 2  In addition to data fragmentation, there is the issue of data completeness and quality.
Modernist literature sees fragmentation and extreme subjectivity as an existential crisis, or Freudian internal conflict, a problem that must be solved, and the artist is often cited as the one to solve it. Though postmodernist literature does not include everything written in the postmodern period, several post-war developments in literature (such as the Theatre of the Absurd, the Beat Generation, and Magic Realism) have significant similarities.
Add comment. This essay will focus on two modernist works by Virginia Woolf and E. M. Forster, which might in fact be regarded as very different concerning their subject matter and style. Despite a relatively long time span between these works, the novels are dealing with similar modernist aspects insofar as they are both considering the changes of a society under the influence of modern life, resulting in a social fragmentation caused by political developments within Europe.
This is a common technique in modernist fiction: fragmentation and non-linear narratives are central features in both modern and postmodern literature. Temporal distortion in postmodern fiction is used in a variety of ways, often for the sake of irony. Historiographic metafiction (see above) is an example of this. Though postmodernist literature does not include everything written in the postmodern period, several post-war developments in literature (such as the Theatre of the Absurd, the Beat Generation, and Magic Realism) have significant similarities.
Best Answer: If I understand your question correctly, you are making reference to an aspect that is common to modernist and postmodern literature. Fragmentation refers the importance of non-linear narratives and the focus on styles that challenge the ideas of mimesis. 
Fragmentation is another important aspect of postmodern literature. Various elements, concerning plot, characters, themes, imagery and factual references are fragmented and dispersed throughout the entire work. Though postmodernist literature does not include everything written in the postmodern period, several post-war developments in literature (such as the Theatre of the Absurd, the Beat Generation, and Magic Realism) have significant similarities.
What does it mean if a disk is fragmented? If a disk is fragmented, this means that the files in your computer  are spread out all over the disk taking up too much space. This can  be corrected by defragmentation whi … ch consolidate all the data. 1 person found this useful. A sentence fragment has no object; either no subject or no verb.   As has been pointed out on the Simpsons, Sentence Fragment is, itself, a sentence fragment.   … For example,   The fox, the dog..   Doesn't have a verb-it doesn't stand up as a sentence.