Diet. All tigers are carnivores. Most of a tiger's diet consists of large prey, such as pigs, deer, rhinos or elephant calves. To kill their prey, tigers will clamp down on the animal's neck with their jaws and suffocate the animal. Larger subspecies, such as the Siberian tiger, tend to live in northern, colder areas, such as eastern Russia and northeastern China. Smaller subspecies live in southern, warmer countries, such as India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia.
The Sumatran tiger is the smallest subspecies of tiger in the world, with male Sumatran tigers rarely growing to 2.5 meters in length. Humans that hunt the Sumatran tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Sumatran tiger. After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Sumatran tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Sumatran tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless.
Sumatran tiger is a subspecies of the Bengal tiger, known as Panthera tigris sumatrae. As the subspecies name indicates, they naturally range in Sumatra and in Indonesia as well. Sumatran tiger is one of the critically endangered animals in the world, according to IUCN, and there are only 300 surviving individuals. Filed Under: Animals Tagged With: Bengal tigers, endangered species, Indian tigers, national animal of Bangladesh, P. t. tigris, Panthera tigris, Panthera tigris sumatrae, Sumatran Tigers.
Both Bengal and Sumatran tigers are magnificent creatures, naturally ranging in two regions of Asia. There is a very close relationship between them as both of them belong in the same species, but different subspecies. They are two of Asia’s most iconic animals, apart from Asian Elephant and Giant Panda. Filed Under: Animals Tagged With: Bengal tigers, endangered species, Indian tigers, national animal of Bangladesh, P. t. tigris, Panthera tigris, Panthera tigris sumatrae, Sumatran Tigers.
The Sumatran tiger is quite different in appearance to other tiger species as the stripes of the Sumatran tiger are narrower than those of other tiger species and they also have larger manes. Sumatran tigers have slightly webbed paws which allows them to swim more efficiently after their prey. Humans that hunt the Sumatran tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Sumatran tiger. After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Sumatran tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Sumatran tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless.
The Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica), also known as the Amur tiger, is a tiger subspecies inhabiting mainly the Sikhote Alin mountain region with a small population in southwest Primorye Province in the Russian Far East. A comparison of data on body weights of Siberian tigers indicates that up to the first half of the 20th century both males and females were on average heavier than post-1970 ones. Today's wild Siberian tigers are lighter than Bengal tigers.
Habitat. Tigers live in Asia. Larger subspecies, such as the Siberian tiger, tend to live in northern, colder areas, such as eastern Russia and northeastern China. Smaller subspecies live in southern, warmer countries, such as India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia.
• Bengal and Sumatran tigers are two subspecies of the same species. • They naturally range in two different regions of Asia. • Bengali tiger has proven themselves with their abilities to survive in a range of habitats including cold mountains and hot mangroves. Filed Under: Animals Tagged With: Bengal tigers, endangered species, Indian tigers, national animal of Bangladesh, P. t. tigris, Panthera tigris, Panthera tigris sumatrae, Sumatran Tigers.
The Siberian tiger and Bengal tiger subspecies rank among the biggest living cats. A comparison of data on body weights of Siberian tigers indicates that up to the first half of the 20th century both males and females were on average heavier than post-1970 ones. Today's wild Siberian tigers are lighter than Bengal tigers.
The Siberian tigers also known as Panthera tigris are considered as the most dangerous and endangered tiger species of the world with their population of about 5,500 to 7,500 tigers left in the wild and in captivity. Siberian tigers are very massive and powerful animals. The Siberian tiger can reach a length of 130 inches (286 centimeters) which makes it the largest of the different tiger variants. The Siberian tiger also has a very broad muzzle compared to other tiger variants, and male Siberian tigers usually have mane.