Date Time Calculator. Instructions: Select the month and day and enter the 4-digit year for the starting date. Next, select the optional starting time (hours, minutes, seconds) and then select Add or Subtract for the date math you would like performed. Finally, enter the number of date and time units you would like added or subtracted from the starting date, then click the Calculate Date and Time button. Simply select today as the starting date, now as the starting time, add as the operation to perform, and enter the desired number of days to add to the date, and the calculator will tell you the resulting date -- along with the time and day of the week.
Final Time. Time of the Day Calculator. Using 24 hours format, add or subtract the time in a day, and returns the result time in a day. For Example: at 08:22:43, adds 2hr + 41min + 23sec is 11:04:06 in the same day. at 04:14:29, subtract 20hr - 5min - 32sec is 08:08:57 another day.
Date and time calculator: Add to or subtract from a date and time. This service enable you to add or subtract to a date to calculate a past or future date and time.
Directions. Add or Subtract hours and/or minutes. Enter first hours and minutes From:. Enter second hours and minutes below From:. When you subtract, the greater number of hours and minutes should be entered first. Select add or subtract. 
[ Skip to Calculator ]. The online Date Time Calculator on this page will quickly add or subtract spans of time to or from a date of your choosing! This free online date calculator will subtract or add days, weeks, months, years, hours, minutes, and seconds from or to the date and time you select. Note that if you would like to find the number of days between two dates, or the number of days left until a certain date, please visit the Date Difference Calculator. Simply select today as the starting date, now as the starting time, add as the operation to perform, and enter the desired number of days to add to the date, and the calculator will tell you the resulting date -- along with the time and day of the week.
Time Calculator. You can add or subtract two time values with this calculator. If you are looking to add or subtract some time from a date, please use the date calculator. Please provide the values in the fields above the =. Then click the Calculate button to calculate. When entering, you can leave some fields blank. These fields will be taken as 0 by default.
Time Calculator is online tool that allows you to add time given in hh:mm:ss.ms (hour, minute,second,millisecond) format as well as decimal format. It could work as time converter that converts hours to minutes, minutes to hours, seconds to minutes, minutes to seconds, hours to seconds. 