Autoimmune inner ear disease (AIED) is an inflammatory condition of the inner ear. It occurs when the body's immune system attacks cells in the inner ear that are mistaken for a virus or bacteria. AIED is a rare disease occurring in less than one percent of the 28 million Americans with a hearing loss. 
Autoimmune inner ear disease (AIED) is the name used to describe the variety of disorders in which the ear is the sole target of an inappropriate attack by the immune system. This disorder differs from other vestibular disorders because medical treatment can succeed when given early and aggressively. Diagnosing an autoimmune disorder as the cause of inner ear symptoms can be difficult. To succeed, a physician must have training and experience in these disorders.
Autoimmune Inner Ear Disease (AIED) is a poorly understood syndrome of potentially reversible progressive sensorineural hearing loss with or without dizziness. The classic clinical presentation of this disease is with bilateral fluctuating progressive sensorineural hearing loss occurring over several months. 
Diagnosis Treatment. Autoimmune inner ear disease or AIED consists of a syndrome of progressive hearing loss and/or dizziness which is caused by antibodies or immune cells which are attacking the inner ear. Goodall reviewed current understanding of AIED in 2015. Susac syndrome (microangiopathy of ear, brain and eye) is a disorder in which deafness, reduced vision, and encephalopathy may all present simultaneously. The encephalopathy manifests with headache, confusion, memory loss, behavioral changes, dysarthria and occasional mutism.
Autoimmune Inner Ear Disease. AIED occurs when the body's immune system attacks cells in the inner ear that are mistaken for a virus or bacteria. AIED is a rare disease occuring in less than 1% of the 28 million Americans with a hearing loss. It can happen in isolation (as just labyrinthine disease) or as part of other systemic autoimmune disorders. Since that time, autoimmune inner ear disease (AIED) or immune-mediated sensorineural hearing loss, has taken its place as a cause of sensorineural hearing loss and vestibular symptoms.
Autoimmune inner ear disease (AIED) is a syndrome of progressive hearing loss, tinnitus, balance problems, dizziness and vertigo that is caused by antibodies or immune system cells attacking the inner ear. Frequently, individuals with AIED also have other autoimmune disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis, systemic lupus erthematosus (SLE), Sjogren’s syndrome, Cogan’s disease, ulcerative colitis, Wegener’s granulomatosis, rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, or Behcet’s syndrome.
Autoimmune inner ear disease (AIED) is a syndrome of progressive hearing loss and/or dizziness that is caused by antibodies or immune cells which are attacking the inner ear. 1 Cross-reactions: Antibodies or rogue T-cells cause accidental inner ear damage because the ear shares common antigens with a potentially harmful substance, virus, or bacteria that the body is fighting off.
AIED defined How common is it Diagnosis Treatment Education Index. Autoimmune inner ear disease or AIED consists of a syndrome of progressive hearing loss and/or dizziness which is caused by antibodies or immune cells which are attacking the inner ear. 
Autoimmune inner ear disease is a suspected autoimmune disease characterized by rapidly progressive bilateral sensorineural hearing loss. Autoimmune inner ear disease was first described by Dr. Brian McCabe of the University of Iowa in 1979.