The CPU itself often has a fan on top — so the CPU is inserted into the socket on the motherboard, thermal paste is applied to the top of the CPU, and the heat sink is attached to the CPU. The fan is placed on top of the heat sink, ensuring the hot air is blown away from the heat sink and CPU.
A Central Processing Unit (CPU). Heat sinks help prevent CPU overheating. A heatsink is the part of a computer designed to move heat away from a computer's central processing unit.
How to Keep Your Computer From Overheating. Most computers come with adequate cooling systems and plenty of fans, but here are some steps you can take to ensure heat doesn't become a problem. Keep it clean: The first step in overheating prevention is making sure that the insides of the computer are kept clean.
For example, your CPU probably has a heat sink on top of it — that’s the large, metal object. CPUs don’t just have heat sinks — if you have a dedicated graphics card, your GPU probably has a heat sink as well. Other components on your motherboard may have their own heat sinks, too. Heat moves from the heat-generating component to the heat sink pressed against it.
Report Abuse. To stop a computer from overheating never keep a cloth or something else on the CPU or monitor. Also use the save energy option from properties so as to switch off the monitor when not in use. This will always help in keeping the computer cool and not overheating it.
Step 5: Placing the computer in a cooler room. If your computer is overheating, place it in a cooler room. A small difference in temperature might be all that is needed to prevent a component from failing. Move the computer to a cooler room in the house or office. If this is not an option, continue with the next step.
The cooling system of your computer is one of the most important features of the device. Without the cooling system, the electrical components of your computer wouldn't be able to function; overheating would damage the integral parts of what makes your computer work.