Proto-oncogenes code for proteins that help to regulate cell growth and differentiation. Proto-oncogenes are often involved in signal transduction and execution of mitogenic signals, usually through their protein products. Upon activation, a proto-oncogene (or its product) becomes a tumor-inducing agent, an oncogene. Most oncogenes require an additional step, such as mutations in another gene, or environmental factors, such as viral infection, to cause cancer. Since the 1970s, dozens of oncogenes have been identified in human cancer. Many cancer drugs target the proteins encoded by oncogenes.
The difference between proto-oncogene and oncogene classes lie in their functions in the body. The proto-oncogene functions to facilitate cell growth for human development while the oncogene often promotes proliferation of abnormal cells that lead to cancer formation. Proto-oncogenes are usually responsible in making proteins which are important in stimulating division of cells, in stopping apoptosis or cell death, and in controlling cell differentiation. These processes are often necessary in the growth and maintenance of body organs and tissues.
Cancer arises in part through damage to normal genes (known as “proto-oncogenes”), which can arise from exposures to cancer-promoting agents, such as UV light. That damage permanently switches the gene on, transforming it into an oncogene that helps push cells to become cancerous. An oncogene is a kind of abnormal gene that predisposes cells to develop into cancers. Unlike normal genes, which can be turned off after being turned on, oncogenes are altered in a way that keeps them stuck in a state of constant activity.
Proto-oncogene: A normal gene which, when altered by mutation, becomes an oncogene that can contribute to cancer. Proto-oncogenes may have many different functions in the cell. Some proto-oncogenes provide signals that lead to cell division. Other proto-oncogenes regulate programmed cell death (apoptosis). The defective versions of proto-oncogenes, known as oncogenes, can cause a cell to divide in an unregulated manner.
Proto-oncogenes are genes whose products promote cell growth and division. They do this by encoding transcription factors that stimulate the expression of other genes, signal transduction molecules that stimulate cell division, or cell cycle regulators that move the ell through the cell cycle. In these cases, the proto-oncogene product is continually in an on state, which may constantly stimulate the cell to divide. When a proto-oncogene is mutated or aberrantly expressed, and contributes to the development of cancer, it is known as an oncogene.
An oncogene is a gene that has the potential to cause cancer. In tumor cells, they are often mutated or expressed at high levels. Most normal cells will undergo a programmed form of rapid cell death (apoptosis) when critical functions are altered. Most oncogenes require an additional step, such as mutations in another gene, or environmental factors, such as viral infection, to cause cancer. Since the 1970s, dozens of oncogenes have been identified in human cancer. Many cancer drugs target the proteins encoded by oncogenes.
Oncogenes. Proto-oncogenes are genes that normally help cells grow. When a proto-oncogene mutates (changes) or there are too many copies of it, it becomes a bad gene that can become permanently turned on or activated when it is not supposed to be. 
Figure 1. Proto-oncogenes are a group of genes that cause normal cells to become cancerous when they are mutated (Adamson, 1987; Weinstein & Joe, 2006). Mutations in proto-oncogenes are typically dominant in nature, and the mutated version of a proto-oncogene is called an oncogene. Often, proto-oncogenes encode proteins that function to stimulate cell division, inhibit cell differentiation, and halt cell death
A proto-oncogene is normally converted to an oncogene by mutation of the gene that encodes the proto-oncogene. Often, this leads to de-regulation of the proto-oncogene … s activity and typically abarrent signal transduction in the cell, which may lead to cellular transformation. 1 person found this useful. In these cases, the proto-oncogene product is continually in an on state, which may constantly stimulate the cell to divide. When a proto-oncogene is mutated or aberrantly expressed, and contributes to the development of cancer, it is known as an oncogene.