Clinical trials are research studies that explore whether a medical strategy, treatment, or device is safe and effective for humans. These studies also may show which medical approaches work best for certain illnesses or groups of people. Clinical trials produce the best data available for health care decisionmaking. In later phases of clinical trials, researchers learn more about the new approach's risks and benefits. A clinical trial may find that a new strategy, treatment, or device. 1  improves patient outcomes; 2  offers no benefit; or. 3  causes unexpected harm.
Clinical trials are human research studies that test new drugs or treatments in a lab environment and compares them to current, standard treatments. Patient testing occurs if lab results suggest the treatment is effective and safe. 
1 Positive trial -- The clinical trial shows that the new treatment has a large beneficial effect and is superior to standard treatment. 2  Non-inferior trial -- The clinical trial shows that that the new treatment is equivalent to standard treatment. 3  Also called a non-inferiority trial. Definition of Clinical trials. Clinical trials: Trials to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of medications or medical devices by monitoring their effects on large groups of people.
Clinical research trials are sometimes lifesaving. There are four possible outcomes from a clinical trial: 1  Positive trial -- The clinical trial shows that the new treatment has a large beneficial effect and is superior to standard treatment. 2  Non-inferior trial -- The clinical trial shows that that the new treatment is equivalent to standard treatment. Definition of Clinical trials. Clinical trials: Trials to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of medications or medical devices by monitoring their effects on large groups of people.
clinical trial. Clinical medical trial, clinical research trial Research A controlled study involving human subjects, designed to evaluate prospectively the safety and effectiveness of new drugs or devices or behavioral interventions. See Drug discovery, IND, Phase I, II, and III studies. Four phases of clinical trial are distinguished. Phase I trials usually involve fewer than 100 healthy volunteers who are exposed to a new drug or procedure. Such studies seek to establish optimal dosage and route of administration and to detect adverse reactions.
A clinical trial is a research program conducted with patients to evaluate a new medical treatment, drug, or device. The purpose of clinical trials is to find new and improved methods of treating, preventing, screening for, and diagnosing different diseases. During a clinical trial, doctors use the best available treatment as a standard to evaluate new treatments. The new treatments are hoped to be at least as effective as -- or possibly more effective than -- current
Share this: Page Content. Clinical research is research that directly involves a particular person or group of people, or that uses materials from humans, such as their behavior or samples of their tissue. A clinical trial is one type of clinical research that follows a pre-defined plan or protocol. By taking part in clinical trials, participants can not only play a more active role in their own health care, but they can also access new treatments and help others by contributing to medical research. The NICHD is involved in all aspects of clinical trials and clinical research.
Clinical Trials. Clinical trials are studies in which people volunteer to take part in tests of new drugs or procedures. Doctors use clinical trials to develop new treatments for serious diseases such as cancer
Clinical research is research that directly involves a particular person or group of people, or that uses materials from humans, such as their behavior or samples of their tissue. By taking part in clinical trials, participants can not only play a more active role in their own health care, but they can also access new treatments and help others by contributing to medical research. The NICHD is involved in all aspects of clinical trials and clin