Average CTR (or average click-through rate) is the ratio of ad clicks to impressions in your AdWords campaigns. Accordingly, anything over 2% can be considered an above average CTR. However, it’s important to note that average CTR, as well as other key metrics, like conversion rate, can vary widely by industry, because some industries are more competitive than others.
CTR can be used to gauge how well your keywords and ads are performing. 1  CTR is the number of clicks that your ad receives divided by the number of times your ad is shown expressed as a percentage (clicks ÷ impressions = CTR). 2  For example, if you had 5 clicks and 1000 impressions, then your CTR would be 0.5%. 1 Find them on your Campaigns tab. 2  A high CTR is a good indication that users find your ads helpful and relevant. 3  CTR also contributes to your keyword's expected CTR (a component of Quality Score), which can affect your costs and ad position.
According to Google, the average click-through rate on AdWords paid search ads is 2%. Accordingly, anything over 2% can be considered an above average CTR. However, it’s important to note that average CTR, as well as other key metrics, like conversion rate, can vary widely by industry, because some industries are more competitive than others.
Based upon these factors, a good account CTR is 2%. Others would argue that 2% is too low. I’m not advocating that once you hit 2% CTR, you’re in the clear. You should constantly strive to improve CTR in conjunction with your cost per conversion and conversion rate goals. My stance is that with all factors considered in today’s PPC world, a 2% account CTR should be deemed good. Even though I’ve defined a good CTR as 2%, we should always be striving for higher. The 2% figure represents a good account wide CTR when including Search, Shopping, and Display. The thought is that with a 2% CTR the account is in good shape and will continue improving.
Click Through Rate is the percentage of clicks you have received from a number of impressions. E.G. If my AdWords ad had 500 impressions and 50 people clicked on my ad my CTR would be 10%. 
While basic CTR measures the rate of clicks on each ad, average CTR calculates the amount of clicks vs. impressions across your campaign, or for each individual keyword. A low ad CTR is problematic, as it can drag down your Quality Scores and affect future ad placement. Accordingly, anything over 2% can be considered an above average CTR. However, it’s important to note that average CTR, as well as other key metrics, like conversion rate, can vary widely by industry, because some industries are more competitive than others.
1 For example, if you had 5 clicks and 1000 impressions, then your CTR would be 0.5%. 2  Here's how it's calculated: 3  Each of your ads and keywords have their own CTRs that you can see listed in your account. 4  Find them on your Campaigns tab. 5  A high CTR is a good indication that users find your ads helpful and relevant. 1 Find them on your Campaigns tab. 2  A high CTR is a good indication that users find your ads helpful and relevant. 3  CTR also contributes to your keyword's expected CTR (a component of Quality Score), which can affect your costs and ad position.
It all depends on the product, competition and industry. Like conversions, in my opinion, CTR’s below 1 percent are failing. A 1.5 percent CTR is average or acceptable. My goal for every SEM campaign is to achieve least a 2% Click-Through-Rate. Other types of platform campaigns such as Google display ads, Facebook and Twitter advertising tend to have a much lower average click-through-rate. These rates are usually well under 1 percent. Google AdWords is a dominate form of Search Engine Marketing (SEM) and a major player in digital advertising. These are the ads you see above and on the side of your organic search engine results. These ads tend to earn a higher click-through-rate (CTR) compared to other digital marketing platforms.
Expected clickthrough rate. A keyword status that measures how likely it is that your ads will get clicked when shown for that keyword, irrespective of your ad's position, extensions, and other ad formats that may affect the visibility of your ads. 
Click-through rate (CTR) is the number of users who click on a specific link out of the total users who view a page, email, or advertisement. It is commonly used to measure the success of an online advertising campaign for a particular website as well as the effectiveness of email campaigns. 