The Backboard and Rim: The regulation distance from the ground to the top of the rim is 10 feet for all levels of play. Regulation backboards are 6 feet wide (72 inches) by 42 inches tall. All basketball rims (hoops) are 18 inches in diameter. The inner square on the backboard is 24 inches wide by 18 inches tall. All line markings on the floor are 2 inches wide and can vary in color.
Dimensions of the Basketball Backboard. The official backboard in the NBA measures 3.5 feet high and 6 feet wide. Usually, it is made from tempered glass or fiberglass. Somewhere at the middle part of the backboard is a rectangle, which is used primarily for making bank shots. It measures 1.5 feet high and 2 feet wide. The dimensions of the backboard in other basketball organizations such as the Women’s National Basketball Association or WNBA and the National Collegiate Athletic Association or NCAA are patterned after the NBA. The same also goes for high school games and Olympic basketball competitions.
Basketball Court Dimensions. Basketball court dimensions are as follows: #1 NBA/NCAA-regulation basketball court dimension is 94' long by 50' wide. #2 High School basketball court dimension measure 84' long by 50' wide. #3 Jr. High School basketball court dimension measure 74' long and 42' wide. Click here for a diagram layout of basketball court dimensions. Click here to learn how to draw a three point line. A key basketball court dimension for installation purposes is the distance from the baseline to the face of the backboard
Regulation backboards are 6 feet wide (72 inches) by 42 inches tall. All basketball rims (hoops) are 18 inches in diameter. The inner square on the backboard is 24 inches wide by 18 inches tall. All line markings on the floor are 2 inches wide and can vary in color. The “foul line” is 18 feet 10 inches from the baseline. The Key: “The key” (sometimes called “the lane”) for an NBA/Professional court is 16 feet wide. Regulation courts have the backboard extending out 4 feet over the baseline into the key. A 6 foot arc (half circle) extends from the foul line away from the basket to complete the key
The Professional NBA and (WNBA) Court is 94 feet long and 50 feet wide. Note: WNBA Basketball Court Dimensions are the same in every respect as the NBA. The Foul Line: For all courts including the NBA, the “foul line” distance is 15 feet from the foul line to the front of the backboard. The “foul line” is 18 feet 10 inches from the baseline. The Key: “The key” (sometimes called “the lane”) for an NBA/Professional court is 16 feet wide. Regulation courts have the backboard extending out 4 feet over the baseline into the key. A 6 foot arc (half circle) extends from the foul line away from the basket to complete the key
The shock of a basket or a dunk is absorbed by the connecting part, so that the rim goes back to a horizontal position once again. The top of the hoop is 10 feet above the ground. Regulation backboards are 6 feet wide (72 inches) by 42 inches tall. All basketball rims (hoops) are 18 inches in diameter. The inner rectangle on the backboard is 24 inches wide by 18 inches tall. It is a raised vertical board with a basket attached. It is made of a flat, rigid piece of material, often Plexiglas. It is usually rectangular as used in NBA, NCAA and international basketball. But many backboards may be oval or a fan-shape, particularly in non-professional games.
NBA and NCAA Backboard Dimensions. The backboard dimension requirements set forth by the National Basketball Association have only a slight difference from the regulations of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. According to both organizations, the basketball backboard must be a flat, transparent board that is 6 feet wide. The NBA allows only one height, 3 1/2 feet.