Atrophic endometrium, also inactive endometrium, is the normal finding in postmenopausal women. It is also known as atrophy of the endometrium and endometrial atrophy. An introduction to the endometrium is found in the endometrium article. General. 1  Endometrium of normal postmenopausal women. 2  Menopause typically happens at around 50 years old. 3  Very common diagnosis. 4  Atrophy may be associated with bleeding and therefore biopsied to rule-out hyperplasia and malignancy.
Endometrial atrophy (thinning of the endometrium): The endometrium, the tissue that lines the uterus, can become very thin after menopause because of lower estrogen levels. This may cause unexpected bleeding. Even a little spotting is not normal after menopause. If you have postmenopausal bleeding, make an appointment to see your doctor as soon as possible. It could be caused by a number of health problems, some of which are serious. Here are the most common causes of postmenopausal bleeding.
Hello Ladies, I wonder if anyone has been diagnosed with endometrial atrophy. I am 52 and post menopause. After 14 months without periods, I bled fairly lightly for about 5 days in December 2013. I went straight to the doctors and was sent to gynaecologist for scans and biopsy. The most common causes are: inflammation and thinning of the vaginal lining (atrophic vaginitis) or womb lining (endometrial atrophy) – caused by lower oestrogen levels. cervical or womb polyps – growths, which are usually non-cancerous, that can form in the cervix (neck of the womb) or the womb itself.
However, the most common cause of bleeding in these women is atrophy of the vaginal mucosa or endometrium [ 3 ]. In the early menopausal years, endometrial hyperplasia, polyps, and submucosal fibroids are also common etiologies [ 4 ]. The evaluation of postmenopausal women with vaginal bleeding will be reviewed here. Evaluation and management of premenopausal women with vaginal bleeding is discussed separately.
INTRODUCTION. Postmenopausal bleeding (PMB) refers to any uterine bleeding in a menopausal woman (other than the expected cyclic bleeding that occurs in women taking sequential postmenopausal hormone therapy). It accounts for about 5 percent of office gynecology visits [ 1 ]. In the early menopausal years, endometrial hyperplasia, polyps, and submucosal fibroids are also common etiologies [ 4 ]. The evaluation of postmenopausal women with vaginal bleeding will be reviewed here. Evaluation and management of premenopausal women with vaginal bleeding is discussed separately.
Often the atrophic endometrium is associated with cystic dilatation of glands where it is then termed endometrial cystic atrophy 4. Other factors that can cause endometrial atrophy include. 1  prolonged oral contraception. 2  hypo-oestrogenic state: ovarian dysfunction. 3  Tamoxifen use. 
Postmenopausal bleeding (PMB) refers to any uterine bleeding in a menopausal woman (other than the expected cyclic bleeding that occurs in women taking sequential postmenopausal hormone therapy). In the early menopausal years, endometrial hyperplasia, polyps, and submucosal fibroids are also common etiologies [ 4 ]. The evaluation of postmenopausal women with vaginal bleeding will be reviewed here. Evaluation and management of premenopausal women with vaginal bleeding is discussed separately.
Hi Sharon. i too am post menopause and endometrial Atrophy is normal, is thinning of the Uterine wall, which happens in menopause and post menopause .. mine was scanned and measured in August, and was 4.1mm i was told its nice and thin and may thin more yet as in august i was just One year post menopause .. The most common causes are: inflammation and thinning of the vaginal lining (atrophic vaginitis) or womb lining (endometrial atrophy) – caused by lower oestrogen levels. cervical or womb polyps – growths, which are usually non-cancerous, that can form in the cervix (neck of the womb) or the womb itself.
• Endometrial hyperplasia—In this condition, the lining of the uterus thickens. It can cause irregular or heavy bleeding. Endometrial hyperplasia most often is caused by excess estrogen without enough progesterone. In some cases, the cells of the lining become abnormal. This condition, called atypical hyperplasia, can lead to cancer of the uterus. When endometrial hyperplasia is diagnosed and treated early, endometrial cancer often can be prevented.
Endometrial hyperplasia: In this condition, the lining of the uterus becomes thick, and bleeding may occur as a result. Obesity may be the cause of the problem. Some people with endometrial hyperplasia may have abnormal cells that can lead to endometrial cancer (cancer of the uterine lining). Endometrial cancer (uterine cancer): Bleeding after menopause can be a sign of endometrial cancer. Other causes: Hormone therapy, infection of the uterus or cervix, use of certain medications such as blood thinners, and other types of cancer can cause postmenopausal bleeding. Even a little spotting is not normal after menopause. If you have postmenopausal bleeding, make an appointment to see your doctor as soon as possible. It could be caused by a number of health problems, some of which are serious. Here are the most common causes of