The most common names for sugar are: barley malt, corn syrup, dextrose, fruit juice concentrate, glucose, high-fructose corn syrup, maltodextrin, maltose, molasses, raw sugar, sucrose and turbinado sugar. Here’s a more complete sugar list with 69 sugar names. Some of the major sources of highly refined grains and hidden sugars that cause high glycemic blood sugar problems are: sodas, ketchup, cereals, fruit juice, jams, jellies, canned fruit, prepared foods, ice cream, cookies, candy, cakes, pies, pastries and most other desserts.
This list of sugar facts and sugar names will help you uncover the many hidden sugars that are tucked away everywhere in our food today. Food and beverage manufacturers in cahoots with the sugar industry consistently look for new sugar names to add to their long sugar list. Some of the major sources of highly refined grains and hidden sugars that cause high glycemic blood sugar problems are: sodas, ketchup, cereals, fruit juice, jams, jellies, canned fruit, prepared foods, ice cream, cookies, candy, cakes, pies, pastries and most other desserts.
In the United States, seven intensely sweet sugar substitutes have been approved for use. They are stevia, aspartame, sucralose, neotame, acesulfame potassium (Ace-K), saccharin, and advantame. Cyclamates are used outside the U.S., but have been prohibited in the U.S. since 1969. The majority of sugar substitutes approved for food use are artificially synthesized compounds. However, some bulk natural sugar substitutes are known, including sorbitol and xylitol, which are found in berries, fruit, vegetables, and mushrooms.
There are five dangerous sugar substitutes that are approved for consumer use: saccharin, neotame, acesulfame potassium, aspartame, and sucralose. Of the five main artificial sweeteners, sucralose and aspartame are the most pervasive and dangerous substitutes found in products on store shelves today. 2. This additive is sold under the names Equal and NutraSweet and there are thousands of other everyday products that contain aspartame, too. Just to name a few: yogurt, sodas, pudding, tabletop sugar substitutes, chewing gum, bread, etc.
Sugar substitutes are used in many processed foods and drinks, including baked goods, soft drinks, powdered drink mixes, candy, puddings, canned foods, jellies, and dairy products. Check the ingredient list on the Nutrition Facts Label for the names of the sugar substitutes listed above. The following sugar substitutes are FDA-approved as food additives in the United States: ( 1 brand names: Sunett and Sweet One). 2  Advantame. 3  Aspartame (two brand names: Equal and Nutrasweet). 4  Neotame (brand name: Newtame). 5  Saccharin (two brand names: Sweet ‘N Low and Sweet Twin).
A sugar substitute is a food additive that provides a sweet taste like that of sugar while containing significantly less food energy. Some sugar substitutes are natural and some are synthetic. Those that are not natural are, in general, called artificial sweeteners. The majority of sugar substitutes approved for food use are artificially synthesized compounds. However, some bulk natural sugar substitutes are known, including sorbitol and xylitol, which are found in berries, fruit, vegetables, and mushrooms.
Some non-sugar sweeteners are polyols, also known as  sugar alcohols . These are, in general, less sweet than sucrose but have similar bulk properties and can be used in a wide range of food products. Sometimes the sweetness profile is 'fine-tuned' by mixing with high-intensity sweeteners. The majority of sugar substitutes approved for food use are artificially synthesized compounds. However, some bulk natural sugar substitutes are known, including sorbitol and xylitol, which are found in berries, fruit, vegetables, and mushrooms.
Today artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes are found in a variety of food and beverages; they're marketed as sugar-free or diet, including soft drinks, chewing gum, jellies, baked goods, candy, fruit juice, and ice cream and yogurt. Sugar substitutes are loosely considered any sweetener that you use instead of regular table sugar (sucrose). Artificial sweeteners are just one type of sugar substitute. The chart lists some popular sugar substitutes and how they're commonly categorized.
Granular sucralose is the form used when baking. Substitute 1 cup granular sucralose for each cup of sugar called for in the recipe. Recipes made with this product tend to bake faster than usual, so check for doneness sooner than the recipe specifies. It is sold under the brand name Splenda®. When substituting molasses for sugar, use 1 1/3 cups molasses for 1 cup sugar, and reduce the amount of liquid in the recipe by 5 tablespoons. Molasses is also more acidic than sugar; add ½ teaspoon baking soda for each cup of molasses used.