According to our survey results, the average divorce in Florida cost $18,600, including $13,800 in attorney’s fees. That’s 45% higher than the national average in total costs, and 36% higher than the national average for attorney’s fees. Our readers in Florida, however, reported a wide fluctuation in their divorce lawyers’ hourly rates -- some were charged as little as $150 per hour, while others paid as much as $450 per hour. Most Florida divorce attorneys bill on an hourly basis.
The average hourly fee charged by Florida divorce lawyers was $320 per hour, compared to the national average of $236 per hour. Our readers in Florida, however, reported a wide fluctuation in their divorce lawyers’ hourly rates -- some were charged as little as $150 per hour, while others paid as much as $450 per hour. Most Florida divorce attorneys bill on an hourly basis.
One of the primary concerns for couples considering a divorce in Florida is the potential costs. In light of the poor economy this is a very valid concern for many Florida couples. If you decide to file for divorce your filing fee is going to be right around $400. There are a number of Attorneys in Florida who will review your forms for you to ensure they are filled out correctly for around $150-$500 depending on the attorney. If all goes well you can get divorced for right around $600.
Going to Trial. The most expensive type of divorce in Florida is one that goes to trial. According to our survey results, the average cost of a divorce case that went to trial in Florida was $24,500, including $19,800 in attorney’s fees. In contrast, cases that settled cost an average of $14,400, including $9,500 in attorney’s fees. Our readers in Florida, however, reported a wide fluctuation in their divorce lawyers’ hourly rates -- some were charged as little as $150 per hour, while others paid as much as $450 per hour. Most Florida divorce attorneys bill on an hourly basis.
Whether you handle your divorce yourself or hire an attorney, there will be extra costs. State courts charge a filing fee for a divorce petition, usually in the neighborhood of $200. If you use a sheriff or private process server to deliver your petition to your spouse, this will cost an additional $35 to $100. In most states, you can bypass this expense if you’re on amicable terms with your spouse. The average cost is about $300. You can also hire an attorney by the hour to review your paperwork for you. This will cost less than a flat uncontested divorce rate, but would not require putting down a retainer fee.
Costs of a Divorce without an Attorney. The cost of a divorce can very depending on the issues. The filing fee in the State of Florida is $409.00. If the opposing party needs to be served there is an additional $10.00 fee for a Summons to be issued. There is no way around these charges and they are mandatory for everyone.
These attorneys generally charge by the hour and can be very expensive, easily asking for $200 or more per hour. It is crucial to get a detailed, written estimate of the timeline of your case, the number of hours of work involved, and the final cost you will be incurring. In this case, they can pay the lesser filing fee for a motion of “Support Unconnected With Dissolution of Marriage,” which resolves all the same issues as a divorce proceeding without the attendant expense.
The question often arises during a divorce “how much does a divorce cost?” Theodore Rechel of Rechel & Associates in Tampa, Florida answers this question. Essentially it's a function of how much each party is going to fight and whether or not party can come to a neutral and fair resolution, short of going to a full blown trial. You can be done for as little as $3,000-$4,000 under that scenario.