sore adjective (PAINFUL). B1 ​painful and ​uncomfortable because of ​injury, ​infection, or too much use: All the ​dust has made my ​eyes sore. I've got a sore back. My ​feet were sore with all the ​walking. More examples. 1  My ​ eyes ​ feel really sore. 
adjective. 1  Painful to the touch; tender. 2  Feeling physical pain; hurting: sore all over. 3  Causing misery, sorrow, or distress; grievous: in sore need. 4  Causing embarrassment or irritation: a sore subject. adjective. noun. Sore is painful or sensitive, whether physically or mentally. 1  An example of sore used as an adjective is a sore back which means a back that is in pain. 2  An example of sore used as an adjective is a sore point which means a disagreement that continues to cause distress.
1. Tender to the touch; susceptible of pain from pressure; inflamed; painful; - said of the body or its parts; as, a sore hand. 2. Fig .: Sensitive; tender; easily pained, grieved, or vexed; very susceptible of irritation. Malice and hatred are very fretting and vexatious, and apt to make our minds sore and uneasy.
wine sore. A slang term for a superficial infected area of the skin seen in alcoholics with poor personal hygiene. It is erroneously thought to be due to specific action of the wine. cold sore. A thin-walled blister at the junction of the mucous membranes of the mouth and lips. It is caused by recurrent infection with herpes simplex virus (HSV) in those who have antibodies to HSV. Treatment is recommended only for immunocompromised patients, who are given acyclovir.
sore. adj. sor·er, sor·est. 1. Painful to the touch; tender. 2. Feeling physical pain; hurting: sore all over. 3. Causing misery, sorrow, or distress; grievous: in sore need. 4. Causing embarrassment or irritation: a sore subject. 5. Full of distress; sorrowful. 6. 
sore. adj. sor·er, sor·est. 1. Painful to the touch; tender. 2. Feeling physical pain; hurting: sore all over. it's a sore point → es un tema delicado or espinoso. to be sore with sb → estar enfadado or (LAm) enojado con algn. 3. (liter) (= very great). there is a sore need of → hay gran necesidad de ...
sore. 1  angry-Describing a wound or sore that is red and inflamed. 2  merry-gall-A sore produced by chafing. 3  sore-As a noun, it first meant generally physical pain and suffering.. 4  chafe, chaff-To chafe means to rub until sore or worn; to chaff means to tease good-naturedly. it's a sore point → es un tema delicado or espinoso. to be sore with sb → estar enfadado or (LAm) enojado con algn. 3. (liter) (= very great). there is a sore need of → hay gran necesidad de ...
Medical Definition of CANKER SORE. : a small painful ulcer especially of the mouth; especially: a painful shallow ulceration of the oral mucous membranes that has a grayish-white base surrounded by a reddish inflamed area and is characteristic of aphthous stomatitis—compare cold sore. 