What is the average financial aid package for a prospective first-year applicant? 1  The average 2014-15 first-year financial aid package was $40,200. 2  The range of the packages was $2,000 to $60,000. 3  47% of students received need-based grants.
Your financial aid package is likely to include funds from the Federal Student Aid (FSA) programs. Note that not all colleges participate in all FSA programs. These FSA programs, described below, are administered by Federal Student Aid and provide over $150 billion a year to students attending post secondary schools:
Every student’s financial aid package as a freshmen attending school will vary, but knowing how much a majority of students receive can help you budget. Read on, and learn about averages as well as the factors that can affect your offer.
In general, Fordham's aid packages are average. Depending also on other factors they can give you grant money and of course a healthy dose of student loans. Its not a cheap school and these are difficult times for everyone.
These schools are willing to extend a financial aide package that meets 100 percent of financial aid and does not include loans. Be aware that the most generous schools are also the most elite. This means you need an excellent student history and perhaps even connections.
1 The average 2014-15 first-year financial aid package was $40,200. 2  The range of the packages was $2,000 to $60,000. 3  47% of students received need-based grants. 4  46% received some form of financial aid.
Many applicants demonstrating a financial need of $7,400 or less receive packages comprising a $2,000 grant, a $3,500 loan, and/or a $2,000 campus job. Additional demonstrated financial need is met through federal, state, and/or Skidmore College grant aid.
Taking an average of the financial aid package totals that are received by freshmen student can be difficult because the cost of attending a community school is much lower than the cost associated with attending a university.
A financial aid award package is the total amount of financial aid offered to a student by all sources. It is made up of components from one or more of the following three categories: scholarships and grants, loans and Federal Work-Study, depending upon eligibility.