If your vehicle is 6 years old or less, you do NOT have to have your vehicle smog checked every 2 years. Instead, you'll pay an annual $20 smog abatement fee for your first 6 years of registration. After these first 6 years, you will be subject to the regular smog check program.
However, you may want to know just when a smog check is required. In California, all vehicles are required to have a smog car registration inspection, except the following: diesel powered, electric, natural gas powered vehicles over 14,000 lbs., hybrids, motorcycles, trailers, or vehicles older than 1975. Car registration in California can cost more if you live in certain areas.
When you sell a vehicle in California, the seller is responsible for getting a smog certificate prior to completing the sale. When you bring a vehicle into California to be registered, you are required to get a smog certificate prior to registration.
Most vehicles in California are required to pass a Smog Check every two years for registration renewal. Your DMV Registration Renewal Notice will indicate if your vehicle needs a Smog Check.
Cars less than six years old are required to pass a CA smog check. This information is then submitted to the DMV when you register your vehicle. In fact, you will be required to pass this test prior to doing that.
Registration Renewal: Every two years on most vehicles you are required to get a smog check to renew your registration with D.M.V. Gasoline vehicles newer than 6 years old, hybrids, motorcycles, gasoline vehicles 1975 or older, and diesel vehicles 1997 and older are exempt from this requirement.
Answer: Since the vehicle will be sold in California you will have to provide the buyer with a passing smog check certificate. The new owner will need it in order to complete the registration process. --------------------------------------------- Question: I have a car that is registered and inspected in Virginia.
If your vehicle registration states your vehicle requires a smog check at a Gold Shield or Test Only station, you must take your vehicle to a STAR station after December 31, 2012.
You do not have to have your vehicle regularly inspected for safety measures in California. If you are registering an out-of-state vehicle for the first time, you WILL be required to have a VIN inspection at the DMV when you go to register. NOTE: Your smog certification is valid for 90 days upon inspection.