There are over 600 known carotenoids; they are split into two classes, xanthophylls (which contain oxygen) and carotenes (which are purely hydrocarbons, and contain no oxygen). All carotenoids are tetraterpenoids, meaning that they are produced from 8 isoprene molecules and contain 40 carbon atoms. In general, carotenoids absorb wavelengths ranging from 400-550 nanometers (violet to green light). 1 Carotenoids with molecules containing oxygen, such as lutein and zeaxanthin, are known as xanthophylls. 2  The unoxygenated (oxygen free) carotenoids such as α-carotene, β-carotene, and lycopene, are known as carotenes.
The chemical structure of cryptoxanthin. The color of an egg yolk is from the xanthophyll carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin. Xanthophylls (originally phylloxanthins) are yellow pigments that occur widely in nature and form one of two major divisions of the carotenoid group; the other division is formed by the carotenes. 
Phaeophytin b are yellow-brown. Xanthophyll are yellow pigments in the carotenoid group. These pigments seem to absorb best at 400-530nm. These are involved with photosynthesis with chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is often much more abundant than xanthophylls, and this is why the leaves are still a green colour. Plant Pigments. Plants have different things in their cells that enable them to absorb light. The most common ones we find in the majority of plants are Chlorophyll A and Chlorophyll B. Below we will briefly discuss the main pigments found in plant cells and relate them to the light spectrum.
Carotenoids are organic pigments that are found in the chloroplasts and chromoplasts of plants and some other photosynthetic organisms, including some bacteria and some fungi. Carotenoids can be produced from fats and other basic organic metabolic building blocks by all these organisms. 1 Carotenoids with molecules containing oxygen, such as lutein and zeaxanthin, are known as xanthophylls. 2  The unoxygenated (oxygen free) carotenoids such as α-carotene, β-carotene, and lycopene, are known as carotenes.
Accessory Pigments. Accessory pigments are other pigments that are also able to absorb light. Chlorophyll a & b are green and are able to best absorb light in the 450 nm (violet-blue) and 650 nm (red) area of the light spectrum. Plant Pigments. Plants have different things in their cells that enable them to absorb light. The most common ones we find in the majority of plants are Chlorophyll A and Chlorophyll B. Below we will briefly discuss the main pigments found in plant cells and relate them to
Making the world better, one answer at a time. carotene and xanthophyll absorb blue green light while chlorophyll absorbs all other colors of light in the spectrum. Once carotene and xanthophyll have absorbed light, they transfer the light energy to chlorophyll
These are also pigments with colors ranging from red to yellow. Carotenoids absorb light most strongly in the blue portion of the spectrum. They thus enable the chloroplast to trap a larger fraction of the radiant energy falling on it. Carotenoids are often the major pigments in flowers and fruits. 
Xanthophylls. Xanthophylls are the typical yellow pigments of leaves. These are oxygenated carotenoids that are synthesized within the plastids. Xanthophylls do not require light for synthesis, so that xanthophylls are present in all young leaves as well as in etiolated leaves. Xanthophylls in leaves have an important function as accessory pigments, capturing certain wavelengths of sunlight not absorbed by chlorophylls, and thereby increasing overall absorptance of the visible spectrum of sunlight.