The deltoid is the large muscle that covers your shoulder joint. The muscle consists of three fiber groups: the anterior, lateral and posterior deltoids. The anterior deltoid, also known as the front delt, connects the collarbone to the humerus, the large bone of the upper arm. Shoulder Abduction. Shoulder abduction describes raising the upper arm outward from the side of the body, such as when you put your arms out to form a T-shape. This movement is accomplished through the action of your anterior and lateral deltoids along with the pectoralis major and supraspinatus muscles.
Shoulder Flexion. Muscle contractions exert a pulling force on the bones they connect. The location of your anterior deltoids puts them in an ideal position to aid with shoulder flexion, which is lifting your upper arm forward toward the side of your face. Shoulder Abduction. Shoulder abduction describes raising the upper arm outward from the side of the body, such as when you put your arms out to form a T-shape. This movement is accomplished through the action of your anterior and lateral deltoids along with the pectoralis major and supraspinatus muscles.
The coracobrachialis is a small muscle that also produces shoulder flexion. It originates from a protrusion on the shoulder blade called the coracoid process, and attaches to the humerus bone. Pectoralis Major. The petoralis major is a large, strong muscle that produces shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the chest and attaches by tendon to the humerus, or upper arm bone.
When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, flexion refers to movement in the anterior direction. Flexion of the shoulder or hip refers to movement of the arm or leg forward. Extension is the opposite of flexion, describing a straightening movement that increases the angle between body parts. When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, extension refers to movement in the posterior direction. For example, when standing up, the knees are extende
Movement and Muscles at the Shoulder flexion and extension. It's another good thing that I got Biggie for these pictures, because flexion and extension are movements in the sagittal plane—i.e., from front to back. So in a drawing they're like 3-D, like coming out at you, and that's a bit beyond me to draw. If muscles in the back contract, they pull your arm back. What exercises make these muscles work? Pushups, pullups, rope climbing and throwing flex and extend the upper arms to work your anterior deltoid, coracobrachialis and pectoralis major, and your posterior deltoid, teres major and latissiumus dorsi.
Coracobrachialis Name the action Adduction of the shoulder Also, flexion and hor. add. Name the muscle. Pectoralis Major Name the muscle. Subscapularis Name the action Internal rotation of the shoulder Name the muscle. Deltoid Name the action Abduction of shoulder Name the muscle. 
Which is easy enough to picture at the elbow, flexion is when you move your forearm toward your upper arm and extension is when you move your forearm away from your upper arm. There has to be another definition for when the two bones are already perpendicular if that's the right word, though. If muscles in the back contract, they pull your arm back. What exercises make these muscles work? Pushups, pullups, rope climbing and throwing flex and extend the upper arms to work your anterior deltoid, coracobrachialis and pectoralis major, and your posterior deltoid, teres major and latissiumus dorsi.
List of flexors of the human body. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In anatomy, flexion (from the Latin verb flectere, to bend) is a joint movement that decreases the angle between the bones that converge at the joint. For example, your elbow joint flexes when you bring your hand closer to the shoulder. Flexion is typically instigated by muscle contraction. A muscle that flexes a joint is called a flexor. 
Biceps: Long Head. The biceps brachii muscle splits into two tendons at the shoulder: the long head and the short head. The long head of the biceps muscle assists other muscles with shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the upper arm and attaches to the glenoid fossa, or socket part of the shoulder joint. The long head of the biceps muscle is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve. Pectoralis Major. The petoralis major is a large, strong muscle that produces shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the chest and attaches by tendon to the humerus, or upper arm bone.