If you behave consistently and use moral principles, reliability, and trustworthiness as your guiding lights, you can rightfully be described as a person of integrity. It is a description that is earned, and one that should be prized. If you have it, guard and nurture it. 
Integrity  -noun    1. adherence to moral and ethical principles; soundness of moral character; honesty.    2. the state of being whole, entire, or undiminished … : to preserve the integrity of the empire. \Keeping your integrity would be keeping your good name or maintaining your respectable character. Integrity - 1:soundness 2:adherence to a code of values: utter sincerity, honesty, and candor 3:completeness. Answer 2.
Full Definition of INTEGRITY. 1. : firm adherence to a code of especially moral or artistic values: incorruptibility. 2. : an unimpaired condition: soundness. 3. : the quality or state of being complete or undivided: completeness. See integrity defined for English-language learners. See integrity defined for kids. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: To have integrity means that you do the right thing, make the right choices, without anyone watching. :) Basically it means being a genuine good person who doesn't need to succumb to peer pressure and make bad choices or be a jerk. 
Integrity. Integrity is a concept of consistency of actions, values, methods, measures, principles, expectations, and outcomes. In ethics, integrity is regarded as the honesty and truthfulness or accuracy of one's actions.
For other uses, see Integrity (disambiguation) . Integrity is the quality of being honest and having strong moral principles; moral uprightness. It is generally a personal choice to uphold oneself to consistent moral and ethical standards. In ethics, integrity is regarded by many people as the honesty and truthfulness or accuracy of one's actions. The word integrity evolved from the Latin adjective integer, meaning whole or complete. In this context, integrity is the inner sense of wholeness deriving from qualities such as honesty and consistency of character.
Academic integrity essentially means intellectual honesty: honesty in the use of information, in formulating arguments, and in other activities related to the pursuit of knowledge and understanding. 
Mr Carter's notion of integrity agrees with Islamic teachings, which commands us to do what's right and be proud of it. Having integrity is an important part of our religion. The Arabic word for integrity, nazahah, means doing the right thing regardless of the situation. People who hold this characteristic abstain from doing wicked acts. Integrity is a concept that should be included in every part of our lives
Answer 1. \Keeping your integrity would be keeping your good name or maintaining your respectable character. Integrity - 1:soundness 2:adherence to a code of values: utter sincerity, honesty, and candor 3:completeness. Answer 2. Integrity means: 1. Strict adherence to a moral code, reflected in transparent honesty and complete harmony in what one thinks, says, and does