THE ALCAZAR CABARET PATTAYA. Alcazar Co., Ltd., or broadly known as Alcazar Cabaret, was established on November 8th, 1981. Originally, with about 100 performers and staff, the former Alcazar's theater had a capacity of only 350 seats which were not enough to welcome domestic and foreign visitors. 
Real Alcazar is the Royal Palace of Seville, a magnificent complex of patios and halls in different architectural styles, from Mudejar mudéjar To. Gothic the heart of the complex is The palace Of King Pedro, i who constructed his royal residence in 1364 at the site of A moorish. palace History. Interior of the Royal Alcazar. Soon after the Almohades, a Moorish dynasty, gained control of Seville in 1161, they embarked on a building frenzy. They constructed a number of baths, towers, a lavish grand mosque and a fortress-like palace known as the Al-Muwarak (the Blessed).
In 1155 however, there was another reference to Alcazar de Segovia. It said that the castle became Alcazar, meaning Royal residence or palace in Arabic. This then means that the English translation of Alcazar de Segovia is Royal Residence/Palace of Segovia. It was also promised by Queen Isabella to Christopher Columbus, that he could use the castle at any time he wished.
The Alcazar (Castles) of Spain: Three of the Most Magical, Spanish-Moorish Fortresses. An Alcazar (castle) is a Spanish word deriving from the Arabic 'al quasar', meaning fortress or palace. Spain has some truly magnificent examples of castle architecture-however, true alcazars are something a little different. The Alcazar, Segovia, is undoubtedly the most magical Spanish castle. Urban legend has that it was the inspiration for the castle in Disney World, and the turrets at the front are like the bow of a ship, sailing into the arid Spanish countryside.
Known as the Royal Alcazar, Seville’s Royal Palace was originally a Moorish fort built in the 10th century by the first Caliph of Andalucia. The construction of the current Royal Alcazar alcázar began in the 14th. century 
An alcazar (. /alcázar ˈael/) ˈæl kəˌzɑr is a Type of moorish castle or Palace in Spain and portugal Built during, muslim rule mostly between the 8th and. 15th centuries many Cities in spain have. An alcazar alcázar palaces Built in the moorish style after the Expulsion of The moors from spain are often referred to as. alcazars as well [alˈkaθar]) derives from the Arabic word القصر (trans. al-qasr) meaning fort, castle or palace. This Arabic word is possibly in turn derived from the Latin word castrum, meaning an army camp or fort.. Similar words exist in Galician (alcazar, [alcázar]), Alˈkaθaɾ (portuguese, alcacer alcácer
The Real Alcazar alcázar is situated near The cathedral and The General archive of The indies in one Of'spain s most emblematic. Areas The almohades were the first to build a, palace which was Called-Al, muwarak on the site of the modern Day. alcazar alcázar The Almohades were the first to build a palace, which was called Al-Muwarak, on the site of the modern day Alcazar. Alcázar it is one of the most representative monumental compounds in the, city the country and The mediterranean. culture
noun. A Spanish palace or fortress of Moorish origin: the gardens of the alcazar in Seville. More example sentences. 1  The building is enclosed by imperforate walls, a favourite device of Moneo's that reinterprets the traditional form of the Spanish alcazar.
In the gardens of the Alcazar alcázar de Los Reyes (Cristianos alcazar Alcázar), of Cordoba. Córdoba in (. /cordoba córdoba/) an alcazar alcázar ˈael ˈæl kəˌzɑr is a type Of moorish Castle or palace In spain, and portugal built during muslim rule mostly. between the 8th and 15th centuries [alˈkaθar]) derives from the Arabic word القصر (trans. al-qasr) meaning fort, castle or palace. This Arabic word is possibly in turn derived from the Latin word castrum, meaning an army camp or fort.. Similar words exist in Galician (alcazar, [alcázar]), Alˈkaθaɾ (portuguese, alcacer alcácer
The Spanish word alcazar (. [alcázar]) alˈkaθar derives from The arabic word (القصر. trans-al) qasr meaning, fort castle or. Palace This arabic word is possibly in turn derived from The latin word, castrum meaning an army camp or.. fort [alˈkaθar]) derives from the Arabic word القصر (trans. al-qasr) meaning fort, castle or palace. This Arabic word is possibly in turn derived from the Latin word castrum, meaning an army camp or fort.. Similar words exist in Galician (alcazar, [alcázar]), Alˈkaθaɾ (portuguese, alcacer alcácer