Warnings. 1  If your cat is in labor and if she doesn't have her first kitten within 2 hours of active labor commencing, then you should see a vet immediately, as there may be something wrong. 2  This also applies if there is more than an hour's delay between each kitten. Cats need a warm, calm, safe place to give birth, and your cat will deliberately seek out such a place prior to giving birth. Your cat will usually display nesting signs several days before the birth is imminent, and this is the perfect opportunity to direct her to the nest that you have already prepared for her.
Gestation or the length of pregnancy of a cat averages 64 days. It is generally between 62 and 67 days or about 9-10 weeks. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. By the 4th or 5th week, your cat’s belly will begin to swell.
Your cat is due to go into labour around the 64th day of her pregnancy, although it is very unlikely that you will be able to be that accurate in your calculations. Instead, you will have to rely on your ability to read the signs of the stages of pregnancy and of her impending labour. A further sign of your cat's labour is that she may become particularly clingy and want to be around you constantly, seeking your affection. As she gets closer to the time that her labour begins in earnest, you may find that your cat starts pacing about, appearing nervous or particularly excitable.
Usually about two days before giving birth your cat's mammary glands will increase in size and she will begin. producing milk. Stage 1 - The onset of labour is often around 12 hours before the appearance of the first kitten.. The cat's temperature will decrease to about 99 degrees F and you may notice a drop in her appetite. She may become restless and begin nesting in earnest.
My cat is going to have her kittens in the next week or two and I don't know how to tell when she is going into labor,and when she is ready to give birth. So if she has her kittens in the middle of the night nothing will get them. She had one litter of kittens last year. She had them in July in the middle of the night so I had no way to tell that she was in labor. Maybe she will have them in the middle of the day this time!
1 If your cat is in labor and if she doesn't have her first kitten within 2 hours of active labor commencing, then you should see a vet immediately, as there may be something wrong. Cats need a warm, calm, safe place to give birth, and your cat will deliberately seek out such a place prior to giving birth. Your cat will usually display nesting signs several days before the birth is imminent, and this is the perfect opportunity to direct her to the nest that you have already prepared for her.
When your cat goes into active labor, you will be able to see the contractions along her sides. It may take a couple hours for the first kitten to emerge, and it will be covered in a membrane that the mother cat will have to lick away in order for the kitten to breathe. My cat's stomach is pretty big and she looks as though she'll give birth any minute (although I don't know how many months she is) But lately she has been breathing pretty heavily and fast.
Whether you are breeding purebred cats for a living or you are responsible for a cat that has become pregnant in your care, it is important to know what to do when the cat goes into labor and begins to give birth to her kittens. Cats need a warm, calm, safe place to give birth, and your cat will deliberately seek out such a place prior to giving birth. Your cat will usually display nesting signs several days before the birth is imminent, and this is the perfect opportunity to direct her to the nest that you have already prepared for her.
Twenty-four to forty-eight hours before labor begins, your cat will seem more anxious and restless. It will often poke its head about looking for a place to nest and have the litter. But this behavior sometimes occurs early as three days before they actually deliver. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. By the 4th or 5th week, your cat’s belly will begin to swell.