Event Details. Tony Welsh, President of Barbecana Inc., will deliver this presentation. His presentation will explain how schedule risk analysis using Monte Carlo simulation works, with particular reference to a phenomenon known as merge bias, which makes most deterministic project plans overly optimistic.
This is the merge bias effect, and the results for project completion are compounded by the number of merge bias points through a schedule that are effected by schedule risk. Consider the following example of a single activity driving a completion milestone, the activity (and whole project) most likely duration is 100days, there is minimum duration of 80days, and a maximum of 120 days.
It is important to assess risk of bias in all studies in a review irrespective of the anticipated variability in either the results or the validity of the included studies. For instance, the results may be consistent among studies but all the studies may be flawed. Because the results of a study may in fact be unbiased despite a methodological flaw, it is more appropriate to consider risk of bias. Differences in risks of bias can help explain variation in the results of the studies included in a systematic review (i.e. can explain heterogeneity of results).
This only occurs 50% * 50% * 50% * 50%, i.e. in 6.25% of possible outcomes. This is the merge bias effect, and the results for project completion are compounded by the number of merge bias points through a schedule that are effected by schedule risk. Example. Consider the following example of a single activity driving a completion milestone, the activity (and whole project) most likely duration is 100days, there is minimum duration of 80days, and a maximum of 120 days.
Article. ABSTRACT. In the performance of a probabilistic schedule analysis, more commonly known as a schedule risk analysis, the phenomena of merge bias impacts most project results. However, this impact is typically poorly understood by project teams and management, who the analysis is intended to benefit. It also discusses how to consider and address merge bias in the construction of a schedule risk model. The use of schedule risk analysis to identify probabilistic project completion dates is becoming more common in current project management.
8.2.1 ‘Bias’ and ‘risk of bias’. A bias is a systematic error, or deviation from the truth, in results or inferences. Biases can operate in either direction: different biases can lead to underestimation or overestimation of the true intervention effect. Because the results of a study may in fact be unbiased despite a methodological flaw, it is more appropriate to consider risk of bias. Differences in risks of bias can help explain variation in the results of the studies included in a systematic review (i.e. can explain heterogeneity of results).
The answer often is due to a phenomena known as Merge Bias, or Nodal Bias, and is a feature that has no equivalent in Cost Risk analysis. It is unique to schedules due to the logical relationships between activities. Example. Consider the following example of a single activity driving a completion milestone, the activity (and whole project) most likely duration is 100days, there is minimum duration of 80days, and a maximum of 120 days.
The answer often is due to a phenomena known as Merge Bias, or Nodal Bias, and is a feature that has no equivalent in Cost Risk analysis. It is unique to schedules due to the logical relationships between activities. Consider the following example of a single activity driving a completion milestone, the activity (and whole project) most likely duration is 100days, there is minimum duration of 80days, and a maximum of 120 days.