Listeners. read more. Kurt Donald Cobain (February 20, 1967, Aberdeen, Washington, U.S.A – April 5 1994, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A) was the lead singer, songwriter, and guitarist of the Seattle grunge band Nirvana. He served not only as the band's frontman, but as its leader and spiritual center. 
Synopsis. Kurt Cobain was born February 20, 1967, in Aberdeen, Washington. In 1988, he started the grunge band Nirvana. Nirvana made the leap to a major label in 1991, signing with Geffen Records. Cobain also began using heroin around this time. Nirvana's highly acclaimed album In Utero was released in 1993. On April 5, 1994, in the guest house behind his Seattle home, Cobain committed suicide.
Mini Bio (1). Kurt Cobain was born on February 20 1967, in Aberdeen, Washington. Kurt and his family lived in Hoquiam for the first few months of his life then later moved back to Aberdeen, where he had a happy childhood until his parents divorced. The divorce left Kurt's outlook on the world forever scarred. 
Soundtrack | Composer | Actor. Kurt Cobain was born on February 20 1967, in Aberdeen, Washington. Kurt and his family lived in Hoquiam for the first few months of his life then later moved back to Aberdeen, where he had a happy childhood until his parents divorced. 
Alternative. As the lead singer and guitarist of Nirvana, Kurt Cobain's musical success began in his twenties and was heightened when he formed the band Nirvana. Hits such as Smells Like Teen Spirit, Come as You Are, and Heart Shaped Box helped the group achieve international success. In 1986 the group Nirvana was formed with Cobain on vocals and guitar, Krist Novaselic on bass guitar, and various drummers. Their first album, Bleach, was released in 1989. They toured the U.S. and had their first international concert in Newcastle, England.
About Kurt Cobain. As the lead singer and guitarist of Nirvana, Kurt Cobain's musical success began in his twenties and was heightened when he formed the band Nirvana. Hits such as Smells Like Teen Spirit, Come as You Are, and Heart Shaped Box helped the group achieve international success. In 1986 the group Nirvana was formed with Cobain on vocals and guitar, Krist Novaselic on bass guitar, and various drummers. Their first album, Bleach, was released in 1989. They toured the U.S. and had their first international concert in Newcastle, England.
Kurt Donald Cobain (20 February 1967 – ca. 5 April 1994) was the lead singer, songwriter, and guitarist of the American grunge band, Nirvana. He is survived by his wife Courtney Love and his daughter Frances Bean Cobain. 
Kurt Cobain, the lead singer of the American rock band Nirvana, was found dead at his home, located at 171 Lake Washington Boulevard East in Seattle, Washington, on April 8, 1994. Forensic analysis determined that he had committed suicide three days prior on April 5. On Friday, April 8, 1994, Kurt Cobain was discovered in the living quarters above his garage at his Lake Washington house by VECA Electric employee Gary Smith.
Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck. Posted on May 4, 2015 · Leave a comment. Kurt Cobain, legendary lead singer, guitarist and songwriter of Nirvana, “the flagship band of Generation X,” remains an object of reverence and fascination for music fans around the world. 