Rudolph Valentino (May 6, 1895 – August 23, 1926) was an silent film actor, sex symbol, and early pop icon. He was known as 'the Latin Lover '. Valentino was one of the most popular stars of the 1920s and is one of the best remembered stars from the silent movie era. Some of his best known roles are The Sheik and The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. 1 New York Times; August 24, 1926. 2  Rudolph Valentino, motion picture actor, died at 12:10, yesterday afternoon, at the Polyclinic Hospital where he had undergone a double operation for acute appendicitis and gastric ulcers on Aug. 15. 3  He was thirty-one.
Lovers. Negri met Rudolph Valentino at a costume party held by Marion Davies and William Randolph Hearst at the San Simeon estate, and was reportedly Valentino's lover until his death in 1926. In spite of everything, Valentino remained on good terms with her and even permitted her to use the name of Mrs. Rudolph Valentino after the divorce. The breakthrough film for Valentino was Rex Ingram's The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1921).
In 2009, The Rudolph Valentino Society was created to honor his legacy. In 2009, a novel, based on the idea of Rudolph Valentino living to the age of 110 was published as Conversations with Rodolfo by Hala Pickford. In 2011, Affairs Valentino by Evelyn Zumaya was released by The Rudolph Valentino Society. The biography drastically repaints the life of Valentino with newly found court documents, accounting ledgers, and unpublished memoirs and memories by his manager George Ullman and Godfather Frank Mennillo. Blood and Sand was a major hit and the first pairing of Valentino with his most frequent co-star, vamp Nita Naldi. Valentino married Rambova during this time in Mexico, only to return to California and find he had a warrant for bigamy on his head.
A biography on the latin lover and handsome silent era icon Rudolph Valentino. Please comment!  1 Until the Last Moment (Live) by Yanni (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 
Born in 1895 to a French mother and Italian father Rudolph Valentino grew up in Italy. His father died while he was young, and his mother spoiled him. He did poorly in school, and eventually ended up studying agriculture. After a stint in Paris he returned to Italy broke. Blood and Sand was a major hit and the first pairing of Valentino with his most frequent co-star, vamp Nita Naldi. Valentino married Rambova during this time in Mexico, only to return to California and find he had a warrant for bigamy on his head.
Jean Acker (October 23, 1893 – August 16, 1978) was an American film actress with a career dating from the silent film era through the 1950s. She was perhaps best known as the estranged wife of silent film star Rudolph Valentino. 
Welcome to the Rudolph Valentino Homepage. Rudolph-Valentino.com is currently undergoing a redesign and overhaul. The present site will remain active and not updated until the new site is ready to go live later in 2015. Look for a cleaner layout and much, much more content! Your patience while the site undergoes transition and transformation is very much appreciated! Welcome to a site dedicated to the magic of one of the most magnetic and charismatic stars of the silent era. Rudolph Valentino. Rudolph Valentino's home, his retreat from the world, his private world was at No. 2 Bella Drive. Valentino named it Falcon Lair. Falcon Lair, as Valentino knew it, is no more. It is here you will find his virtual retreat and home, Falcon Lair-the Rudolph Valentino Homepage
Rudolph Valentino. Rudolph Valentino was an Italian actor who performed in American cinema. He was the preeminent male sex symbol of the silent film era. His nickname was The Great Lover.. Early days. Rudolph Valentino was born Rodolfo Alfonso Raffaello Piero Filiberto Guglielmi di Valentina d'Antoguolla, in Castellaneta, Apulia, Italy, on May 6, 1895