The incubation period for pneumonia depends on the type of pathogen causing the disease, the person's age, and his or her overall health. In general, most pneumonias begin with symptoms similar to those of a cold or the flu that last longer than the flu (about seven to 10 days) and become more severe.
The contagious period for a cold lasts about three to four days into the illness. As a general rule, people with a cold are most contagious about three days after their initial exposure to the virus. For more information on colds, influenza and related topics, check out the links on the next page.
Incubation and Contagious Periods of Infections Young children get infectious diseases 10 to 15 times per year. As they get older, children get sick less often. This is because with each new infection their bodies build up antibodies that will defend the body if the same germ attacks in the future.
The contagious period is the amount of time during which a sick child can give the disease to others. For major illnesses (such as hepatitis), a child will need to stay at home or in the hospital until all chance of spread has passed. For minor illnesses (like the common cold) the guidelines are less strict.
As they get older, children get sick less often. This is because with each new infection their bodies build up antibodies that will defend the body if the same germ attacks in the future. The incubation period is the time between being exposed to a disease and when the symptoms start. If your child was around someone who is sick and the incubation time has gone by, then your child was probably not infected and won't get sick.
The incubation period is the time between being exposed to a disease and when the symptoms start. If your child was around someone who is sick and the incubation time has gone by, then your child was probably not infected and won't get sick.
The incubation period for varicella is 14 to 16 days after exposure to a varicella or a herpes zoster rash, with a range of 10 to 21 days. A mild prodrome of fever and malaise may occur 1 to 2 days before rash onset, particularly in adults. In children, the rash is often the first sign of disease.