Međugorje, or Medjugorje, (. [medʑuɡoːrje]) is a town located in the Herzegovina region of Bosnia and Herzegovina, around 25 km (16 mi) southwest of Mostar and close to the border of Croatia. The town is part of the municipality of Čitluk. Our Lady of Medjugorje is the title given to the apparition by those who believe that Mary, mother of Jesus, has been appearing from 24 June 1981 until today to six children, now adults, in Medjugorje (then part of communist Yugoslavia).
Medjugorje Map 7 - Medjugorje, Mostar, Sarajevo (south part of Bosnia and Herzegovina). Medjugorje Map 8 - Medjugorje, Mostar. Medjugorje is not located in Yugoslavia nor Croatia, such even today some people still think. Instead it is located in southern part of Bosnia Herzegovina, which used to be a former republic of Yugoslavia. Bosnia and Herzegovina is located in Southern Europe and it's capital city is Sarajevo. Bosnia and Herzegovina is surrounded by Croatia and Serbia. Medjugorje is located between the city of Mostar and coastside of Adriatic sea (part across the Peljesac Peninsula). It's in relative close location to Croatian coastal cities of Dubrovnik and Split
Since 1981, in a small village in Bosnia-Hercegovina named Medjugorje, the Blessed Virgin Mary has been appearing and giving messages to the world. Local Medjugorje Time. Since 1981, in a small village in Bosnia-Hercegovina named Medjugorje, the Blessed Virgin Mary has been appearing and giving messages to the world. She tells us that God has sent Her to our world, and these years She is spending with us are a time of Grace granted by God.
Please contact us for permission if you would like to use something from our site. ICRA Labeled. The Medjugorje Web is the very first web site created in 1995 about Medjugorje, and is still the largest, most comprehensive, and visited Medjugorje web site on the internet. 
Medjugorje 34 Years of Apparitions. Queen of Peace 1981 - 2015. Medjugorje is one of the villages of the Western Herzegovina municipality of Citluk in the former Yugoslavia. The name Medjugorje is Slavic and means area between two moutains. This true story takes place in the Bijakovici section of Medjugorje. On the afternoon of June 24, 1981, two girls, Ivanka Ivankovic, age 15, and Mirjana Dragicevic, age 16, were returning home from a walk.
Geographical location of Medjugorje-map and description. Medjugorje is located in the southwestern region of Bosnia and Herzegovina, country on the Balkan peninsula, Southeastern Europe. The Balkan Peninsula is located between the Adriatic and Black sea. Bosnia and Herzegovina is bounded by Croatia on the north and west (border length 932 km), by Serbia on the east (border length 312 km) and by Montenegro on the southeast (border length 215 km).
I. History. On June 24, 1981, six children in the town of Medjugorje, Yugoslavia (today, Bosnia-Herzegovina), began to experience phenomena which they alleged to be apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary. This apparition had a message of peace for the world, as well as a call to conversion, prayer and fasting. 
To the east of Medjugorje in the Neretva valley, the Serbian Orthodox Žitomislić Monastery has stood since 1566. Gravestones erected in the Middle Ages have remained to this day in the Catholic cemetery Groblje Srebrenica in the hamlet of Miletina as well as in the hamlet of Vionica. Our Lady of Medjugorje is the title given to the apparition by those who believe that Mary, mother of Jesus, has been appearing from 24 June 1981 until today to six children, now adults, in Medjugorje (then part of communist Yugoslavia).