Lava. Category: Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles (volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid freezes to form volcanic glass. Chemically lava is made of the elements silicon, oxygen, aluminum, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and titanium (plus other elements in very small concentrations. Have a look at the background information in Minerals, Magma, and Volcanic Rocks.
Volcanic glass can refer to the interstitial, or matrix material in an aphanitic (fine grained) volcanic rock or can refer to any of several types of vitreous igneous rocks. Most commonly, it refers to obsidian, a rhyolitic glass with high silica content. Other types of volcanic glass include: 1  Pumice, which is considered a glass because it has no crystal structure. 2  Apache tears, a kind of nodular obsidian. 3  Tachylite (also spelled tachylyte), a basaltic glass with relatively low silica content. 4  Sideromelane, a less common form tachylyte. 5  Palagonite, a basaltic glass with relatively low silica 6  ... Hya
Obsidian is the rock formed as a result of quickly cooled lava, which is the parent material. Tektites were once thought by many to be obsidian produced by lunar volcanic eruptions, though few scientists now adhere to this hypothesis. Obsidian can be found in locations which have experienced rhyolitic eruptions. It can be found in Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Australia, Canada, Chile, Georgia, Greece, El Salvador, Guatemala, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Scotland, Turkey and the United States.
Photo by Steve Mattox. Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles (volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid “freezes” to form volcanic glass. Chemically lava is made of the elements silicon, oxygen, aluminum, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and titanium (plus other elements in very small concentrations.
General Info Lava glass, also known as Sicilian Ware, is line of glass made by Mount Washington. The name comes from the fact that the original pieces were made from lava originating from Mt. Aetna in Sicily, Italy. The line was first introduced in 1878. It is highly likely that lava glass is the first commercial line of glass made by Mount Washington. Lava glass is probably one of the most confusing lines from Mt Washington. All lava glass has a very art deco feel. You just would not expect to see pinks, limes, and electric blues in a line of glass made in the 1870s
Volcanic glass is that which is naturally formed when high viscosity molten lava cools. The glass is created because this lava contains less water and more crystal material. Its chemical composition is similar to that of granite, which is composed of alkali feldspar and quartz. The materials in the magma, the water content, and speed of cooling all contribute to a variety of natural glasses.
Obsidian is a naturally occurring volcanic glass formed as an extrusive igneous rock. It is produced when felsic lava extruded from a volcano cools rapidly with minimum crystal growth. Obsidian is commonly found within the margins of rhyolitic lava flows known as obsidian flows, where the chemical composition (high silica content) induces a high viscosity and polymerization degree of the lava. Obsidian can be found in locations which have experienced rhyolitic eruptions. It can be found in Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Australia, Canada, Chile, Georgia, Greece, El Salvador, Guatemala, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Scotland, Turkey and the United States.
LAVA® Glass. LAVA® Glass heating systems from WarmlyYours look great in any room in your home, and are not only energy efficient, but they’re stylish and sleek. Lending an air of class and elegance to any home, this beautiful design provides your home with the benefits of infrared heating. LAVA Glass from WarmlyYours is available in four different sizes and several different colors, including pure white, white-green, red, or black, and you also have the option of choosing a satin finish.