Almond milk is a dairy substitute used to replace milk. Almond milk can be used in smoothies, on cereal and oatmeal or for making pancakes and French toast. Almond milk contains monosaturated fats, good fats that may contribute to low cholesterol.
1 Dairy products are an important source of calcium, protein, and vitamins D and B12. 2  If you or your child has a milk allergy, foods such as broccoli, spinach, and soy products can help fill the void. 3  A registered dietitian can help you develop a well-balanced eating plan. 4  Try dairy substitutes.
Find dairy substitutes. Milk, cheese, and ice-creams derived from soy, rice, almond, hemp seed, and oat, fortified or not, are suitable alternatives to dairy products. Many stores now cater to vegan customers so many of these ingredients are easily and cheaply accessible.. 1  Use soy milk for most milk related recipes.
Use this list to check food labels for cow's milk or milk products. Also, ask your doctor if sheep and goat's milk are safe. For most people with a milk allergy, the answer is no -- the proteins in sheep and goat’s milk are similar to those in cow’s milk and also cause a reaction.
If you have a dairy allergy, you're probably looking for some dairy substitutes now that your favorite foods are off the table. Luckily, there are many alternatives available.
If you are allergic to dairy and soy, be sure to check out the soy substitutes page for more ideas. Margarine: To substitute for butter in cooking, baking and spreading, try a dairy free margarine.
Tofutti. Tofutti produces a line of dairy-free ice cream substitutes and other dairy-free products. The products are soy-based. Tofutti products include a variety of ice cream, sour cream and cream cheese. The dairy-free ice cream products include ice cream sandwiches, fudge bars and other frozen treats on sticks.
1 Try dairy substitutes. 2  Drink soy, rice, and almond milk that are fortified with calcium and vitamin D. 3  Look for non-dairy ice cream, chocolate, cheese, and yogurt. 4  Be careful with kosher products. 5  Some may contain milk protein, even those labeled pareve, which are considered milk-free under kosher guidelines.