Inter-quartile Range (IQR) : It is used for the statistical calculations of set of data which is divided into 4 equal parts. IQR is the difference between the third and first quartiles. What is inter-quartile range (iqr) - Definition and Meaning.
In descriptive statistics, the interquartile range (IQR), also called the midspread or middle fifty, is a measure of statistical dispersion, being equal to the difference between the upper and lower quartiles, IQR = Q 3 − Q 1. For a symmetric distribution (where the median equals the midhinge, the average of the first and third quartiles), half the IQR equals the median absolute deviation (MAD). The median is the corresponding measure of central tendency. Identification of outliers (see below).
The interquartile range is a value that is the difference between the upper quartile value and the lower quartile value. To find the interquartile range, simply take the upper quartile and subtract the lower quartile. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. The interquartile range is a value that is the difference between the upper quartile value and the lower quartile value. Coach Taylor can use the interquartile range to summarize the overall accuracy of his players. To find the quartiles of this data set use the following steps: 1  Order the data from least to greatest
An Alternative Definition for IQR. In some texts, the interquartile range is defined differently. It is defined as the difference between the largest and smallest values in the middle 50% of a set of data. To compute an interquartile range using this definition, first remove observations from the lower quartile. Then, remove observations from the upper quartile. Then, from the remaining observations, compute the difference between the largest and smallest values. 
The semi-interquartile range is a measure of dispersion. It is computed as one half the difference between the 75th percentile (Q 3) and the 25th percentile (Q 1). Semi-interquartile range is one-half the difference between the first and third quartiles. It is half the distance needed to cover half the scores. Interquartile range is the smallest of all the measures of dispersion. It is defined as the difference between the two extreme observation of the distribution. In other words, range is the difference between the greatest (maximum) and the smallest (minimum)
Difference between the first quartile (25th percentile) and the third quartile (75th percentile) of an ordered range of data. It contains middle 50 percent of the distribution and is unaffected by extreme values. Half of this range (25 percent or the distribution) is called semi-interquartile range. Now began the long and boring process of the interquartile range, where I would have to figure out differences between the first and third quartile. 4 people found this helpful. When looking back at the last years results try and figure out what was different in each interquartile range and adapt the next year.
Inter quartile range is defined as the difference between the third and the first quartile. Quartiles are the partitional values which divide the whole series into 4 equal parts. So, there are 3 quartiles. First Quartile is denoted by $Q_{1}$, second Quartile denoted by $Q_{2}$ and third Quartile denoted by $Q_{3}$. Interquartile range is the smallest of all the measures of dispersion. It is defined as the difference between the two extreme observation of the distribution. In other words, range is the difference between the greatest (maximum) and the smallest (minimum)
Definition of INTERQUARTILE RANGE. : the range of values of the variable in a statistical distribution that lies between the upper and lower quartiles. ADVERTISEMENT. inter- + quartile. Origin of INTERQUARTILE RANGE. inter- + quartile. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
1 The interquartile range, which spans the first to the third quartile, indicates the uniformity of the leaving-home experience among all young people. 2  The lower and upper whiskers extend to the most extreme data point within 1.5 times the interquartile range of the first and third quartiles, respectively. Example sentences. 1 