Best Answer: Both DNA and RNA are composed of repeating units of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nucleic acid base. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The sugar in RNA is ribose, the same as deoxyribose but with one more OH (oxygen-hydrogen atom combination called a hydroxyl). . RNA molecules can have a much greater variety of nucleic acid bas
DNA is the basic hereditary material in all cells and contains all the information necessary to make proteins. DNA is a linear polymer that is made up of nucleotide units. The nucleotide unit consists of a base, a deoxyribose sugar, and a phosphate. There are four types of bases: adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Each base is connected to a sugar via a ss ß glycosyl. linkage 
Nucleic acids are biopolymers, or large biomolecules, essential for all known forms of life. Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. 
Nucleic acids (both RNA and DNA) are polymers made up of monomers called mononucleotide units (MNU in the diagram). These mononucleotide units are joined together by intermolecular dehydration reactions that form phosphate ester bonds. 
Report Abuse. Neither are made up of any of those acids. DNA codes amino acids to make proteins, Both DNA and RNA are nucleic acids, and carbohydrates are sugars. Like another poster said, if you don't understand that, then you are in trouble. EDIT Actually, the difference between DNA and RNA is DNA contains thymine. · just now. Report Abuse. DNA is made from deoxyribonucleic acid and RNA made from ribonucleic acid: The backbone of the DNA strand is made from alternating phosphate and sugar residues.[8] The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar.
Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. Nucleic acids are polymeric macromolecules made from nucleotide monomers.
The structure of nucleotide monomers. A nucleotide is made of a nucleobase (also termed a nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose) depending on if it is DNA or RNA, and one or, depending on the definition, more than one phosphate groups. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. Nucleic acids are polymeric macromolecules made from
A nucleic acid is a long molecule made up of smaller molecules called nucleotides. Nucleic acids were discovered in 1868, when twenty-four-year-old Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher isolated a new compound from the nuclei of white blood cells. 