The appendages of Arthropods are jointed. Each body segement has a pair of appendages. The original structure of Arthropod appendages was likely to have been biramous. Modern … Arthropods can have either biramous or uniramous limbs. Biramous limbs branch out into two. An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages.    An ANTHROPOD is a bipedal humanoid (ie Homo Sapien, Homo Neanderthalus, Homo Habilus, Australopithicene Afarensis, and other hominids).
Jointed Appendages. The name arthropod actually comes from the Greek “arthro,” meaning joint, and “pod,” meaning foot. All arthropods have jointed limbs attached to their hard exoskeletons that allow for flexibility and movement. Arthropods, members of the phylum Arthropoda, are a diverse group of animals including insects, crustaceans, spiders, scorpions and centipedes. However, the members of this phylum, despite their incredible diversity and sheer numbers, share a number of important distinguishing characteristics.
5 Characteristics of an Arthropod. A lobster's exoskeleton, segmented body and jointed appendages are clearly visible. Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Arthropods, members of the phylum Arthropoda, are a diverse group of animals including insects, crustaceans, spiders, scorpions and centipedes. However, the members of this phylum, despite their incredible diversity and sheer numbers, share a number of important distinguishing characteristics.
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. Arthropod hatchlings vary from miniature adults to grubs and caterpillars that lack jointed limbs and eventually undergo a total metamorphosis to produce the adult form. The level of maternal care for hatchlings varies from nonexistent to the prolonged care provided by scorpions.
Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods.   An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages.    An ANTHROPOD is a bipedal humanoid (ie Homo Sapien, Homo Neanderthalus, Homo Habilus, Australopithicene Afarensis, and other hominids).
There are over 800,000 named species in the Phylum Arthropoda, named from the Greek arthros (= jointed) and poda (= foot), including the familiar arachnids, crustaceans, and insects, together with a host of less familiar critters, like centipedes, millipedes and sea spiders. All arthropods have jointed appendages. This very successful group of arthropods have four pair of walking legs (8 legs). The first pair of appendages are the chelicerae, and the second pair are pedipalps, appendages modified for sensory functions or for manipulating prey.
Diagram of biramous leg of a trilobite; Agnostus spp. The appendages of arthropods may be either biramous or uniramous. A uniramous limb comprises a single series of segments attached end-to-end. A biramous limb, however, branches into two, and each branch consists of a series of segments attached end-to-end. In crustaceans, the first antennae are uniramous, but the second antennae are biramous, as are the legs in most species. For a time, possession of uniramous limbs was believed to be a shared, derived character, so uniramous arthropods were grouped into a taxon called Uniramia.
The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting. Their versatility has enabled them to become the most species-rich members of all ecological guilds in most environments. Arthropod hatchlings vary from miniature adults to grubs and caterpillars that lack jointed limbs and eventually undergo a total metamorphosis to produce the adult form. The level of maternal care for hatchlings varies from nonexistent to the prolonged care provided by scorpions.
The word arthropod is a combination of two Greek words-arthro meaning jointed and pod meaning foot. All arthropods have jointed legs, claws, and body segments! Arthropods have segmented bodies. Each body segment usually has a pair of appendages. 
The arthropod leg is a form of jointed appendage of arthropods, usually used for walking. In crustaceans, the first antennae are uniramous, but the second antennae are biramous, as are the legs in most species. For a time, possession of uniramous limbs was believed to be a shared, derived character, so uniramous arthropods were grouped into a taxon called Uniramia.