The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to 3.38 m (11.1 ft) over curves and exceptionally weighing up to 388.7 kg (857 lb) in the wild. Its most recognisable feature is a pattern of dark vertical stripes on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside. 
The Siberian Tiger is from Amur region (near the Amur River) in the Far East (border between the Russian Far East and North Eastern China) Close to Siberia. 6 people found this useful. White tigers are a rare albino version of the Bengal tiger, Panthera Tigris Tigris. White Siberian tigers are not a natural occurrence. They are a cross-breeding of Siberian t … igers (Panthera tigris altaica) with white Bengal tigers. 4
The Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica), also known as the Amur tiger, is a tiger subspecies inhabiting mainly the Sikhote Alin mountain region with a small population in southwest Primorye Province in the Russian Far East. 
There are at least two subspecies names associated with the Siberian tiger: Panthera Tigris longipilis and Panthera Tigris altaica. Literally, these names mean Panther tiger long-haired and Panther tiger of the Altai Mountains, respectively. White tigers are a rare albino version of the Bengal tiger, Panthera Tigris Tigris. White Siberian tigers are not a natural occurrence. They are a cross-breeding of Siberian t … igers (Panthera tigris altaica) with white Bengal tigers. 4 people found this useful.
Panthera tigris altaica. Description: Amur tigers are one of the larger tiger sub-species. Average weight for males is 160-190 kg, while females are smaller, at 110-130 kg. Males, females and cubs can be distinguished by their tracks: a male’s paw pad measures 10.5 – 14.5 cm across, a female’s 8.5 – 9.5. cm, and a cub’s – from 5.5 – 10 cm
The Siberian Tiger. The Siberian Tiger is the largest of all of the wild cats in the world. Also known as the Amur Tiger or by its scientific name, Panthera tigris altaica, this magnificent animal is naturally found predominantly in the Sikhote-Alin Mountain Range in the far east of Russia. 
Colossal Kitties. Tigers are the biggest cats in the world, and Amur tigers are the biggest subspecies (type) of tigers. They stand about three feet tall at the shoulder. This isn't quite as tall as a lion, but Amur tigers are longer and usually weigh more. 
Siberian Tiger Range. Siberian (or Amur) tigers are the world's largest cats. They live primarily in eastern Russia's birch forests, though some exist in China and North Korea. There are an estimated 400 to 500 Siberian tigers living in the wild, and recent studies suggest that these numbers are stable. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man:
Siberian Tiger Basic Information. There are a few other names for Siberian Tigers. Their latin name is Panthera Tigris Altaica. There are 3 other non-Latin names, too. The Amur Tiger, Northeast China Tiger, and Manchurian Tiger. The Siberian Tiger looks slightly different from the other tiger sub-spieces. It has a coat that lightens during the winter to help blend in with the snow.
The Amur tiger’s habitat is now restricted to the Sikhote-Alin range in the Primorski and Khabarovsk provinces of the Russian Far East, small pockets in the border areas of China and possibly in North Korea. Amur tigers have the largest home range of any tiger subspecies because they have to search over large areas to find food due to low prey densities.