Alpha waves are the connection that allows information to be transfered between subconscious and conscious. Each time you remember a dream that you had, you used alpha brain waves. Each time that you visualize or go into meditation, your alpha brain waves likely kicked in. Alpha waves are a key part of providing clear, vivid visualization sessions. They allow you to use your imagination, tap your subconscious creativity, and express the creativity through your conscious mind.
You can really put the power of your subconscious mind to work for you when you reach deep alpha or theta brain wave frequency levels. Your healing and manifesting visualizations and affirmations are more likely to get to your subconscious mind and have the power to influence it.
You are conscious, yet you have access to your subconscious. It is the best time to reprogram your subconscious mind. That's also the reason why you always have your light bulb moment when you are in alpha brain waves. To prove this point is very simple.
The best brain wave state of mind for hypnosis is the alpha state. In this section, you'll learn how to generate an alpha brainwave state which opens the bridge to the subconscious mind where powerful changes can be made. Hypnosis induces a natural, relaxed state of mind (alpha), of body, and of the emotions. Alpha is the brain wave state of mind associated with beginning hypnosis.
Delta --Delta is the deep sleep, healing state, generating brain waves in the 0.5-3 Hz range. This occurs during our sleep cycles at night. Alpha is an important state of mind for a number of reasons. Alpha operates as a bridge between the conscious mind (beta state) and the subconscious mind (theta state) .
When we talk to others, for example, our mind is in Beta. The Beta wave has a frequency of 14-28 cycles per second. Beta is the state in which you are active and alert. In a Alpha state, your brain waves move at a frequency between 7-14 cycles per second. The frequency of Alpha is a mental state of deep relaxation and meditation.
The voice of Alpha is your intuition, which becomes clearer and more profound the closer you get to 7.5Hz. Theta (4-7.5Hz): Theta brain waves are present during deep meditation and light sleep, including the REM dream state. Theta is the realm of your subconscious mind.