· just now. Report Abuse. A blood alcohol test measures the amount of alcohol (ethanol) in your body. Alcohol is quickly absorbed into the blood and can be measured within 40 to 70 minutes after you have consumed any alcoholic drink. The amount of alcohol in the blood reaches its highest level about an hour after drinking.
Urine Alcohol Testing. Urine alcohol tests (also known as EtG tests) can be performed alone or with another drug test using the same sample. Ethyl Glucuronide (EtG) is a metabolite of ethanol (drinking alcohol) that is detectable in the urine for up to three days after the last ethanol use. 
Guide. A blood alcohol test measures the amount of alcohol (ethanol) in your body. Alcohol is quickly absorbed into the blood and can be measured within minutes of having an alcoholic drink. The amount of alcohol in the blood reaches its highest level about an hour after drinking. But food in the stomach may increase the amount of time it takes for the blood alcohol to reach its highest level. A test for blood alcohol level is done to: 1  Check the amount of alcohol in the blood when a person is suspected of being legally drunk (intoxicated). 2  Symptoms of alcohol intoxication include confusion, lack of coordination, unsteadiness that makes it hard to stand or walk, or erratic or unsafe driving.
Depending on how much marijuana was consumed, it can usually be detected in blood tests within six hours of consumption. After six hours has passed, the concentration of marijuana in the blood decreases significantly. 
RE: Can you detect alcohol in a blood test? and how long does it take to completely leave your system so that there are no signs of alcohol consumption?In general and if you drink about 2 or 3 bottles of 330ml of 7%.... Although it might only take you 4-6 hours to sober up and pass a breath test, alcohol does one more thing that can stay in your system a lot longer-when alcohol passes through the liver, it breaks down into toxins. These toxins stay in the blood a lot longer than they alcohol itself
An individual with a blood alcohol content level of .08 will have no measurable alcohol in the bloodstream roughly 5.33 hours after the last drink (.08 divided by .015 = 5.33). With some urine alcohol tests, alcohol can be detected up to approximately 48 hours after an individual has consumed alcohol. No, the EtG Urine Alcohol Test cannot show how much alcohol a person ingested, but it can, by way of comparison, detect alcohol consumption after the alcohol has been metabolized by the body.
In general, one ounce of alcohol stays in your body for one hour if you are guy and about 1 1/2 hour if you are a girl. But it also depends on what you drink and how fast you drink it-on top of your own body chemistry too. If you are under 15, alcohol also stays longer in your body. Although it might only take you 4-6 hours to sober up and pass a breath test, alcohol does one more thing that can stay in your system a lot longer-when alcohol passes through the liver, it breaks down into toxins. These toxins stay in the blood a lot longer than they alcohol itself
Alcohol is metabolized at the rate of .015 of (BAC) every hour. For example, an individual with a BAC of .15 (almost twice the legal limit for driving in all 50 states) will have no measurable alcohol in his or her blood 10 hours after consuming the last drink (.15 divided by .015 = 10). No, the EtG Urine Alcohol Test cannot show how much alcohol a person ingested, but it can, by way of comparison, detect alcohol consumption after the alcohol has been metabolized by the body.
Expert: Family Physician replied 3 years ago. Alcohol is metabolized at the rate of approximately 1 drink (1 beer, 1 shot or 1 glass of wine) per hour. Even if you use a more conservative time of 1 1/2 hour per drink, the detection period for 2 drinks would be about 3 hours, 6 drinks in about 9 hours etc. 