Free radicals may play a role in heart disease, cancer and other diseases. Antioxidants, such as vitamins C and E, and carotenoids may help protect cells from damage caused by free radicals. Other naturally occurring antioxidants include flavonoids, tannins, phenols and lignans. Plant-based foods are the best sources. These include fruits, vegetables and their juices, whole-grain products, nuts, seeds, herbs and spices, and even chocolate. As a bonus, most foods high in antioxidants are high in fiber, low in saturated fat and cholesterol, and good sources of vitamins and minerals. 
| Antioxidant benefits | Antioxidants Foods | Antioxidants In Tea. As free radicals (see below) have deficiency of electrons, compounds are needed which can neutralize free radicals by donating their own electrons to free radicals but they themselves do not become free radicals in the process. 1 Pecans, walnuts, hazelnuts, ground nut or peanuts, sunflower seeds contain good amount of antioxidants. 2  Roasted peanuts are far richer in antioxidants than apples, beets and carrots and comparable to the antioxidant content of strawberries and blackberries.
In the following discussion, the term antioxidant refers mainly to non-nutrient compounds in foods, such as polyphenols, which have antioxidant capacity in vitro and so provide an artificial index of antioxidant strength – the ORAC measurement. Typical cooked vegetables rich in antioxidants are artichokes, cabbage, broccoli, asparagus, avocados, beetroot and spinach. Nuts are a moderate source of polyphenol antioxidants. Typical nuts are pecans, walnuts, hazelnuts, pistachio, almonds, cashew nuts, macadamia nuts and peanut butter.
Boost your intake of a variety of antioxidants with these healthy foods. The following is a list of different kinds of antioxidants and foods that are high in each. • Allium sulphur compounds: Leeks, onions, garlic • Anthocyanins: Eggplant, grapes, berries. • Vitamin C: Oranges, berries, kiwi fruit, mangoes, broccoli, spinach, peppers • Vitamin E: Vegetable oils, nuts, avocados, seeds, whole grains • Zinc: Seafood, lean meat, milk, nuts.
The best way to get antioxidants is by eating a diet with lots of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, seeds and nuts. Variety is also important. If you take a multi-vitamin supplement, be careful. Too much of some nutrients from supplements rather than foods, such as vitamins E and A or selenium, can be harmful. To get the most antioxidants, eat a diet that includes a healthy mix of colorful fruits and vegetables and other antioxidant-rich foods: 1  Vitamin A is found in milk, liver, butter and eggs.
Your body can also get antioxidants by eating a healthy diet. Examples of antioxidant-rich foods include fruits and vegetables that are high in nutrients such as vitamins A, C and E, beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene and selenium. Some people choose to take antioxidant supplements. To get the most antioxidants, eat a diet that includes a healthy mix of colorful fruits and vegetables and other antioxidant-rich foods: 1  Vitamin A is found in milk, liver, butter and eggs.
1 The beneficial health effects of a diet high in vegetables and fruits or other antioxidant-rich foods may actually be caused by other substances present in the same foods, other dietary factors, or other lifestyle choices rather than antioxidants. 
Editor's Note: USDA scientists analyzed antioxidant levels in more than 100 different foods, including fruits and vegetables. Each food was measured for antioxidant concentration as well as antioxidant capacity per serving size. Cranberries, blueberries, and blackberries ranked highest among the fruits studied. Beans, artichokes, and Russet potatoes were tops among the vegetables. Pecans, walnuts, and hazelnuts ranked highest in the nut category. USDA chemist Ronald L. Prior says the total antioxidant capacity of the foods does not necessarily reflect their health benefit. Benefits depend on how the food's antioxidants are absorbed and utilized in the body.
Vitamin E: broccoli, carrots, chard, mustard and turnip greens, mangoes, nuts, papaya, pumpkin, red peppers, spinach, and sunflower seeds. These foods are also rich in antioxidants: 1  Prunes. 2  Apples. 3  Raisins. 4  Plums. 5  Red grapes. 6  Alfalfa sprouts. 