Tracy Arm-Fords Terror Wilderness. The United States Congress designated the Tracy Arm-Fords Terror Wilderness (map) in 1980 and it now has a total of 648,930 acres. All of this wilderness is located in Alaska and is managed by the Forest Service. Bounded by Canada on the east, this Wilderness is highlighted by two sheer-walled fjords, Tracy Arm and Endicott Arm, both narrow and deep and over 30 miles long. At the head of both fjords tidewater glaciers calve regularly into the sea, making a boat approach to their faces dangerous.
When Tracy Arm is difficult to navigate, Endicott can be easy, depending on the weather or the activity of the respective glaciers. While Tracy sees a steady parade of boats, one is often alone in Endicott, perhaps one or two other craft passing by in an all day visit. A classic fjord, Tracy Arm is one of the most spectacular sights to see in a state where the definition of spectacular is set high. Dawes Glacier terminates in the waters of Endicott Arm. Some times Tracy Arm is difficult to access, the ice often jams the channel between the cliffs. Accessing the glacier is difficult or dangerous for a small vessel, a game of navigating the shifting rafts of ice swirling on the tide
Both fjords are over 30 miles long and one-fifth of their area is covered in ice. At the end of Tracy Arm is Sawyer Glacier The area takes its name from a U.S. Navy crewman named Ford who in 1899 paddled into a narrow waterway connected to Endicott Arm. For six hours he was caught in surging tidal currents, surrounded by massive, crashing icebergs. 
Tracy Arm and the Twin Sawyer Glaciers. Tracy Arm is the name of a fjord 45 miles south of Juneau that contains the calving faces of two glaciers, called the North Sawyer and South Sawyer glaciers. This area also includes another fjord called Endicott Arm. Both fjords are about 30 miles long and contain fields of floating ice chunks in the summer. It is known as College Fjord because the Ivy League-educated members of the 1899 Harriman Expedition that discovered the fjord decided to name all the glaciers after famous East Coast schools. Some of them include Amherst, Barnard, Bryn Mawr, Harvard, Holyoke, Smith, Vassar, Wellesley, Williams and Yale Glaciers.
. Glacier Bay McBride Glacier, the only tidewater glacier in the East Arm, is approximately 40 nautical miles from Bartlett Cove. If you are kayaking, McBride Glacier is a good destination because it attracts fewer motorized vessels and is a very active glacier. 
Tracy Arm is the heart of the Tracy Arm-Fords Terror Wilderness, designated by the United States Congress in 1980. Tracy Arm-Fords Terror Wilderness contains 653,179 acres (2,643.32 km 2) and consists of two deep and narrow fjords: Tracy Arm and Endicott Arm. It is named after the Secretary of the Navy Benjamin Franklin Tracy. It is located about 45 miles (72 km) south of Juneau and 70 miles (110 km) north of Petersburg, Alaska, off of Holkham Bay and adjacent to Stephens Passage within the Tongass National Forest.
Alaska's Glaciers. This list was compiled by using the Geographic Names Information System of the United States Geological Survey at http://geonames.usgs.gov/ . More information on an individual glacier can be found by clicking on the name below.
Tracy Arm fjord, Sawyer Glacier and two Orcas, 2009. Whaler from NOAA Ship John N. Cobb with Sawyer Glacier in the background. Tracy Arm is a fjord in Alaska near Juneau (outlet at 57° 46' 40 N 133° 37' 0 W). It is named after the Secretary of the Navy Benjamin Franklin Tracy. It is located about 45 miles (72 km) south of Juneau and 70 miles (110 km) north of Petersburg, Alaska, off of Holkham Bay and adjacent to Stephens Passage within the Tongass National Forest.
Dawes Glacier in the Endicott Arm of Alaska's Inside Passage. Photo Credit: Dawes Glacier (c) Linda Garrison. We got back to the ship about 1:30; they loaded up the boats, and moved the Wilderness Discoverer towards Dawes Glacier, arriving about 3:00 pm. 