The Xolo is native to Mexico. Archaeological evidence shows that the breed has existed in Mexico for more than 3,000 years. Most likely, early forerunners of the Xolo originated as spontaneous hairless mutations of indigenous American dogs. Hairlessness may have offered a survival advantage in tropical regions
The Xoloitzcuintle (/zoʊloʊ.iːtsˈkwiːntli/ zoh-loh-eets-KWEENT-lee), or Xolo for short, is a hairless breed of dog, found in toy, miniature and standard sizes.The Xolo also comes in a coated variety and all three sizes can be born to a single litter. Archaeological evidence shows that the breed has existed in Mexico for more than 3,000 years. Most likely, early forerunners of the Xolo originated as spontaneous hairless mutations of indigenous American dogs.
Dogs with dominant genes for hairlessness can pass their attributes to their offspring in natural conditions, that is, not under the control of humans. Therefore, it is possible that, in some parts of the world, groups of hairless dogs came into existence without human intervention. This type of genetic structure is said to be homozygous pre-natal lethal for the dominant gene. This means that zygotes with two dominant genes cannot live. Therefore, all dominant-hairless dogs have a heterozygous gene structure. This allows a homozygous recessive type to persist, which is the coated variety.
The Sphynx is the best known of the hairless cat breeds, and he was developed in the 1970s through crosses between hairless cats and Rex cats. The medium-size Sphynx has a suede-like coat, a wrinkled face and satellite-dish ears that give him the expression of a wise and kindly visitor from outer space. Hairless dogs appeared in China as early as the 13th century. Chinese Cresteds, which were recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1991, come in two varieties — hairless and coated (also known as Powderpuffs).
I'm feeling a little chilly. The dog commonly known as the Mexican hairless actually is called the Xoloitzcuintli. Yeah, it's not hard to figure out why the nickname is more popular. The Xoloitzcuintli and Chinese Crested lack body hair, but there are differences between the breeds beside ease of pronunciation. The skin of the hairless crested is extremely smooth. Even the hairless type has fine, silky hair on the head (the so-called crest), legs and the long plume of a tail. The American Kennel Club standard allows any colors for the Chinese crested. They are toy dogs, maturing between 11 and 13 inches tall at the shoulder
A hairless dog is a dog with a genetic disposition for hairlessness and hairloss. There are two known types of genetic hairlessness, a dominant and a recessive type. This type of genetic structure is said to be homozygous pre-natal lethal for the dominant gene. This means that zygotes with two dominant genes cannot live. Therefore, all dominant-hairless dogs have a heterozygous gene structure. This allows a homozygous recessive type to persist, which is the coated variety.
The Xoloitzcuintli (pronounced “show-low-eats-queen-tlee”), also known as the Tepeizeuintli, the Pelon, the Bald Dog, Perro sin Pelo Mexicano, the Mexican Hairless or simply the Xolo (“show-low”), is one of the oldest and rarest of all domestic dog breeds. 
The American Hairless Terrier (AHT) is the only dog breed with a recessive hairless gene. Unlike the hairlessness resulting from dominant genes, the AHT has no dental, skin or other health issues associated with the dominant gene hairless breeds. This type of genetic structure is said to be homozygous pre-natal lethal for the dominant gene. This means that zygotes with two dominant genes cannot live. Therefore, all dominant-hairless dogs have a heterozygous gene structure. This allows a homozygous recessive type to persist, which is the coated variety.
Show All Items. This is Momo. He is my dog. He is a Hairless American Terrier and is sometimes called a Hairless Rat Terrier. He has also been called a naked dog and a rubber dog. He does not know he does not have fur. 