Typical salinity values are between 33.5 and 34.7, poleward of 65°S. This Temperature-Salinity signature is due to a combination of water masses that meet in the Southern Ocean and are mixed and redistributed by the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. This tremendous cross-sectional area allows for the current's large volume transport. The Antarctic Circumpolar Current's eastward flow is driven by strong westerly winds. The average wind speed between 40°S and 60°S is 15 to 24 knots with strongest winds typically between 45°S and 55°S.
In Depth Tutorials and Information. The Antarctic circumpolar current (ACC), also known as the West Wind Drift, is the only current that flows completely around the globe, unimpeded by continents. Antarctic Circumpolar Current (Global Warming)
The Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) is the most important current in the Southern Ocean, and the only current that flows completely around the globe. This tremendous cross-sectional area allows for the current's large volume transport. The Antarctic Circumpolar Current's eastward flow is driven by strong westerly winds. The average wind speed between 40°S and 60°S is 15 to 24 knots with strongest winds typically between 45°S and 55°S.
The southern boundary of the ACC is defined by the westward flowing Antarctic Coastal Current with a surface temperature around 30 degrees F (minus 1 degree C). Mean ACC temperature ranges from 41-30 degrees F (5 to minus 1 degree C). Antarctic Circumpolar Current (Global Warming). The Antarctic circumpolar current (ACC), also known as the West Wind Drift, is the only current that flows completely around the globe, unimpeded by continents.
2. Abstract This review examines the operation of the Antarctic Circumpolar ocean current, its role in the so-called ‘great ocean conveyor belt’ of worldwide ocean currents and its influence on climate, particularly in northern Europe. A difference between the ACC and other major currents is that the ACC is not a single flow but consists of two or more jets that run largely parallel to an ocean ridge system which surrounds Antarctica. Between the ACC and Antarctica there are two significant gyre systems, the Ross and Weddell Sea gyres.
While the circumpolar current is the dominant feature of the Southern Ocean, there are other important flows in the north-south direction and in the vertical plane. The average depth of the ocean ranges from 2,000 to 4,000 metres. The temperature of the water in the Southern Ocean has a powerful influence on the climate of much of the earth. The current is not always stable. It can develop disturbances called waves or eddies which involve the entire water column.
The current flows at a rate of about 4 km/h (2.5 mph) over the Macquarie Ridge south of New Zealand. The ACC varies with time. Evidence of this is the Antarctic Circumpolar Wave, a periodic oscillation that affects the climate of much of the southern hemisphere. The Antarctic Circumpolar Current is the strongest current system in the world oceans and the only ocean current linking all major oceans: the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans. Seawater density fronts after Orsi, Whitworth & Nowlin 1995.
The Antarctic Circumpolar Ocean Current A review of its influence on global ocean currents and climate within Antarctica and Europe James S. B. Mason GCAS Class 2006-7 Department of Antarctic Studies and Research University of Canterbury. 2. A difference between the ACC and other major currents is that the ACC is not a single flow but consists of two or more jets that run largely parallel to an ocean ridge system which surrounds Antarctica. Between the ACC and Antarctica there are two significant gyre systems, the Ross and Weddell Sea gyres.
The Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) is an ocean current that flows clockwise from west to east around Antarctica. An alternative name for the ACC is the West Wind Drift. The ACC is the dominant circulation feature of the Southern Ocean and has a mean transport of 100-150 Sverdrups (Sv, million m³/s), making it the largest ocean current. The Antarctic Circumpolar Current is the strongest current system in the world oceans and the only ocean current linking all major oceans: the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans. Seawater density fronts after Orsi, Whitworth & Nowlin 1995.
The current is circumpolar due to the lack of any landmass connecting with Antarctica and this keeps warm ocean waters away from Antarctica, enabling that continent to maintain its huge ice sheet. The Antarctic Circumpolar Current is the strongest current system in the world oceans and the only ocean current linking all major oceans: the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans. Seawater density fronts after Orsi, Whitworth & Nowlin 1995.