water-soluble vitamins, n.pl any of a variety of substances essential to human health and function that dissolve in water, such as vitamin C and vitamin B complex. Assist important enzyme activity such as energy production from fats and carbohydrates. 
Doctor's Answer: Vitamins are classified as either fat soluble (vitamins A, D, E and K) or water soluble (vitamins B and C). This difference between the two groups is very important. It determines how each vitamin acts within the body. The fat soluble vitamins are soluble in lipids (fats). In sum, to respond to your questions:  1 The difference (if any) between vitamins that are water soluble and those that are not -- There is a big difference between the water soluble vitamins and the fat soluble vitamins and this is absolutely a critical distinction.  2 Specifically Vitamin E -- Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin
Sources and Physiological Functions. Folate, vitamins B6, and B12 belong to the group of water-soluble B vitamins that occur naturally in food. Leafy green vegetables (such as spinach and turnip greens), fruits (such as citrus fruits and juices), and dried beans and peas are all natural sources of folate. 
The water-soluble vitamins, excluding vitamin C, popularly are termed the B-complex vitamins. There are eight of them, namely; B1 (thiamine), B2 (riboflavin), B6 (pyridoxine), niacin (nicotinic acid), B12, folic acid, pantothenic acid, and biotin. Remember that water-soluble vitamins, the B-complex group and vitamin C, dissolve in water, are not stored and they are eliminated in urine. We need a continuous supply of them in our diets to ensure proper health and nutrition. A good multivitamin is the foundation of health and nutritio
In humans there are 13 vitamins: 4 fat-soluble (A, D, E, and K) and 9 water-soluble (8 B vitamins and vitamin C). Water-soluble vitamins dissolve easily in water and, in general, are readily excreted from the body, to the degree that urinary output is a strong predictor of vitamin consumption. 
Fat and Water Soluble Vitamins Explained. Water soluble vitamins and fat soluble vitamins are nutrients your body needs in your diet for you to stay healthy. For optimal health, it is important to get the vitamins and minerals your body needs--either through a balanced, nutritious diet, health supplements, or both. There are eight water-soluble vitamins known as B-complex vitamins: thiamin (vitamin B1), riboflavin (vitamin B2), vitamin B6, vitamin B12, folate, biotin, niacin and pantothenic acid. Vitamin B-complex vitamins are needed for healthy skin, good vision, a healthy nervous system and the formation of red blood cells.