You can send group email or text through the contacts app. Go to contacts app, select a group then hit menu and you will have options to email or text the group or part of the group using check boxes. I agree it should be integrated into the gmail app.
Syncing your Gmail account to your Google Android device is the easiest way to maintain your contacts. It allows you to have a backup of all of the contacts in the device stored within the Gmail system.
If you have a Samsung device, you might be able to find your phone using Samsung’s own tracking service ‘Find my mobile’. For this to work, you need a Samsung account and registered your device before you lost it. So try to remember if you did that.
You can also add a phone number to your Gmail profile to receive a code to reset your password via text message. Having a mobile phone number on your account is one of the easiest and most reliable ways to help keep your account safe.
Instead of using the mobile browser, you can also use the Android Device Manager app. If you the other phone doesn’t have it, simply download it here. You can sign in using the guest mode and your Google account credentials. Now you should be able to track your lost device, let it ring or wipe its data.
How to backup your Android contacts. 1  Go to your phones settings (if you don’t have a shortcut on your homescreen you can find it in your list of apps). 2  Scroll though this menu and press the tab that says Back up and reset.
1. Touch Settings Accounts (if there are tabs you may need to touch General Samsung account Backup checkboxes next to the items you want to back up and then touch Back up now. You can synchronize some specific social data, such as calendar events and contacts and Google-specific app data, through your Google account.
Next from your active Android device log into the Gmail account where the contacts are stored. Once logged in go to the main menu on the device and select the contacts icon. Under contacts select the menu/options icon to bring up a list of available options.
To get contacts from your Android phone into Gmail (I’m on an HTC Desire HD): First log in to your Gmail account on your PC. Navigate to Contacts (drop-down menu appears when you click the red “Gmail” to the left of the screen), and click on “New Contact”. Near the top of the screen there’s a button to create new group.
Is it possible to recover a forgotten Gmail account using a phone number and the date it was created. kjp372. 6/12/12 8:03 PM. I cannot remember the Gmail account username that I set up on my Android phone in October 2010.