Japanese has two forms of phonetic writing, hiragana and katakana. In modern Japanese, most writing is done in a mixture of hiragana and kanji (Chinese characters). To see how a particular English word is represented in katakana, try the following tool which converts English into katakana based on a dictionary of pronunciations: Turn English into katakana : The names of animal and plant species and minerals are commonly written in katakana.
The katakana syllabary consists of 48 syllables and was originally considered men's writing. Since the 20th century, katakana have been used mainly to write non-Chinese loan words, onomatopoeic words, foreign names, in telegrams and for emphasis (the equivalent of bold, italic or upper case text in English). Before the 20th century all foreign loanwords were written with kanji. The katakana syllabary was derived from abbreviated Chinese characters used by Buddhist monks to indicate the correct pronunciations of Chinese texts in the 9th century. At first there were many different symbols to represent one syllable of spoken Japanese, but over the years the system was streamlined.
Hiragana is kind of like kanji but simplified, and usually used for words that have a Japanese origin, but it is ok to write normal words with hiragana, within reason, hiragan … a/katakana in normal writing is based on style. Katakana is normally and supposed to be used for foreign words and names. Syllabaries relate to pronunciation. The Kanji character … s do not. Hiragana is a syllabary used to write words of traditional Japanese origin. The same words have Kanji characters that stand for them. Katakana is a syllabary used to write borrowed words and words of foreign origin, such as names.
In the Japanese script, Hiragana is an alphabet that is used to spell different Japanese words. Japanese kids and all foreign students of Japanese language have to learn this alphabet system to be able to write in Japanese language. However, entire Japanese is not written using Hiragana alphabets. Hiragana is mainly used to spell Original Japanese words. Hiragana characters are rounder in nature. Of the two, Hiragana is the older having been used since 1st century AD. It is said that Japanese people use Hiragana for more formal types of writing such as writing books and letters.
Katakana (片仮名, カタカナ) is a Japanese syllabary, one component of the Japanese writing system along with hiragana, kanji, and in some cases the Latin script (known as romaji). The word katakana means fragmentary kana, as the katakana characters are derived from components of more complex kanji. Katakana and hiragana are both kana systems. With one or two minor exceptions, each syllable (strictly mora) in the Japanese language is represented by one character, or kana, in each system. Each kana is either a vowel such as  a  (katakana ア); a consonant followed by a vowel such as  ka  (katakana カ); or  n  (katakana ン), a nasal sonorant which, depending on the context, sounds either like English m, n, or ng ([ŋ]), or like the nasal vowels of Spanish and/or Portuguese.
The other script, katakana, is used for indicating loan words from languages like English, animal and plant names, some company names such as Suzuki, to emphasize, for accented speech, for sounds such as animal cries, and in place of some kanji. To see how a particular English word is represented in katakana, try the following tool which converts English into katakana based on a dictionary of pronunciations: Turn English into katakana : The names of animal and plant species and minerals are commonly written in katakana.
Hiragana (平仮名, ひらがな) is a Japanese syllabary, one basic component of the Japanese writing system, along with katakana, kanji, and in some cases rōmaji (the Latin-script alphabet). The word hiragana means ordinary syllabic script. Hiragana and katakana are both kana systems. With one or two minor exceptions, each sound in the Japanese language (strictly, each mora) is represented by one character (or one digraph) in each system. Likewise, hiragana is used to write words whose kanji form is obscure, not known to the writer or readers, or too formal for the writing purpose. There is also some flexibility for words that have common kanji renditions to be optionally written instead in hiragana, according to an individual author's preference.
Hiragana is used to write native words for which there are no kanji, including grammatical particles such as から kara from. Likewise, hiragana is used to write words whose kanji form is obscure, not known to the writer or readers, or too formal for the writing purpose. There is also some flexibility for words that have common kanji renditions to be optionally written instead in hiragana, according to an individual author's preference.