Chicago area cemeteries charge you a fee to install the memorial or gravestone. Sometimes a cement foundation underneath the gravestone or headstone is required and there is a fee for that as well. Most installation charges for individual grave markers range from $150 - $450.
The exact cost of a gravestone will vary according to the size, material, colour, finish, lettering and design. While small slant markers can be purchased for as little as £400, the average cost of an upright gravestone is usually between £800 and £1200. 
1 If you choose an annual headstone cleaning option, the cost may vary from $50 to $250 depending on the type of service you require. 2  The rates are usually for three annual visits and you may have to pay extra if you want any additional service. 1 The rates are usually for three annual visits and you may have to pay extra if you want any additional service. 2  If you want a one-time headstone cleaning, the costs are usually around $20 to $50. 3  For example, Coastal Grave Cleaners charge $20 to $60 depending upon the service you want
1 The headstone cleaning cost may vary depending on the age of the stone and its specific condition. 2  It is best to get an estimate of the cost so that you can choose a cleaning service that suits your budget. 3  Most of the cleaning services offer packages and you can choose per your personal preference. 1 The rates are usually for three annual visits and you may have to pay extra if you want any additional service. 2  If you want a one-time headstone cleaning, the costs are usually around $20 to $50. 3  For example, Coastal Grave Cleaners charge $20 to $60 depending upon the service you want
For instance, you can find most flat grave markers around $1,000 or less. An upright headstone, on the other hand, shall cost up to $10,000. Nonetheless, you can get simple upright tombstones in the range of $1.000 to $3,000. Thus, the average cost of a gravestone is $1,500 to $2,000. However, companion headstones are priced higher than the ones made for individuals. Nowadays, people mostly choose granite and bronze headstones.
For example, Coastal Grave Cleaners in Brunswick, Georgia, charges $55 for the initial cleaning and $40 for follow-up visits within 18 months. Gravestone Cleaning Service in Bay County, Florida, charges $40 to $90 depending on the size and type of marker being cleaned. Prices can be quite a bit higher, too. Headstone Butler offers a package that includes trimming weeds and grass, cleaning and polishing the stone, and leaving flowers, all for $169.95. Subscriptions are presumably one of their best revenue sources.
1 If you want a one-time headstone cleaning, the costs are usually around $20 to $50. 2  For example, Coastal Grave Cleaners charge $20 to $60 depending upon the service you want. 1 The rates are usually for three annual visits and you may have to pay extra if you want any additional service. 2  If you want a one-time headstone cleaning, the costs are usually around $20 to $50. 3
Never use a wire brush when cleaning a headstone in a graveyard. That’s one of the first things you’ll learn when becoming a headstone cleaner. Even bleach or high-pressure water can do permanent damage to the stone (also called a gravestone or grave marker). Prices can be quite a bit higher, too. Headstone Butler offers a package that includes trimming weeds and grass, cleaning and polishing the stone, and leaving flowers, all for $169.95. Subscriptions are presumably one of their best revenue sources.