Whether it is the natural, enticing surroundings, or the warm, rarely snowy weather, the winter weather in St George, Utah is your best friend. When ice cold temperatures hit most of the Northern US, it’s as if St George is a well-protected city with anti-bad weather shields; it will be sunny, relatively warm and dry! It is spring-like, with greenery timidly starting to show and flowers blossoming — illogical as it might sound it’s (luckily) true. Winter weather in St George, Utah has in fact, nothing wintry about it! During the allegedly cold months of December and January, the temperature rarely falls below 50°F during the day.
Well, winter weather in St George, Utah is great when it comes to outdoors activities. Average snowfall doesn’t exceed 3.4” in January and 1.5” in December; so it wouldn’t be an issue if you left your boots at home! It is spring-like, with greenery timidly starting to show and flowers blossoming — illogical as it might sound it’s (luckily) true. Winter weather in St George, Utah has in fact, nothing wintry about it! During the allegedly cold months of December and January, the temperature rarely falls below 50°F during the day.
Utah Weather. There's a saying here in Utah: If you don't like the weather, wait five minutes.. Our weather is as varied as our terrain. Some of our mountains receive over 500 inches of snow in the winter. In the summer, parts of the state can reach temperatures well over 100°F. Spring and fall bring every type of weather imaginable.
Poor Northern Utah and nearby states, inundate St George during winter for a change of scenery and for the extended list of activities available due to snow’s total absence and relatively warm weather; the highest recorded temperature for January was 72?F and for December 75?F. It is spring-like, with greenery timidly starting to show and flowers blossoming — illogical as it might sound it’s (luckily) true. Winter weather in St George, Utah has in fact, nothing wintry about it! During the allegedly cold months of December and January, the temperature rarely falls below 50°F during the day.
Located in the southwest section of Utah at an elevation of 2,880 feet above sea level, St. George has an average annual temperature of 59.9 degrees with summer temperatures well into the 100s and the average maximum winter temperature around 55 degrees. 
The only time of day you will be reminded it’s actually winter, it is during the nights, when temperature falls well below 32°F. A lot of snowbirds from Northern Utah like to rent furnished condos in St. George for the winter. It is spring-like, with greenery timidly starting to show and flowers blossoming — illogical as it might sound it’s (luckily) true. Winter weather in St George, Utah has in fact, nothing wintry about it! During the allegedly cold months of December and January, the temperature rarely falls below 50°F during the day.
Weather information for the St George area is provided below. Average temperatures, climate details and current forecasts are included. Overlooking St. George A true desert oasis, St. George brings excellent golfing and spas to the red rock desert. Learn More Photo by Ken Lund. Petrified Dunes in Snow Canyon. Petrified Dunes in Snow Canyon Known as a minature Zion Canyon, Snow Canyon is just a few minutes north of St. George.
St. George, UT climate is hot during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 80's and cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 40's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be relatively big during summer with a difference that can reach 33 degrees Fahrenheit, and moderate during winter with an average difference of 27 degrees Fahrenheit. The annual average precipitation at St. George is 8.77 Inche
St. George's climate is significantly warmer on average than the rest of Utah, and typical of the desert southwest, with an arid desert climate (Koeppen BWks bwks BWhs), bwhs featuring, long hot summers and, brief cool. winters St. George is a city located in the southwestern part of the U.S. state of Utah on the Utah– Arizona border, and the county seat of Washington County, Utah.