A dental dam, originally called an oral dam, is a six inch square piece of thin latex, (sometimes flavored), that s available at most pharmacy chains and medical supply stores or via the internet at condom stores. It was and still is, used by dentist all over the world during dental treatment.
The theory is to build a dam on a large river that has a large drop in elevation (there are not many hydroelectric plants in Kansas or Florida). The dam stores lots of water behind it in the reservoir. Near the bottom of the dam wall there is the water intake.
Hoover Dam is in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River, on the border between Arizona and Nevada in the USA.   At the bottom or southern end of Lake Mead at the Nevada- … Arizona border.   Located in the Black Canyon on the Colorado River, Hoover Dam lies about thirty miles southeast of Las Vegas, Nevada.
The Hoover Dam was constructed to control flooding on the Colorado River and to generate electricity. As part of that function, it created a large lake that serves as a water … reservoir and a recreational facility.
Finally, gravity dams are huge dams that are constructed to hold back water using only their own weight. To do this, they are constructed using extensive amounts of concrete, making them difficult and expensive to build. The Grand Coulee Dam in the U.S. state of Washington is a gravity dam.
Dams are one of humanity's oldest innovations. People may have borrowed the idea from the beavers, but human ingenuity has taken dam-building to incredible heights. These structures serve many functions: flood control, navigation, water supply, power generation and even recreation.
The Hoover Dam is only one dam. If you are talking about all the dams on the Colorado River there are six dams Glen Canyon dam, Hoover dam, Davis dam, Parker dam, Paulo Verde … Diversion dam, and Imperial dam.
Hoover Dam generates, on average, about 4 billion kilowatt-hours of hydroelectric power each year for use in Nevada, Arizona, and California-enough to serve 1.3 million people. From 1939 to 1949, Hoover Powerplant was the world's largest hydroelectric installation; today, it is still one of the country's largest.
In the U.S., the most common type of dam is the embankment dam. These are large dams made out of soil and rock which use their weight to hold back water. To prevent water from moving through them, embankment dams also have a thick waterproof core. The Tarbela Dam in Pakistan is the world’s largest