Estuaries. Estuaries are bodies of water formed where freshwater from rivers or streams connect with salt ocean water. The mixed water is called brackish, and the salinity may fluctuate dramatically for example depending on freshwater input from rains and waves and tides influences from the ocean. Depending on the amount of influence from freshwater and marine inputs and the circulation of water, different estuaries are divided up into different categories. A salt wedge estuary is the simplest type, occurring at a river mouth where the river flows directly into the ocean.
Good to Meet You. An estuary is a coastal area where freshwater from rivers and streams mixes with saltwater from the ocean. Estuaries are protected from the full force of the ocean by mudflats, sandspits and barrier islands. You'll find estuaries all over the world and there are lots of different names for them. There are lots of different types of habitats in and near estuaries. Freshwater and salt marshes, sandy beaches, mud and sand flats, mangrove forests, river deltas, tidal pools and swamps can all be part of the estuary.
Old Woman Creek is a freshwater estuary located on the south-central shore of Lake Erie in Ohio. Tidal changes in water level only average about 3 cm. As a storm-driven estuary system, during periods of low water flow, a barrier sand beach will often close the mouth of the estuary, isolating it from Lake Erie. Unlike brackish estuaries that are tidally driven, freshwater estuaries are storm-driven. In freshwater estuaries the composition of the water is often regulated by storm surges and subsequent seiches (vertical oscillations, or sloshing, of lake water). While the Great Lakes do exhibit tides, they are extremely small.
We normally think of estuaries as places where rivers meet the sea, but this is not always the case. Freshwater or Great Lakes-type estuaries do not fit the definition of a brackish water estuary where freshwater and seawater mix. Freshwater estuaries are semi-enclosed areas of the Great Lakes in which the waters become mixed with waters from rivers or streams. Unlike brackish estuaries that are tidally driven, freshwater estuaries are storm-driven. In freshwater estuaries the composition of the water is often regulated by storm surges and subsequent seiches (vertical oscillations, or sloshing, of lake water). While the Great Lakes do exhibit tides, they are extremely small.
Estuaries are bodies of water along our coasts that are formed when fresh water from rivers flows into and mixes with salt water from the ocean. In estuaries, the fresh river water is blocked from streaming into the open ocean by either surrounding mainland, peninsulas, barrier islands, or fringing salt marshes. Well-mixed estuary: This type forms where rivers input smaller amounts of fresh water and the tidal range is moderate to high (Figure 1b). Whereas in the salt-wedge type there is a strong salinity gradient from surface to bottom, in the well-mixed type salinity is more constant from surface to bottom.
Learn about estuaries: the areas where fresh water and the sea meet. slide 1 of 1. Most of us understand the difference between fresh water, such as those in rivers and streams and the salt water of the ocean. But, since these rivers of fresh water run into the sea of salt water, they must meet somewhere; that meeting place is known as an estuary. Typically, a fresh water source such as a river runs into a body of water near the coast that is some what contained similar to a lake but just as it has a source running into it, an estuary also has an exit with a open route to
An estuary is a partly enclosed body of water where fresh water coming down the rivers mixes with salt water from the sea. A range of coastal landforms fit this description, including bays, lagoons, harbours, inlets, sounds, fiords and swamps. 
An estuary is a partly enclosed coastal body of brackish water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it, and with a free connection to the open sea. Estuaries form a transition zone between river environments and maritime environments. An estuary is a dynamic ecosystem with a connection with the open sea through which the sea water enters with the rhythm of the tides. The sea water entering the estuary is diluted by the fresh water flowing from rivers and streams.