Limestone is weathered physically by freeze thaw action and also by chemical weathering e.g rainwater. Rainwater absorbs carbon dioxide to form a carbonic acid which rea … cts with the limetsone (calcium carbonate) to form a bicarbonate which dissolves limestone. 7 people found this useful. 
RECOMMENDED LESSONS: Chemical Weathering This is when weathering involves the reaction of some chemicals on rocks. Some rocks (such as limestone and chalk) are more prone to chemical weathering than others such as granite. This is because limestone contains minerals such as calcium carbonate, which readily reacts with rainwater. This chemical reaction produces new soluble substances that are easily washed away. 
Chemical Weathering. Chemical weathering is caused by rain water reacting with the mineral grains in rocks to form new minerals (clays) and soluble salts. These reactions occur particularly when the water is slightly acidic. These chemical processes need water, and occur more rapidly at higher temperature, so warm, damp climates are best. There are different types of chemical weathering, the most important are: Solution-removal of rock in solution by acidic rainwater. In particular, limestone is weathered by rainwater containing dissolved CO2, (this process is sometimes called carbonation).
Limestone cavern in the Peak District. The weathering of rocks by chemicals is called chemical weathering. Rainwater is naturally slightly acidic because carbon dioxide from the air dissolves in it. Minerals in rocks may react with the rainwater, causing the rock to be weathered. Some types of rock are easily weathered by chemicals. For example, limestone and chalk are made of a mineral called calcium carbonate. When acidic rainwater falls on limestone or chalk, a chemical reaction happens. New soluble substances are formed in the reaction. 
This acid reacts chemically with minerals and either dissolves them or turns them into other minerals. Here are three types of chemical weathering which I want you to know about: Dissolution/Leaching Some rocks dissolve completely when exposed to rainwater; two important ones are rock salt and limestone. This page describes several types of chemical weathering. Also, this section explains the strange but common weathering process called grusification and the resultant weathering form called (you guessed it....) GRUS! (some pronounce this word gruss as in Russ, while others pronounce it grew-ss as in truce).
Unlike weathering of granite or other hardrock, limestone weathering is often thought of as a purely chemical process in which groundwater or rain dissolve the rock, says Simon Emmanuel, a geologist at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Israel who led the new work, published in Geology. Builders and masons take note: When it comes to the durability of limestone, grain size matters. New research combining field and lab data shows that fine-grained limestone is more susceptible than its coarser-grained cousins to a one-two punch of chemical and mechanical weathering.
Two important classifications of weathering processes exist – physical and chemical weathering; each sometimes involves a biological component. Mechanical or physical weathering involves the breakdown of rocks and soils through direct contact with atmospheric conditions, such as heat, water, ice and pressure. Chemical weathering changes the composition of rocks, often transforming them when water interacts with minerals to create various chemical reactions. Chemical weathering is a gradual and ongoing process as the mineralogy of the rock adjusts to the near surface environment.
Carbonation is another type of chemical weathering. Carbonation is the mixing of water with carbon dioxide to make carbonic acid. This type of weathering is important in the formation of caves. Dissolved carbon dioxide in rainwater or in moist air forms carbonic acid, and this acid reacts with minerals in rocks. Let's review. Chemical weathering is the process by which rocks are broken down by chemical reactions. There are different types of chemical weathering. Hydrolysis is the chemical breakdown of a substance when combined with water.