A: The degree that you need to be a detective can be a minimum of a high school diploma, GED or, preferably, an associate's degree in a subject related to law, criminal justice, forensics, crime scene investigation or legal studies. A: To become a narcotics detective, you will have to gain work experience in a police department first. You must fulfill all the requirements to become a police officer before you can be placed as a narcotics detective. You must be a U.S. citizen and above the age of 21.
A: The amount of time it will take to complete a private investigator degree depends on the level of education you are looking to get. A basic certification can take as little as 6 months and as much as a year. Diplomas take from 1-2 years to complete. A: In order to become a Private Investigator, you need to have detailed knowledge about the American legal system, criminal law and law enforcement. A bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice may enable you to work as a Private Investigator in a law firm. You may also need a license for this field.
A: To become a private investigator, you must have a college education. Although there are no specific academic programs for this field, it is recommended that you study areas such as criminal justice, law, investigation, or business administration. A: In order to become a Private Investigator, you need to have detailed knowledge about the American legal system, criminal law and law enforcement. A bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice may enable you to work as a Private Investigator in a law firm. You may also need a license for this field.
4. Get work at a private detective agency. This is typically the first step before you can go out on your own. Most of these agencies are small, without much room for advancement, and they do not have definite steps or ranks that you can follow to move up in your career. Gain work experience. Once you've become a police officer, you'll need to put in your best effort for at least three years before you're even eligible for a detective position. You'll need to let your superiors know that you want to be kept in mind for a promotion and that you're interested in being a detective.
The city I live in does it this way, and students are paid $600 a week while in school. Other than that you can attend a police academy at a local community college. Just as a reference point, a community college in my city offers the training for $2600. It costs $98,000 per officer for both. The costs of the police academy are paid by the department. About 15% of the cadets or probationary officers quit before the end of training.
Best Answer: Our academy for a brand new officer is 22 weeks long, followed by 12 weeks of field training. It costs $98,000 per officer for both. The costs of the police academy are paid by the department. About 15% of the cadets or probationary officers quit before the end of training. 6,500 people applied for our class that begins in January. They only plan to hire 55
If you choose to get your criminal justice degree at a community college, you’ll pay about $80 per credit. Compare that to private school tuition, which runs about $900 per credit. You’ll need about 60 credits to complete an associate degree and 120 credits to complete a bachelor’s degree. At $80 per community college credit, a criminal justice degree costs about $2,500 each year. Public, four-year colleges cost $7,000 for in-state students and $19,000 for out-of-state students. As you can see, attending public school close to home can save you a good $12,000. 
A detective, sometimes referred to as an investigator, normally works with a law enforcement agency. Step 1: Earn a College Degree. Detectives usually begin their careers as police officers. Although a GED or high school diploma may be all that's required for some police officer positions, many agencies require a college degree in criminal justice, law enforcement or a related field.
Unfortunately, there's no perfect formula for figuring out how much college will cost. The costs for things like tuition and books change every semester and depend on the college or university that you select. Tuition and fees can range from $2,000 to more than $25,000 per year. Community colleges usually offer the least expensive tuition costs, but many four-year colleges and universities provide a great deal, especially for resident or in-state students. To get a sense of how much your degree or certificate will cost you, do one of the following