The common cold is a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. The most commonly implicated virus is a rhinovirus (30–80%), a type of picornavirus with 99 known serotypes. The common cold (also known as nasopharyngitis, rhinopharyngitis, acute coryza, head cold, or simply a cold) is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract which primarily affects the nose.
In this article. Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 
A viral disease (or viral infection) occurs when an organism's body is invaded by pathogenic viruses, and infectious virus particles (virions) attach to and enter susceptible cells. Contents. 
The following is a list of the most common infectious diseases throughout the world today. Accurate caseload numbers are difficult to determine, especially because so many of these diseases are endemic to developing countries, where many people do not have access to modern medical care. Symptoms include high fever, coughing, and a maculo-papular rash; common complications include diarrhea, pneumonia, and ear infections. Meningitis: Meningitis, often known as spinal meningitis, is an infection of the spinal cord. It is usually the result of a viral or bacterial infection.
Common viral respiratory diseases can be characterized by fever and one or more cold symptoms such as chills, headache, body ache, weakness, and loss of appetite. Infants may experience vomiting and diarrhea. Some of the viruses can cause more severe illness or more commonly affect certain age groups. RSV is the most common cause of respiratory tract illness in children under 2 years of age; it is the major cause of bronchiolitis, pneumonia, croup, bronchitis, and otitis media.
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. Mumps, measles and rubella. Shingles. Viral gastroenteritis (stomach flu).
Common viral respiratory diseases are illnesses caused by a variety of viruses that have similar traits and affect the upper respiratory tract. The viruses involved may be the influenza viruses, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), parainfluenza viruses, or respiratory adenoviruses. Some of the viruses can cause more severe illness or more commonly affect certain age groups. RSV is the most common cause of respiratory tract illness in children under 2 years of age; it is the major cause of bronchiolitis, pneumonia, croup, bronchitis, and otitis media.
SARS: SARS is one of the most dangerous and common viral diseases. Its virus, Coronavirus, was first discovered in 2003 when a major outbreak killed various individuals all over the world especially in Asia. The most common symptoms of SARS are headache, high temperature, diarrhea and cough. 
The common cold is a viral infectious disease that infects the upper respiratory system. It is also known as acute viral rhinopharyngitis, or acute coryza. Being the most common infectious disease in humans, the cold is mainly caused by coronaviruses or rhinoviruses. 