The Soundcast product line has grown in stages since 2006. The first product, the AudioCast, was designed to create a bridge between an audio source and an audio speaker. With this creation came the G2 systems technology. It is also a full range transmitter-receiver system. It will transmit 20-20K Hertz and can be used to support full audio, not just Low Frequency Effects. It is marketed as a Sub kit but has many more very flexible uses. There is latency adjustment to 64Ms for longer range applications.
To urinate while standing up. While it is considered the normal way to urinate if you are a man, standing up becomes an issue due to the noise the falling urine makes when it hits the water in the toilet. When you pee standing up, the noisier of your options. Especially when you have company over do you want to avoid audiocasting, either by sitting down to urinate, or by turning on the bathroom sink. There was awkward silence at the dinner party when someone in the bathroom commenced to a noisy audiocast.
(ET) Sunday at 11 a.m. (ET) Listen live Non-Members Tune in on Sunday at 11 a.m. (ET). On race days, an audio player will appear below for the general public. To listen on additional race days, JOIN NHRA for full access to the NHRA Live Audiocast. Audiocast Help Reset Most problems receiving the audiocast can be fixed by clicking the “reset” text link at the very bottom right of this page or just pressing CTRL/F5 keys together. This will refresh the cache on your computer and reload the page
Live audio broadcast of the AAA Texas NHRA FallNationals NHRA Members can listen live to all qualifying days and race day; non-members can listen for free on race day only. NHRA Members Tune in to ALL race days: Thursday at 11 a.m. (ET) Friday at 9:30 a.m. (ET) Saturday at 9 a.m. To listen on additional race days, JOIN NHRA for full access to the NHRA Live Audiocast. Audiocast Help Reset Most problems receiving the audiocast can be fixed by clicking the “reset” text link at the very bottom right of this page or just pressing CTRL/F5 keys together.
iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To download and subscribe to FRONTLINE: Audiocast | PBS by FRONTLINE, get iTunes now. FRONTLINE presents audio versions of select full-length episodes for listening on the go.
Descriptions of audiocasts can include the recorder's identity or the audiocast's theme, related industry or subject matter and basic Internet searches can point potential listeners to a website through the use of phrases that accurately describe the audiocasts' content. They allow the ability to listen to the recorded material at a convenient time. Even better yet, they provide the opportunity to review the information as many times as needed. You can even take it to go on an iPod and go over the details at any place and any time. This is good stuff.
Other Brands On Streaming cast Vertical. 1  Reefcast.com. 2  Thrillstream.com. 3  Partypavillion.com. 4  Audiocast.com. 5  Stream.net. 6  Streamventures.com. 7  Streaming.com. 8  Addstream.com. 9  Streaming.org. 10  Streaming.net. 11  Moviestream.com. 12  Photostream.com. 13  Feedstream.com. 14  Potcast.com. 15  Lasercast.com. This domain belongs to the Global Ventures network. We have interesting opportunities for work, sponsors and partnerships. Inquire now. AudioCast.com caters a comprehensive styles of electronic music technology and our target is to provide artists from all over the globe with an opening and a channel for their music. Sign up now!
An audiocast is a general name given to digital audio content. An audiocast is generally available, distributed or listened to on the Internet. Listeners can sit and listen to an audiocast while seated at their computers or they can choose to download the audiocast onto a portable device such as an mp3 player. They allow the ability to listen to the recorded material at a convenient time. Even better yet, they provide the opportunity to review the information as many times as needed. You can even take it to go on an iPod and go over the details at any place and any time. This is good stuff.
First Known Use of AUDIOCAST. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.