1 In colder parts of the country, a home's foundation must be below the frost line, which can require digging down several feet (typically about 2.5'-5', depending on location). 2  In those areas, adding a basement during new house construction may require only a few more feet of digging to create a usable basement area. 1 In warmer climates where the foundation does not have to be as deep (typically 18-20 for a crawlspace or a few inches for a slab foundation), including a basement adds more to the total cost of the house because it requires a lot more additional excavation, far beyond what would be done without a basement.
If your renovation is extensive, requiring plumbing or electrical work (such as building a bathroom or installing HVAC), we recommend hiring a contractor. Expect this type of basement to cost more at least $65,000. A basement finishing system is another option, running $45,000 to $55,000. These out-of-the-box systems include everything from moisture-proof, insulated wall panels to ceilings to lighting.
The cost of a basement is between 10 and 35 dollars per square feet. Let's say an average basement is 1,000 square feet of finished space. So the cost of a basement is between $10,000 and $35,000. 10k if you're doing most of the work yourself and up to $35,000 if you're hiring a contractor to finish your basement. Now. 
There are some options when it comes to finishing a basement, and they all come with a cost. If you choose a basic do-it-yourself makeover, including adding moisture control, framing in walls and adding decor and furnishings, your cost will run between $10,000 and $27,000. A basement finishing system is another option, running $45,000 to $55,000. These out-of-the-box systems include everything from moisture-proof, insulated wall panels to ceilings to lighting.
You can solve the problem by cutting a large opening in a basement wall and adding a window that meets code requirements for egress. You'll find contractors willing to do this work, often for between $2000 and $3000, or you might consider doing it yourself. 
First, the cheapest way to add a basement is to do it on paper, as in, before there’s a house attached to the dirt. You probably saw that coming. Also, depending on the cost of materials, it may be cheaper to “build down” than to “build up”. That is, concrete, which is used for foundations and basements, may be cheaper than lumber, used for framing above ground—and therefore, a basement might be cheaper than a second story. What might it cost? Answers here. So, you want to add a basement? There’s a couple of different ways we can go with this: One is to assume you’re adding it on paper (That you haven’t built the house yet), and the other is to assume you’re adding it to an existing structure.
For instance, whether adding a basement or a second story or an attic with dormers, you can leave out the paint, trim, floor coverings, and, depending on building code in your area and whether or not we’re talking about a basement, maybe even the sheetrock. What might it cost? Answers here. So, you want to add a basement? There’s a couple of different ways we can go with this: One is to assume you’re adding it on paper (That you haven’t built the house yet), and the other is to assume you’re adding it to an existing structure.
1 Adding a basement to an existing house can cost $30,000-$70,000 or more, depending on the size of the existing crawlspace or half-basement or if the house is on a slab foundation, and how much of the work is do-it-yourself and how much is done by contractors. 1 In warmer climates where the foundation does not have to be as deep (typically 18-20 for a crawlspace or a few inches for a slab foundation), including a basement adds more to the total cost of the house because it requires a lot more additional excavation, far beyond what would be done without a basement.
We'll show you all the how-to steps you need to install a basement egress window, from cutting a hole in the basement wall to framing the opening to setting the window. Doing the project yourself can save you more than $4,000. The egress window will not only allow natural sunlight to enter your dark basement, it will provide a safe escape route for you and your family during a fire or other home emergency.