An idiom (Latin: idioma, special property, from Greek: ἰδίωμα – idiōma, idíōma special, feature special, phrasing a, peculiarity. F: greek – ἴδιος, idios’ídios one) s own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has, a figurative or, sometimes. literal meaning Greek: ἴδιος – idios, ídios’one s) own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has a, figurative or sometimes, literal. Meaning an'idiom s figurative meaning is different from the literal. meaning
• IDIOMATIC EXPRESSION (noun). The noun IDIOMATIC EXPRESSION has 1 sense: 1. an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up. Familiarity information: IDIOMATIC EXPRESSION used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: An expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up. Classified under: Nouns denoting communicative processes and contents. Synonyms: idiomatic expression; phrasal idiom; set phrase; phrase; idiom.
An idiom's figurative meaning is different from the literal meaning. There are thousands of idioms, and they occur frequently in all languages. It is estimated that there are at least twenty-five thousand idiomatic expressions in the English language. Greek: ἴδιος – idios, ídios’one s) own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has a, figurative or sometimes, literal. Meaning an'idiom s figurative meaning is different from the literal. meaning
An idiom (Latin: idioma, special property, from Greek: ἰδίωμα – idiōma, idíōma special, feature special, phrasing a, peculiarity. F: greek – ἴδιος, idios’ídios one) s own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has, a figurative or, sometimes. Literal meaning'an idiom s figurative meaning is different from the. literal meaning Greek: ἴδιος – idios, ídios’one s) own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has a, figurative or sometimes, literal. Meaning an'idiom s figurative meaning is different from the literal. meaning
Idiom Definition. The term refers to a set expression or a phrase comprising two or more words. An interesting fact regarding the device is that the expression is not interpreted literally. The phrase is understood as to mean something quite different from what individual words of the phrase would imply. Alternatively, it can be said that the phrase is interpreted in a figurative sense
Noun. 1. idiomatic expression-an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up. phrasal idiom, set phrase, phrase, idiom. 
An idiom (also called idiomatic expression) is an expression, word, or phrase that has a figurative meaning conventionally understood by native speakers. This meaning is different from the literal meaning of the idiom's individual elements. In other words, idioms don't mean exactly what the words say. They have, however, hidden meaning. Examples Kick the bucket Spill the beans. The meaning of these expressions is different from the literal meaning or definition of the words of which they are made. Their meaning are however used figuratively.