Cut tofu into desired size and press before cooking. Photo Credit Ildiko Papp/iStock/Getty Images. Tofu or soybean curd is a food of Asian origin. Production of tofu involves soaking soybeans in water and creating soy milk, then curdling the milk using a substance such as calcium sulfate or lemon juice. The curds are separated from the whey and usually packaged in block form
The Nutrition of Tofu. Popular all over the world, tofu is a great addition to your healthy diet. Tofu is made from soybeans, and sometimes referred to as bean curd since it is made from curdled soy milk. Generally, it has a soft, cheese-like texture but you can buy varying firmness levels, from soft tofu to extra firm. It is low in fat, low in cholesterol, low in carbohydrates and low in calories! It is a good way to get high quality protein too! Nutritional Value. A 3-ounce serving of raw, firm tofu contains the following nutrition, including Daily Values (DV) based on a 2,000-calorie diet: 1  Calories: 51. 2  Protein: 6 grams. 3  Carbohydrates: 2 grams or 1% of DV. 4  Fat: 2 grams or 3% of DV. 5  Saturated Fat: 0 grams
Tofu has a low calorie count and relatively large amounts of protein. It is high in iron, and depending on the coagulants used in manufacturing (e.g. calcium chloride, calcium sulfate, magnesium sulfate), it can have higher calcium or magnesium content. The term tofu by extension can be used in similarly textured curdled dishes that do not use soy products at all, such as almond tofu (almond jelly), tamago-dōfu (ja) (egg), goma-dōfu (ja) (sesame), or peanut tofu (Chinese 落花生豆腐 luohuāshēng luòhuāshēng doufu Dòufu and-okinawan (jīmāmi)). dōfu ja
Nutrients. Soy, which tofu is made from, is considered to be a complete food since it contains all eight essential amino acids. Of course, tofu is packed with protein, which is why vegetarians use it as a meat substitute. In fact, according to World's Healthiest Foods, one 4-ounce block of tofu is filled with 9.16 grams of protein, which is more than 18 percent of the Daily Value. Here are some of tofu's other nutrients: 1  Iron, copper and manganese: This nutrient trifecta helps to absorb one another in the body, and tofu is a great source for all three. 2  Four ounces of tofu provides about a third of the Daily Value of iron and manganese, and about 11 percent of the Daily Value of copper
Tofu, also known as bean curd, is a food made by coagulating soy milk and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks. It is a component in East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines. There are many different varieties of tofu, including fresh tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way. The term tofu by extension can be used in similarly textured curdled dishes that do not use soy products at all, such as almond tofu (almond jelly), tamago-dōfu (ja) (egg), goma-dōfu (ja) (sesame), or peanut tofu (Chinese 落花生豆腐 luohuāshēng luòhuāshēng doufu Dòufu and-okinawan (jīmāmi)). dōfu ja
Protein versus calories in tofu: Tofu is low in calories for the vegetarian protein it packs in. Here's how it compares to a few other foods. For each 100 calorie serving, tofu contains 11 grams of protein. By comparison, 100 calories of ground beef provides 8.9 grams of protein, and a 100 calorie serving of cheese contains 6.2 grams. Fat and cholesterol content in tofu: One half-cup serving of raw firm tofu contains 5 grams of fat.
1 Healthy Stir-Fry firm tofu with your favorite vegetables and seasonings. 2  Blend soft tofu with your favorite fruits (and honey or other natural sweeteners to taste) in a blender or food processor and serve for breakfast or dessert. 3  Add cubes of tofu to miso soup. 1 In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Tofu is also available. 2  This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
1 Additional information about the amount of these nutrients provided by Tofu can be found in the Food Rating System Chart. 2  A link that takes you to the In-Depth Nutritional Profile for Tofu, featuring information over 80 nutrients, can be found under the Food Rating System Chart. 1 In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Tofu is also available. 2  This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
An excellent source of amino acids, iron, calcium and other micro-nutrients, tofu is a versatile ingredient with many health benefits. Nutritionist Jo Lewin offers up recipes, research and the key nutritional highlights of this soya product... Nutritional highlights. Tofu is a good source of protein and contains all eight essential amino acids. It is also an excellent source of iron and calcium and the minerals manganese, selenium and phosphorous. In addition, tofu is a good source of magnesium, copper, zinc and vitamin B1.