After 30 Days. Depending on the job for which you are applying, the background check may include a criminal and even financial check. If you or your employer have not received the results of your background check within 30 days, you can check with the TSA at 877-429-7746. Whether you are applying for a job as an airport screener for the Transportation Security Agency or for some other position that requires entry into a secure area of an airport or other transportation facility, you must undergo a TSA background check.
March 26, 2014 at 10:52 AM. ............................... To get a Concealed Carry license in Texas a person must pass a background check.. Seems if TSA is wanting to move more people to Pre Check then they have all plenty of people to work with all without robbing the public of another $85 per head. TSA Pre Check is a scam to ease the work load of TSA employees. The link to the locations is broken-http://blog.tsa.gov/2014/03/tsa-travel-tips-applying-for-tsa-pre-at.html.
The TSA has enrolled 273,489 passengers, and millions of others enrolled in Global Entry or other entry programs of U.S. Customs and Border Protection are automatically eligible for TSA's pre-check program. Road Warrior John Hamilton of Dallas says the TSA's decision to allow non-approved fliers through the pre-check lanes is a typical, bad government decision. He says he flies more than 135,000 miles each year, and too much of his time is wasted by non-approved passengers slowing down the pre-check lanes.
What do I do during a pat-down. You have the right to request the pat-down screening be conducted in a private room, and you have the right to have the pat-down witnessed by a person of your choice. The pat-down will be conducted by a TSA officer of the same gender. The TSA officer will explain the pat-down process before and during the pat-down. Since a pat-down is conducted to determine whether prohibited items are concealed under clothing, sufficient pressure must be applied in order to ensure detection. If you have a medical device, please inform the TSA officer.
TSA estimates that most background record checks will take 30 days or less, however in some instances the process can take up to 60 days and in rare instances longer. 
PreCheck gives you access to a special TSA security line in most US airports on flights operated by most US carriers. That line is generally faster, and you don’t have to remove your shoes or take anything out of your bag. It costs $85 for five years, slightly less than Global Entry but without the other benefits. Applying for PreCheck also tends to take longer. Unless you really value the $15 savings, choose Global Entry. But the fee covers you for five years, if you are approved. Note that some credit cards, generally those designed for frequent fliers and corporate travelers, will refund your Global Entry or PreCheck fee.
TSA offers some form of expedited screening to passengers over the age of 75, Feinstein says, but they are not guaranteed access to the pre-check lanes. The TSA's website informs passengers 75 or older that they are less likely to pose a security risk and will be screened similarly to passengers younger than 13. Road Warrior John Hamilton of Dallas says the TSA's decision to allow non-approved fliers through the pre-check lanes is a typical, bad government decision. He says he flies more than 135,000 miles each year, and too much of his time is wasted by non-approved passengers slowing down
1 Pre-enroll online and make an appointment to visit an application center. 2  Visit any application center as a “walk-in.” (Please note that you may experience a longer wait time without an appointment.). 3  Locate an Application Center. 4  View the list of required identity and proof of citizenship/immigration documents. The link to the locations is broken-http://blog.tsa.gov/2014/03/tsa-travel-tips-applying-for-tsa-pre-at.html.
Regardless of the number of non-approved passengers processed in pre-check lanes, passengers in the lanes generally move quicker than those in standard lanes, Feinstein says. The TSA aims to process each passenger within five minutes in a pre-check lane — half the time of the goal in a standard lane. Road Warrior Bob Burns of Orlando is enrolled in the pre-check program, though, and finds it very frustrating.. Road Warrior John Hamilton of Dallas says the TSA's decision to allow non-approved fliers through the pre-check lanes is a typical, bad government decision. He says he flies more than 135,000 miles each year, and too much of his time is wasted by non-approved passengers slowing down the pre-check lanes.