The only way that Domitian could get rid of him was the same way he got rid of his wife-exile. It was here on this island that Apostole John wrote Revelation (Apokalypsis.) John, during his exile in Patmos lodged into a grotto of which today's name is Apokalypsis. At the Emperor Domitian's death in 97 AD John returned to Ephesus where he lived to a ripe old age. The name Patmos, it is generally believed, derives from the word Latmos, which is the name of a mountain of Caria, a country situated across the island in Asia Minor where the goddess Diane (Artemis), was particularly adored. Patmos was at times colonized by the Doriens and thereafter followed the Ionians.
Other settlements are Grikou and Kampos. The churches and communities on Patmos are of the Eastern Orthodox tradition. In 1999, the island's historic center Chora, along with the Monastery of Saint John the Theologian and the Cave of the Apocalypse, were declared World Heritage Sites by UNESCO. The monastery was founded by Saint Christodulos.
Famous for its religious past, the island is where Saint John wrote the Book of Revelation. Also known as the Jerusalem of the Aegean, Patmos was formally declared a Holy Island in 1983 by the Greek government. THE TOWNS AND VILLAGES OF PATMOS. Skala. The main harbour of Patmos, Skala is the most populated town on the island. Skala as is stands today started its development in the 19th century as prior to this it was susceptible to pirate raids.
It is supposed that its prehistoric inhabitants were the Cariens. The name Patmos, it is generally believed, derives from the word Latmos, which is the name of a mountain of Caria, a country situated across the island in Asia Minor where the goddess Diane (Artemis), was particularly adored. Patmos was at times colonized by the Doriens and thereafter followed the Ionians.
Patmos (Greek, πάτμος; Italian: Patmo) is a small Greek island in the Aegean Sea. One of the northernmost islands of the Dodecanese complex,) it has a population of 2,998 and an area of 34.05 km 2 (13.15 sq mi). The highest point is Profitis Ilias, 269 metres (883 ft) above sea level. The churches and communities on Patmos are of the Eastern Orthodox tradition. In 1999, the island's historic center Chora, along with the Monastery of Saint John the Theologian and the Cave of the Apocalypse, were declared World Heritage Sites by UNESCO. The monastery was founded by Saint Christodulos.
Patmos is the place where Saint John wrote the Book of Revelation (Apocalypse) and a unique pilgrimage site for the Catholics and Orthodox. Today, the island is dominated by the Castle-Monastery of Saint John which creates a great antithesis with the typical whitewashed character of Chora. 
), and who wrote the Gospel of John (John 21:24), found himself exiled on Patmos. There, he had one more important job to do. The island of Patmos is today part of Greece. It is located among the Sporades group of islands in The Aegean Sea near the west coast of Turkey. It is a relatively small member of the group, measuring only about 6 by 10 miles / 10 by 16 kilometers, with a very irregular coastline. I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation [see also The Great Tribulation ], and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
John was in the island called Patmos toward the end of the first century (Rev. 1:9). Photo © Ferrell Jenkins 2003. John, the writer of the book of Revelation, was on the island called Patmos, because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus (Rev 1:9). I am convinced that this was the apostle John. He was there becauseof (Greek dia, on account of) the word of God
General Information Patmos is not a big island, but it is one of the best known. It was here St. John had his vision and wrote the apocalypse, and this is why Patmos is sometimes called The Jerusalem of the Aegean. The Monastery of St. Johns towers above the capital, Chora, and the whole island breathes of faith and devotion. Nevertheless, there is more to the island than its Christian reputation.
Boat ride to the Isle of Patmos, Greece where John wrote the Book of Revelation. See the Cave entrance and Monastery of St. John with a beautiful view of the isle of Patmos. 