Lark is an uncommonly occurring first name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#8571 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Lark for boys. Lark has not been recorded in the Top 1000 so far. Lark /lark/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Lark) is of Middle English origin. Nature name: larks are playful, lighhearted songbirds.
Lark is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Lark. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4037 in baby name popularity for girls with 37 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
Kind of a Lark. Sarah Silverman saves the world. Sell The Vatican Save The World: Sarah Silverman's Campaign To End Hunger (VIDEO)We're pretty sure offering the Pope pussy is inappropriate, but doing it in the name of solving world hunger seems a little less crazy. 2010 State of the Union Drinking Game-Kind of a Lark. Break out the whiskey and shot glasses and prepare to get hammered as you watch President Obama's State of the Union Address.
Larks are passerine birds of the family Alaudidae. All species occur in the Old World, and in northern and eastern Australia. Only one, the horned lark, is also found in North America. Habitats vary widely, but many species live in dry regions. In Beijing, larks are taught to mimic the voice of other songbirds and animals. It is an old-fashioned habit of the Beijingers to teach their larks 13 kinds of sounds in a strict order (called the 13 songs of a lark, Chinese: 百灵十三套).
The lark (bird) is primarily diurnal, which explains the choice of the word lark for people who may sleep from around 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. Larks tend to feel most energetic just after they get up in the morning. 
Origin of the name Lark: Taken from the name of the songbird, which is derived from the Middle English larke, laverke (lark). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Nicknames for Lark: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Lark : | Edit. Larks are meadow birds famous for their melodious song. The word lark also means an outing/adventure just for fun - it suggests a cheerful, outgoing, spontaneous and carefree approach to life.
Lark is an uncommon given name for females but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#8571 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Lark for girls. Lark has yet to make it into the Top 1000 thus far. Lark /lark/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Lark) is of Middle English origin. Nature name: a type of playful, lighthearted songbird.