Since you have over 20 years of service, you will get your military retirement pension pay, which will be higher than army medical disability pay. You are medically retired, but you get your retirement pension amount because that amount is higher than the army's medical retirement pay, you can not get both.
CRDP is a phase in of benefits that gradually restores a retiree's VA disability offset. This means that an eligible retiree's retired pay will gradually increase each year until the phase in is complete effective January 2014. You do not need to apply for CRDP. If qualified, you will be enrolled automatically.
The computation of your retired pay base depends on when you joined the military. If you joined prior to September 8, 1980, retired pay base is computed from your military basic pay at the time of medical retirement. For those who entered after September 7, 1980, it’s the average of the high 36 months of basic pay.
Military medical retirement is intended to compensate for a military career cut short because of disability. Typically, a medical retirement is issued when a medical condition is severe enough to interfere with the proper performance of your military duties. VA disability compensation is intended to compensate for disabilities that interfere with civilian employment, and it is separate from medical military retirement pay.
Servicemembers suffering from depression or mental illness may find carrying out their duties impossible. The U.S. Armed Forces provides for those who find themselves unable to continue serving by offering medical retirement. The extent of the disability is rated on a scale of 0 to 100, says the Fallen Heroes Fund. If a medical professional rates the disability at 30 percent or greater, you may be eligible for
You can also be medically retired if you have 20 or more years of military service, regardless of disability rating. For National Guard and Reserve members, this means at least 7,200 retirement points.
Unstable simply means that your medical personnel officer believes your condition will change over time, either by improving or worsening, says the Navy Personnel Command. Your name can remain on this list for up to five years. During this time you will receive retirement pay and benefits.
Best Answer: It means you are retired due to a medical reason regardless of how long you have been in. There are two types-Permanent Disability Retirement and Temporary Disability Retirement.