Makes 8 servings. A staple throughout West Africa, including Ghana, is fufu (boiled plantain, cassava, or rice that is pounded with a large mortar and pestle into a round ball). Other commonly eaten vegetables include spinach, okra, eggplant, onions, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, beans, corn, and cocoyams. Some villagers eat bangu, a fermented corn dish, or corn on the cob with pieces of coconut. 1 Boil the water in a large saucepan. 2  Add the instant flour mix and potato flakes to the boiling water and mix well. 3  Cook, stirring constantly for 10 to 15 minutes. 4  This is best accomplished by two people working together: one to hold the pot while the other stirs vigorously with a strong, wooden spoon.
Kenkey is a popular Ghanaian food made from fermented maize and some times cassava, into dough, served with a vegetable stew or soup. It is another authentic African food. The Ga and Fantis prefer this meal to all other Ghanaian foods, and constitute a regular component of their meal. The cooked dumpling is the kenkey, and is ready to be served with a traditional Ghanaian soup or stew which is usually a vegetable sauce with fish or meat. These days, kenkey is made from grinding maize into a dry powder, mixed with warm water, and allow to ferment for 2 -3 days, then the other steps remain the same. Instead of a maize husk or plantain leaf, a foil can be used to wrap the dough before cooking
1 To prepare Kenkey: 2  Knead the fermented dough with your hands until it is thoroughly mixed and slightly stiffened. 3  Divide the dough into two equal parts. 4  In a large pot, bring one cup of water to a boil. 5  Slowly add one part of the fermented dough. Banku and Kenkey are two more Fufu-like staples from Western Africa, served with a soup or stew or sauce. They are particularly popular in Ghana.
Kenkey or kormi or Kokoe or Dorkunu is a staple dish similar to sourdough dumpling from the Ga, Akan and Ewe inhabited regions of West Africa, usually served with soup, stew, or sauce. Areas where kenkey is eaten are Ghana, eastern Cote côte'D, Ivoire, togo Western, Benin (guyana where it is known as), konkee And. jamaica In a large container combine the corn flour (or corn flour and grated cassava) with just enough warm water to dampen all of it. Mix well. Cover the container with a clean cloth. Set it in a warm place, such as a warmed oven or on top of the refrigerator, for two to three days.
Kenkey is a maize mixture that has been soaked in water and fermented. It is served with pepe (a hot sauce) and some mini-tilapias. Kenkey is heavy and dense. It tastes like exceptionally sour sourdough bread. I’m not crazy about it (give me fufu or banku any day), but I feel like it’s important to oblige the person that invited me into their home.
1 6-8 cups of corn (maize) flour or cornmeal (grinded corn or grinded maize); (White cornmeal is preferred, it should be finely grinded, like flour. 2  Latin American style corn flour, as is used in tortillas, tamales, pupusas, etc. is the right kind). In a large container combine the corn flour (or corn flour and grated cassava) with just enough warm water to dampen all of it. Mix well. Cover the container with a clean cloth. Set it in a warm place, such as a warmed oven or on top of the refrigerator, for two to three days.
Ingredients [edit]. 1  6-8 cups of corn (maize) flour or cornmeal (grinded corn or grinded maize); (White cornmeal is preferred, it should be finely grinded, like flour. 2  Banana leaves, or maize or corn husks, or aluminum foil to wrap dough in (the leaves or husks may be available at African, Asian, or Latino groceries). In a large container combine the corn flour (or corn flour and grated cassava) with just enough warm water to dampen all of it. Mix well. Cover the container with a clean cloth. Set it in a warm place, such as a warmed oven or on top of the refrigerator, for two to three days.
Situated on the southern coast of the West African bulge, Ghana has an area of 238,540 square kilometers (92,100 square miles), extending 672 kilometers (418 miles) from north to south and 536 kilometers (333 miles) from east to west. 1 Boil the water in a large saucepan. 2  Add the instant flour mix and potato flakes to the boiling water and mix well. 3  Cook, stirring constantly for 10 to 15 minutes. 4  This is best accomplished by two people working together: one to hold the pot while the other stirs vigorously with a strong, wooden spoon.