Zimbabwe (/zɪmˈbɑːbweɪ/), officially the Republic of Zimbabwe, is a landlocked country located in southern Africa, between the Zambezi and Limpopo Rivers. It borders South Africa to the south, Botswana to the west, Zambia to the northwest, and Mozambique to the east. The name Zimbabwe is based on a Shona term for Great Zimbabwe, an ancient ruined city in the country's south-east whose remains are now a protected site. There are two theories on the origin of the word
A mixture of peoples. More than two-thirds of the population speaks Shona as their first language. Shona-speaking people (made up of the Karanga, Korekore, Manyika, Ndau, Rozwi and Zezuru, groups) live mainly in the eastern two-thirds of the country, including the capital of Harare.
Zimbabwe is named after Great Zimbabwe, the twelfth-to fifteenth-century stone-built capital of the Rozwi Shona dynasty. The name is thought to derive from dzimba dza mabwe (great stone houses) or dzimba waye (esteemed houses). Cultural and religious traditions among the Shona, Ndebele and smaller groups of Tonga, Shangaan and Venda have similarities in regard to marriage practices and the belief in supernatural ancestors.
Today Shona sculpture can also be referred to as Zimbabwe stone sculpture because more than just the Shona people have learned the carving skills of past generations. In fact, some sculptures are even coming from South Africa. 
Geography. Zimbabwe, a landlocked country in south-central Africa, is slightly smaller than California. It is bordered by Botswana on the west, Zambia on the north, Mozambique on the east, and South Africa on the south.
Zimbabwe's Culture is Both Rich and Diverse. The vast majority of Zimbabwe's people stem from the great family of Bantu speaking migrants who first ventured east and south across Africa some 2000 years ago. Around the 10th century, trade developed between the Mashona (Shona) and the Phoenicians. 
A person with a different totem cannot initiate burial of the deceased. A person of the same totem, even when coming from a different tribe, can initiate burial of the deceased. For example a Ndebele of the Mpofu totem can initiate burial of a Shona of the Mhofu totem and that is perfectly acceptable in Shona tradition. But a Shona of a different totem cannot perform the ritual functions required to initiate burial of the deceased. The main part of them is divided into five major clans and adjacent to some people of very similar culture and languages. Therefore, there are various interpretations whom to subsume to the Shona proper and whom only to the Shona family.
The Shona (/ˈʃoʊnə/) are a group of Bantu people in Zimbabwe and some neighbouring countries. The main part of them is divided into five major clans and adjacent to some people of very similar culture and languages. Therefore, there are various interpretations whom to subsume to the Shona proper and whom only to the Shona family.
TRIBES & PEOPLE GROUPS. Shona. The Shona tribe is Zimbabwe's largest indigenous group, their tribal language is also called Shona (Bantu) and their population is around 9 million. They are found in Zimbabwe, Botswana and southern Mozambique in Southern Africa and bordering South Africa. Representing over 80% of the population, the Shona tribe is culturally the most dominate tribe in Zimbabwe. There are five main Shona language groups: Korekore, Zeseru, Manyika, Ndau, and Karanga