More: 5 Ways Disney-Pixar is adding more diversity to its films. Fans are kind of freaking out about the short film that plays just before Inside Out in theaters. Pixar's Lava tells the story of Uku, a lonely volcano who sings a sad song as he searches for millions of years for another volcano to love. 9 Lines from Pixar's Lava that will make you sob (VIDEO). by Christina Marfice Following. Trending writer. Christina is a reporter based in Boise, Idaho. She's a veteran vegetarian, a political junkie and a huge grammar snob.
James Ford Murphy performs a song live on Wake Up 2Day that he wrote for the Disney/Pixar animated short film. 1  News & Politics. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Read our article here: http://www.mousesteps.com/movie-revie... John Ford Murphy, the director and songwriter of the lovely Pixar short Lava, sings part of the title song. LAVA plays ahead of the film Inside Out. We attended a press conference in Beverly Hills, where both films were discussed at length. 
Lava-Clip 2. Second Clip. Lava is a short film attached to the theatrical release of Inside Out. It is directed by James Ford Murphy and produced by Andrea Warren. Plot. Uku is a lonely volcano lost in the ocean. Inspired by the animals he sees around him, he sings every day a song where he expresses his wish to have someone to lava. But millions of years go by, and he starts to sink into the ocean, still alone.
A lonely volcano pining for love sings a sweet, Hawaiian-flavored ditty in the teaser clip from Pixar ‘s upcoming “Lava” – which appears bound to join the likes of “La Luna” and “Partly Cloudy” as yet another of the studio’s classic short films. Disney Insider said James Murphy, the director of “Lava,” was inspired by his honeymoon in Hawaii a couple decades ago. After his time there, Murphy learned to play the ukulele, ultimately writing the song that drives the narrative of “Lava.”.
Lava is a 2014 computer-animated musical short film, produced by Pixar Animation Studios. Directed by James Ford Murphy and produced by Andrea Warren, it premiered at the Hiroshima International Animation Festival on June 14, 2014, and was theatrically released alongside Pixar's Inside Out on June 19, 2015. There's no story. It's just things happening on screen.. Michael Colan ranked Lava as one of Pixar's weakest short films based on the writing, saying it has too much telling, not enough showing. He praised the short film for its gorgeous animation, however, and thought that it had a good idea.
1 Kuana Torres Kahele as Uku, a lonely volcano searching for his true love. 2  His face is an amalgamation of the faces of Kahele, The Honeymooners star Jackie Gleason and the bulldog Marc Antony from the Chuck Jones animated short film Feed the Kitty. There's no story. It's just things happening on screen.. Michael Colan ranked Lava as one of Pixar's weakest short films based on the writing, saying it has too much telling, not enough showing. He praised the short film for its gorgeous animation, however, and thought that it had a good idea.
He sings a song to the ocean each day for thousands of years, gradually venting his lava and sinking into the water, but does not realize that an undersea volcano named Lele has heard him every day and has fallen in love with him. There's no story. It's just things happening on screen.. Michael Colan ranked Lava as one of Pixar's weakest short films based on the writing, saying it has too much telling, not enough showing. He praised the short film for its gorgeous animation, however, and thought that it had a good idea.
The story follows the love story of two volcanoes, Uku and Lele. It features a song, Lava, which is written by Murphy and performed by Kuana Torres Kahele and Napua Greig, who voice the two volcanoes. Lava premiered in August 2014 at the Hiroshima International Animation Festival. Plot. Uku is a lonely volcano lost in the ocean. Inspired by the animals he sees around him, he sings every day a song where he expresses his wish to have someone to lava. But millions of years go by, and he starts to sink into the ocean, still alone.