Pear-shaped is a metaphorical term with several meanings, all in reference to the shape of a (European) pear, i.e. tapering towards the top. A failed bank robbery, for example, could be said to have gone pear-shaped. The origin for this use of the term is in dispute. The OED cites its origin as within the Royal Air Force; as of 2003 the earliest citation there is a quote in the 1983 book Air War South Atlantic.
Whether you're an apple (round in the middle), a pear (bigger on the bottom), or a chili pepper (narrow all over), losing weight is not one size fits all. Your body type is the key to figuring out the best diet and exercise program, says Marie Savard, MD, an ABC News medical contributor. 
Best Answer: That's not pear-shaped, that's curvy. Trust me, pear shaped is different. Curvy is a good thing, at least if you're trying to attract straight men. I'm a straight man, and I love round things. Not just those round things, but those round things too. I have no idea why so many girls want to be so blasted skinny. And women have round things! The pear shape is round in some places but not others. I actually know several pear shaped women, in fact two of them are ex girlfriends. One of them has slight shoulders and itty bitty boobies (not a bad thing) on top, with a back porch big enough to stop a roaring freight train.
As a quick recap you have a pear shaped body when: 1  Your hips are wider than your shoulder. 2  Fat tends to accumulate on your thighs and sometimes the buttocks. 3  You tend to have an elongated waist and the legs tend to be shorter in comparison to the rest of your body. 4  You have a defined waist. 33. What i have noticed about pear shaped body is that I actually love the extreme contrast between the top and the bottom. Pear shape usually has a small upper body. I find it really beautiful if the upper is fitted (belted, body con, or peplum) and the bottom is flared (as in A line skirt flare).
The pear shape is a term loosely used to describe a body fat distribution that is localized to the lower half. This essentially means that the vast majority of fat tends to be stored in the hips/buttocks, thighs, and legs. 
These are difficult to form perfectly, and are usually noticeably distorted—i.e., pear-shaped. Wikipedia confirms that yes, it does mean what you think-but the etymology is less certain: The third meaning is mostly limited to the United Kingdom, Ireland and Australasia. Eri -- it's worth noting that in England, if someone is, well, fat, you describe them as pear shaped. (Many English women are a bit of an English pear - i.e., chubby bum.) I would have guessed that is the origin, but I'm not sure.
Work with structured shoulders, shoulders pads and ruched sleeves-they are your pear body shape's essentials. This is a common and rather instinctive way of minimizing your hips, thighs and butt. I personally find this closet mantra restrictive because it excludes clothes that are 'no-nos' for your Pear body shape (eg. The skinny jeans just to mention a few).
up vote 1 down vote. To go pear shaped is an expression used to indicate that a scheme has not been perfectly executed. The phrase seems to have originated in British English in the late 1940s or early 1950s. I have come across several suggested origins, but the best, for me, is related to training aircraft pilots. Eri -- it's worth noting that in England, if someone is, well, fat, you describe them as pear shaped. (Many English women are a bit of an English pear - i.e., chubby bum.) I would have guessed that is the origin, but I'm not sure.
Pears. The pear-shaped woman carries most of her body fat around the hips, thighs, and buttocks. She will generally have a smaller upper body (smaller breasts) and a heavier lower body. The risks for the overweight pear-shaped woman are quite different to the apple shape. A pear-shaped woman will typically be more susceptible to cellulite and varicose veins. However recent research shows that the health benefits of the pear shape may not be what was first thought.