In this novel Night written by Elie Wiesel, we noticed that Elizer's Father was beaten by a gypsy just by simply asking him where the toilets located are. From that moment on, Elizer stood petrified as if he had been struck by a lightning bolt. The response that he encountered changes him in thinking that he too will be beaten just like his father. “He stood in silence and felt bitterly against himself while his father was being beaten. I believe that Elizer fears that he is on his way to death.
Compared to the trip to the camp; The next day seems almost pleasant: they are given new clothes and coffee, and the veteran prisoners treat them kindly. At lunch Eliezer refuses to eat his ration, a plate of thick soup. The prisoners rest in the sun and talk with each other. In the afternoon they have identification numbers tattooed on their left arms. Eliezer becomes A-7713.
Confidence votes 261K. He is hesitant to let his gold fillings get taken out by the dentist, and then when he is bribed to trade his shoes so he can be in the same place as his father, he also refuses, but they get taken anyway. The easiest way to remove wart remover from clothes is to place the clothes that have wart remover on them, in a washing machine and run it through a complete washing cycle.
Eliezer and his father meet a distant relative, Stein of Antwerp, who wants news of his wife Reizel and his children. Eliezer's father does not recognize the man since he was generally more interested in community matters in his old life, and Eliezer lies to the man, telling him that his family is doing well. The men and women are separated, and Eliezer sees his mother and sisters vanishing in the distance. He holds onto his father and is determined not to lose him. A fellow prisoner tells Eliezer to say that he is eighteen (though he is really fourteen) and that his father is forty (though he is fifty).
If you want to remove a shirt from what your wearing then go to [tops] then click the shirt that you are wearing then it will come off. When you want to put it back on click t … he shirt or[top] then it will put it on. same thing with all the other categories/. Ananda Adhikari. 3,823 Contributions. The easiest way to remove wart remover from clothes is to place the clothes that have wart remover on them, in a washing machine and run it through a complete washing cycle.
From long journey from Sighet to Auschwitz, Eliezer and his father has been put into concentration camp. They observe this huge devastating picture in this camp that they were shock that they couldn’t believe it was really happening. 
Elie holds onto his father’s hand, ever fearful that they would become separated. One of the prisoners tells them that they would have a hot shower and then go to their barracks and bed. Elie encourages his father to hang on, but he does not respond. 
Reading Questions: Night by Elie Wiesel All numbered questions for each lettered section (A-K) are to be written on a sheet of paper and answered in multiple sentences. Generally each question (or sub-question) will require a 2-3 sentence answer. Do not write in fragments and phrases, please. In this section of the book, Eliezer tells of three fathers and three sons. He speaks of Rabbi Eliahou and his son, of the father whose son killed him for a piece of bread, and finally of his own father and himself.
Wiesel, in recounting the first night in the concentration camp says, “Never shall I forget that night, the first night in the camp, that has turned my life into one long night.…” What does it mean for a life to be turned into “one long night”? 