Introduction. Pop sensation Michael Jackson is born on this day in Gary, Indiana. Jackson began performing with his four brothers in the pop group the Jackson 5 when he was a child. 
Career planned in advance. Michael Joe Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana, on August 29, 1958, the fifth of Joe and Katherine Jackson's nine children. The house was always filled with music. Jackson's mother taught the children folk and religious songs, to which they sang along. 
Michael Jackson became famous as one of the singers of the Jackson Five when he was still a little boy. He eventually went off by himself and his talent and showmanship made h … im one of the most sought after singers in the world. Michael Joseph Jackson. Born, August 29, 1958. Michael Joseph Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana on August 29, 1958, at 12:13am.
Michael Joseph Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana on August 29, 1958, and entertained audiences nearly his entire life. His father, Joe Jackson, had been a guitarist, but was forced to give up his musical ambitions following his marriage to Katherine Jackson (nee Née Katherine Esther). scruse 
The Bio History of Michael Joseph Jackson began when he was born on the 29th of August 1958 in Gary, Indiana. He was the 7th of nine children. (brothers: Sigmund Jackie, Toriano Tito, Jermaine, Marlon, Steven Randy, and sisters Rebbie, Janet and La-Toya Jackson.. 
Michael Jackson Born. Michael Joseph Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana (an industrial suburb of Chicago, Illinois) to a working-class family on August 29, 1958. The son of Joseph Walter Joe and Katherine Esther (nee Née), scruse he is the seventh of nine. children 
Soundtrack | Actor | Producer. Michael Joseph Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana on August 29, 1958, and entertained audiences nearly his entire life. His father, Joe Jackson, had been a guitarist, but was forced to give up his musical ambitions following his marriage to Katherine Jackson (nee Née Katherine Esther). scruse
Dubbed the King of Pop, singer-songwriter Michael Jackson was born in Gary, Indiana, on August 29, 1958. As a child, he performed as the lead singer of the Jackson family's popular Motown group, the Jackson 5. Jackson went on to become one of the most internationally famous award-winning solo pop sensations to date. Michael Joseph Jackson was born on August 29, 1958, in Gary, Indiana, to a large African-American working-class family. His mother, Katherine Jackson, was a homemaker and devout Jehovah's Witness.