As with any roof, it's important to first find the cause of the leak. How to find that leak -- and ultimately fix it -- varies depending on the type of roof. Following are some tips for mending leaks on flat roofs and wooden shake roofs. ­Flat roofs are built up of layers of roofing felt and tar.
Look for places where the gravel is missing and the asphalt layers appear damaged. Rake the gravel away from the leak area. Sweep off the dust and smaller rock pieces until the area is clean of debris. Apply roofing patch with a trowel over the leak area. Extend the patch area out several inches past the damaged spot. Cut the roofing fabric to cover the patch area. Lay the roofing fabric over the patch. 
http://www.coolflatroof.com/tar-roof-... - Step by step DIY tar roof repair guide for homeowners. Learn how to easily repair your leaking flat roof using roofing tar. Steps to repair flat tar and gravel roof: 1) Remove gravel from damaged spot and apply thick layer of roofing tar. 2) Apply more tar.... and more tar.... 3) Add tar until you fill in the opening to the existing roof level. 4) Add a patch of reinforcing mesh, making sure you press it into tar until it's fully saturated. 5) Add more tar on top, and spread the tar with a flat trowel, filling in all uneven spots. 6) Put loose gravel over your tar patch. Your repair is now complete! From more information on flat roof repair, go to http://www.coolflatroof.com/flat-roof...
If your flat roof is leaking, this repair guide is for you! It will help you understand your options, as well as explain how to do an emergency repair yourself. You will learn basic flat roof repair techniques to fix a Rubber Roof or Tar & Gravel flat roof, using videos and step-by-step DIY Guides. When your roof starts leaking, repair is the first option that comes to mind. In this situation, you begin to think about the costs of repair, and ways to minimize them. Depending on the severity of the leak, this cost may be just a few hundred dollars, or a few thousand dollars.
1 Enlist a professional to evaluate the roof if the tar is cracked and roofing paper is exposed in one or more places. 2  Clean out the roof drains where piles of gravel were noted. 3  Remove the grill from the top of the drain with a screwdriver and scoop out any debris from the drain pipe by hand. 3. Look for piles of gravel near roof drains and at low spots on the roof. Sweep away the gravel with a stiff push broom and check if the tar is exposed or cracked. Note these areas.
Leaks usually occur at low spots or where the roofing felt has been damaged. In most cases, the leak is directly below the damaged spot and the damage to the roofing felt is easy to see. If there's still water pooled in the leak area, mop it up or soak. it up with rags, and let the surface dry. Brush off any gravel. How to find that leak -- and ultimately fix it -- varies depending on the type of roof. Following are some tips for mending leaks on flat roofs and wooden shake roofs. ­Flat roofs are built up of layers of roofing felt and tar.
Tips. 1  Enlist a professional to evaluate the roof if the tar is cracked and roofing paper is exposed in one or more places. 2  Clean out the roof drains where piles of gravel were noted. 3  Remove the grill from the top of the drain with a screwdriver and scoop out any debris from the drain pipe by hand. 3. Look for piles of gravel near roof drains and at low spots on the roof. Sweep away the gravel with a stiff push broom and check if the tar is exposed or cracked. Note these areas.
5. Walk around the perimeter of the roof and inspect the roof-edge flashing. Note any areas where the overlapping tar is cracked or missing at the upper edges of the flashing. Get down on one knee to inspect potential trouble spots, if necessary. 3. Look for piles of gravel near roof drains and at low spots on the roof. Sweep away the gravel with a stiff push broom and check if the tar is exposed or cracked. Note these areas.
2. Walk the entire area of the roof. Inspect the gravel and note any areas where it is missing and the tar is exposed. Get down on one knee and inspect the tar for cracks or small dried bubbles. Note these areas. 3. Look for piles of gravel near roof drains and at low spots on the roof. Sweep away the gravel with a stiff push broom and check if the tar is exposed or cracked