Employers should base their size on the average number of employees who worked for pay per week during the prior calendar year. If the average number of employees who worked more than 80 hours in the prior calendar year is five or more, employers must provide paid sick leave. 8. 
According to the report, the median number of PTO days provided for employees with less than a year of employment is six to 10 days, 11 to 20 days for those employed between one and 10 years and more than 20 days for those employed more than 10 years. Employees formerly used personal days mainly to take care of matters such as illnesses or family issues. But as modern schedules have changed, some nonprofit human resources' policies now include paid time off for daycare pick-up and drop-off, half-days and work-at-home days.
PTO Policies for Nonprofits. Paid time off allows employees to decide how to use leave. Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Life is challenging. To meet the needs of employees juggling responsibilities at home and in the office, employers establish paid time off, or PTO, programs. Employees formerly used personal days mainly to take care of matters such as illnesses or family issues. But as modern schedules have changed, some nonprofit human resources' policies now include paid time off for daycare pick-up and drop-off, half-days and work-at-home days.
Median Figures. For paid time off plans, the average amount of time off corresponds exactly to the median amount of time off. Workers typically receive 15 days during their first year on the job, 24 at the 10-year mark and 29 for 20 or more years of service. However, median vacation pay differs from the average. Meanwhile, new workers on paid time off plans receive an average of 15 days per year, while 10 year associates get 24 and veterans of 20 or more years earn 29 days.
Employees with 20 years of service have 21.7 vacation days, according to the data on more than 100 industry-specific job titles and more than 250 benchmark titles ranging from entry-level to top executives. Exempt and nonexempt employees are granted an average of three personal days and 11 sick days per year. Not-for-profit organizations generally allow employees to carry vacation days from one year to the next, but 85 percent of the respondents limit the number of days that can be carried over. “In retaining top employees, many organizations are finding enhancements to time-off programs may be a viable alternative to granting pay increases,” said Amy Kaminski, director of marketing for Compdata Surveys, which this month released the 2010 Compensation Data Not-for-Profit study.
After one year of employment, employees received an average of 21 days off; after five years, they averaged 25 days off; and after 10 years of service, employees received an average of 28 paid days off. Only 3 percent of the Connecticut nonprofits included sick days in their PTO plan. Employees formerly used personal days mainly to take care of matters such as illnesses or family issues. But as modern schedules have changed, some nonprofit human resources' policies now include paid time off for daycare pick-up and drop-off, half-days and work-at-home days.
SHRM's 2004 Benefits Survey shows that 90 percent of respondents offer paid bereavement leave. Usually, employees are allowed three days off with pay, and no pay for any additional time, unless employees arrange to use personal days or vacation time. Advanced notice for a bereavement leave is not required. Normally, organizations have a use it or lose it policy on unused personal days. In the Society for Human Resource Management's 2004 Benefits Survey, 86 percent of survey respondents offer some sort of paid sick leave to employees, either specified as sick days or in a paid time off plan. The average is 11 paid sick days per year
The average number increased by 2 vacation days for 1, 10, and 20 years of service. In contrast, the average number of annual paid holidays declined from 10 days in 1992–1993 to 8 days in 2012. (See table 3.). Paid sick leave for full-time workers became more widespread over the 1992–1993 span, increasing from half of the number of workers in 1992–1993 to about three-fifths of all workers in 2012.
Sick days average seven for employees of less than one year and nine for all others. Meanwhile, new workers on paid time off plans receive an average of 15 days per year, while 10 year associates get 24 and veterans of 20 or more years earn 29 days.