Paraguay Independence Day. Paraguayans set aside two days to celebrate their independence from Spain, which they won on May 14, 1811, after a bloodless revolution led by Dr. Jose José Gaspar Rodriguez (rodríguez-francia). 1766 1840 Sopa Paraguay, a traditional Independence Day dish, is served on this day because it is only on special occasions that the poor can afford to buy the eggs and cheese that go into the soup. CONTACTS: Embassy of Paraguay. 2400 Massachusetts Ave.
Washington, DC. On behalf of President Obama and the people of the United States, I extend my best wishes to the people of Paraguay as they celebrate 202 years of independence on May 15. 
Paraguay was a Spanish colony before it gained independence in 1811. Another early country to declare independence was Haiti, which gained its freedom from France in 1804. 3 people found this useful. 1  Geography of Paraguay Varies in Climate and Land Forms Paraguay is a land-locked South American country, with an area about the size of California.
Independence Day History. Paraguay created this Independence Day to commemorate the nations statehood from the Spanish in 1811. The first country in the new world behind the U.S. The Spanish withdrew on May 14; however, the Paraguay people celebrate it on May 15. Paraguay consisted of nomadic tribes famous for their fierce warrior traits. Paraguay celebrates this day of Independence from Spanish rule
Paraguay was on the periphery of Spain's colonial empire, with few urban centers and settlers. Following independence from Spain in 1811, Paraguay was ruled by a series of dictators who implemented isolationist and protectionist policies. Paraguay lies on both banks of the Paraguay River, which runs through the center of the country from north to south. Due to its central location in South America, it is sometimes referred to as Corazon corazón De (America américa Heart). of america
The people of Uruguay celebrate the Independence Day to mark the birth of their country in 1825. The day is an occasion to relive history, while moving forward.The celebrations on this day are marked by political speeches, music and dance performances. 
Paraguay Independence Day Date: May 15. Independence Day is celebrated by Paraguay. Paraguay celebrates this day of Independence from Spanish rule on May 15.
Paraguay Independence Day. Paraguay Independence Day is celebrated on 15th May every year even though the Spanish withdrew from the Latin American country on 14th May. The day is normally marked by musical performances and a lot of merry making. It is also known as Dia de Independencia and commemorates Paraguay's independence from Spanish rule.
Today, July 20 is celebrated in Colombia as Independence Day. An Unhappy Population: The people of New Granada (now Colombia) were unhappy with Spanish rule. Napoleon had invaded Spain in 1808 and imprisoned King Ferdinand VII. 