Guide. Radioactive iodine is a medicine that you take one time. After you swallow it, it is taken up by your thyroid gland. Depending on the dosage used, the radioactivity in the iodine destroys most or all of the tissue in your thyroid gland, but it does not harm any other parts of your body.
1 You are given a pill that contains radioactive iodine. 2  After swallowing it, you wait as the iodine collects in the thyroid. 3  The first scan is usually done 4 to 6 hours after you take the iodine pill. 4  Another scan is usually taken 24 hours later.
Iodine, in the form of iodide, is made into two radioactive isotopes that are commonly used in patients with thyroid diseases: I-123 (harmless to thyroid cells) and I-131 (destroys thyroid cells).
Some side effects from radioactive iodine treatment include: 1  Metallic taste in your mouth. 2  Dry mouth. 3  Sore throat. 4  Neck pain. 5  Nausea or vomiting, which is usually mild. 6  Constipation or diarrhea. 7  Fatigue. 8  Unusually low (hypothyroidism) or unusually high (hyperthyroidism) thyroid levels.
When radioactive iodine (RAI), also known as I-131, is taken into the body in liquid or capsule form, it concentrates in thyroid cells. The radiation can destroy the thyroid gland and any other thyroid cells (including cancer cells) that take up iodine, with little effect on the rest of your body.
Radiation can come in the form of a pill. Iodine (131 I) used in thyroid treatment might be given in pill form or as a liquid. The choice is an institutional decision based on many factors, including the amount to be given to a patient. Most other radiopharmaceuticals are either injected or inhaled.
After radioactive iodine treatment most patients will develop hypothyroid. These patients will require thyroid hormone replacement in the form of a thyroid hormone pill. Surgical removal of the thyroid gland is another definitive treatment for Graves disease or for thyroid goiter.
For most people, one dose of radioactive iodine treatment will cure hyperthyroidism. Usually, thyroid hormone levels return to normal in 8 to 12 weeks. In rare cases, the person needs a second or third dose of radioactive iodine.