Report Abuse. In the UK, it's actually more common to measure height in feet (30.5cm) and inches (2.5cm). I don't know why imperial is preferred over metric so much, but it is. There are 12 inches in a foot. The average height of an adult is roughly 6 feet (1.8m). 
there are 14 centimetres in a hand. ANSWER The height of a horse is measured in a combination of hands and inches. One hand is equal to 4 inches … . If a horse does not match up with accurately with just hands, then they will also use inches to specify the remainder. 
Tree height can be measured in a number of ways with varying degrees of accuracy. Tree height is one of the parameters commonly measured as part of various champion tree programs and documentation efforts. Other commonly used parameters, outlined in Tree measurement include height, girth, crown spread, and volume. Tree height is the vertical distance between the base of the tree and the tip of the highest branch on the tree, and is difficult to measure accurately. It is not the same as the length of the trunk. If a tree is leaning, the trunk length may be greater than the height of the tree.
Measuring Height Accurately At Home. To measure height accurately at home to calculate BMI-for-age: 1  Remove the child or teen's shoes, bulky clothing, and hair ornaments, and unbraid hair that interferes with the measurement. 2  Take the height measurement on flooring that is not carpeted and against a flat surface such as a wall with no molding. 
1 If your measuring tape is too short to measure your full height, measure as high as you can and make a pencil mark on the wall. 2  Note the measurement. 3  Keep measuring this until you reach the pencil mark you made using the box. Keep the measuring tape flat against the wall. 1 
Measure from the floor to the pencil mark with a measuring tape. Keep the measuring tape flat against the wall. 1  If your measuring tape is too short to measure your full height, measure as high as you can and make a pencil mark on the wall. 2  Note the measurement. 3  Keep measuring this until you reach the pencil mark you made using the box.
In some contexts, two of these terms -- length and height -- do also have a specific mathematical meaning. Length, when referring to measurement in one dimension (as in the length of a line segment or a or a piece of string), has a specialized meaning. So does height when it is used in conjunction with base. Length, width, height, depth. FAQs. People often ask about the correct use of length, width, height, and depth. In the most common contexts in elementary school, mathematics does not have a formal definition for these terms, nor does it have rules about proper use. But natural usage does follow some conventions.
Height is the measurement of vertical distance, but has two meanings in common use. It can either indicate how tall something is, or how high up it is. For example The height of the building is 50 m or The height of the airplane is 10,000 m. When used to describe how high something like an airplane or mountain peak is from sea level, height is more often called altitude. Height is measured along the vertical (y) axis between a specified point and another. Although height is relative to a plane of reference, most measurements of height in the physical world are based upon a zero surface, known as sea level. Both altitude and elevation, two synonyms for height, are usually defined as the position of a point above the mean
Kilograms and meters (or centimeters). Formula: weight (kg) / [height (m)] 2. With the metric system, the formula for BMI is weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared. Because height is commonly measured in centimeters, divide height in centimeters by 100 to obtain height in meters. Example: Weight = 68 kg, Height = 165 cm (1.65 m).