Cholo (. [ˈtʃolo]) is a loosely defined term that has had various meanings relating to the connotation of people of indigenous heritage, who in many cases have some Spanish blood (mestizos), or who have adopted elements of Spanish dress, language or culture. 1 There is a reference to The Cholo in Assault on Precinct 13 (1976), although it is used to refer specifically to a blood oath instead of a Mexican person. 2  In the film Napoleon Dynamite (2004), Nano and Arturo De Silva play characters simply referred to as Cholo No. 1 and Cholo No. 2.
Cholo as an English-language term dates at least to 1851 when it was used by Herman Melville in his novel Moby-Dick, referring to a Spanish speaking sailor, possibly derived from the Windward Islands reference mentioned above. 1 There is a reference to The Cholo in Assault on Precinct 13 (1976), although it is used to refer specifically to a blood oath instead of a Mexican person. 2  In the film Napoleon Dynamite (2004), Nano and Arturo De Silva play characters simply referred to as Cholo No. 1 and Cholo No. 2.
Top Definition. cholo. A cholo is term implying a Hispanic male that typically dresses in chinos (khahki pants), a wifebeater sleeveless teeshirt or a flannel shirt with only the top buttoned, a hairnet, or with a bandana around the forehead, usually halfway down over the eyes. A Cholo is a latino gangster (aka Vato Loco). Some Cholos may get their clothes from Dickies that are 2 sizes larger than what they would normally wear while buttoning only the top button. Cholos may invest in lowrider brand clothing and wear plaid flannel jackets during the winter.
Racial and cultural status, along with social class are reflected in the term cholo itself, which was adopted in California in the 1960s by youth following the pachuco tradition, as a label for that identity (Cuellar 1982). 1 There is a reference to The Cholo in Assault on Precinct 13 (1976), although it is used to refer specifically to a blood oath instead of a Mexican person. 2  In the film Napoleon Dynamite (2004), Nano and Arturo De Silva play characters simply referred to as Cholo No. 1 and Cholo No. 2.
Carlos Soriano Mendoza, better known under the ring name El Cholo (Spanish for  the Half-breed ; born in 1973) is a Mexican luchador, or professional wrestler currently working for the Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) portraying a rudo (bad guy) wrestling character. 
1 Vato is just a way to say bro in Spanish, and ese really means this guy or the guy you're talking to. 2  Just know that you have to be a real cholo to say ese or people might think you're a racist poser. 3  When speaking English use a Spanish accent. Some famous Cholos include Vato Loco and Down aka Kilo. Though it's pretty hard to be a cholo if you're pocho or don't know much about what a cholo looks like or how he acts, you can pull it off if you really put your mind to it.
Cholo is an ethnic slur created by Hispanic criollos in the 16th century. In sociological literature, it is one of castas, and refers to individuals of mixed or pure American Indian ancestry, or other racially mixed origin. The precise usage of cholo has varied widely in different times and places. 
cholo. A Mexican gangster. Other definitions say this is untrue, and that cholo means only means mestizo. However, since this is an urban dictionary where the idea is to communicate the colloquial, everyday meaning used in contemporary society, the correct meaning is mexican gangster. A Cholo is a latino gangster (aka Vato Loco). Some Cholos may get their clothes from Dickies that are 2 sizes larger than what they would normally wear while buttoning only the top button. Cholos may invest in lowrider brand clothing and wear plaid flannel jackets during the winter.
Photos & Videos. Top Definition. cholo. A cholo is term implying a Hispanic male that typically dresses in chinos (khahki pants), a wifebeater sleeveless teeshirt or a flannel shirt with only the top buttoned, a hairnet, or with a bandana around the forehead, usually halfway down over the eyes. Cholo does not mean a Mexican gangster and it doesen't necassarily mean Mexican or Chicano. A Cholo is Spanish for Mestizo. A Mestizo is a person of mixed European and Native American heritage. Many Mestizos are Salvadoran, Honduran, Peruvian,Guatamalan, Mexican and Ecuadorian.