Now, actress Maisie Williams reveals why she's upset with her character's decision as well as the friendship she developed with Rory McCann while filming this year. In the The Children, right after the Hound gets beat to a bloody pulp by Brienne of Tarth, Sandor The Hound Clegane begs Arya Stark to kill him.
―Arya Stark to Meryn Trant. Arya Stark is a major character in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth seasons. She is played by starring cast member Maisie Williams, and debuts in the series premiere. Arya is the younger daughter of Lord Eddard Stark and his wife Lady Catelyn Stark. Arya seeing the aftermath of the Red Wedding. Arya and Sandor arrive at the gates of The Twins, in disguise as a hog farmer and his daughter. Sandor tells a Frey guard they have salt pork for the wedding feast, but the guard tells them the feast is over and orders them to leave.
Arya listens as the Hound and Polliver is discussing. The Hound has now decided to take Arya to Lysa Arryn, her aunt, in the Eyrie, where he can sell her. Arya is displeased with this arrangement and wishes for a horse so that she can stay a distance away from the Hound on the rest of their journey. Arya seeing the aftermath of the Red Wedding. Arya and Sandor arrive at the gates of The Twins, in disguise as a hog farmer and his daughter. Sandor tells a Frey guard they have salt pork for the wedding feast, but the guard tells them the feast is over and orders them to leave.
Exactly. This whole season, I’ve been saying that Arya makes some decisions that people might not like. She’s very different to the person that people fell in love with in season 1. I hope that people would root for Arya, but people have learned a lot about who the Hound is and his past. In the premiere episode of the fourth season of “Game of Thrones,” young Arya Stark ran her sword Needle through the throat of a man who had killed her friend.
Arya Stark is a fictional character created by American author George R. R. Martin. She is a prominent point of view character in Martin's award-winning A Song of Ice and Fire series, and also a main character in HBO 's adaptation of the series, Game of Thrones. Arya is portrayed by Maisie Williams on the HBO series Game of Thrones. Her performance has garnered positive acclaim, particularly in the second season for her work opposite veteran actor Charles Dance (Tywin Lannister) when she served as his cupbearer
(Photo: Getty Images/ Vittorio Zunino Celatto) Game of Thrones star Maisie Williams explains why she's upset that her character Arya Stark left Sandor The Hound Clegane to die in the Season 4 finale and dishes on her friendship with Rory McCann, who plays The Hound. In the The Children, right after the Hound gets beat to a bloody pulp by Brienne of Tarth, Sandor The Hound Clegane begs Arya Stark to kill him.
When Arya and Sandor were wandering Westeros aimlessly after the Red Wedding she used to say her prayer with the Hound in it regularly. 
Without her knowing yet, Arya is denying the Hound this gift. The message Arya was trying to send is that the Hound doesn't deserve a clean, merciful death. In my opinion, this action foreshadows Arya's future path in Braavos: She is trained in the House of Black & White, the temple of the Faceless Men. I agree it was clearly established that the Hound was part of Arya's list, which is why NOT killing him was the only way to convey with certainty that she had removed him from it.
Hate is good as any to keep a person going, better than most.. ―Sandor Clegane to Arya Stark. Sandor Clegane, also nicknamed The Hound, is a major character in the first, second, third and fourth seasons. He is played by starring cast member Rory McCann and debuts in the series premiere. Arya and Sandor arrive at a ransacked village in which they find a mortally wounded man. After putting him out of his misery, Sandor is attacked by Biter who sinks his teeth in the Hound's neck. Sandor manages to overpower him and kills him by snapping his neck.