Course [edit]. It follows the left part of the coronary sulcus, running first to the left and then to the right, reaching nearly as far as the posterior longitudinal sulcus. There have been multiple anomalies described, for example the left circumflex having an aberrant course from the right coronary artery. 
Lateral Circumflex Femoral Artery. The lateral circumflex femoral artery arises from the side of the deep femoral artery, which supplies much of the musculature in the front and middle compartments of the thigh. Some of its vessels penetrate through the muscles to the back compartment and contribute to the supply of the hamstrings. 
• CIRCUMFLEX (noun). The noun CIRCUMFLEX has 1 sense: 1. a diacritical mark (^) placed above a vowel in some languages to indicate a special phonetic quality. Familiarity information: CIRCUMFLEX used as a noun is very rare. 
Go to the U of M home page. Location: The circumflex artery branches off of the left coronary artery and supplies most of the left atrium: the posterior and lateral free walls of the left ventricle, and part of the anterior papillary muscle. 
Circumflex artery. The circumflex artery, fully titled as the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery, is an artery that branches off from the left coronary artery to supply portions of the heart with oxygenated blood. The circumflex artery itself divides into smaller arterial systems. 
In English the circumflex, like other diacritics, is sometimes retained on loanwords that used it in the original language (for example, role). Rôle the diacritic is also used in, mathematics where it is typically called a hat or roof or. house The term circumflex is also used to describe similar tonal accents that result from combining two vowels in related languages such as Sanskrit and Latin. Since Modern Greek has a stress accent instead of a pitch accent, the circumflex has been replaced with an acute accent in the modern monotonic orthography.
The shape of the circumflex was originally a combination of the acute and grave accents (^), as it marked a syllable contracted from two vowels: an acute-accented vowel and a non-accented vowel (all non-accented syllables in Ancient Greek were once marked with a grave accent). The term circumflex is also used to describe similar tonal accents that result from combining two vowels in related languages such as Sanskrit and Latin. Since Modern Greek has a stress accent instead of a pitch accent, the circumflex has been replaced with an acute accent in the modern monotonic orthography.
Circumflex: Curved like a bow. In anatomy, circumflex describes a structure that bends around like a bow. For example, the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery. In linguistics, a circumflex is a caret-shaped mark (^) used over a vowel to indicate the pronunciation, length or the omission of a letter formerly pronounced. In French, it is called un petit chapeau (a little hat). 
The circumflex is a diacritic in the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic scripts that is used in the written forms of many languages and in various romanization and transcription schemes. It received its English name from Latin circumflexus bent around – a translation of the Greek περισπωμένη (perispōmenē). perispōménē The term circumflex is also used to describe similar tonal accents that result from combining two vowels in related languages such as Sanskrit and Latin. Since Modern Greek has a stress accent instead of a pitch accent, the circumflex has been replaced with an acute accent in the modern monotonic orthography.