The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas all function together as storage organs of the digestive system. The stomach stores food that has been ingested and releases it in small masses to the duodenum. The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas all share the common function of secretion of substances from exocrine glands. The stomach contains 3 different exocrine cells inside of its gastric pits: mucous cells, parietal cells, and chief cells.
The liver and pancreas are connected to the duodenum, the first section of the small intestine where most of the chemical digestion occurs. The liver has hepatic ducts (tubes that direct the secretions) that join with the cystic duct from the gallbladder to form the common bile duct that enters the duodenum. The liver produces bile, which helps the body absorb fat. Bile is stored in the gallbladder until it is needed. These enzymes and bile travel through special channels (called ducts) directly into the small intestine, where they help to break down food.
Your pancreas is one of the organs that secrete enzymes into the duodenum. The enzymes found in pancreatic juice break down all of the major nutrients, including carbohydrates, proteins and fats. However, the pancreas needs a little help from the liver and gallbladder when it comes to breaking down fats. The common bile duct is a common duct that carries bile from the liver and the gallbladder to the duodenum. If this duct is blocked, it can cause the yellowish-colored bile to back up and enter the bloodstream. This can lead to a yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes, known as jaundice.
The gallbladder stores and secretes bile into the duodenum to aid in the digestion of chyme. A mixture of water, bile salts, cholesterol, and bilirubin, bile emulsifies large masses of fats into smaller masses. The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas all share the common function of secretion of substances from exocrine glands. The stomach contains 3 different exocrine cells inside of its gastric pits: mucous cells, parietal cells, and chief cells.
The common hepatic duct joins with a duct connected to the gallbladder, called the cystic duct, to form the common bile duct. The common bile duct is joined by the pancreatic duct just before it enters the small intestine at the sphincter of Oddi. 
1 The pancreas is connected to the intestine just below the stomach and is also connected to the bile ducts draining bile from the liver and gallbladder into the intestine. 2  Types of pancreatitis In broad categories there are two types of pancreatitis, acute and chronic. 
HEPATOPANCREATIC AMPULLA. Connection of the common bile duct (brings in bile) and the pancreatic duct (brings enzymes & juices) to the duodenum, A short, dilated tube formed by the joining of the pancreatic and bile ducts., Ampulla of Vater. Passageway that leads to the sphincter that goes to the duodenum. 
The gallbladder is a pear-shaped structure that is found attached to the liver. The bile duct is a tube that transports bile from the liver to the small intestine. The gallbladder is attached to the bile duct by a small tube called the cystic duct. Bile is collected in the gallbladder between meals and empties into the bile duct through the cystic duct during a meal. The bile duct is long tube-like structure that connects the liver to the intestine. The liver makes bile that is required for the digestion of food. The bile from the liver is transported to the intestine by the bile duct.
To digest food, your digestive tract needs some help from nearby organs, including the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas, that produce or store enzymes and other substances that help break down food. After meals, the gallbladder releases bile into the duodenum to aid with digestion. The cystic duct carries bile from the gallbladder to the common bile duct, which empties into the duodenum. Entry of bile into the duodenum is regulated by layers of muscle called the sphincter of Oddi