The oculomotor nerve controls several muscles of the eye. As with all parasympathetic cranial nerves, its signals originate in the brain cells, or neurons, in the brainstem and travel down long, thin extensions called nerve fibers. These nerve fibers connect with their target organ. Of all the parasympathetic cranial nerves, the vagus nerve, which contains about 80 percent of all parasympathetic fibers in the body, is the most important.
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). Cranial nerves exchange information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck. Spinal nerves emerge sequentially from the spinal cord with the spinal nerve closest to the head (C1) emerging in the space above the first cervical vertebra. The cranial nerves emerge from the central nervous system above this level. Each cranial nerve is paired and is present on both sides. Depending on definition in humans there are twelve or thirteen cranial nerves pairs, which are assigned Roman numerals I–XII, sometimes also including cranial nerve zero.
Many of the cranial nerves with nuclei within the brain stem contain sensory and motor neurone components. The sensory fibre components have their cell bodies located in ganglia outside the central nervous system and the motor fibre element have their cell bodies within the central nervous system. The glossopharyngeal nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. This nerve innervates structures related to the third branchial arch.
Cranial nerves are those nerves which arise from the brain and brain stem rather than the spinal cord. Nerves arising from the spinal cord are the peripheral nerves. There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves and these pairs of nerves passage through foramina in the skull, either individually or in groups. The glossopharyngeal nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. This nerve innervates structures related to the third branchial arch.
The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. The glossopharyngeal nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. This nerve innervates structures related to the third branchial arch.
Cranial nerves related to the innervation of the head muscles include the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens and the hypoglossal nerves. Cranial nerves related to innervation of structures originating from branchial arches include the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves. The glossopharyngeal nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. This nerve innervates structures related to the third branchial arch.
Cranial nerves are the pathways to perception of. •Olfaction. •Taste. •Visual system. •Hearing and balance. Cranial nerves reside in throughout the brain: cerebrum, and brain stem (midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongota). PTs will screen and assess gross cranial nerve function through observation of involuntary movement and simple motor commands.
Confidence votes 625. There are two cranial nerves that are involved with your sense of taste. Facial nerve (CN VII), more specifically chorda tympani branch is responsible for the anterior 2/3 of your tongue. Glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX) is responsible for the posterior 1/3 of your tongue. 
There are two cranial nerves that are involved with your sense of taste. Facial nerve (CN VII), more specifically chorda tympani branch is responsible for the anterior 2/3 of … your tongue. 
Cranial Nerves: OLFACTORY (1) NERVE. - this nerve is entirely sensory, it contains axons that conduct nerve impulses for olfaction, the sense of smell. - bundles of axons of olfactory receptors extend through foramina in the cribiform plate of the ethmoid bone. TROCHLEAR (4) NERVE. - is a motor cranial nerve. It is the smallest of the 12 cranial nerves and is the only one that arises from the posterior aspect of the brain stem. - the somatic motor fibers innervate the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball.