Trail Shoes vs. Road Shoes. The main difference between road shoes and trail shoes is their composition. Shoes designed for road running are generally made of lightweight material to encourage speed and responsiveness. The need for traction on paved roads is minimal, so the treads of road shoes are thin.
The main difference between trail running shoes and road running shoes is that the trail shoes are usually made with thicker materials. They're usually heavier and have sturdier than regular road running shoes, so you're less likely to bruise your soles and toes, or tweak your ankle.
Trail running shoes are traditionally heavier and designed to support and protect the foot on rugged terrain. These shoes offer durable soles with more aggressive tread patterns to defend against rocks, sticks and other obstacles one might encounter on the trails. More: 5 Reasons to Try Trail Running.
In addition, most trail running shoes offer a protective toe bumper to guard against stubbed toes, and some also include a thick insert between the midsole and outsole to defend against bruising caused by stepped-on debris.
Trail Running shoes are also have different traction than road running shoes. There are many different types of terrain and conditions you may encounter on a trail and you will need more traction.
The main difference between trail running and road running shoes is that trail runners tend to be made of thicker, sturdier materials. If you're planning to run on recreational trails or bridle paths that are generally easy terrain, you should be fine running in regular road running shoes.
Road shoes are generally made from lighter-weight materials and have thinner treads Trail shoes are heavier, with a thicker sole that can help maintain the integrity of the shoe, even in the toughest of conditions. Most runners run on pavement, smooth surfaces and groomed trails.
Those are some of the major difference between trail running and road running shoes. You can wear road running shoes on the trail, just like you can wear jean shorts to a wedding, but I wouldn’t recommend it; unless it is a wedding for University of Georgia graduate.