Continue ReadingSymptoms of Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is not only the most common form of thyroiditis (inflammation of the thyroid gland) but also the most common thyroid disorder in America. The disease, which is also known as chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis or autoimmune thyroiditis, affects 14 million people in the United States alone. 1. 
Many people with Hashimoto’s disease have no symptoms for years. An enlarged thyroid, called a goiter, is often the first sign of disease. The goiter may cause the front of the neck to look swollen. You or your doctor may notice the goiter. Tests used to find out if you have Hashimoto’s disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests. 2  A blood test is sent to a lab to see if your body has the right amount of TSH and thyroid hormone (T4). 3  An above normal level of TSH is a sign of an underactive thyroid.
Hashimoto’s disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It also is called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (theye-royd-EYET-uhss). The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. The thyroid makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. Tests used to find out if you have Hashimoto’s disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests. 2  A blood test is sent to a lab to see if your body has the right amount of TSH and thyroid hormone (T4). 3  An above normal level of TSH is a sign of an underactive thyroid.
With Hashimoto’s disease, the immune system makes antibodies that damage thyroid cells and interfere with their ability to make thyroid hormone. Over time, thyroid damage can cause thyroid hormone levels to be too low. This is called an underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism (heye-poh-THEYE-royd-ism). Tests used to find out if you have Hashimoto’s disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests. 2  A blood test is sent to a lab to see if your body has the right amount of TSH and thyroid hormone (T4). 3  An above normal level of TSH is a sign of an underactive thyroid.
Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a condition caused by inflammation of the thyroid gland. It is an autoimmune disease, which means that the body inappropriately attacks the thyroid gland-as if it was foreign tissue. The underlying cause of the autoimmune process remains unknown. Hashimoto's thryoiditis is an autoimmune condition that is a common cause of hypothyroidism. In Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the body mounts an immune reaction against its own thyroid gland tissue, leading to inflammation of the gland (thyroiditis).
Treatment for Hashimoto's disease may include observation and use of medications. If there's no evidence of hormone deficiency, and your thyroid is functioning normally, your doctor may suggest a wait-and-see approach. If you need medication, chances are you'll need it for the rest of your life. Synthetic hormones. If Hashimoto's disease causes thyroid hormone deficiency, you may need replacement therapy with thyroid hormone. This usually involves daily use of the synthetic thyroid hormone levothyroxine (Levoxyl, Synthroid, others).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hashimoto's thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease in which the thyroid gland is attacked by a variety of cell-and antibody-mediated immune processes, causing primary hypothyroidism. 
Overview. Hashimoto’s disease damages your thyroid function. It is also called chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis or just chronic thyroiditis. Hashimoto’s is the most common cause of hypothyroidism, an underactive thyroid. The thyroid releases hormones that regulate your metabolism, body temperature, and muscle strength. 
Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities. Hashimoto's disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It primarily affects middle-aged women but also can occur in men and women of any age and in children. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease.
Also called Hashimoto's disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease, a disorder in which the immune system turns against the body's own tissues. In people with Hashimoto's, the immune system attacks the thyroid. People who get Hashimoto's often have family members who have thyroid disease or other autoimmune diseases. This suggests a genetic component to the disease. Hormones. Hashimoto's affects about seven times as many women as men, suggesting that sex hormones may play a role.