1 Apply a thin layer of antibacterial ointment to the cut, then cover it with an adhesive bandage. 2  Antibacterial ointments do not heal cuts faster. 3  However, they can help you avoid infection and provide protection for your cut to encourage your body’s natural healing. 1 Apply an ointment containing 2-5% calendula to your cut. 2  You can also prepare a tincture using a 1:5 preparation in 90% alcohol. 3  Tea tree oil. 4  Tea tree oil is a natural antibacterial and antifungal agent.
You should always wash your hands with soap and water before treating a cut. This will help reduce your chances of infection. 1  Wash your hands in warm water and dry with a clean towel. 2  If the cut is on your hand, try to avoid getting soap in the cut, as this can irritate the wound. 1 Apply an ointment containing 2-5% calendula to your cut. 2  You can also prepare a tincture using a 1:5 preparation in 90% alcohol. 3  Tea tree oil. 4  Tea tree oil is a natural antibacterial and antifungal agent.
We usually heal quickly down there but this was a cut and that might not heal as easily. I would see the doctor again and hear what they say. Some of these things can go on for a very long time and they have to restitch them. Step 5  Cover the wound with a gauze if it is deep and use plaster to hold the gauze in place, but if it is not so deep you can disregard covering it.  6. Step 6  Repeat this process twice daily or as you deem fit.  7. Step 7  You will discover how the wound will heal fast and naturally leaving little or no scar.
Report Abuse. It depends on a number of factors...the size of the cut, how you're taking care of it, and just your body's ability to heal in general. Put some antibiotic cream on it. That will help it heal faster. You can also put Vitamin E on it to help prevent scarring
Factors affecting cut healing. Light cuts usually heal in about a week. However there is not definite answer and it could take much more time even for a minor cut. Time for healing a cut is variable. Eating the right diet can have an effect on how long a cut takes to heal. It is recommended to eat vitamin rich, fresh, raw vegetables and fruits. They provide enzymes to boost your immune system. Dark green and orange vegetables contain beta-carotenes, which are important to speed up healing.
Get help from a doctor now ›. It depends: If the skin edges are approximated (e.g. Sutures) it takes about a week. If left open to heal, can take longer depending on how wide the cut is. Once initial wound has covered in skin, takes about 6 months for the scars to mature. ...Read more. Dr. Keegan Duchicela Board Certified 8 years in practice 15M people helped. 
Problems with the blood circulation system can affect wound healing because the tissues do not get the required supply of oxygen and nutrients. Wound healing is complex, and there can be many causes why it does not happen properly. In spite of all you can do, a cut-even minor-can take a long time to heal. If this is the case, there may be some more severe underlying problem that can lead to dangerous complications. Always consult your doctor for non-healing cuts. Eating the right diet can have an effect on how long a cut takes to heal. It is recommended to eat vitamin rich, fresh, raw vegetables and fruits. They provide enzymes to boost your immune system. Dark green and orange vegetables contain beta-carotenes, which are important to speed up healing.
The time it takes a cut to heal depends on the severity or it and  how deep it is. A simple paper cut will usually heal in a few days.  A deeper gash that requires stitches … can take up to a month to  fully heal. 1 person found this useful. Step 5  Cover the wound with a gauze if it is deep and use plaster to hold the gauze in place, but if it is not so deep you can disregard covering it.  6. Step 6  Repeat this process twice daily or as you deem fit.  7. Step 7  You will discover how the wound will heal fast and naturally leaving little or no scar.