by AHMED SHAWKI This is a chapter from Ahmed Shawki's new book, Socialism and Black Liberation, available from Haymarket books. The roots of the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s lie in the transformed conditions and experience of Blacks during the Second World War. Large numbers of jobs previously closed to Black workers were suddenly available.
This wall of separation was shaken by the civil rights movement and a shift in the law embodied in the landmark case of Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954). 
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 -- hailed by some as the most important legislation in American history -- was signed into law 50 years ago Wednesday. It was known as the bill of the century.. But many Americans today probably couldn't say exactly what the legislation accomplished. The civil rights movement in photos – President Lyndon B. Johnson shakes hands with civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. after signing the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The LBJ Presidential Library is hosting a Civil Rights Summit this week to mark the 50th anniversary of the legislation.
African-American Civil Rights Movement redirects here. For the movement in the early 20th century, see African-American Civil Rights Movement (1896–1954) . For the movement in the 19th century, see African-American Civil Rights Movement (1865–95) . 
That being said, the term “civil rights movement” is most often synonymous with the civil rights movement that occurred in the United States during the early 1950s and throughout the mid-1960s. Throughout these decades, African-American citizens of America struggled in securing equal rights. The civil rights movement, throughout the world, may refer to a series of specific events, protests, political actions, and various campaigns that were instituted to deliver equality regardless of race, religious creed, age, sexual orientation, or gender.
The civil rights movement was a civil resistance that incorporated nonviolent protests and acts of civil disobedience that perpetuated tension between government authorities and activists or leaders in the African-American community. The civil rights movement, throughout the world, may refer to a series of specific events, protests, political actions, and various campaigns that were instituted to deliver equality regardless of race, religious creed, age, sexual orientation, or gender.
Introduction. The Voting Rights Act, signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson (1908-73) on August 6, 1965, aimed to overcome legal barriers at the state and local levels that prevented African Americans from exercising their right to vote under the 15th Amendment (1870) to the Constitution of the United States. After debating the bill for more than a month, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill by a vote of 333-85 on July 9. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law on August 6, with Martin Luther King Jr. and other civil rights leaders present at the ceremony.
Equality still elusive 50 years after Civil Rights Act. When Kennedy called on Congress in June 1963 to pass what would eventually become the Civil Rights Act of 1964, he rattled off a string of statistics intended to highlight the nation's continuing racial divide. Post to Facebook. 
Civil Rights Movement in the United States: The civil rights movement in the United States was a series of events instituted by African-Americans to outlaw racial discrimination and restore basic civil liberties (such as the right to vote) in areas primarily throughout the southern region of the country. The civil rights movement, throughout the world, may refer to a series of specific events, protests, political actions, and various campaigns that were instituted to deliver equality regardless of race, religious creed, age, sexual orientation, or gender.