Clematis are one of the most coveted perennials of gardeners and landscapers alike. With a vast array of bloom sizes, flower colors, and bloom times it's easy to see why Clematis has become one of our best selling perennials. Clematis Pruning. 1  Clematis cultivars in this group flower on the previous season's growth. 2  Generally, they can be left unpruned. 3  If pruning is necessary, wait until the flowering is completed and remove only the weak or dead stems.
(Clematis). Clematis vines are some of our best-selling perennials. Garden Crossings offers over 60 varieties of clematis—more than any other mail order nursery! These flowering perennial vines come in colors ranging from light lavender to deep purple, from burgundy to pink. We even have a yellow clematis variety!
All three groups are generally perennial in zones 5-8 However plants can be found perennial to zone 3. This site lists clematis by zone http://www.chalkhillclematis.com/nursery... Catergory I are not pruned Cat II early/mid season large flower types that require light pruning only. When most people speak of clematis these are the ones they usually mean because they have such glorious blossoms. The majority are zone 5-8, although there are some perennial to zone 3. Cat II includes my favorite group the viticellas. These are typical from zone 6-9.
Most clematis vines grow best when their tops are in full sun and their roots are somewhat shaded. Make clematis vines a part of your perennial garden. The other plants will provide much-needed shelter for the roots, and the vines will add height to your garden! Garden Crossings offers over 60 varieties of clematis—more than any other mail order nursery! These flowering perennial vines come in colors ranging from light lavender to deep purple, from burgundy to pink.
Yes, clematis are perennials. If it is still in the pot you can cut it back and plant it 2-3 inches deeper than the level of the pot. Do you have a photo to post of it in bloom or a plant label so we can give more specific advice? Clematis on the Web has lots of photos to help with identification. 
Clematis Vines. Clematis vines are one of the most-loved perennial vines and is quite the climber! Clematis plant have vibrant colors and varying bloomtimes can help add new life to your outdoor space and look beautiful when trained to climb a lamppost, trellis, fence, or other architectural structure. Fairy Dust Clematis. This vigorous viticella type clematis is a profuse bloomer all Summer once it is established. The light pink flowers have a nearly iridescent glow to them, and can often appear white with a sheen of pink. The 4 blooms will dazzle your trellis or fence from June to September once it begins blooming.
Zone: 3-9. Clematis is perhaps the most popular and most often planted perennial vine. The success with clematis starts with picking the right location, preparing the planting site, proper planting, and proper pruning. Clematis prefers a full sun to part shade location
Clematis is a perennial vine that produces hundreds of flowers for weeks at a time. Clematis is also known as devil’s darning needles and virgin’s bower. The flower color and plant size selection is large and growing. In colder climates mulch should be applied in the fall to help protect the root systems. Clematis prefers cool roots, or shaded roots, during the growing season. Planting shallow rooted annuals or perennials, such as hosta, can provide the clematis roots with a cooler environment.
Always called the Queen of Vines, nothing else makes the spectacular show of a clematis in full bloom. In almost all zones, these magnificent plants decorate mailboxes, trellises and porches with cascades of some of the most beautiful blooms in the flower kingdom, and they're not difficult to grow. From the most famous and popular, the stunning purple Jackmanii, to all the other colors and forms, your investment in clematis will pay big dividends for years. We also have Honeysuckle and other vines. There are no products matching the selection.