Structure. The oral cavity begins at the border between the skin and the lips (vermillion border). The roof of the mouth is formed by the hard palate. The oral cavity leads into the oropharynx, which includes the soft palate, the back of the tongue and the tonsils. The inner surface of the cheeks forms the sides of the oral cavity. 
Palate: The roof of the mouth. The front portion is bony (hard palate), and the back portion is muscular (soft palate). Source: National Institute of Health. Palate: structure that forms the roof of the mouth, consisting of the anterior hard palate and the posterior soft palate. Source: CRISP. Palate: The structure that forms the roof of the mouth. It consists of the anterior hard palate (PALATE, HARD) and the posterior soft palate (PALATE, SOFT
The tongue also helps to produce speech by altering or stopping the flow of air through the mouth to produce the sounds of many consonants. The hard and soft palates form the roof of the mouth. On the anterior end of the mouth, the hard palate is formed by the inferior surface of the maxillae and palatine bones. These bones are covered with a thin layer of connective tissues and mucous membranes, which form small wrinkles. Teeth are hard structures specialized for the biting and grinding of food (known as mastication, or chewing). They form a continuous row in the bottom of the mouth surrounding the tongue on the lateral and anterior sides, as well as another nearly identical row extending fro
The mouth consists of two regions, the vestibule and the oral cavity proper. The mouth, normally moist, is lined with a mucous membrane, and contains the teeth. The lips mark the transition from mucous membrane to skin, which covers most of the body. 
It forms a partition between the nasal passages and the mouth. On the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate are the rugae, irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx. This partition is continued deeper into the mouth by a fleshy extension called the soft palate. The hard palate is a thin horizontal bony plate of the skull, located in the roof of the mouth.
The palate forms the roof of the mouth and separates the mouth from the nasal cavity. The palate consists of two quite different parts. The anterior (front) portion, the hard palate, is supported by bone. The posterior (back) portion, the soft palate, is skeletal muscle and connective tissue. The mouth, like many organs in the human body, is a hollow cavity. The part in front of the teeth is called the vestibule, while the part behind is the mouth itself. The floor of the mouth is formed from sheets of muscle tissue which are attached to the inner surface of the jawbone, or mandible.
The oral cavity includes the lips, gingivae, retromolar trigone, teeth, hard palate, cheek mucosa, mobile tongue, and floor of the mouth. The major salivary glands are in close relation with oral cavity structures, although they are not part of the oral cavity. The oral cavity is scattered with 500-1000 minor salivary glands within the mucosa and submucosa of the cheeks, lips, floor of the mouth, hard and soft palates, retromolar trigone, and tongue; the anterior hard palate and gingivae are devoid of these glands.
Structure that forms the anterior roof of the mouth? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What's your #1 piece of advice for guys on how to get a girl? What bones form the roof of your mouth? Why is the roof of mouth sore? What is located in the lower anterior floor of the mouth? Forms ... 
A very simple labelled diagram of the mouth (anterior view of the mouth) is shown below, followed by notes about each of the structures labelled. This is useful for introductory level courses but doesn't include all of the parts of the mouth that are involved in the initial stages of the digestion process. The lower-lip is also known as the inferior lip and is the lip closest to the chin (as opposed to closest to the nose). 3. Hard Palate. The hard palate extends over most of the roof of the mouth. The solid structure of the hard palate is formed by the maxillae and palatine bones.