Magnesium Rich Food Sources. Green vegetables such as spinach are good sources of magnesium because the center of the chlorophyll molecule (which gives green vegetables their color) contains magnesium. Some beans, peas, nuts, seeds, and whole, unrefined grains are also good sources of
High magnesium foods include dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, fish, beans, whole grains, avocados, yogurt, bananas, dried fruit, dark chocolate, and more.
From this and the magnesium content you can calculate the magnesium to calcium ratio of that food. Divide the magnesium value by the calcium value. If the resulting value is greater than 1, the food has more magnesium than calcium, and has a good ratio.
Magnesium, an abundant mineral in the body, is naturally present in many foods, added to other food products, available as a dietary supplement, and present in some medicines (such as antacids and laxatives).
Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources [ 1, 3 ]. In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2.
Conversely, consuming too much magnesium typically causes diarrhea as the body attempts to excrete the excess. High magnesium foods include dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, fish, beans, whole grains, avocados, yogurt, bananas, dried fruit, dark chocolate, and more. The current daily value (DV) for magnesium is 400mg. Below is a list of high magnesium foods, for more, see the extended lists of high magnesium foods by nutrient density, magnesium rich foods, vegetables high in magnesium, and fruits high in magnesium.
Magnesium is found in a wide variety of plant foods as well as certain types of fish. The Recommended Daily Value (DV) of magnesium for adult men is 420 mg; for adult women it is 320 mg. Foods that provide more than 20 percent of the DV of a nutrient are considered excellent sources of that nutrient.