Confidence votes 13.2K. Radio was a form of entertainment that was cheap enough ($10) so that most people could afford one. Radio not only carried music into the home, but news, FDR's Fireside Chats, and drama and comedy shows. Movies were a form of escapism. The radio, which broadcast big band gigs and comedy and drama shows, as well as news reports, were as cheap as $10 and became depression-era Americans' favorite form of home … entertainment.
It became so popular because during the 1920s and so on, and during the Great Depression and World War 1 and such, it was usefull for a new standard in communication with your … friends or communication in war but it was also sparked in regular citizens in the U.s and manyother places for leisure. 
During the Great Depression, the country was hit with an extremely large unemployment rate. By 1933, the unemployment rate had climbed from 3% to 25%. By 1932, over 13 million Americans had lost their jobs. Between 1929 and 1932, incomes, on average, were reduced by 40%. The government failed to act to stabilize or increase the money supply during The Great Depression. In fact, the supply of money fell by 30% between 1929 and 1933. Prices for goods were allowed to drop and banks were permitted to fail. This led to deflation.
FUN* (APEX)    Radio was a cheap source of news, music, dramas, comedy, and local  and national information. Radios were as cheap as $10 during the  Depression so mos … t every home with electricity had one. The radio, which broadcast big band gigs and comedy and drama shows, as well as news reports, were as cheap as $10 and became depression-era Americans' favorite form of home … entertainment.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: movies and radio gave comic relief during the great depression, they gave people something to keep their minds off what was really going on in the world. Source(s): x.shannon.x · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
During the Great Depression, many Americans first found their lives tied into an unfamiliar, vast and abstract world. And during the Great Depression, many Americans began figuring out how they would inhabit that world. Radio, the 1930s and, more broadly, the twentieth century transformed the United States. But at the same time, Americans found in radio itself means to address the very challenges their new mass culture posed.
By 1933, the GDP fell 33%. During the Great Depression, there were 2 million homeless people in the United States. The stock market hit a low in 1932 closing at 41.22, down 89.2% from its all-time high. It is interesting to note that one industry actually did very well during this period of time. The government failed to act to stabilize or increase the money supply during The Great Depression. In fact, the supply of money fell by 30% between 1929 and 1933. Prices for goods were allowed to drop and banks were permitted to fail. This led to deflation.
Annie came along while Warbucks was away on business. Upon his return, he was taken with Annie and took her in permanently. He often intervened in Annie’s life during crisis, and yet during later years of the comic strip, during the Great Depression, Annie often helped him as well. 
Having Fun While Living in the Great Depression. With a tighter budget people had fun doing free stuff. Instead of going out and spending money people played board games, did puzzles, played baseball, and listened to radio (if they had one). The exception to this was movie theaters. During the great depression the movie theater business thrived. People who were not happy with their lives sought shelter in the comfort of the an entertaining movie. In a way it let them escape from reality