Vitamin B is actually a complex of eight different vitamins. All are involved in helping the body break down food to make energy, but various B vitamins also help to ward off headaches, to support the immune system, and to ensure healthy pregnancies, amongst other things. Eat more salmon and trout. These fish are a great low-fat source of protein, and they contain loads of B vitamins. A meal featuring salmon, in particular, provides high levels of 6 of the 8 B vitamins: B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, and B12. Trout has more B1, B2, B5, and B12 than almost any other food.
It is for this reason that one should include vitamin B complex foods in one's diet. Here is a list of vitamin B complex foods. 1  Pork, berries, legumes, lean meats. 2  Nuts, soy milk (Vitamin B1). 3  Eggs, dark green vegetables, fish, grains, lean meat, mushrooms (B2). 4  Sunflower seeds, tuna, poultry, potato, cottage cheese, liver (B3).
9 Foods Rich in Vitamin B6. Vitamin B6, also known as pyridoxine, is a water-soluble vitamin that is part of the vitamin-B complex group and is also one of the most important and industrious nutrients in the human body. Vitamin B6 is an essential nutrient for a number of reasons. 
Vitamin B is a compilation of eight different vitamins, known as vitamin B complex, found naturally in high-protein foods. Leafy greens are another natural food source containing lots of B vitamins. Vegetable and Plant Sources. Certain fruits, vegetables, nuts and legumes are good sources of vitamin B; however, they do not contain significant amounts of B12 that is found in meat and dairy foods. Avocado, pomegranate, dates, watermelon, and some berries are especially high in B-complex vitamins.
The B vitamins include thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, folate (also called folic acid or folacin), vitamin B6, vitamin B12, biotin and pantothenic acid. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.
Vitamin B Complex Food. Vitamin B complex is a big family of diverse vitamins with a specific number attached to it. Each vitamin belonging to this family has its own behavior, action and function but they are clubbed together to form a complete solution to all the body requirements. Here is a list of vitamin B complex foods. 1  Pork, berries, legumes, lean meats. 2  Nuts, soy milk (Vitamin B1). 3  Eggs, dark green vegetables, fish, grains, lean meat, mushrooms (B2). 4  Sunflower seeds, tuna, poultry, potato, cottage cheese, liver (B3).
Richest among all the vitamin B complex foods are milk, yeast, liver, whole-grain cereals, nuts, eggs, yogurt, fruits, meats and leafy vegetables. Vitamin B1 is an essential vitamin that aids in conversion of carbohydrates into energy. It also helps regulate normal functioning of heart, muscles and nervous system. Here is a list of vitamin B complex foods. 1  Pork, berries, legumes, lean meats. 2  Nuts, soy milk (Vitamin B1). 3  Eggs, dark green vegetables, fish, grains, lean meat, mushrooms (B2). 4  Sunflower seeds, tuna, poultry, potato, cottage cheese, liver (B3).
B vitamin supplement tablets. B vitamins are a class of water-soluble vitamins that play important roles in cell metabolism. Though these vitamins share similar names, research shows that they are chemically distinct vitamins that often coexist in the same foods. In general, supplements containing all eight are referred to as a vitamin B complex. Individual B vitamin supplements are referred to by the specific name of each vitamin (e.g., B 1, B 2, B 3 etc.).
Animal foods are the only natural source of vitamin B12, but many products, including soy products and cereals, are fortified with B12 so it is widely available in the food supply. Other good natural sources include shellfish, such as clams, mussels and crab, fin fish and beef. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.