, Cartagena of the Indies ), is a city on the northern coast of Colombia in the Caribbean Coast Region and capital of the Bolivar Bolívar. Department the port city had a population 892,545 892545 as of the 2005. Census it is the-fifth largest city In colombia and the second largest in the, region After. barranquilla In the city is the Augustinian Fathers Convent and the University of Cartagena. This university is a center of higher education opened to the public in the late 19th century. The Claustro de Santa Teresa (Saint Theresa Cloister), which has been remodeled and has become a hotel operated by Charleston Hotels.
Report Abuse. Colombia is a beautiful country, but what most people know Colombia for is for the drugs, which gets me mad. Colombia makes the best emeralds, delicious coffee. It has lots of festivals and delicious food. Montana · 1 year ago. I'm from Colombia, and we're well known sadly because of the drugs, military stuff, football, and... coffee, emeralds, cartagena, biodiversity etc... Actually the bad things the media publish all the time are lies, the reality couldn' be futher.
Cartagena has been inhabited for over two millennia, being founded around 227 BC by the Carthaginian Hasdrubal the Fair as Qart Hadasht. The city had its heyday during the Roman Empire, when it was known as Carthago Nova (the New Carthage) and Carthago Spartaria, capital of the province of Carthaginensis. In 1728, Cartagena became the capital of the Spanish Navy's Maritime Department of the Mediterranean and the city was heavily fortified with the construction of a modern Castle in the place of a former Moorish Kasbah, several barracks and a huge arsenal.
[kartaˈxena ðe ˈindjas]. , Cartagena of the Indies ), is a city on the northern coast of Colombia in the Caribbean Coast Region and capital of the Bolivar Bolívar. Department the port city had a population 892,545 892545 as of the 2005. census In the city is the Augustinian Fathers Convent and the University of Cartagena. This university is a center of higher education opened to the public in the late 19th century. The Claustro de Santa Teresa (Saint Theresa Cloister), which has been remodeled and has become a hotel operated by Charleston Hotels.
1 Spanish Classes-Cartagena is an ideal city for some extended Spanish language studies-a beautiful but not too large city center, close by beaches and heaps of activities to do. 2  Colombia is also known for it´s pure Spanish which is perfect for learners. 3  There are several Spanish language schools in Cartagena. Cartagena is not close to the Andean mountains, the closest city is Medellin medellín with a bus ride of 12. Hours two main bus companies take you: There Expreso [brasilia] 6 And Rapido [ochoa] , 7 the latter offers online or smartphone. sales
Like Cartagena, Colombia, the Cartagena in Spain is a walled city with a fine harbor. The city was founded in 230 BC by a Carthaginian, and at one time it was said to be one of the richest cities in the world. Today this seaport city in Spain has about 200,000 inhabitants as opposed to Cartagena, Colombia's 1,000,000. 
, Cartagena of the Indies ), is a city on the northern coast of Colombia in the Caribbean Coast Region and capital of the Bolivar Bolívar. department In the city is the Augustinian Fathers Convent and the University of Cartagena. This university is a center of higher education opened to the public in the late 19th century. The Claustro de Santa Teresa (Saint Theresa Cloister), which has been remodeled and has become a hotel operated by Charleston Hotels.
Cartagena (. [kartaˈxena]) is a Spanish city and a major naval station located in the Region of Murcia, by the Mediterranean coast, south-eastern Spain. As of January 2011, it has a population of 218,210 inhabitants being the Region’s second largest municipality and the country’s 6th non-Province capital city. In 1728, Cartagena became the capital of the Spanish Navy's Maritime Department of the Mediterranean and the city was heavily fortified with the construction of a modern Castle in the place of a former Moorish Kasbah, several barracks and a huge arsenal.
Cartagena’s bayside location has also seen huge tourist development in recent years. Located on Colombia’s northern coast and facing the Caribbean Sea, it is the most visited city in the country by local and international tourists. The People of Cartagena. The city was one of the first sanctuaries of freed African slaves in the Americas and is currently populated by an ethnic mix representative of Colombia’s own mestizo inhabitants.