Hepatitis B is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). HBV causes the liver to swell and prevents it from working well. About 95% of adults who are exposed to HBV fully recover within 6 months (acute HBV) without medication. Hepatitis B vaccination in people who have not been exposed to HBV is the best way to prevent infection. The hepatitis B vaccine is given in 3 doses. The first 2 doses are given one month apart and the final dose is given 6 months later.
Follow Us. Autoimmune hepatitis or autoimmune chronic hepatitis is a progressive inflammation of the liver that has been identified by a number of different names, including autoimmune chronic active hepatitis (CAH), idiopathic chronic active hepatitis, and lupoid hepatitis. 
To ease the exhaustion typical of hepatitis, people are constantly looking for an energy booster. Find out if vitamin B-12 could help power you through your fatigue. Anyone living with chronic hepatitis knows that fatigue is one of this illness’s biggest challenges. Thus, rumors of vitamin B-12 shots or supplements miraculously restoring energy levels have generated a lot of interest in the hepatitis community. 
Many people with acute or chronic HBV have no symptoms. When symptoms occur, they may include tiredness, fever, loss of appetite, nausea, headache, muscle soreness, pain near the liver, and jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes). Symptoms often begin two to five months after infection. Hepatitis B vaccination in people who have not been exposed to HBV is the best way to prevent infection. The hepatitis B vaccine is given in 3 doses. The first 2 doses are given one month apart and the final dose is given 6 months later.
Autoimmune hepatitis is a disease in which the body’s own immune system attacks the liver and causes it to become inflamed. The disease is chronic, meaning it lasts many years. If untreated, it can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure. There are two forms of this disease. Your immune system normally attacks bacteria, viruses and other invading organisms. It is not supposed to attack your own cells; if it does, the response is called autoimmunity. In autoimmune hepatitis, your immune system attacks your liver cells, causing long-term inflammation and liver damage.
Acute hepatitis can be self-limiting (healing on its own), can progress to chronic hepatitis, or, rarely, can cause acute liver failure. Chronic hepatitis may have no symptoms, or may progress over time to fibrosis (scarring of the liver) and cirrhosis (chronic liver failure). Cirrhosis of the liver increases the risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (a form of liver cancer). Hepatitis may occur with limited or no symptoms, but often leads to jaundice (a yellow discoloration of the skin, mucous membrane, and conjunctiva), poor appetite, and malaise. Hepatitis is acute when it lasts less than six months and chronic when it persists longer.
Hepatitis (plural: hepatitides) is a medical condition defined by the inflammation of the liver and characterized by the presence of inflammatory cells in the tissue of the organ. Hepatitis may occur with limited or no symptoms, but often leads to jaundice (a yellow discoloration of the skin, mucous membrane, and conjunctiva), poor appetite, and malaise. Hepatitis is acute when it lasts less than six months and chronic when it persists longer.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests may be used for a variety of reasons. Some of the tests detect antibodies produced in response to HBV infection; some detect antigens produced by the virus, and others detect viral DNA. The main uses for HBV tests include: If exposed to HBV, an infection can be avoided by getting a shot of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) within 24 hours. A test is available to determine the specific type (strain) of hepatitis B virus that is causing a person's infection.
Worldwide, viral hepatitis is the most common cause of liver inflammation. Other causes include autoimmune diseases and ingestion of toxic substances (notably alcohol), certain medications (such as paracetamol), some industrial organic solvents, and plants. Hepatitis may occur with limited or no symptoms, but often leads to jaundice (a yellow discoloration of the skin, mucous membrane, and conjunctiva), poor appetite, and malaise. Hepatitis is acute when it lasts less than six months and chronic when it persists longer.