Atrial Tachycardia. Atrial tachycardia is a form of supraventricular tachycardia, originating within the atria but outside of the sinus node. Both atrial flutter and multifocal atrial tachycardia are specific types of atrial tachycardia. Usually due to single ectopic focus. Background. 1  Atrial tachycardia is a form of supraventricular tachycardia, originating within the atria but outside of the sinus node. 2 
Atrial tachycardia is a type of atrial arrhythmia in which the heart 's electrical impulse comes from ectopic atrial pacemaker, that is to say an abnormal site in the upper chambers of the heart or atria, rather than from the SA node which is the normal site of origin of the heart's electrical activity. 
Practice Essentials. Atrial tachycardia is a supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) that does not require the atrioventricular (AV) junction, accessory pathways, or ventricular tissue for its initiation and maintenance. Reentrant atrial tachycardia is not uncommon in patients with a history of a surgically repaired atrial septal defect. The scar tissue in the atrium may give rise to the formation of a reentrant circuit. On physical examination, the primary abnormal finding is a rapid pulse rate.
Normal heartbeat. Tachycardia is caused by something that disrupts the normal electrical impulses that control the rate of your heart's pumping action. Many things can cause or contribute to problems with the heart's electrical system. These factors include: 1  Damage to heart tissues from heart disease. 1 Ventricular tachycardia. 2  Ventricular tachycardia is a rapid heart rate that originates with abnormal electrical signals in the ventricles. 3  The rapid heart rate doesn't allow the ventricles to fill and contract efficiently to pump enough blood to the body.
An episode of paroxysmal atrial tachycardia can occur in the complete absence of any heart disease or defect, and this condition is not usually dangerous. It can be very frightening, but it’s important to remember that unless other cardiac symptoms are present, there is usually no cause for alarm. Treatment for this condition may differ depending on what has caused the heart arrhythmia and accompanying symptoms. In the case of multiple atrial tachycardia (MAT), for example, the underlying cause is often chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure, or another cardiac condition.
Paroxysmal atrial tachycardia may be caused by several different things. The fast rate may be triggered by a premature atrial beat that sends an impulse along an abnormal electrical path to the ventricles. Other causes stem from anxiety, stimulants, overactive thyroid, and in some women, the onset of menstruation. 
In patients with structurally normal hearts, atrial tachycardia is associated with a low mortality rate. Patients with underlying structural heart disease, congenital heart disease, or lung disease are less likely to be able to tolerate this rhythm disturbance. Reentrant atrial tachycardia is not uncommon in patients with a history of a surgically repaired atrial septal defect. The scar tissue in the atrium may give rise to the formation of a reentrant circuit. On physical examination, the primary abnormal finding is a rapid pulse rate.
Atrial tachycardia is defined as a supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) that does not require the atrioventricular (AV) junction, accessory pathways, or ventricular tissue for its initiation and maintenance. Reentrant atrial tachycardia is not uncommon in patients with a history of a surgically repaired atrial septal defect. The scar tissue in the atrium may give rise to the formation of a reentrant circuit. On physical examination, the primary abnormal finding is a rapid pulse rate.
Atrial Flutter & Atrial Tachycardia. An arrhythmia is an abnormality in the timing or pattern of the heartbeat. Arrhythmias may cause the heart to beat too rapidly, too slowly, or irregularly. 