Parakeets tend to live 10 to 14 years, if in good health. Not all will live that long, however, since parakeets can fall ill even with proper care. Improper care can shorten their lifespan to a mere 4 years or less. Consider these parakeet care tips.
i've owned budgies for 7 years, the female ran away and we bought another female for the male but he died 2 days after that (him and the female that ran away were together with me for 7 years) well i would like to know how long their life span is and how can i determine the age of a budgie, ive heard that if... 
The average lifespan for a budgie is between 5 - 8 years. This can extend to 15 if the bird is well fed and kept in clean conditions. Life span depends on genetics and how well a bird is cared for during its lifetime. It honestly depends on the budgie's country of origin. Budgies in Australia, their country of origin, easily live between 10 and 15 years in captivity. A budgie useally lives for 5 years but some can live up to 10 years...     10 years is the MAXIMUM a Budgie can live for       Hope This Answered you questio … n. 2 people found this useful.
Best Answer: According to my vet, 5 years is the average age. Parakeets can live much longer lives than that, even up to 12 years. They can also live less than 5 years. I know one lady that had a parakeet that lived 10 years. That is the oldest living parakeet that I know. My oldest parakeet lived 7 1/2 years
Budgie lifespan is more than 15 years, but in order to live for so long time, they need to be cared for. The budgie cage must be kept clean, neat and washed, and it needs to have several accessories and toys. They hate to be left alone, to be punished or hit, or to have unwashed cages or be kept in tight spaces. 
Budgies usually live 8-10 years if cared for well. Sometimes they will live to about 15 years. It is rare, but some budgies have lived more than 20 years. The most important thing is a healthy diet. A budgie on a seed-only diet will probably live only 4-5 years, at the most. Exercise and a diet supplemented with fresh fruits and veggies can help to ensure good health and longevity
How long does a parakeet live? What is the lifespan of a parakeet?In captivity, parakeets live 5-8 years. In the wild, they can live 15-20 years, and are occasionally known to live this long in captivity if well-cared for with the proper diet. Other questions in 'About Parakeets in General'Where in the world do parakeets come from?
Best Answer: Hi, A budgie can live fore up to 10-20 Years depending on how well they are fed and how much the excercise. Source(s): Owner of 3 budgies 4 cockatiels 2 finches and 2 quails. buety_of_wally · 8 years ago. You all need to really research what you feed your birds. Seed diet alone will get you dead birds. Keets on a seed diets alone will live 4-6 years, with veggies 8 yrs. Keets on just a plain pelleted diet will live 15 yrs, pellets and veggies 20 years and with a variety of diets 25 yrs. I happen to have a english parakeet that is 28 years old. Never have been fed seed diet his whole life