Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Alexander spread Greek culture through Hellenistic culture, which is a combination of Greek and traditional cultures. He did this by building his cities, most of them named Alexandria, intermarriage with the conquered peoples, as well as philosophy, literature, art and history. Alexander, a Macedonian, learned love of Greek culture from his father, Philip, who conquered the Greek states. As Alexander's armies moved across Asia, he ordered the construction of numerous cities in the Greek fashion. Alexandria is the best example of this policy, especially with the building of its library.
The Hellenistic period was characterized by a new wave of Greek colonization (as distinguished from that occurring in the 8th–6th centuries BC) which established Greek cities and kingdoms in Asia and Africa. Hellenistic culture was at its height of world influence in the Hellenistic period. Hellenism or at least Philhellenism reached most regions on the frontiers of the Hellenistic kingdoms.
Hellenization, or Hellenism, refers to the spread of Greek culture that had begun after the conquest of Alexander the Great in the fourth century, B.C.E. One must think of the development of the eastern Mediterranean, really, in two major phases. The language and culture of the Hellenistic world was Greek. That became the lingua franca of all of these subject peoples. It was to that world what English is to the modern world in many ways, what French was to the world of the 19th century.
Confidence votes 39. Hellenistic culture is the Hellenic/Greek culture of the era after Alexander the Great's conquests, post 330 BC. It originated in northern Greece, Macedonia, with Alexander's army spreading it to the then known world, but its cultural core was actually Attic-Athenian. 
The spread of Hellenistic culture was sparked by the conquests of Alexander the Great. After his ventures of the Persian Empire, Hellenistic kingdoms were established throughout south-west Asia and north-east Africa. Hellenistic religion is any of the various systems of beliefs and practices of the people who lived under the influence of ancient Greek culture during the Hellenistic period and the Roman Empire (c. 300 BCE to 300 CE).
Question: What is Hellenism, and how did it influence the early church?. Answer: Hellenism is the term used to describe the influence of Greek culture on the peoples the Greek and Roman Empires conquered or interacted with. Hellenism in the days of the early church remains an example of how to use a culture to spread the message while not allowing the culture to change the message. Recommended Resources: Christianity Through the Centuries by Earle Cairns and Logos Bible Software.
Alexander created the Hellenistic Age, a time when Greek culture mixed with the various cultures of Alexander's Empire. This was a time of advances in learning, math, art, and architecture. Some of the great names of learning in this Age include Archimedes, Hero, and Euclid. Alexander spread Greek culture throughout the Persian Empire, including parts of Asia and Africa. Alexander respected the local cultures he conquered, and allowed their customs to continue. Alexander himself embraced local customs, wearing Persian clothes and marrying Persian women.
Hellen was the name the Greeks called themselves, and the term Hellenistic essentia … lly means, of the Greeks.. Alexander the Great sought to spread the culture throughout the known world, seeing the Greek attitude towards life as ideal. Hope this helps! found this useful. Hellenistic culture was created when Alexander moved place to place concurring and befriending the people of their country. It was spread when Alexander and his men taught and … shared customs with other people where him and his men went.