You can obtain financing through the dealership or the financial institution that you do all of your personal banking with. Before you choose who to procure a loan from, you should know all of the pros and cons for each type of financing. When you purchase a vehicle, you have a couple of options. You can purchase the car with cash, but with the current state of the economy, many buyers are unable to do this. You can also finance your vehicle.
For example, a lender may approve your 60 month loan at an interest rate of 6%, but will allow the dealer to mark that up to 8% when presenting it to you. If your loan is for $15,000, that 2% difference will cost you over $1,000. The problem is, they can lie and tell you there was only one approval. This should be a red flag. The best way to protect yourself is to shop for car financing before going to the dealership. This will give you a base rate they will have to beat in order for you to finance through them.
Yes you should get financing through a car dealer as they can provide you loan at a low interest rates. You will get a higher interest if you finance through a bank. So it would be advisable to finance through a dealer. Auto financing obtained by the dealer, even if the dealer contacts lenders on your behalf, may not be the best deal you can get. Contact lenders directly. If you decide to finance your new car, be aware that the financing obtained by the dealer, even if the dealer contacts lenders on your behalf, may not be the best deal you can …
Report Abuse. NEVER let the dealer finance you. Go to a local bank or Credit Union for your financing. Even if they offer you 0% interest don't do it. If you take 0% you won't get any discount on the car. I am in the process of buying a car and am confused on whether I should finance through bank or dealership. Help!! Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
-- Dolores. Tara Baukus Mello. Dear Dolores, Your question actually brings up two misconceptions that many people have about buying a car and obtaining a car loan. In reality, you do not need to get a car loan locally, and it does not need to be done through a car dealer.
In dealer-arranged financing, often called “indirect lending,” the dealer initially makes the loan and then immediately sells the loan to a bank, credit union, or other finance company that has approved your credit before the dealer made your loan. You can get an interest rate quote or a conditional commitment letter from the bank or credit union before you go to the dealership to buy a car. The bank or credit union offers certain terms, and those terms are negotiable.
With bank or credit union financing, often called “direct auto lending”, you go directly to a bank or credit union and apply for a loan. You can get an interest rate quote or a conditional commitment letter from the bank or credit union before you go to the dealership to buy a car. The bank or credit union offers certain terms, and those terms are negotiable.
The bank holds a few benefits over the dealer. One is that the bank is nearby and you have a relationship. That means you have a better chance of getting the bank to work with you if you fall behind in your payments. That's especially true if you finance through a small credit union or a local bank. The bank's main advantage is that it doesn't mark up its interest rates. Since you're dealing directly with the lender, there's no middleman -- the dealer -- and the rates are likely to be better. Many shoppers avoid the bank and just go through the dealer. It's easier: They can show up, finance the car and drive away -- all in the same day. But easier isn't always better. After all, the dealer's rates are marked up from the bank's rates, and they have to be for the dealer to make any money.
Before you sign a contract to purchase or finance the car, consider the terms of the financing and evaluate whether it is affordable. Before you drive off the lot, be sure to have a copy of the contract that both you and the dealer have signed and be sure that all blanks are filled in. If you decide to finance your new car, be aware that the financing obtained by the dealer, even if the dealer contacts lenders on your behalf, may not be the best deal you can … get. Contact lenders directly.