1 If you are travelling on connecting one world flights, your luggage will be checked through to your final destination at the time of check-in.*. 2  If the time between connecting one world flights is more than 12 hours, you may need to collect your luggage on arrival and check-in again with the outbound carrier. 1 If your luggage is damaged, a one world representative will initiate a mishandled baggage report for you. 2  Claims for mishandled baggage can be made in writing to any one world member airline within the relevant statutory period.
Airline check-in and baggage tag through. Baggage tag through. The baggage tag through service directly sends baggage from the Pearl River Delta (PRD) and Macao to the final destination, offering a hassle-free journey to passengers. Below is the list of airlines providing baggage tag through service to passengers transiting from PRD / Macao
When transferring from international flights to domestic flights in Korea. The baggage of passengers transferring from domestic flights in Korea to international flights. When transferring to flights operated by other airlines. 1  Refer to our 'international flight transfer process' for information on transfers by airport. 2  Click.
If your journey involves more than one one world airline, or your flight is a code-share flight, where the operating carrier is different to the one shown on your ticket, your baggage allowance may be different to the allowance provided by the operating carrier. Security. Different countries and airlines have varying security requirements for both checked-in and carry-on luggage. To ensure your transfer through airports is as smooth as possible, please check security information with your departing one world member airline before you travel.
Transit / Transfer Passenger Procedures. A transit passenger is a passenger who stops over for no more than 24 hours at a midpoint between the departure and destination points and then continues on his or her journey, whether with the same airline or a different one. 1 Passengers reclaim their baggage from the domestic arrivals hall and proceed to the international terminal to apply to the relevant airline counter for check-in procedures. * 2 Excluding which flight routes issued on single ticket, Star Alliance members and airlines with a codeshare agreement with Turkish Airlines.
If you’ve already booked a trip, you can also find baggage fee information in your itinerary. You can get more detailed fee information for each carrier by clicking on the name of the airline below. 1  Adria Airways. 2  Aegean. 3  Aer Lingus. 4  Aeroflot-Russian Airlines. 5  AeroGal. 6  Aerolineas Argentinas. Airline Fees. To find information on the baggage fees applicable to any flight, enter your trip information into the search box. In the search results, click “Baggage Fee Information” to get current, real time baggage fees for your flight.
Baggage and transferring. If your trip includes a transfer, your check-in baggage will usually be sent to your final destination. The baggage claim tag that you receive when dropping off your baggage always states your bag’s final destination. When transferring, you only need to collect your baggage and check it in again for your connecting flight, if: 1  You have purchased 2 or more tickets from different airlines that have dissimilar conditions. 2  You transfer from a KLM flight to a domestic flight (for example in the United States)