In general: 1  Damage to the optic nerve anterior to the optic chiasm causes loss of vision in the eye on the same side as the damage. 2  Damage at the optic chiasm typically causes loss of vision laterally in both visual fields (bitemporal hemianopsia). 
The nerve ... Click to read more below. The optic chiasm or optic chiasma is an X-shaped space just in front of the pituitary gland where optic nerve fibers pass through to the brain. The fibers from the nasal half of each retina cross over, but those from the temporal sides do not. 
BASIC VISUAL PATHWAYS. A. The pathway: Vision is generated by photoreceptors in the retina, a layer of cells at the back of the eye. The information leaves the eye by way of the optic nerve, and there is a partial crossing of axons at the optic chiasm. After the chiasm, the axons are called the optic tract.
Optic chiasma. The optic chiasm or optic chiasma is an X-shaped space, located in the forebrain, directly in front of the hypothalamus. Crucial to vision, the left and right optic nerves intersect at the chiasm, thus creating the hallmark X-shape. One-half of each nerve's axons (their long, threadlike portions) enters the opposite tract at this location, making it a partial decussation (crossing). While rare, optic gliomas — tumors — can grow within the chiasm or in conjunction with hypothalamic tumors. Gliomas can directly affect the optic nerves. Benign (noncancerous) and typically occurring before age 20, symptoms of optic glioma can include: 1  Bulging eyes or vision loss.
When a pituitary tumor pushes the optic chiasm, it causes visual loss in both eyes. In addition to the optic nerve, which brings vision from the eye to the brain, there are also several other nerves near the pituitary gland that travel to the eyes and help them move normally. If a pituitary tumor pushes one of these nerves, it causes weakness of some of the muscles that move the eye.
The optic chiasm or optic chiasma (Greek χίασμα, crossing, from the Greek χιάζω 'to mark with an X', after the Greek letter ' χ ', chi) is the part of the brain where the optic nerves (CN II) partially cross. The optic nerve fibres on the nasal sides of each retina cross over to the opposite side of the brain via the optic nerve at the optic chiasm (decussation of medial fibers).
The crossing over of optic nerve fibres at the optic chiasm allows the visual cortex to receive the same hemispheric visual field from both eyes. Superimposing and processing these monocular visual signals allow the visual cortex to generate binocular and stereoscopic vision. The optic nerve fibres on the nasal sides of each retina cross over to the opposite side of the brain via the optic nerve at the optic chiasm (decussation of medial fibers).
The optic nerve carries electrical impulses from the retina to the visual cortex in the brain where they are interpreted. Damage can be direct (penetrative injury) or indirect (stemming from blunt force, trauma). The location of the damage dictates the extent of vision loss. This means that the patterns of sight loss that a patient experiences can be used to diagnose where the damage is within the eye and optic nerve. Damage to an eye or optic nerve damage occurring before the optic chiasm will result in vision loss in the affected eye.