COMMON FOSSILS of INDIANA Fossils are the preserved remains of creatures from long ago. Most Indiana fossils are from the Paleozoic Era, 542 million to 250 million years ago. During that time, Indiana was covered periodically by shallow seas. Thus, the majority of Indiana fossils are marine fossils. Brachiopods are among the most common fossils in Indiana rocks. They resemble clams, but are a distinct type of marine animal. Bryozoans live together in colonies and form branching stemlike, lacy, or encrusting forms. 
Consequently, the age and type of rocks in Indiana are governed by this large structural feature. The youngest rocks are in the northeastern and southwestern corners of the state, and the oldest are in the southeastern corner. They were found at the Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center. The amphibian tracks are preserved in tidally laminated siltstone. The total set is the longest of its kind in Indiana and is among the best preserved in the world. Note that the front feet have four toes and the back feet have five.
Sedimentary rocks also grow where minerals form from water through chemical precipitation. Sedimentary rocks may also be composed of the skeletons of preexisting organisms (fossils). Such rocks are common in Indiana and make major mineable economic deposits. Limestone, gypsum, and dolomite are sedimentary rocks that are important to Indiana's economy. Sandstone, shale, and clays also occur here. Igneous and metamorphic rocks are found in uncemented deposits as weathered pieces.
Fossil wood is wood that is preserved in the fossil record. Wood is usually the part of a plant that is best preserved (and most easily found). Fossil wood may or may not be petrified. The fossil wood may be the only part of the plant that has been preserved: therefore such wood may get a special kind of botanical name. Fossil resin (colloquially called amber) is a natural polymer found in many types of strata throughout the world, even the Arctic. The oldest fossil resin dates to the Triassic, though most dates to the Cenozoic.
Ordovician fossils from southeast Indiana. All fossils were obtained (unless otherwise stated) from a roadcut approximately two miles north of I-74 in Indiana on State Highway 1, just south of Brookville. CLICK HERE (298 KB) to see a birdseye view of the exposed area. The exposed rocks are from the Arnheim, Waynesville, Liberty, and Lower Whitewater formations. Cincinnatian Fossils. All fossils were obtained (unless otherwise stated) from a roadcut approximately two miles north of I-74 in Indiana on State Highway 1, just south of Brookville.
Sedimentary rocks, the third general rock type, are the bones of Indiana. Sedimentary rocks are made from sediments, which are small fragments of rocks torn from preexisting hard rocks and transported into seas ancient and modern. Such rocks are common in Indiana and make major mineable economic deposits. Limestone, gypsum, and dolomite are sedimentary rocks that are important to Indiana's economy. Sandstone, shale, and clays also occur here. Igneous and metamorphic rocks are found in uncemented deposits as weathered pieces.
Photos of the exposures at the road cuts along Rt 37. Descriptions of the geodes and fossils found will be provided soon. Photos from the Falls of Ohio State Park. Located on the banks of the Ohio River in Clarksville, Indiana at I-65 (Exit 0) are acres of an exposed Devonian 386-million-year-old fossil bed. They were found at the Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center. The amphibian tracks are preserved in tidally laminated siltstone. The total set is the longest of its kind in Indiana and is among the best preserved in the world. Note that the front feet have four toes and the back feet have five.
From The Ordovician Period. All fossils were obtained (unless otherwise stated) from a roadcut approximately two miles north of I-74 in Indiana on State Highway 1, just south of Brookville. CLICK HERE (298 KB) to see a birdseye view of the exposed area. The exposed rocks are from the Arnheim, Waynesville, Liberty, and Lower Whitewater formations. Cincinnatian Fossils. All fossils were obtained (unless otherwise stated) from a roadcut approximately two miles north of I-74 in Indiana on State Highway 1, just south of Brookville.
The Precambrian: The Precambrian in Indiana is represented primarily by igneous rocks, thus there are no Precambrian fossils known from the state. These igneous rocks are not exposed at the surface anywhere in the state and are known only from drill cores. Field Guides (showing 3 of 3 listings). Cincinnati Fossils: This site lists all fossil taxa described or reported from the type Cincinnatian strata (Upper Ordovician) of Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana, including mollusks, arthropods, echinoderms, brachiopods, and many other groups.