Indus River. The Indus River is 1,976 miles long; although most of its course runs through Pakistan, the river also courses through northern India. Technically it is the largest river that flows through India, but in terms of its annual flow, it is the third largest. The Indus River was the heart of the Indus Vally civilization, a Bronze Age society that flourished largely thanks to the water provided by the river. Ganges River. Although the Ganges River is technically the third-largest river that goes through India, is it the largest river that flows within India's borders. It flows for about 1,560 miles and is one of the most sacred rivers in India; scriptures written more than 2,000 years ago reference the river by name.
Ganga is the longest river of India. The total length of the Ganga river from its source to its mouth (measured along the Hughli) is 2525 km of which 1450 km is in the Uttar Pradesh, 445 km in Bihar and 520 km in West Bengal. The remaining 110 km stretch of the Ganga forms the boundary between Uttar Pradesh and Bihar
River Krishna is the third longest river in India after the Ganges and the Godavari and serves as an important pensular river in central southern part India. River runs over a length of 1400 km that covers states like Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh and out spreads over a region of 2, 59,000 sq km. River Ganga flows through a considerable distance of 2,480 km and tops the list of longest rivers in India. The river signifies as the Trans boundary river of Asia, which flows through different parts of India and Bangladesh.
Indus River flows through Pakistan, Jammu and Kashmir, and Western Tibet. It is the longest river in India also one of the logest rivers in Asia. The length of the Indus River is 3,200 km, passes from various cities such as Leh, Dera Ismail Khan, Sukkur, and Hyderabad. 2. The Godavari River is the third longest river in India after the Indus River, and Ganges river. The flow of this river starts from Maharashtra and end into the Bay of Bengal. The river also passes from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Godavari River forms one of the largest river basins in the country.
The Tapti River is one of the longest rivers in India. The length of the Tapti River is 724 km. The Tapti River originates from Bettul and ends in the Arabian Sea. The river passes from two states, namely, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The Godavari River is the third longest river in India after the Indus River, and Ganges river. The flow of this river starts from Maharashtra and end into the Bay of Bengal. The river also passes from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Godavari River forms one of the largest river basins in the country.
There are many rivers in the country that flow into the Bay of Bengal or the Arabian Sea. There are rivers in the country that flow to the neighbouring countries. The lengths of the rivers vary depending upon the area they cover. The Indus River is the longest river in India and flows through Pakistan. The Ganges is also one of the longest rivers in the country and considered the most sacred river in India due to the mythological beliefs associated with it. The Yamuna River is a tributary of Ganges and has sacred values. 
The Brahmaputra River is one of the longest rivers in India. The length of the Brahmaputra River is 725 km. It originates from Lake Manasarovar and ends in the Bay of Bengal. The Brahmaputra River passes from the North Eastern state. The Godavari River is the third longest river in India after the Indus River, and Ganges river. The flow of this river starts from Maharashtra and end into the Bay of Bengal. The river also passes from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Godavari River forms one of the largest river basins in the country.
The Krishna River is the fourth longest rivers in India by length. The length of Krishan River is 1400 km and originates from Mahabaleshwar in the state of Maharashtra and ends in the Bay of Bengal. The Krishna River passes from two states, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. The Godavari River is the third longest river in India after the Indus River, and Ganges river. The flow of this river starts from Maharashtra and end into the Bay of Bengal. The river also passes from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Godavari River forms one of the largest river basins in the country.
Answer by Intellectual Ashv. Confidence votes 777. Ganga is the longest river of India. The total length of the Ganga river from its source to its mouth (measured along the Hughli) is 2525 km of which 1450 km is in the Uttar Pradesh, 445 km in Bihar and 520 km in West Bengal. The remaining 110 km stretch of the Ganga forms the boundary between Uttar Pradesh and Bihar...