Barber did come out of retirement earlier this year for a Funny or Die video with Full House co-star Dave Coulier, in which their characters had married, Mr. Woodchuck returns and Comet is still alive. One thing Barber wasn't a fan of on Full House was the running joke about Kimmy's feet. In honor of the 25th anniversary of Full House, which debuted on September 22, 1987, HuffPost TV chatted with Full House alumni Dave Coulier, Jodi Sweetin, Lori Loughlin and more about their experiences on the show, favorite episodes, the awful late '80s hair and wardrobe, and what they're up to these days.
Jodie Sweetin, who will return as middle child Stephanie Tanner, revealed that Michelle won’t be left out of the family hijinks – just don’t expect a ton of Michelle mentions. 
Jodie Sweetin was born on January 19, 1982, in Los Angeles, California. After booking several national commercials, she was cast in a guest spot on the series Valerie. At age 5, she debuted as Full House 's Stephanie Tanner, the middle sister of three. Full House. At the age of 5, Jodie Sweetin debuted as Full House's Stephanie Tanner, the middle sister of three. Her catchphrase—How rude!—is still requested by fans. That same year, she was cast in Jim Henson Presents: Mother Goose Stories
SHARES. ABC's TGIF lineup wouldn't have been complete without Full House, the show that gave us the antics of Danny Tanner, Uncle Jesse and Joey Gladstone as they worked together to raise Danny's three young daughters, D.J., Stephanie and Michelle. Barber now has two children: son Tate and daughter Felicity. She doesn't look to Full House for parenting tips, however: I have some issues with how [Danny Tanner] parented his youngest daughter, Michelle, she once noted in an interview with Modern Mom, referring to Tanner's favoritism.
Biography. Michelle Tanner was born on November 7, 1986 to Pam and Danny. She is the youngest daughter in the Tanner family. Michelle has blonde hair like her sisters, D.J. and Stephanie. She was nine months when her mother Pam died instantly from her injuries in a car accident after getting hit by a drunken driver. Michelle Elizabeth Tanner is a fictional character on Full House, portrayed by both Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen.
No, Michelle does not die in Full House. Although, in one episode she does fall off her horse and she gets a severe head injury. Leaving her unable to remember things. She doe … s not die. The head injury she was struck with was the most severe thing that has happened to her. I believe. I'm 99.99% sure. 
The show just went off the air in the 90's. If all the sitcoms from the 70's are still having reunion specials on Nick at Night, then the cast of Full House are still alive. You see those Olsen twins on TV all the time (wit they rich behinds). Give them some time, they will have a reunion soon enough. I'M OUTTTTTTTT!!!!!
Though the spinoff doesn't begin filming until next month, series costar Jodie Sweetin (Stephanie Tanner) told Us Weekly that the family's beloved little sister will be brought up on the show. PHOTOS: '90s TV stars, then and now! The Michelle character is still going to have a presence. It's not like were not talking about her, Sweetin told Us at the Thursday, June 4 premiere of Insidious 3 in L.A. I love and support [Mary-Kate and Ashley], and I think we're going to be just fine.. PHOTOS: Costars reunited. Jodie Sweetin tells Us Weekly that Fuller House starts filming in July, and will feature the Michelle Tanner character even though Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen are not participating.
Now: After ‘Full House’ ended in 1995, Sweetin struggled with a serious crystal meth addiction that lasted for years, even showing up to the premiere of the Olsen’s 2004 movie, ‘New York Minute,’ high as a kite. 