1 Hepatitis C is one of several viruses that cause hepatitis (inflammation of the liver). 2  Up to 85% of individuals who are initially (acutely) infected with hep C will fail to eliminate the virus and will become chronically infected. 3  Hepatitis C is spread most commonly through inadvertent exposure to infected blood. 1 Read 1 Story. 2  Share Your Story. 3  Hepatitis C is one of several viruses that cause hepatitis (inflammation of the liver). 4  Up to 85% of individuals who are initially (acutely) infected with hep C will fail to eliminate the virus and will become chronically infected.
About Hepatitis C Infection. Hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects your liver. Your liver is an important organ in your body and has many functions. The liver removes harmful chemicals from your body, aids digestion, and processes vitamins and nutrients from food. Infectious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus for which there is no vaccine and which commonly becomes chronic. Now the most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States.
1 In the U.S., infection with hepatitis C is the most common cause of chronic hepatitis and the most common reason for liver transplantation. 2  Hepatitis C is diagnosed by determining levels in the blood of antibodies to the virus and then confirming the infection with other tests for viral RNA. 1 Read 1 Story. 2  Share Your Story. 3  Hepatitis C is one of several viruses that cause hepatitis (inflammation of the liver). 4  Up to 85% of individuals who are initially (acutely) infected with hep C will fail to eliminate the virus and will become chronically infected.
Guide. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) test is a blood test that looks for the genetic material (RNA) of the virus that causes hepatitis or for the proteins (antibodies) the body makes against HCV. These proteins will be present in your blood if you have a hepatitis C infection now or have had one in the past. HCV is spread through infected blood. 1  Anti-HCV antibody tests look for antibodies to HCV in the blood, indicating an HCV infection has occurred. 2  This test cannot tell the difference between an acute or long-term (chronic) infection. 3  The enzyme immunoassay (EIA) may be the first test done to detect anti-HCV antibodies.
Hepatitis C tests are used to screen for and diagnose a hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, to guide therapy and/or to monitor the treatment of an HCV infection. An HCV antibody test is used to screen for infection. It detects the presence of antibodies to the virus, indicating exposure to HCV. 
Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver that is most commonly caused by viruses but may also be due to chemicals, drugs, alcohol, inherited diseases, or autoimmune disease. The inflammation can be acute, flaring up and then resolving within a few weeks to months, or chronic, enduring over many years. 
This inflammation can be caused by contagious diseases such as viral infections. Hepatitis can also be caused by exposure to alcohol, certain medications, chemicals, poisons, and other toxins, or by other diseases. hepatitis C (HCV) is one of the many viruses that can cause inflammation of the liver. Inflammation of the liver caused by infection with HCV is referred to as hepatitis C. 1  If the infection does not resolve, it becomes chronic (ongoing, long term) and can cause chronic liver disease, which can be serious or even fatal.
Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from. infection with the Hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C has. been called a silent disease because people can get. infected and not know it. Some people who get. infected with Hepatitis C are able to clear, or get rid of. Hepatitis C is spread when blood from a person infected with the Hepatitis C virus enters the body of someone who is not infected. This can happen through different ways including: Injection drug use. Most people become infected with Hepatitis C by sharing needles or other equipment to inject drugs