Reverse Osmosis Biocides-Non-oxidizing, non-ionic biocides can be used either on line or as part of a cleaning program to control biofouling in reverse osmosis (RO) membranes. When used as an on-line treatment, the biocide should be dosed prior to the. system to control bio-growth in the membranes. ROCbio 50 - non-oxidising, non-ionic antimicrobial reverse osmosis disinfectant formulation based on 0.5% isothiazalone for use in membranes and pre-treatment plant ...
ProMinent reverse osmosis systems are typically found in the chemical industry, pharmaceutical industry, food and beverage industry, metal processing, electroplating, the treatment of boiler feed water in power plants and the generation of potable water from brackish water or seawater. In fact, complete reverse osmosis systems integrated in standard transport containers are one of our specialities. ecoPro is the standard system for potable water treatment, TW: potable water, BW: brackish water, SW: seawater.
Keywords: Reverse osmosis; pH adjustment; Acid dosing; Sea water salinity; Carbonate system; Carbonic acid equilibrium 1. Introduction One of the main problem with that the reverse osmosis plant process engineer has to deal, when he has to design a new plant, is the chemical pre-treatment sizing. The unresolved problem of acid dosing in the reverse osmosis plant design Giorgio Migliorini*, Carlo Cattani, Elena Luzzo Fisia Italimpianti, Genoa, Italy Tel.
Isothiazolone can also be used at low dose rates on a continuous basis (10 – 20ppm). ROCbio 50 - non-oxidising, non-ionic antimicrobial reverse osmosis disinfectant formulation based on 0.5% isothiazalone for use in membranes and pre-treatment plant ...
Reverse Osmosis. Reverse osmosis is a membrane filtration process that is used extensively for the desalination and purification of water. It is a natural process that was first described in 1748 by French scientist Jean Antoine Nollet.
RO Membrane Conditioner Trouble-free operation of a Reverse Osmosis plant is critical because the membranes often tend to get scaling; fouling and other organic deposits damage the membranes and reduce efficiency of the RO System. AQUAzzOL 801 (Preservative Chemical for RO Membrane) AQUAzzOL® 801 is a specifically formulated preservative solution to protect Reverse Osmosis membranes during shut down.
Water Treatment Chemicals with Service. Any Reverse Osmosis water treatment chemical is only as good as the service that accompanies it and we’ve 35 years of experience behind us. So contact us today for all your technical service requirements. Shop for your RO Chemicals. Select Reverse Osmosis chemicals are now available for purchase in our RO water treatment shop, follow the link in the side panel to visit our shop area to review our products and made a no hassle purchase.
We manufacture various range of AQUAzzOL® - membrane cleaning chemicals and pre-treatment chemicals for Reverse Osmosis membranes. We also offer AQUAzzOL® range of membrane cleaning and preservative solutions, online scale inhibitors, dispersants for feed water conditioning and regular maintenance of RO Systems. AQUAzzOL 801 (Preservative Chemical for RO Membrane) AQUAzzOL® 801 is a specifically formulated preservative solution to protect Reverse Osmosis membranes during shut down.
AQUAzzOL 901 (RO Membrane Antiscalant) AQUAzzOL® 901 is a specifically formulated antiscalant for conditioning feed water to reverse osmosis system. It is effectively used in Reverse Osmosis pre-treatment for sequestering and dispersing the scale forming minerals. AQUAzzOL 801 (Preservative Chemical for RO Membrane) AQUAzzOL® 801 is a specifically formulated preservative solution to protect Reverse Osmosis membranes during shut down.