The Alaska Permanent Fund is a constitutionally established permanent fund managed by a state-owned corporation, the Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation (APFC). The fund was established in Alaska in 1976 by Article 9, Section 15 of the Alaska State Constitution under Governor Jay Hammond. The Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation manages the assets of both the Permanent Fund and other state investments, but spending Fund income is up to the Legislature. The Corporation is to manage for maximum prudent return, and not—as some Alaskans at first wanted—as a development bank for in-state projects
2. Canada Permanent Trust Company was the previous name of Canada Trust. it came about with the merger of Canada Trust and the Permanent Trust Company in the late 70's early 80's the Permanent was eventually dropped. LOG IN TO THANK No one has yet thanked MaltedMilk for this post. They had a building on Bay, just south of Adelaide in Toronto. The building is now CIBC Melon, a company jointly owned by CIBC and NY Melon. During a previous Doors Open, I got a chance to take some pictures in there. Absolutely beautiful building.
Now that you have the idea of what Irrevocable means, how does that apply to a Trust. Basically an irrevocable Trust is a Trust in which you have made the decision not to have the capacity to REVOKE it. This means that it is permanent and that whatever you set forth in the Declaration of Trust is the way it will stay. Comment. What if I have a irrevocable trust in I want to get a divorce after being marriage for 25 year can my wife get any of my money from my trust I set up the irrevocable trust in 2014 please let me know. As with all trusts, the devil is in the details.
Once the trust is funded with the grantor’s residence, the residence and any future appreciation of the residence are excluded from the grantor’s estate, if the grantor survives the term of the trust, as explained below. Personal residence trusts (“PRTs”) are irrevocable split interest trusts. If a grantor dies during the retained term of a residence trust, the full value of the trust property is included in the grantor’s estate under Code Section 2036(a)(1) (because the grantor retains the right to possess or enjoy the property).
The Permanent Endowment Trust Fund was established in the Arizona Constitution under Article 10, Section 7. The Arizona Constitution requires the Treasurer to deposit and track the proceeds of land sales in the endowment fund according to the grant under which the land was conveyed to the State. 
The property is held by a Trustee in the name of the trust and managed by the Trustee for the benefit of a Beneficiary. You (the Grantor) can be the Trustee and Beneficiary of your own Living Trust, and retain management control over your own property. The beneficiary is the person or persons for whom the trust is for. After the death of the grantor, the trustee will divide the trust property among the beneficiaries in accordance with the terms of the trust.
The Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation is a government instrumentality of the State of Alaska created to manage and invest the assets of the Alaska Permanent Fund and other funds designated by law. The Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation manages the assets of both the Permanent Fund and other state investments, but spending Fund income is up to the Legislature. The Corporation is to manage for maximum prudent return, and not—as some Alaskans at first wanted—as a development bank for in-state projects
Permanent Trust Property Group. Permanent Trust Property Group, synonymous with property since 1923, is a leading player in the Cape Town property industry. Services offered include commercial and industrial property management, brokering, leasing and sales, sectional title administration and residential management. 
Permanent Trust is based in Cape Town and provides comprehensive property management services. We also have a dedicated team of property brokers to source tenants for our property owners and seek out attractive commercial and industrial acquisitions for our clientele. 