The thymus is a soft, roughly triangular organ located in the mediastinum of the thoracic cavity anterior and superior to the heart and posterior to the sternum.... The thymus serves a vital role in the training and development of T-lymphocytes or T cells, an extremely important type of white blood cell.
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a part of the brain located superior and anterior to the brain stem and inferior to the thalamus. It serves many different functions in the nervous system, and is also responsible for the direct control of the endocrine system through the pituitary gland.
The thymus is a specialized primary lymphoid organ of the immune system. Within the thymus, T cells or T lymphocytes mature. T cells are critical to the adaptive immune system, where the body adapts specifically to foreign invaders. The thymus is composed of two identical lobes and is located anatomically in the anterior superior mediastinum, in front of the heart and behind the sternum. The cortex and medulla play different roles in the development of T-cells. Cells in the thymus can be divided into thymic stromal cells and cells of hematopoietic origin (derived from bone marrow resident hematopoietic stem cells). Developing T-cells are referred to as thymocytes and are of hematopoietic origin.
Thymus. The thymus is a lymphoid gland comprised of two identically sized lobes, located behind the sternum (breastbone) but in front of the heart. It derives its name from a resemblance it bears to the bud of the thyme plant (thymus in Latin). At puberty, the thymus reaches the height of its use, becoming its largest. After this age, the size of the thymus declines as the lymphoid tissue disappears and fat and fibrous tissue appears. T-cells have derived their name from the thymus, because this is where they are produced in the human body. Lymphoid stem cells are delivered to the outer cortex, or layer, of the thymus in blood.
Endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products, hormones, directly into the blood rather than through a duct. The major glands of the endocrine system include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus and adrenal glands. 
Click to read more below. The thymus gland, despite containing glandular tissue and producing several hormones, is much more closely associated with the immune system than with the endocrine system. The thymus serves a vital role in the training and development of T-lymphocytes or T cells, an extremely important type of white blood cell.
Summary. The thymus gland acts to regulate the immune system through the development of immune cells responsible for cell mediated immunity. In addition to immune function, the thymus also produces hormones that promote growth and maturation. Thymic hormones influence structures of the endocrine system, including the pituitary gland and adrenal glands, to assist in growth and sexual development. The thymus produces hormone-like proteins that help T lymphocytes mature and differentiate. Some thymic hormones include thympoeitin, thymulin, thymosin, and thymic humoral factor (THF). Thympoeitin and thymulin induce differentiation in T-lymphocytes and enhance T-cell function.
The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them. 
Thymus. The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. Located in the upper chest region, the primary function of this gland is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T lymphocytes. The thymus produces hormone-like proteins that help T lymphocytes mature and differentiate. Some thymic hormones include thympoeitin, thymulin, thymosin, and thymic humoral factor (THF). Thympoeitin and thymulin induce differentiation in T-lymphocytes and enhance T-cell function.
The thymus is a lymphoid gland comprised of two identically sized lobes, located behind the sternum (breastbone) but in front of the heart. It derives its name from a resemblance it bears to the bud of the thyme plant (thymus in Latin). After this age, the size of the thymus declines as the lymphoid tissue disappears and fat and fibrous tissue appears. T-cells have derived their name from the thymus, because this is where they are produced in the human body. Lymphoid stem cells are delivered to the outer cortex, or layer, of the thymus in blood.