However, most network marketing companies will only register to do business as a foreign corporation doing business in those states in which they have a physical presence, such as having manufacturing facilities, warehouses, offices, or employees. The corporate laws of most states provide that a company is not “doing business in the state” merely because it sells through independent distributors in that state. MLM companies with tangible personal property sales register to collect and remit sales and use tax.
-Hannah Whitall Smith. “You can make more friends in two months by becoming interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get other people interested in you.” - Dale Carnegie. In the past many people have made fortunes in network marketing, and many still do today! Today they live their lives, and enjoy a freedom that most people only dream about. Usually, it was only a small number of people went on to become the top money earner’s in any company. The challenge today is, knowing who to trust. Today we have companies that offer a multitude of products and services, items that the average person uses on a daily and consistent basis. And, many of these companies are embracing social networking “Twitter, Facebook” to get their message out.
There you have it folks, all of these MLM companies are making people money NOW because they are easy, current and have the best products. Please Like, Share and Comment if you believe there is a network marketing company out there that deserves a spot on this list. Stay tuned and pay attention because I am going to count down the top 3 MLM companies that make you money. All of these network marketing companies I personally have generated income with and the funny thing is, I am not a skilled network marketer or anything like that. So here we go.
Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) is a marketing strategy in which the sales force is compensated not only for sales they generate, but also for the sales of the other salespeople that they recruit. This recruited sales force is referred to as the participant's downline, and can provide multiple levels of compensation. Other terms used for MLM include pyramid selling, network marketing, and referral marketing. According to the US FTC, some MLM companies constitute illegal pyramid schemes which exploit members of the organization. MLM is one type of direct selling.
Click this link to discover the 3 simple steps to marketing your business online. Why Network Marketing is such a great opportunity. Network marketing seems like a breeze on the surface. Many people jump in, thinking they just have to pull in a few people and then sit back and watch the money roll in. Those people do not last very long. 
There is good money to be made in multilevel marketing, and quite a few people have become millionaires in this industry. Though you will find Rich DeVos and Jay VanAndel of Amway among the Forbes 400 Americas richest individuals, the vast majority of others do not come from the network marketing industry. 
Many entrepreneurs trying to make money online through internet marketing or network marketing, have already tapped into the law of attraction and are reaping its benefits daily. These amazing features of a work at home business opportunity can dramatically change the way you experience life. 
Network Marketing Thrives in a Down Economy. Numerous business experts praise the potential of network marketing. And the industry is proven to grow even in depressed economies. As part of that industry, your Plexus business can enjoy growth and expansion while other industries flounder. Plexus Worldwide ® is positioned at the front of one of the most unique and fastest-growing industries today: network marketing. Believe it or not, you already network every day! Whether it's with friends over lunch, with coworkers in the office, or neighbors across the fence, we gladly talk about the things we like.
If you scroll down in this blog post, you'll see a call-to-action button. In fact, 99.9% of the blog posts we publish have call-to-action buttons ... and yours should, too. That is how you turn that traffic coming to your blog into leads for your sales team. 