Big Zac ($7.95) 80-90 days. (H) (BBB) (HG) The biggest tomato of all! This gigantic and very delicious tomato normally reaches 4 lbs., and can reach 5 to 7 lbs., with luscious meaty fruits growing on a hearty disease-resistant plant. Big Zac is very easy to grow and reliably produces gigantic tomatoes in all climates. Big Zac was developed by Minnie Zaccaria of New Jersey, a kind and kindred spirit, who has been growing big championship tomatoes for more than 20 years and has won the biggest tomato contest 7 times. A plentiful harvest, stunning beauty and out-of-this-world taste make Chocolate Stripes a rare treat in your garden. Photograph courtesy of www.tomatofest.com Cuostrale ($5.95) (Koo-struh-LAY) (BBB) 85 days. Big, hearty, prolific plant, with beautiful huge red beefsteak type tomatoes, up to 4 lbs.
The Biggest Tomatoes! These plants produce fruit from 2 to 6 lbs. 1884 ($5.95) (B) (HG) (E) 78 days. 1884 is a superbly flavored old-time tomato which grows on a strong vigorous plant and produces big luscious 1 lb. to 2 lb. deep dark pink fruit with luxurious flavor and sets fruit readily in hot weather.
Cordon and bush tomatoes explained. Cordon/Indeterminate tomatoes-these varieties of tomato plant are the most common and are grown as cordons (single stemmed plants with side shoots removed). They will grow very tall-sometimes taller than 2.5m in very warm conditions. 
The tomato (see pronunciation) is the edible, often red berry-type fruit of the nightshade Solanum lycopersicum, commonly known as a tomato plant. The tomato is consumed in diverse ways, including raw, as an ingredient in many dishes, sauces, salads, and drinks. Leaves, stems, and green unripe fruit of the tomato plant contain small amounts of the toxic alkaloid tomatine. They also contain solanine, a toxic alkaloid found in potato leaves and other plants in the nightshade family.
The heaviest tomato ever, weighing 3.51 kg (7 lb 12 oz), was of the cultivar Delicious, grown by Gordon Graham of Edmond, Oklahoma in 1986. The largest tomato plant grown was of the cultivar Sungold and reached 19.8 m (65 ft) in length, grown by Nutriculture Ltd (UK) of Mawdesley, Lancashire, UK, in 2000. Leaves, stems, and green unripe fruit of the tomato plant contain small amounts of the toxic alkaloid tomatine. They also contain solanine, a toxic alkaloid found in potato leaves and other plants in the nightshade family.
Tomato Seeds and Plants. Burpee tomato seeds and plants are easy to grow, rewarding and versatile in the kitchen. Select below from the solid and meaty beefsteak tomato, the small and succulent cherry tomato, the traditional heirloom tomato, and the guaranteed certified organic tomato. Burpee tomato plants are the easy way to grow all your favorite and new tomatoes. We do all the growing for you and deliver healthy, vigorous plants at just the right time for planting in your region. Quick View. The world's largest beefsteak
These plants produce fruit from 2 to 6 lbs. 1884 ($5.95) (B) (HG) (E) 78 days. 1884 is a superbly flavored old-time tomato which grows on a strong vigorous plant and produces big luscious 1 lb. to 2 lb. deep dark pink fruit with luxurious flavor and sets fruit readily in hot weather. A plentiful harvest, stunning beauty and out-of-this-world taste make Chocolate Stripes a rare treat in your garden. Photograph courtesy of www.tomatofest.com Cuostrale ($5.95) (Koo-struh-LAY) (BBB) 85 days. Big, hearty, prolific plant, with beautiful huge red beefsteak type tomatoes, up to 4 lbs.
Big Zac fruit, worked tirelessly to create this humungous fruit by crossing the largest heirloom tomato varieties she could find and finally came up with this amazing and yummy whopper of a tomato. Brandywine Yellow, Platfoot Strain ($5.95) 85 - 90 days. A plentiful harvest, stunning beauty and out-of-this-world taste make Chocolate Stripes a rare treat in your garden. Photograph courtesy of www.tomatofest.com Cuostrale ($5.95) (Koo-struh-LAY) (BBB) 85 days. Big, hearty, prolific plant, with beautiful huge red beefsteak type tomatoes, up to 4 lbs.
Big Zac ($7.95) 80-90 days. (H) (BBB) (HG) The biggest tomato of all! This gigantic and very delicious tomato normally reaches 4 lbs., and can reach 5 to 7 lbs., with luscious meaty fruits growing on a hearty disease-resistant plant. Big Zac is very easy to grow and reliably produces gigantic tomatoes in all climates. These plants produce fruit from 2 to 6 lbs. 1884 ($5.95) (B) (HG) (E) 78 days. 1884 is a superbly flavored old-time tomato which grows on a strong vigorous plant and produces big luscious 1 lb. to 2 lb. deep dark pink fruit with luxurious flavor and sets fruit readily in hot weather.