1 Accessory cloud: Pannus frequently forms in precipitation and is coded C L 7. 2  Genitus mother clouds: This genus type can form from cumulus and cumulonimbus. 3  Mutatus mother clouds: Nimbostratus can form due to the complete transformation of altocumulus, altostratus and stratocumulus. 1 Genitus mother clouds: This genus type can form from cumulus and cumulonimbus. 2
Towering cumulonimbus clouds are typically accompanied by smaller cumulus clouds. The cumulonimbus base may extend several miles across and occupy low to middle altitudes-formed at altitude from approximately 200 to 4,000 m (700 to 10,000 ft). Peaks typically reach to as much as 6,000 m (20,000 ft), with extreme instances as high as 23,000 m (75,000 ft). Cumulonimbus typically go through three stages: the developing stage, the mature stage (where the main cloud may reach supercell status in favorable conditions), and the dissipation stage. The average thunderstorm has a 24 km (15 mi) diameter.
Occurring worldwide, exceрt the Antarctic, cumulonimbus are most commonly found іn tropical regions. They аrе low level clouds that extend vertically upwards to great heights, somеtimеs 6 miles high or more, аnd thеir base cаn equally be 6 miles or ѕo across. Most commonly assосiatеd wіth thunderstorms, cumulonimbus cloud produces somе оf thе world’s most violent weather
Cumulonimbus clouds form in the lower part of the troposphere, the layer of the atmosphere closest to the surface of the Earth. This region due to evaporation and the greenhouse effect produces alot of the warm updrafts that make creation of cumulus and cumulonimbus clouds possible. Cumulonimbus clouds. Credit: NASA. Cumulonimbus clouds are a type of cumulus cloud associated with thunder storms and heavy precipitation. They are also a variation of nimbus or precipitation bearing clouds. They are formed beneath 20,000 ft. and are relatively close to the ground
Cumulonimbus can form alone, in clusters, or along cold front squall lines. These clouds are capable of producing lightning and other dangerous severe weather, such as tornadoes. Cumulonimbus progress from overdeveloped cumulus congestus clouds and may further develop as part of a supercell. Cumulonimbus typically go through three stages: the developing stage, the mature stage (where the main cloud may reach supercell status in favorable conditions), and the dissipation stage. The average thunderstorm has a 24 km (15 mi) diameter.
Low-level clouds. Help with identifying low-level clouds-cumulus, cumulonimbus, stratocumulus and stratus. The bases of these clouds are usually found at below 6,500 ft in the UK. Latin: cumulus-heap; nimbus-rainy cloud. Cumulonimbus are heavy and dense low-level clouds, extending high into the sky in towers, plumes or mountain shaped peaks.
Cumulonimbus is a heavy and dense cloud of considerable vertical extent in the form of a mountain or huge tower, often associated with heavy precipitation, lightning and thunder. The mature Cumulonimbus cloud has a distinctive flat, anvil shaped top. 
Cumulus clouds. Cumulus clouds form as water vapor condenses in strong, upward air currents above the earth's surface. These clouds usually have flat bases and lumpy tops. Cumulus clouds are usually very isolated with large areas of blue sky in between the clouds. If the atmosphere is unstable enough, cumulonimbus clouds, better known as thunderstorms, form. Cumulus congestus and cumulonimbus clouds can tower from below 6,000 feet to greater than 50,000 feet.
The thin, wispy clouds you saw are Cirrus clouds and they are very high in the atmosphere and made of ice crystals. They normally indicate a change in the weather, and it is u … sually bad weather. This means that the low layered cloud you saw was either a stratus or cumulonimbus cloud which are both storm clouds.