If you have a typical 28-day cycle, try to conceive on the 10th, 12th, 14th, and 16th days of your monthly cycle because these are the optimum times for conception to occur. This timing will also account for later-than-normal ovulation as sperm can survive for up to five days in a woman’s body. 
How long it takes to conceive. The majority of couples get pregnant within three months. Your own timeline could be longer if you're older, have certain fertility-unfriendly habits (like smoking), or have a condition that impairs fertility. 
When you have sex, sperm are released up into the uterus and Fallopian tube. If you happen to have sex on the same day as you have ovulates, then you could get pregnant the same day. But if you don't ovulate the same day you have sex, sperm can live for up to three days (some day even longer!). So you can get pregnant 1,2 and even 3 days after you have sex. It all comes down to when you ovulate and if there are sperm hanging around or not! The egg only lives for about a day so it's not hanging around as long as the sperm are. Conception means the day the sperm fertilized the egg
Assuming that intercours is timed at around ovulation, fertilization of the egg will occur within about 36 hours of ovulation. Implantation of the embryo occurs within 10 days or so. The pregnancy hormone beta hCG will normally be measurable at the time of your missed period, usually 14 days after you have ovulated. 1 Can you only use an ovulation kit if you have been having regular periods? 2  If a typical cycle is 28 days and ovulation is typically on day 14, then if my cycle is usually 34 days long, is it accurate to say that my ovulation will then be on day 17? 3  We've been trying for a baby but had no joy.
When you can't get pregnant, and things look good from the outside, it can be extremely frustrating. The first thing to consider is how long have you been trying. About 80% of couples will get pregnant after six months of trying, and about 90% will be pregnant after 12 months of trying to get pregnant. 
Ovulation. On average, your ovaries will release an egg (ovulation), into your fallopian tubes, 14 days before your period is due. Your egg will survive 12 to 24 hours after ovulation, and then will start to disintegrate, making conception impossible. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Definitely your ex. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Fertilization: Sperm Penetrates Egg. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl. The Sperm's Long Journey. A man may ejaculate 40 million to150 million sperm, which start swimming upstream toward the fallopian tubes on their mission to fertilize an egg. Fast-swimming sperm can reach the egg in a half an hour, while others may take days. The sperm can live up to 48-72 hours.
If you are over 40 you have a one in twenty chance of conceiving each cycle. This means that it could take up to 20 months for conception to occur. It is highly recommended that if you are over the age of 40, begin trying to conceive under the care of your physician. If you are under 25 years old, you have a one in four or five chance of becoming pregnant. This means that it normally takes four to five months for conception to occur if you and your partner are in optimum health and are actively trying.
At the instant of fertilization, your baby's genes and sex are set. If the sperm has a Y chromosome, your baby will be a boy. If it has an X chromosome, the baby will be a girl. Implantation: Moving to the Uterus. The egg stays in the fallopian tube for about 3 to 4 days. But within 24 hours of being fertilized, it starts dividing fast into many cells. It keeps dividing as it moves slowly through the fallopian tube to the uterus. Its next job is to attach to the lining of uterus. This is called implantation.