A normal fetal heart rate (FHR) usually ranges from 120 to 160 beats per minute (bpm) in the in utero period. It is measurable sonographically from around 6 weeks and the normal range varies during gestation, increasing to around 170 bpm at 10 weeks and decreasing from then to around 130 bpm at term. 
A normal newborn pulse is between 120 and 180 beats per minute. A pulse of less than 100 beats per minute generally signifies low blood oxygen levels. Treatment. A low pulse rate is more medically significant than a high pulse rate in a newborn, according to the New York State Department of Health. A low pulse requires treatment with chest compressions and assisted ventilation. Intubation and medication may be necessary to raise the pulse rate to normal.
The maximum, normal heart rate for a newborn baby is 190 beats per  minute. The normal range is between 70 and 190 beats per minute. What is the normal heart rate for an adult? The typical healthy resting heart rate in adults is 60-80 bpm, with rates below 60 bpm referred to as bradycardia, and rates above 100 bpm referred to as tachycardia.
Aim. There is no consensus about the normal fetal heart rate. Current international guidelines recommend for the normal fetal heart rate (FHR) baseline different ranges of 110 to 150 beats per minute (bpm) or 110 to 160 bpm. We started with a precise definition of normality and performed a retrospective computerized analysis of electronically recorded FHR tracings. Methods
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. 
1 The patient's normal range should always be taken into consideration. 2  Heart rate, BP & respiratory rate are expected to increase during times of fever or stress. 3  Respiratory rate on infants should be counted for a full 60 seconds. 4  In a clinically decompensating child, the blood pressure will be the last to change. REMEMBER: 1  The patient's normal range should always be taken into consideration. 2  Heart rate, BP & respiratory rate are expected to increase during times of fever or stress. 3  Respiratory rate on infants should be counted for a full 60 seconds
A normal pulse rate in a newborn indicates good health. Photo Credit newborn image by Fabio Barni from Fotolia.com. A newborn's pulse rate is the number of times his heart beats per minute. This rhythmic beating occurs each time the ventricle of the heart contracts to pump blood through the cardiovascular system. A normal pulse rate indicates that the heart is functioning properly. Treatment. A low pulse rate is more medically significant than a high pulse rate in a newborn, according to the New York State Department of Health. A low pulse requires treatment with chest compressions and assisted ventilation. Intubation and medication may be necessary to raise the pulse rate to normal.
As infants and children grow and age, their normal values for vital signs change. Body temperature does not change with age, and normal body temperature is considered 98.6 F (37 C). Two tables of normal vital signs for the pediatric population are presented below. Heart rates may be slightly slower when asleep. 
388 Followers. A. A healthy resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute for adults. But the upper end of that range may mean a greater chance of serious health problems. 