Overview. Adenomas of the adrenal gland are non-cancerous (benign) tumors on the adrenal gland. Most do not cause any signs or symptoms and rarely require treatment. However, some may become active or functioning which means they produce hormones, often in excess of what the adrenal glands typically produce. 
Adrenal insufficiency should be the first consideration, especially with bilateral adrenal incidentalomas (AIs). A corticotropin test with 60-minute cortisol levels helps rule out the diagnosis. In a patient with primary hyperaldosteronism, bilateral AIs suggest bilateral adrenal hyperaldosteronism (idiopathic hyperaldosteronism). Confirm this by adrenal venous sampling to demonstrate bilateral plasma aldosterone secretion.
When incidentally discovered adrenal masses are bilateral, a refined diagnostic approach is warranted since bilateral disease is more likely to be pathologic. We review a case of a 34-year-old man with incidentally discovered bilateral adrenal nodules. In the case of the bilateral adrenal incidentaloma, patients who present with symptoms such as hypotension, dizziness, weight loss, or abdominal pain in the setting of bilateral adrenal masses should be evaluated for adrenal insufficiency using an ACTH stimulation test (Table 1).
When incidentally discovered adrenal masses are bilateral, a refined diagnostic approach is warranted since bilateral disease is more likely to be pathologic. We review a case of a 34-year-old man with incidentally discovered bilateral adrenal nodules. Definitive treatment for bilateral adrenal masses is surgical resection of both adrenal glands in most cases, except in the case of aldosterone secreting tumors, in which case medical options may be the preferred approach.
Benign adrenal tumors are noncancerous masses that form in the adrenal glands. As part of your endocrine system, the adrenal glands produce hormones that give instructions to virtually every organ and tissue in your body. Benign adrenal tumors that develop in the cortex are also called adrenal adenomas. Benign adrenal tumors that develop in the medulla are also called pheochromocytomas (fee-o-kroe-moe-sy-TOE-muhs). Most benign adrenal tumors cause no symptoms and don't require treatment.
The duplex demonstrated bilateral enlargement of the adrenal glands, and MRI of the abdomen showed high T2 intensity of bilateral adrenal masses with the right-sided mass measuring 4.3 cm and the left-sided mass measuring 2.8 cm (Figure 1. Figure 1: T2-weighted MRI of the abdomen showing bilateral adrenal masses. In the case of the bilateral adrenal incidentaloma, patients who present with symptoms such as hypotension, dizziness, weight loss, or abdominal pain in the setting of bilateral adrenal masses should be evaluated for adrenal insufficiency using an ACTH stimulation test (Table 1).
The duplex demonstrated bilateral enlargement of the adrenal glands, and MRI of the abdomen showed high T2 intensity of bilateral adrenal masses with the right-sided mass measuring 4.3 cm and the left-sided mass measuring 2.8 cm (Figure 1. Definitive treatment for bilateral adrenal masses is surgical resection of both adrenal glands in most cases, except in the case of aldosterone secreting tumors, in which case medical options may be the preferred approach.
Whereas most unilateral masses are benign or nonfunctional, the bilateral adrenal mass is more likely metastatic disease, hemorrhage, infiltrative disease, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, macronodular Cushing’s syndrome, or bilateral cortical adenomas [ 5 ]. In the case of the bilateral adrenal incidentaloma, patients who present with symptoms such as hypotension, dizziness, weight loss, or abdominal pain in the setting of bilateral adrenal masses should be evaluated for adrenal insufficiency using an ACTH stimulation test (Table 1).
Whereas most unilateral masses are benign or nonfunctional, the bilateral adrenal mass is more likely metastatic disease, hemorrhage, infiltrative disease, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, macronodular Cushing's syndrome, or bilateral cortical adenomas [ 5 ]. Definitive treatment for bilateral adrenal masses is surgical resection of both adrenal glands in most cases, except in the case of aldosterone secreting tumors, in which case medical options may be the preferred approach.
Adrenal adenomas are the commonest adrenal mass lesion, and are often found incidentally during abdominal imaging for other reasons. In all cases, but especially in the setting of known current or previous malignancy, adrenal adenomas need to be distinguished from adrenal metastases or other adrenal malignancies. The term incidental adrenal lesion (also colloquially known as an incidentaloma) is sometimes used interchangeably with adrenal adenoma, although in truth an incidental adrenal lesion includes all pathologies (including malignancies). As such, the term should be avoided lest it results in confusion.