Case definitions for some infectious conditions not considered nationally notifiable also are included in this report. Some of these conditions may have been nationally reportable or may become so; definitions are included here to facilitate interpretation of data for these diseases (Table_2). Confirmed: a case that meets the clinical case definition and with isolation of group A Streptococcus from a normally sterile site (e.g., blood or cerebrospinal fluid or, less commonly, joint, pleural, or pericardial fluid). Comment See also Streptococcal Disease, Invasive, Group A and Toxic-Shock Syndrome.
: an infectious disease communicable by contact with one who has it, with a bodily discharge of such a patient, or with an object touched by such a patient or by bodily discharges—compare communicable disease. 
sexually transmitted disease, social disease, STD, VD, venereal disease, venereal infection, Venus's curse, Cupid's disease, Cupid's itch, dose-a communicable infection transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact. 
Local health departments are required to report some 80 communicable diseases to the California Department of Public Health as part of the disease surveillance and investigation efforts. The diseases below are among them. 
contagious disease. see communicable disease (above). disease control. reducing the prevalence of a disease in a population, including eradication, by chemical, pharmaceutical, quarantine, management including culling, or other means or combinations of means. This definition has long since been widened to embrace subclinical diseases in which there is no tangible clinical syndrome but which are identifiable by chemical, hematological, biophysical, microbiological or immunological means.
1 (Of a disease) spread from one person or organism to another, typically by direct contact: a contagious disease it is a relatively new disease and very contagious. More example sentences. 1 A person is contagious for 2 to 7 days after symptoms appear. 2  After treatment, a person is still contagious for 2-4 hours. 3  A person is most contagious from about 1 day before the salivary glands swell, to at least another 3 days after the swelling began.
Medical Definition of COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. : an infectious disease transmissible (as from person to person) by direct contact with an affected individual or the individual's discharges or by indirect means (as by a vector)—compare contagious disease.
Disease Transmission Overview. Infectious diseases are those that are transmitted from person to person by direct or indirect contact. Viruses, bacteria, parasites, and fungi all cause infectious disease. Malaria, measles, and respiratory illnesses are examples of infectious diseases. Infectious diseases are most commonly transmitted through direct person-to-person contact. Transmission occurs when an infected person touches or exchanges body fluids with someone else. This can happen before a person is aware that they are ill.
Non-communicable disease (NCD) is a medical condition or disease that is non-infectious or non-transmissible. NCDs can refer to chronic diseases which last for long periods of time and progress slowly. 
The boundary between contagious and non-contagious infectious diseases is not perfectly drawn, as illustrated classically by tuberculosis, which is clearly transmissible from person to person, but was not classically considered a contagious disease. The non-contagious category of infections usually require a special mode of transmission between persons or hosts. These include need for intermediate vector species (mosquitoes that cause malaria) or by non-casual transfer of bodily fluid (such as transfusions, needle sharing or sexual contact).