Taxonomy of Foxglove Plants: Plant taxonomy classifies foxglove flowers as Digitalis purpurea. Plant Type: Foxglove plants are classified as biennial: leaves form a rosette close to the ground the first year, succeeded by a spike with blooms the second, and final year. 
The best-known species is the common foxglove, Digitalis purpurea. This biennial plant is often grown as an ornamental plant due to its vivid flowers which range in colour from various purple tints through various shades of light gray, and to purely white. The flowers can also possess various marks and spottings. The first year of growth of the common foxglove produces only the stem with its long, basal leaves. During the second year of the plant's life, a long, leafy stem from 50 to 255 centimeters tall grows atop the roots of healthy plants.
Digitalis purpurea is a biennial, seeding freely when happy. Since it does not produce flowers (nor, therefore, seeds) until its second year, you must plant them two years running to have foxgloves every summer. Seeds can lie dormant for years if conditions are unfavourable-if there is inadequate light or moisture. Pot up individually and grow on through the winter to plant out the following spring. Good companions. Digitalis ferruginea mixes perfectly with wafty Stipa tenuissima, Californian poppies and eryngiums for a dry sunny feel. Or use D. purpurea f. albiflora in combination with sweet rocket and Ammi majus.
Digitalis (/ˌdɪdʒɨˈteɪlɨs/ or /ˌdɪdʒɨˈtaelɨs/) ˌdɪdʒɨˈtælɨs is a genus of about 20 species of herbaceous, perennials, shrubs and biennials commonly called. Foxgloves this genus was traditionally placed in the figwort Family, scrophulariaceae but recent phylogenetic research has placed it in the much enlarged Family. plantaginaceae The first year of growth of the common foxglove produces only the stem with its long, basal leaves. During the second year of the plant's life, a long, leafy stem from 50 to 255 centimeters tall grows atop the roots of healthy plants.
Foxglove flowers bloom in shades of white, pink and purple. When foxgloves (Digitalis purpurea) flower in early to midsummer, spikes of bell-shaped flowers make a bold statement in the garden. Plant foxgloves en masse in woodland gardens, cottage gardens and borders. When planted from seed, these biennials produce roots and leaves the first year but no flowers. During the second season, foxgloves produce a 2- to 5-foot-tall flower stalk and flowers. Foxgloves grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 through 8.
How to Grow Foxgloves. Foxglove plants grow best in rich, well draining soil. Caring for foxglove plants will include keeping the soil moist. As a biennial or short lived perennial, the gardener can encourage re-growth of foxglove flowers by not allowing the soil to dry out or to get too soggy. Advertisement. Foxglove flowers may be grown from seed, producing blossoms in the second year.
For the band, see Digitalis Purpurea (band) . Digitalis purpurea (foxglove, common foxglove, purple foxglove or lady's glove) is a species of flowering plant in the genus Digitalis, in the family Plantaginaceae, native and widespread throughout most of temperate Europe. It is also naturalised in parts of North America and some other temperate regions. Digitalis purpurea is an herbaceous biennial or short-lived perennial plant. The leaves are spirally arranged, simple, 10–35 cm long and 5–12 cm broad, and are covered with gray-white pubescent and glandular hairs, imparting a woolly texture. The foliage forms a tight rosette at ground level in the first year.
Comments. The foxglove, Digitalis purpurea, is one of the most familiar of our wild flowers and certainly the most distinctive. Its association with man is long and complex. Digitalin, which is extracted from it, is a powerful poison and an important drugs in the treatment of heart complaints. Pot up individually and grow on through the winter to plant out the following spring. Good companions. Digitalis ferruginea mixes perfectly with wafty Stipa tenuissima, Californian poppies and eryngiums for a dry sunny feel. Or use D. purpurea f. albiflora in combination with sweet rocket and Ammi majus.
Tall and stately foxglove plants (Digitalis purpurea) have long been included in garden areas where vertical interest and lovely flowers are desired. Foxglove flowers grow on stems which may reach 6 feet in height, depending on variety. Foxglove flowers are clusters of tubular shaped blooms in colors of white, lavender, yellow, pink, red, and purple. Growing foxgloves thrive in full sun to partial shade to full shade, depending on the summer heat. Caring for foxglove plants will include keeping the soil moist. As a biennial or short lived perennial, the gardener can encourage re-growth of foxglove flowers by not allowing the soil to dry out or to get too soggy. Advertisement. Foxglove flowers may be grown from seed, producing blossoms in the second year.