Listed artist is a term that is thrown around every day at an auction house. One of those terms that we use so often that we begin to forget that everyone doesn’t know it’s meaning. But it isn’t as self-explanatory as it seems, nor as simple as some definitions may lead you to believe. While there are the obvious examples like Monet, Van Gogh, or Dali, a “listed artist” may not be widely known. I will use Maxfield Parrish as an example. In looking up the artist, not only do we find that he was an American who lived from 1870-1966, we also find over 277 auction records! For an auction employee or an appraiser, this information is key. Using these auction records, we are able to determine at what level to value the work
Best Answer: Even an emerging artists can have an instant resume, and emerge as a listed artist. Most serious collectors want to be sure that the artist who's work they are buying is a serious artist who will be around for the long haul. The artist who takes the time to become listed, a documented artist, is saying hey, I am here to stay!. It is another way to give credibility to your work, and an important one. This also raises the value of your work, and in the long run, enables you to ask more for it
The popular definition is “a term commonly used by appraisers to describe an artist who is ‘listed’ in standard art reference books,” but the definition has moved beyond that and means more in the auction world. While there are the obvious examples like Monet, Van Gogh, or Dali, a “listed artist” may not be widely known. I will use Maxfield Parrish as an example. In looking up the artist, not only do we find that he was an American who lived from 1870-1966, we also find over 277 auction records! For an auction employee or an appraiser, this information is key. Using these auction records, we are able to determine at what level to value the work
Just because an artist is not listed does not mean that they are not a creative and accomplished artist, but a listed artist has the added confirmation and recognition of their talent. Today there are major art reference web sites (most are subscription based for all or part of the information). If an artist is referenced on these sites, they are considered as listed. The major sites are AskArt, ArtPrice, ArtFact and ArtNet.
You often hear that an artist is listed, so what does this really mean? Basically, it means that an artist has attained a certain level of recognition in the art world. Today there are major art reference web sites (most are subscription based for all or part of the information). If an artist is referenced on these sites, they are considered as listed. The major sites are AskArt, ArtPrice, ArtFact and ArtNet.
By Shelley Esaak. Definition: (noun) - In art,  medium  refers to the substance the artist uses to create his or her artwork. For example, the medium Michelangelo used to create David was marble, Calder's stabiles employ painted steel plates and Duchamp's infamous Fountain had porcelain as its medium. 
Fine Art: Definition & Meaning. The term fine art refers to an art form practised mainly for its aesthetic value and its beauty (art for art's sake) rather than its functional value. Fine art is rooted in drawing and design-based works such as painting, printmaking, and sculpture
This Site Might Help You. RE: What does the term &quot;listed artist&quot; mean? I can&#39;t figure out why some painters/artists are called &quot;listed&quot; and other painters/artists are not? The artist who takes the time to become listed, a documented artist, is saying hey, I am here to stay!. It is another way to give credibility to your work, and an important one. This also raises the value of your work, and in the long run, enables you to ask more for it.