Postage stamps have their own corresponding values. Old postage stamps, especially the rare stamps, are worth more than the newer stamps. The value of old postage stamps depends on the availability of similar stamp specimens. This means that the rarer your old postage stamp is, the more valuable it will be. Meanwhile, stamp condition is the general appearance of the stamp. The old stamp value decreases when there is a missing or short perforation teeth, tears and creases on the stamp paper, faded stamp design, and so on. Give attention to gum. The stamp gum is the glue found on the backside of a stamp.
Value of old postage stamps. You have found a box filled with old postage stamps in your attic. You are not so sure how to identify old postage stamps but you have a gut feeling that you have found your grandfather's old stamp collection that dates back to the 19th century. Meanwhile, stamp condition is the general appearance of the stamp. The old stamp value decreases when there is a missing or short perforation teeth, tears and creases on the stamp paper, faded stamp design, and so on. Give attention to gum. The stamp gum is the glue found on the backside of a stamp.
Stamp Values. Stamp Values provides an online stamp price guide and catalog that includes many popular stamps from all over the world. The website has one example for each category and is not as easy to navigate as some of the others. However, the images are very clear and there are values posted.
Stamp Values for a Stamp Collection, Old Stamps and Current Rate Stamps. Custom Postage Stamps-Design your own Stamp and Personalize your Mail. Custom Postage Stamps-Design your own Stamp and Personalize your Mail. Postage Stamp Picture Gallery-Photos of Early US and Worldwide Stamps. Postage Stamp Picture Gallery. At the single stamp level, there are many factors that can dramatically affect stamp collecting values but, for the most part, it all comes down to supply and demand. Many stamps are rare but not valuable because there is not enough demand to drive the price up. But find a rare and high demand stamp and watch out.
Enter a search term, the stamp value, the color of the stamp and any additional information you have. Hit the Enter key to search. Browse through the stamps of the search results. Click on your stamp when you see it. The next page should tell you the value of the stamp. Make a note of the value. Repeat the search for every stamp in your collection. Add the values together to determine the total value of your collection. Instructions. Navigate to a stamp collecting website. Press the Register button. Fill out the forms with your information, including email address and full name. If necessary, enter your credit card information. Click on Search.. Enter a term in the search box that describes the picture on your stamp.
Stamp Values for a Stamp Collection, Old Stamps and Current Rate Stamps. Custom Postage Stamps-Design your own Stamp and Personalize your Mail. Custom Postage Stamps-Design your own Stamp and Personalize your Mail. Postage Stamp Picture Gallery-Photos of Early US and Worldwide Stamps. Postage Stamp Picture Gallery. 
However, determining the value of a stamp involves more than just the design itself. The following steps tell you how to find the value of a stamp by looking at the factors that affect it and providing you resources to research its worth. 1 In some cases, a stamp's approximate age can be determined from the design on it, if the stamp was issued to honor a historical event at the time of the event. 2  Older stamps were also made with different grades of paper than more modern stamps.
Please try again later. Learn more about the value of old stamps.Check out our site http://www.onstampcollecting.com/stam... for additional information additionally learn more about the pastime of stamp collecting at http://www.onstampcollecting.com. 1  Howto & Style. 
7. Determine how rare the stamp is. The rarity of a stamp depends on how many copies of the stamp were produced to begin with. Stamps produced within the last 60 years are generally worth only their face value to mail postage because there are so many of them in existence. 1 In some cases, a stamp's approximate age can be determined from the design on it, if the stamp was issued to honor a historical event at the time of the event. 2  Older stamps were also made with different grades of paper than more modern stamps.