Mountain climate. Types of Indian climate are varied due to India's unique geography and geology that strongly influence its climate. This is particularly true of the Himalayan Mountain in the north and the Thar Desert in the northwest. The Himalayas act as a barrier to the frigid katabolic winds coming down from Central Asia. India is home to extraordinary types of Indian climate, ranging from tropical in the south to temperate and alpine in the Himalayan north, where eminent regions receive sustained winter snowfall. The climate of India is strongly influenced by the Himalayas and the Thar Desert
India is a vast country that has tropical weather with variations from region to region. India possesses unique geology and geography, which has influenced the climate and weather of the country. Each different place in India is known for its unique weather. 
Koeppen-Geiger classification: The Climate of India can be divided in different climate zones. The eastern part of India and the west coast can be classified as Aw climate, a hot, tropical climate with all months above 18°C and a dry period in the winter. The southern Tip of india can be classified as Am climate, a hot tropical Rainforest climate with monsoon rains and all months above 18°C.
India. Indias climate can be classified as a hot tropical country, except the northern states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir in the north and Sikkim in the northeastern hills, which have a cooler, more continental influenced climate. In most of India summer is very hot. The southern Tip of india can be classified as Am climate, a hot tropical Rainforest climate with monsoon rains and all months above 18°C.
by admin / on November 4, 2009 at 4:22 pm /. Weather in India varies from moderate to the extreme of climates. The northern part of India experiences the coldest of winters and in the south one comes across the hottest of summers. Tourists can plan out their itinerary at any time of the season, as the weather conditions vary from region to region. Basic Structure of the Indian Weather. Differing Climates. In the Northern part of India, the winters are severe. The Himalayan range experiences snowfall and many people visit Kashmir and Shimla to experience the snowfall. The winter is very severe in the northern part of India during the months of November to January. Of course in the south of India, the winters are milder during this season. In fact the daytime heat will be very warm and soothing
Michael Coyne/Getty Images. The weather in India varies dramatically. While the southern tip of the India is being lashed by tropical monsoon rain, the north will be blanketed in thick snow. Therefore, the best time to travel to India depends greatly on the destinations to be visited and the climate experienced there. Indian weather itself is divided into three distinct seasons -- winter, summer, and the monsoon. Generally, the best time to visit India is during the winter, when the weather in most places is relatively cool and pleasant.
The climate of India comprises a wide range of weather conditions across a vast geographic scale and varied topography, making generalisations difficult. Most of Northeast India and much of North India are subject to a humid subtropical climate. Though they experience hot summers, temperatures during the coldest months may fall as low as 0 °C (32 °F). Due to ample monsoon rains, India has only one subtype of this climate under the Koeppen köppen: System. cwa