You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Knurling is a method used to cut or roll a pattern onto a material such as plastic or metal. This process is typically performed on a lathe, though in some cases a hand knurling tool will be used instead. 
Most of the knurling pressure will be absorbed in the holder if it can completely straddle the part, thereby greatly reducing part deflection and wear on the main spindle and cross-slide.xIf only a single roll (BUMP) holder is available, a FEMALE DIAMOND knurling tool must be used. DIAMOND KNURLING When someone requests DIAMOND knurl or wa nts to roll a DIAMOND PATTERN on a part, there are several questions that need to be answered. It is very easy to confuse what is required on the part and on the knurling die itself.
Knurling Tool Operation. Metal knurling becomes easy using knurling tools. A knurling tool can generate three different types of shapes as straight lines, diamond patterns, and diagonal lines. To generate a knurl pattern on a workpiece, a metal piece is held in a straight position on a lathe machine. A convex knurl tool is an axial feed knurls tool and is used for reducing a double tracking problem. A conical knurls tool is used in decorative purposes for generating radical face knurling or conical surfaces to the workpiece. Other knurling tools are commonly available.
Depending on the knurling tool, these indentations can have either straight, angular or a diamond pattern. The diamond pattern is also called the diagonal pattern or the cross pattern. Angular pattern can be left hand or right hand. Knurling is not a metal cutting action but a metal forming action caused by force. Knurling is a special usually uncommon machining operation that can be produced on manual and CNC lathes. Its primary purpose is to develop depressions or indentations in the material surface by a rolling action of the knurling tool while it is moving along the horizontal machine axis.
Basic Knurling using my Grizzly 10 x 22 lathe. Using a scissor type knurling tool, a medium size diamond pattern is formed. step by step video guide is shown.  1 Brighter Days by Ray Kelley Band (Google Play • eMusic • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Howto & Style. 3  Standard YouTube License. 
The operation is performed for producing indentations on a part of a workpiece. Knurling allows hands or fingers to get a better grip on the knurled object than would be provided by the originally smooth metal surface. Occasionally, the knurled pattern is a series of straight ridges or a helix of straight ridges rather than the more-usual criss-cross pattern. Close-up shot of a diamond-pattern knurling on a cylindrical work piece. Knurling method: left/right with tips raised, spiral angle: 30°, pitch: 1 mm, profile angle: 90°. Knurling is a manufacturing process, typically conducted on a lathe, whereby a pattern of straight, angled or crossed lines is cut or rolled into the material
Knurling Tools Information. Show all Knurling Tools Manufacturers. Knurling tools are used to impart a regular surface pattern on the outside of a part for gripping or aesthetic purposes. Often, the imparted pattern is diamond shaped or parallel. A knurling tool is a manufacturing and repairing tool used on lathe machines. A knurling tool is used to give the metal a criss-cross pattern shape, which helps the human hands to hold the knurled tool more firmly. A convex knurl tool is an axial feed knurls tool and is used for reducing a double tracking problem. A conical knurls tool is used in decorative purposes for generating radical face knurling or conical surfaces to the workpiece. Other knurling tools are commonly available.