Adamaris' language of origin is English-American and it is predominantly used in the English language. From the combination of other given names, but now used as an independent name in its own right. Also an invented name. The origin and meaning of Adamaris is inherited by all variant forms. See also the related forms, Ada (African, English, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, and Czech) and Maris (Greek and English). Adamaris is an unusual baby name for girls. 
More info about the name Adamaris. Adamaris is most likely a modern combination of the names Ada and Maris. Ada originates in Germanic languages and means graceful and noble. It can be a diminutive of Adelaide or other names starting in Ada-or Ade-, for example Adeline.
Adamaris is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 4 syllables and is pronounced A-da-ma-ris. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1923 in baby name popularity for girls with 103 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
5 5. The meaning of Adamari is unknown. Its origin is  Origin unknown . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 2,345th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Adamari's origin and meaning are not known for certain. It may be a modern creation of the names Ada and Mari, or it may be a variation of the name Adamaris. Adamari Lopez lópez is A Puerto rican actress known for her roles in Various spanish soap. Operas the name likely became more popular because of her. fame
This doesn't mean that the name Adamaris is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. If you consider naming your baby Adamaris we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Nicknames for Adamaris: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Adamaris: | Edit. Adamaris is a form of the Latin adamō meaning I love truly, earnestly, deeply or greatly; covet, from ad 'near, at; towards, to' and amō 'love'. It may also be considered a combination of Ada and Maris, or a variant of Damaris with the prefix A-.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Adamaris for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Adamaris is a girl name. The name Adamaris is of American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Adamaris we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Adamaris and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Adamaris is fascinating, learn more about it. If you consider naming your baby Adamaris we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Adamari /adam-ari/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Adamari is to love. Adamari is a variant transcription of Adamaris (Latin): Spanish name from Latin adamo. Compare last name Adamski. Kreatif forms: Adamaai, Adamariai, Aiadamari. Adamari is a rare given name for women. Adamari is a rare last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of Adamari and affiliated names. Adamaris is the only popular variation form of Adamari (not ranked) 