European bottled waters generally contained higher mineral levels than North American tap water sources and North American bottled waters. For half of the tap water sources we examined, adults may fulfill between 8% and 16% of their Ca 2+ DRI and between 6% and 31% of their Mg 2+ DRI by drinking 2 liters per day. Our objectives were to 1) determine whether North American tap water contains clinically important levels of calcium (Ca 2+), magnesium (Mg 2+), and sodium (Na +) and 2) determine whether differences in mineral content of tap water and commercially available bottled waters are clinically important.
There are two types of natural mineral waters, traditional mineral water and sparkling mineral water. Sparkling mineral water, unlike sparkling water, does not contain added carbonation. The bubbles in sparkling mineral water occur only through natural processes. Additionally, mineral water is different than bottled water and tap water because it has not been treated in the same way as these other types of water. All water is initially mineral water until it is boiled, like distilled water, or sent through a softener or some sort of cleaning process
When you buy bottled mineral water at your local store, you may believe that you are drinking natural mineral water just because the label says so, but the truth is that some mineral water may simply have been distilled or tap water that has had minerals added to it at a later stage in a bottling or preparation plant. Sparkling mineral water, unlike sparkling water, does not contain added carbonation. The bubbles in sparkling mineral water occur only through natural processes. Additionally, mineral water is different than bottled water and tap water because it has not been treated in the same way as these other types of water.
Our mineral water products/supplements are produced from the purest minerals available on the world market, which have a purity rating of 99.999% pure. Our manufacturing process uses the purest water from a five-step purification process to contain the minerals, which produces our supreme quality mineral water products. 
In modern times, it is far more common for mineral water to be bottled at the source for distributed consumption. Travelling to the mineral water site for direct access to the water is now uncommon, and in many cases not possible (because of exclusive commercial ownership rights). There are more than 3,000 brands of mineral water commercially available worldwide. Mineral water may be effervescent (i.e., sparkling) due to contained gases.
A mineral water spring. Mineral water is water from a mineral spring that contains various minerals, such as salts and sulfur compounds. Mineral water may be effervescent (i.e., sparkling) due to contained gases. Traditionally, mineral waters were used or consumed at their spring sources, often referred to as taking the waters or taking the cure, at places such as spas, baths, or well
Minerals for Your Body. Drinking mineral water is beneficial to health and well-being. But it is not only the amount of water you drink that is important-what the water contains is even more essential. 
Bottled water is drinking water (e.g., well water, distilled water, mineral water, or spring water) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles. Bottled water may be carbonated or not. Sizes range from small single serving bottles to large carboys for water coolers. 1 Mineral water – water from a mineral spring that contains various minerals, such as salts and sulfur compounds. 2  It comes from a source tapped at one or more bore holes or spring, and originates from a geologically and physically protected underground water source.
Mineral water is one of the most underrated supplements out there. It isn’t just the delicious fizzy taste; it also contains, as you might guess, some minerals! One under-appreciated mineral is sulfate, and there is lots of sulfate in San Pellegrino compared to most other mineral waters. Compared to other mineral water brands, San Pellegrino has some of the highest levels of sulfate (SO4–) water known in the world today: 459 milligrams per liter.[v] It also has a decent amount of calcium, magnesium, and bicarbonate as well as other trace minerals.