A WSDL is an XML document that describes a web service. It actually stands for Web Services Description Language. SOAP is an XML-based protocol that lets you exchange info over a particular protocol (can be HTTP or SMTP, for example) between applications. WSDL is Web Service Description Language. A request ending in '.wsdl' to an endpoint will result in an XML message describing request and response that a use can expect. It descibes the contract between service & client. REST uses HTTP to send messages to services.
Abstract. WSDL is an XML format for describing network services as a set of endpoints operating on messages containing either document-oriented or procedure-oriented information. The operations and messages are described abstractly, and then bound to a concrete network protocol and message format to define an endpoin
Structure of a WSDL Document. Web Services Description Language (WSDL) is an XML grammar for describing network services as collections of communication endpoints capable of exchanging messages. The diagram below illustrates the elements that are present in a WSDL document, and indicates their relationships
Features of WSDL. WSDL is an XML-based protocol for information exchange in decentralized and distributed environments. WSDL definitions describe how to access a web service and what operations it will perform. WSDL is a language for describing how to interface with XML-based services. WSDL is an integral part of Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI), an XML-based worldwide business registry. WSDL is the language that UDDI uses. 
The Web Services Description Language (WSDL) is an XML-based language used to describe the services a business offers and to provide a way for individuals and other businesses to access those services electronically. WSDL is the cornerstone of the Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI) initiative spearheaded by Microsoft, IBM, and Ariba. UDDI is an XML-based registry for businesses worldwide, which enables businesses to list themselves and their services on the Internet.
WSDL is an XML-based language for describing a web service. It describes the messages, operations, and network transport information used by the service. These web services usually use SOAP, but may use other protocols. WSDL is Web Service Description Language. A request ending in '.wsdl' to an endpoint will result in an XML message describing request and response that a use can expect. It descibes the contract between service & client. REST uses HTTP to send messages to services.
Web Services Description Language (WSDL) is a format for describing a Web Services interface. It is a way to describe services and how they should be bound to specific network addresses. WSDL has three parts: 1  Definitions. 2  Operations. 3  Service bindings. 
WSDL or Web Services Description Language refers to a computer language that is used to describe a particular business or service an online business offers. Based on XML or Extensible Mark-up Language, WSDL basically sets the formatting and encoding rules in terms of web services descriptions and functionalities. 