Although daily brushing and flossing is recommended, heavy brushing and flossing can actually contribute to sore gums. Switch to a soft-bristled toothbrush to avoid damaging sore gums further. Keep brushing sessions under three minutes, taking care not to apply too much pressure to sore gums. Use herbal tea. Brew a cup of green tea to create a soothing mouth rinse. Swish the tea around in your mouth several times to lubricate your teeth and gums.
Prescription rinses containing chlorhexidine are often prescribed to treat sore gums and prevent further infection. Take care when using medicated rinses, as overuse can destroy your good oral bacteria. Make dietary changes to treat sore gums. Consider eating a soft diet until gum soreness subsides. Although foods like apples and carrots are healthy, chewing them with sore gums can lead to more irritation and swelling. Avoid spicy and sugary foods to help your gums heal faster. Keep brushing sessions under three minutes, taking care not to apply too much pressure to sore gums. Use herbal tea. Brew a cup of green tea to create a soothing mouth rinse. Swish the tea around in your mouth several times to lubricate your teeth and gums.
1 Bergamot oil is frequently used as a remedy for toothaches and sore gums. 2  Since it contains natural antiseptic properties the oil is often employed for the treatment of painful mouth sores too. 3  It can be used like a mouthwash or you could even apply it onto the sore gums. 1 It can be used like a mouthwash or you could even apply it onto the sore gums. 2  Clove oil is probably the most valuable natural remedy for dental health and is still used in almost all mouthwashes and toothpastes.
Apply small amounts of aloe vera gel to sore gums to lock in moisture. Try medicated mouth rinses. Swishing with these rinses helps eliminate bacteria and ease gum pain. Over-the-counter mouthwashes often contain domiphen bromide or cetylpridinium chloride, which eliminate bacteria and help prevent gingivitis. Keep brushing sessions under three minutes, taking care not to apply too much pressure to sore gums. Use herbal tea. Brew a cup of green tea to create a soothing mouth rinse. Swish the tea around in your mouth several times to lubricate your teeth and gums.
1 You can simply apply it gently onto the sore gums. 2  Oregano and oregano oil is another widely used ingredient in natural dental health care. 3  It has strong antiseptic properties and has a long history of usage for sore gums in Europe. 1 It can be used like a mouthwash or you could even apply it onto the sore gums. 2  Clove oil is probably the most valuable natural remedy for dental health and is still used in almost all mouthwashes and toothpastes.
1 You can also sip on some peppermint tea to treat your sore gums just as the ancient Chinese used to. 2  Boil around five grams of peppermint in a cup of water and add some salt to it. 3  Consume it as soon as it cools down. 1 It can be used like a mouthwash or you could even apply it onto the sore gums. 2  Clove oil is probably the most valuable natural remedy for dental health and is still used in almost all mouthwashes and toothpastes.
But it's important to pay attention to your gums, too. Gums play a major role not only in your dental health, but in your overall well-being. In many instances, swollen and bleeding gums are a sign of gum disease. However, there are a number of other things that could be causing your gum problems. Whatever the cause of sore, painful gums, there are steps you can take to minimize gum damage and discomfort
Swollen gums. Sore gums. Gum disease is no fun, and if left untreated, can cause serious dental and system-wide health problems. There are things you can try on your own to treat gum disease, but if symptoms escalate and you experience persistent bleeding gums, visit your dentist immediately. Mix it well and apply to your teeth. Let it sit for a few minutes and gargle with warm water to rinse it off. 1  Lemons offer a win-win solution for treating gum disease. 2  First, they're an anti-inflammatory, which makes them helpful in treating infected gums.
Your body’s natural reaction to plaque bacteria in the mouth is swollen gums, which causes them to become sore. Bacteria and gum infections like gum disease are the number one cause of sore gums. Tartar Buildup. When plaque sits on the teeth for around 24 hours, it calcifies into tartar. Sore gums are usually caused by bacteria. Treat them appropriately. Sore gums are typically caused by bacteria in the mouth, which cause gum inflammation, redness, swelling and soreness. Early on this is known as gingivitis, but it can develop into serious gum disease