A plantar wart also known as veruca, myrmecia and veruca plantaris is a wart caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) occurring on the sole (Latin planta) or toes of the foot. HPV infections in other locations are not plantar; see human papillomavirus. 
Warts are raised bumps on your skin caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Warts have plagued humans for thousands of years—they have been discovered on 3,000-year-old mummies and were mentioned by Shakespeare. There are more than 100 types of HPV, the virus that causes warts. Almost all types of HPV cause relatively harmless warts that appear on your hands or feet. However, there are a few strains of HPV that cause warts on, in, and around your genitals.
Viral warts are a common skin disease, most frequently affecting the hands and feet, caused by the human papilloma virus. While warts are not harmful and usually go away in time without any treatment, they can be unsightly and painful. Warts on the soles of the feet are also called 'plantar warts' or 'verrucas'. Warts are non-cancerous (benign) skin growths caused by viruses that develop on different parts of the body and can take on various forms. They are contagious and very common: Almost everyone has a wart at some point in their life. Warts can affect people at any age, but are most common among children and young people.
1 Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 4  Warts respond variably to a variety of treatment measures. 1 Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 2  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 3
This topic has information about warts on any part of the body except the genitals. For information about warts on the genitals, see the topic Genital Warts. A wart is a skin growth caused by some types of the virus called the human papillomavirus (HPV) . HPV infects the top layer of skin, usually entering the body in an area of broken skin. The virus causes the top layer of skin to grow rapidly, forming a wart. Most warts go away on their own within months or years. Warts are usually painless. But a wart that grows in a spot where you put pressure, such as on a finger or on the bottom of the foot, can be painful. A doctor usually can tell if a skin growth is a wart just by looking at it. Your doctor may take a sample of the wart and look at it under a microscope (a skin biopsy).
Warts occur when the virus comes in contact with your skin and causes an infection. Warts are more likely to develop on broken skin, such as picked hangnails or areas nicked by shaving, because the virus is able to enter the top layer of skin through scratches or cuts. By now, you probably know that the idea of catching warts from toads is nothing more than an old wives’ tale. But many people still have questions about these unsightly and sometimes painful growths that seem to crop up out of nowhere. Here are WebMD’s answers to 10 frequently asked questions about warts.
Wart facts. 1  Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 1 Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 2  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 3  Warts respond variably to a variety of treatment measures.
A wart is typically a small growth that appears on a person's hands or feet and looks like a solid blister or a small cauliflower. They may also appear on other parts of the body. Warts have a rough texture and are caused by viruses, particularly one of several kinds of HPV (human papillomavirus). The virus causes keratin, which is a hard protein on the top layer of the skin, to grow too fast. Warts are not the same as moles.
It typically occurs on humans' hands or feet but often in other locations. Warts are caused by a viral infection, specifically by one of the many types of human papillomavirus (HPV). There are as many as 10 varieties of warts, the most common considered to be mostly harmless. A range of types of wart have been identified, varying in shape and site affected, as well as the type of human papillomavirus involved. These include: 1  Common wart (Verruca vulgaris), a raised wart with roughened surface, most common on hands, but can grow anywhere on the body.
About Warts. Warts are non-cancerous (benign) skin growths caused by viruses that develop on different parts of the body and can take on various forms. They are contagious and very common: Almost everyone has a wart at some point in their life. Warts can affect people at any age, but are most common among children and young people.