Firewood Types. At Topcut we concentrate on middle of the road woods of Pine, Oregon and Larch that burn well on their own. These woods are readily available and suit our mode of operation. We source our logs from slow growing areas in order to get dense wood that burns slower and gives good heat.
Our pine is from mature trees grown in colder areas to get good wood density for longer burning. Pine gives good heat from a medium burn time and is low sparking, making it very good for open fires. Pine will readily absorb water and can grow mould if stored in damp conditions with an absence of sunlight.
Location: kernow. Posts: 763. Re: larch as firewood. larch is pretty good firewood, burns hot, for a reasonable amount of time, and doesnt leave too much ash..
Firstly, larch is just fantastic drying firewood. This means that they can create a firewood product with a moisture content of under 18%, in just a few short months. The implications of this is that your stove will produce a great deal more heat since less energy is required to be expended to dry off the moisture.
Oak: Must be well-seasoned. Very dense, so burns slow and hot and makes a lovely bed of glowing coals. Only real drawback is the amount of ash that it makes. Sycamore: Flames nicely but heat is not as strong as oak or ash. Very common firewood and good to mix with others. Maple: Burns well but not common.
Hardwoods to think about. Using wood for heating is also about valuing trees. Some of these types are good for burning, but please check where they come from. Orchards need protecting, not burning. Apple: A good, slow burner with a beautiful scent and medium heat.
Oak – very old dry seasoned oak is excellent, burning slowly with a good heat. Pine – burns well with a bright flame but crackles and spits. Poplar – avoid all poplar wood – it burns very slowly with little heat – which is why poplar is used to make matchsticks.
But seasoned softwood makes very good kindling and if you want a blazing fire it will give you one quickly. Seasoned hardwood is the best firewood. Sometimes, especially towards the end of winter,seasoned hardwood is unavailable.