PSA test results can be interpreted a number of different ways and there may be differences in cutoff values between different laboratories. 1  The value for total PSA below which the presence of prostate cancer is considered to be unlikely is 4.0 ng/ml (nanograms per milliliter of blood). If prostate cancer is diagnosed, the total PSA test may be used as a monitoring tool to help determine the effectiveness of treatment. It may also be ordered at regular intervals after treatment to detect recurrence of the cancer.
prostate specific antigen, PSA (noun). a protein manufactured exclusively by the prostate gland; PSA is produced for the ejaculate where it liquifies the semen and allows sperm cells to swim freely; elevated levels of PSA in blood serum are associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer. see more on Definitions.net ».
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a protein produced exclusively by prostate cells. There is a simple blood test to measure your PSA level and this may help to detect early prostate cancer. The chance of having prostate cancer goes up as your PSA level increases (see table below). 
Meaning: A protein manufactured exclusively by the prostate gland; PSA is produced for the ejaculate where it liquifies the semen and allows sperm cells to swim freely; elevated levels of PSA in blood serum are associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer. Classified under: The noun PSA has 1 sense: 1. a protein manufactured exclusively by the prostate gland; PSA is produced for the ejaculate where it liquifies the semen and allows sperm cells to swim freely; elevated levels of PSA in blood serum are associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer.
PSA: Prostate specific antigen. A test for PSA may be used to screen for cancer of the prostate and to monitor treatment of the disease. PSA is a protein produced by the prostate gland. Although most PSA is carried out of the body in semen, a very small amount escapes into the blood stream. The PSA test is done on blood.
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. In addition to prostate cancer, a number of benign (not cancerous) conditions can cause a man’s PSA level to rise. The most frequent benign prostate conditions that cause an elevation in PSA level are prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate) and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) (enlargement of the prostate).
A protein made specifically by the prostate gland -- Prostate Specific Antigen. It is measured by a blood test, and is used for screening for prostate cancer and checking for the results of treating that disease. James saw his doctor today, since he was upset that his PSA was over ten thousand (normal is up to four). 
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a protein made by the cells of the prostate gland. PSA is mostly found in semen, but it is also normal to find small amounts of PSA in the blood of healthy men. A PSA test measures the amount of PSA in the blood. 
1 Total PSA levels between 4.0 ng/ml and 10.0 ng/ml may indicate prostate cancer (about a 25% chance, according to the ACS), benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) , or inflammation of the prostate. 2  These conditions are more common in the elderly, as is a general increase in PSA levels. If prostate cancer is diagnosed, the total PSA test may be used as a monitoring tool to help determine the effectiveness of treatment. It may also be ordered at regular intervals after treatment to detect recurrence of the cancer.