The Association estimates that ovulation occurs anywhere between 11-21 days after the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), or 12-16 days from when you expect the next menstrual period to start. Order a Fertility Kit or Monitor. During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days.
Understanding your menstrual cycle. Your menstrual cycle begins on the first day of your period and continues up to the first day of your next period. You are most fertile at the time of ovulation, (when an egg is released from your ovaries) which usually occurs 12-14 days before your next period starts. 
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
The average age of the first period is generally later in the developing world and earlier in developed world. The typical length of time between the first day of one period and the first day of the next is 21 to 45 days in young women and 21 to 31 days in adults (an average of 28 days). Menstruation stops occurring after menopause which usually occurs between 45 and 55 years of age. Bleeding usually lasts around 2 to 7 days. 
You should get your period once every month. Your menstrual cycle should be about 28 days. This means that there should be about 28 days from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. 28 days is an average number, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days is normal. Your period will usually last between 3 and 7 days. The amount of blood flow you have will probably be different each day.
The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period. During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days.
The menstrual cycle is from Day 1 of bleeding to Day 1 of the next time of bleeding. Although the average cycle is 28 days, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. Girls usually start having menstrual periods between the ages of 11 and 14. Women usually start to have fewer periods between ages 39 and 51. Women in their 40s and teens may have cycles that are longer or change a lot
The first day of menstrual bleeding is the date used for the last menstrual period (LMP). The typical length of time between the first day of one period and the first day of the next is 21 to 45 days in young women and 21 to 31 days in adults (an average of 28 days).
If you have a regular 28-day cycle you will start your period every four weeks. If you have a 22-day cycle you'll have a period about every three weeks. The average period lasts for three to four days, but it can be shorter or longer, ranging from between one and seven days. Most women ovulate between 12 and 14 days before their period. This is an average, so it could be a few days sooner or later than this. If you have a 28-day cycle, you will probably ovulate in the middle of your cycle. If you have a 22-day cycle, you could ovulate just a few days after your period