By Emily Price. NEW ORLEANS — Soon your child may go to school with a robot. Meet VGo, a robotic telepresence being used in schools, healthcare, and business for videoconferencing from afar. Running on Verizon's 4G LTE network, VGo is already being used in a variety of situations -– including schools. Vgo can last for a full school day without needing to be recharged, and when it comes time to plug in the robot can be docked remotely by pressing a dock button on the interface. Outside of the classroom, VGo can also be used to allow doctors to remotely travel across the country to check on a patient, or visit a lab.
VGo is an all-in-one solution that includes everything you need to establish your physical presence in a distant location. It can easily be carried up or down stairs, or you can have one or more VGo’s on each floor where a remote person needs to go. When you buy a VGo – everything you need is included – this is what you get: 1  The VGo: this goes in the location where remote people need to visit. 2  Battery: lasts more than 6 hours between charges. 3  You can get an extended life battery that lasts more than 12 hours
From anywhere. VGo replicates a person in a distant location. See, hear, talk and move around as if you were there. For healthcare staff and doctors, students, remote workers, and visitors in healthcare, education, and business. Download the White Paper and learn why VGo is the ideal solution for home and hospital-bound students. http://www.vgocom.com/educators. VGo is awarded Innovative Technology of the Year in the Robotics category at the 18th annual Technology Leadership Gala.
Solis Oil works to locate specific VGO Vacuum Gas Oil to meet the refinery’s specifications, with the end goal of providing a consistent supply stream, adjusting to the customer’s changing needs, and providing real time customer service. Solis Oil’s management of Vacuum Gas Oil includes terminal purchases, pipeline shipping purchases, barge allotments, rail car and general transportation for a variety of fuel oils. What is VGO Vacuum Gas Oil. Vacuum Gas Oil or VGO is part of the petroleum hydrocarbon heavy distillate family. Vacuum Gas Oil also known as cat feed, which is feedstock for fluid catalytic crackers used to make gasoline, gasoil and many other by-products
VGo is uniquely integrated with a camera, microphones, and video display-all on a light-weight, motorized, stylish, remote-controlled platform. VGo is optimized at 4 feet tall so it works equally well when interacting with people who are sitting or standing. An accessory raises the height to 5 feet for applications where people are always standing or where you need to have a higher view. It can easily be carried up or down stairs, or you can have one or more VGo’s on each floor where a remote person needs to go. When you buy a VGo – everything you need is included – this is what you get: 1  The VGo: this goes in the location where remote people need to visit. 2  Battery: lasts more than 6 hours between charges. 3  You can get an extended life battery that lasts more than 12 hours
Go anywhere. VGo replicates a person in a distant location. See, hear, talk and move around as if you were there. For healthcare staff and doctors, students, remote workers, and visitors in healthcare, education, and business. Download the White Paper and learn why VGo is the ideal solution for home and hospital-bound students. http://www.vgocom.com/educators. VGo is awarded Innovative Technology of the Year in the Robotics category at the 18th annual Technology Leadership Gala.
FCC, Unicracking, and VGO Unionfining processes are the keys to cost-effective upgrading of Vacuum Gas Oil. These treating and conversion technologies, used alone or more typically in combination, can produce a wide range of diesel/gasoline ratios while meeting stringent product specifications. The feeds that can be processed in the VGO Unionfining process include straight-run vacuum gas oil, heavy coker gas oil and visbreaker gas oil. This process can also be used to produce low sulfur fuel oil.