Weight, however, is important. A coxswain must weigh 120 lbs (or close) or less. If you have coxed in high school, you are at an advantage. If you have not coxed, we will teach you if you are of the right weight and, especially, demeanor. Good coxswains are confident and responsible.
Weight Requirements. All Regatta participants who must meet a weight requirement are required to weigh-in wearing normal rowing attire. Only one weigh-in will be required for the weekend. Coxswain weigh in: Friday 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 5:30 p.m. Coxswains who do not meet the minimum weight required shall carry sufficient additional deadweight to satisfy the minimum. Such weight shall be placed in the boat as close to the torso of the coxswain as possible; it is strictly forbidden to distribute the additional weight throughout the boat.
If an adult crew is a Women's crew, the minimum weight of the cox is 50 kg (110.23 lbs); if the crew is Mixed (usually at least half the crew is women) or Open (the ARA only allows the odd exceptional event to be restricted to Men only) then the minimum weight of the cox is 55 kg. The minimum weights for a cox depend on the gender and age of the crew they are coxing. If the crew is racing at Junior 15 or younger (J15), then the minimum weight of the cox is 45 kg (99.21 lbs).
USRowing regulations require that a coxswain in an event for men’s crews shall weigh at least 120 lbs and a coxswain in an event for women’s crews shall weigh at least 110 lbs. It is permissible in certain regattas to have lighter coxswains, but crews are required to sandbag their shells to make up the difference. The minimum weights for a cox depend on the gender and age of the crew they are coxing. If the crew is racing at Junior 15 or younger (J15), then the minimum weight of the cox is 45 kg (99.21 lbs).
The FISA (International Rowing Federation) minimum weight for men's crew coxswains is 55 kilograms (121.25 pounds) in racing uniform. For Women's and Mixed Crews, the weight minimum is 50 kilograms (110.23 pounds) in racing uniform. The minimum weights for a cox depend on the gender and age of the crew they are coxing. If the crew is racing at Junior 15 or younger (J15), then the minimum weight of the cox is 45 kg (99.21 lbs).
In the United States, junior women's crew coxswains are required to weigh 110 lb. If not, they must carry sandbags to bring them up to that weight. Junior coxswains for men's crews must weigh a minimum of 120 lb. The minimum weights for a cox depend on the gender and age of the crew they are coxing. If the crew is racing at Junior 15 or younger (J15), then the minimum weight of the cox is 45 kg (99.21 lbs).
An essential non-rowing position on the crew team, the coxswain sits at the back of the boat and guides the rowers through the race. Working with verbal commands, it is the coxswain's job to motivate the rowers, steer the boat and execute the team's race plan. Height and Weight. Coxswain's tend to be slight in size, which helps to minimize the drag on the boat. Some men's college teams will even have a female coxswain to help keep the body weight on the boat down. US Rowing, the governing body of rowing in the United States, does require female coxswain's to weigh at least 110 pounds for all rowing events. Men must weigh at least 125 for college rowing events and a minimal of 120 pounds for all other rowing events
In collegiate men’s crew, the minimum weight for a coxswain is 125 pounds, regardless of whether the coxswain is male or female (this is, it appears, the main reason why so many coxswains are female—it is simply far easier to find a girl around 125 pounds a guy). Some coxswains have no trouble making weight; some even have to work to reach the weight minimum. A full Nalgene of water weighs two pounds, one coxswain tells me, and that is precisely what she would drink to bring her 123-pound frame up to the minimum.