Top Definition. stereotype. A stereotype is used to catergorize a group of people. People don't understand that type of person, so they put them into classifications, thinking that everyone who is that needs to be like that, or anyone who acts like their classifications is one. stereotype. A term used to define all people of a certain belief into a mostly negative category that may only reflect a selected few of the racial demographics.
stereotype noun [C]. C1 a set ​idea that ​people have about what someone or something is like, ​especially an ​idea that is ​wrong: ​racial/​sexual stereotypes He doesn't ​conform to/​fit/​fill the ​national stereotype of a ​Frenchman. The ​characters in the ​book are just stereotypes. More examples
Full Definition of STEREOTYPE. 1. : a plate cast from a printing surface. 2. : something conforming to a fixed or general pattern; especially: a standardized mental picture that is held in common by members of a group and that represents an oversimplified opinion, prejudiced attitude, or uncritical judgment. — ste·reo·typ·i·cal \ˌster-ē-ə-ˈti-pi-kəl\ also ste·reo·typ·ic \-pik\ adjective
Stereotype content refers to the attributes that people think characterize a group. Studies of stereotype content examine what people think of others, rather than the reasons and mechanisms involved in stereotyping. The term stereotype derives from the Greek words στερεός (stereos), firm, solid and τύπος (typos), impression, hence solid impression. The term comes from the printing trade and was first adopted in 1798 by Firmin Didot to describe a printing plate that duplicated any typography.
In social psychology, a stereotype is a thought that can be adopted about specific types of individuals or certain ways of doing things. These thoughts or beliefs may or may not accurately reflect reality. However, this is only a fundamental psychological definition of a stereotype. Within psychology and spanning across other disciplines, there are different conceptualizations and theories of stereotyping that provide their own expanded definition. The term stereotype derives from the Greek words στερεός (stereos), firm, solid and τύπος (typos), impression, hence solid impression. The term comes from the printing trade and was first adopted in 1798 by Firmin Didot to describe a printing plate that duplicated any typography.
2. stereotype. A term used to define all people of a certain belief into a mostly negative category that may only reflect a selected few of the racial demographics. All people of all nationalities have been victims of being stereotyped, even those whom have made most of the stereotypes of other people
Dumb blonde is an unkind stereotype. Dumb blonde is an unkind stereotype. The definition of a stereotype is a well-known idea or image of a person or idea that is held by a number of people. An example of stereotype is that blonde-haired women are dumb. Stereotype is defined as to attach an idea or image to a person who belong to a particular group. The definition of a stereotype is a well-known idea or image of a person or idea that is held by a number of people. An example of stereotype is that blonde-haired women are dumb