A rule established by authority; a permanent rule of action; a ORDINANCE 859 ORDINES law or statute. In a more limited sense, the term Is used to designate the enactments of the legislative body of a municipal corporation. Citizens’ Gas Co. v. Ehvood, 114 Ind. 332, If. N. E. 024; State v. Swindell, 140 Ind. 
2.Local law such as a zoning ordinance enacted by the governing body of a city or municipality which applies only within its boundaries. To have full force and effect of law, an ordinance must not be in conflict with any higher law such as state or national law or constitutional provisions. Definitions (2). 1. Decree or law promulgated by a state or national government without the consent of the legislature, such as for raising revenue through new taxes or mobilization of resources during an emergency or threat.
A law, statute, or regulation enacted by a Municipal Corporation. An ordinance is a law passed by a municipal government. A municipality, such as a city, town, village, or borough, is a political subdivision of a state within which a municipal corporation has been established to provide local government to a population in a defined area. Ordinances constitute the subject matter of municipal law. 
ORDINANCE. A law, a statute, a decree. An ordinance is a law enacted by a municipal body, such as a city council or county commission (sometimes called county council or county board of supervisors). Ordinances govern matters not already covered by state or federal laws such as zoning, safety and building regulations
Full Definition of ORDINANCE. 1. a: an authoritative decree or direction: order b: a law set forth by a governmental authority; specifically: a municipal regulation. 2. : something ordained or decreed by fate or a deity. 3. : a prescribed usage, practice, or ceremony. See ordinance defined for English-language learners. 
ordinance. 1. Decree or law promulgated by a state or national government without the consent of the legislature, such as for raising revenue through new taxes or mobilization of resources during an emergency or threat. Definitions (2)
1 By-law, a rule established by an organization to regulate itself. 2  Local ordinance, a law made by a municipality or other local authority. 3  Act of Parliament, in some jurisdictions, such as England when the parliament operated without regal sanction, and a number of British colonies. 4  Royal ordinance, see Decree. 1 Local ordinance, a law made by a municipality or other local authority. 2
noun. The definition of an ordinance is a rule or law enacted by local government. A law about parking enacted by local government is an example of an ordinance
A local ordinance is a law usually found in a code of laws for a political division smaller than a state or nation, i.e., a local government such as a municipality, county, parish, prefecture, etc. 