More On The Spoils System. Giving work to political supporters who help elect a person to office is called the spoils system. This name is taken from the well-known saying, To the victor belongs the spoils (that is, the rewards of victory). President Thomas Jefferson had used the spoils system on a small scale. Several states were using it. 
On a national scale, the spoils system was inaugurated with the development of two political parties, the Federalists and the Democratic Republicans, and was used by the earliest Presidents, particularly Thomas Jefferson. The spoils system has, however, continued for many federal offices and is even more prevalent in state and local governments. See A. A. Hoogenboom, Outlawing the Spoils (1968); W. d. Foulk, Fighting the Spoilsmen (1974). The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed. Copyright © 2012, Columbia University Press.
While Jackson did not start the spoils system, he did encourage its growth and it became a central feature of the Second Party System, as well as the Third Party System, until it ended in the 1890s. 
Moderation of the spoils system at the federal level came with the passage of the Pendleton Act in 1883, which created a bipartisan Civil Service Commission to evaluate job candidates on a nonpartisan merit basis. The spoils system survived much longer in many states, counties and municipalities, such as the Tammany Hall ring, which survived well into the 1930s when New York City reformed its own civil service.
The term was derived from the phrase to the victor belong the spoils by New York Senator William L. Marcy, referring to the victory of the Jackson Democrats in the election of 1828, with the term spoils meaning goods or benefits taken from the loser in a competition, election or military victory. The spoils system survived much longer in many states, counties and municipalities, such as the Tammany Hall ring, which survived well into the 1930s when New York City reformed its own civil service.
By Robert McNamara. The Spoils System was the name given to the practice of hiring and firing federal workers when presidential administrations changed in the 19th century. The practice began during the administration of President Andrew Jackson, who took office in 1829
In memoriam--our civil service as it was, a political cartoon by Thomas Nast showing statue of Andrew Jackson on a pig, which is over fraud, bribery, and spoils, eating plunder. Featured in Harper's Weekly on 28 April 1877, p. 325. The spoils system survived much longer in many states, counties and municipalities, such as the Tammany Hall ring, which survived well into the 1930s when New York City reformed its own civil service.
The Spoils System was criticized for decades, but what led to reforming it was a tragedy in the summer of 1881, the shooting of President James Garfield by a disappointed and deranged office-seeker. Garfield died on September 19, 1881, 11 weeks after being shot by Charles Guiteau at a Washington, D.C. train station. The Spoils System was the name given to the practice of hiring and firing federal workers when presidential administrations changed in the 19th century. The practice began during the administration of President Andrew Jackson, who took office in 1829
Lesson Summary. Let's review. Andrew Jackson introduced the spoils system after winning the 1828 presidential election. In the spoils system, the president appoints civil servants to government jobs specifically because they are loyal to him and to his political party. Education, experience, and merit take a back seat. 