About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes.
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F).
1 It's near high impossible to get an accurate temperature read on steaks thinner and 1 1/2 inches thick. 2  Use a timer instead. 3  For 1-inch thick steaks cook them 4 minutes each side over high heat for medium rare; 3 minutes for quite rare; 5 minutes for medium.
A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out.
1 For thinner steaks, use a timer. 2  It's near high impossible to get an accurate temperature read on steaks thinner and 1 1/2 inches thick. 3  Use a timer instead. 4  For 1-inch thick steaks cook them 4 minutes each side over high heat for medium rare; 3 minutes for quite rare; 5 minutes for medium.
1 Instead, lift the steak with cooking tongs. 2  When cooking the steak, first grill it for three minutes on one side and then, after lowering the temperature to medium, three to four on the other. 3  After that, cook each side from three to four minutes. 4  The steak should be medium rare.
1 When cooking the steak, first grill it for three minutes on one side and then, after lowering the temperature to medium, three to four on the other. 2  After that, cook each side from three to four minutes. 3  The steak should be medium rare.
1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape.