Chrome-Moly. Chromium-Molybdenum Alloy Steel or Chrome-Moly, CrMo is an alloy steel intended for high temperature and high pressure services. Chrome-Moly is used in the power generation industry and the petro-chemical industry because of its tensile strength, corrosion resistance and high-temperature strength.
Without this minimum amount of chromium, iron-base alloys or steels corrode in moist air, forming the familiar red rust. While chromium content determines whether or not a steel is stainless, molybdenum improves the corrosion resistance of all stainless steels. It has a particularly strong positive effect on pitting and crevice corrosion resistance in chloride-containing solutions.
The generic term “Stainless Steel” covers a large group of iron-base alloys that contain chromium. The term “stainless” implies a resistance to staining or rusting in air. Stainless steels contain at least 10.5% chromium, which promotes formation of a thin, chromium-enriched surface oxide.
For many years (about 80) it has been known that adding chromium and nickel (the nickel is not essential but the chromium is) to iron makes a steel that does not rust (it is stainless). The chromium in the steel forms a very thin layer of oxide that prevents the iron from rusting.
Stainless steel remains stainless, or does not rust, because of the interaction between its alloying elements and the environment. Stainless steel contains iron, chromium, manganese, silicon, carbon and, in many cases, significant amounts of nickel and molybdenum.
Chrome molybdenum steel is a high strength steel alloy often used in tools and automotive and aviation applications. It is called such because the alloying components of the steel include the elements chromium and molybdenum.
It shouldn't, but it really depends on the amount of chrome and molybdenum in the metal. It also depends on how much moisture it is exposed to. I have a knife made out of chrome-moly and it does oxidise, but it is not destructive to the metal, it is athetic only.(It turns black.).
Chrome won't rust. That's why it's plated over steel. But any tiny crack or flaw in the chrome plating can allow rust to penetrate the skin of chrome and attack the me … tal beneath. As the chrome barrier is compromised, the rust continues to spread.