It takes about 10-14 days for a newly hatched maggot to complete it's life cycle and turn into a fly. Within a day, larvae (maggots) hatch from the eggs; they live and feed on (usually dead and decaying) organic material, such … as garbage or feces. They are pale-whitish, 3-9 mm long, thinner at the mouth end, and have no legs. They live at least one week.
The maggots typically migrate to a high and dry location to begin the pupa stage. The maggots make a reddish-brown shell around themselves. They stay in that protective environment, the pupa, for three to six days. They are developing into flies. The Emergence of Maggots. Flies begin as eggs, which look like grains of rice. The eggs hatch between 8 and 20 hours after an adult fly lays them. What emerge from the eggs are larvae, also called maggots.
The metamorphosis of the fly is an interesting one; the fly undergoes many changes before it ends up being a fly, which is the last stage of its development. Therefore, flies do not turn into maggots, which is the second stage of a fly's development. The Emergence of Maggots. Flies begin as eggs, which look like grains of rice. The eggs hatch between 8 and 20 hours after an adult fly lays them. What emerge from the eggs are larvae, also called maggots.
m It takes about 10-14 days for a newly hatched maggot to complete it's life cycle and turn into a fly. 
Soon flies will lay their eggs in the water and maggots will thrive on the stale piece of meat. How Long Do Maggots Live. Since maggots are intermediary stages in the life cycle of flies, their lifespan is only around 8 - 10 days, after which they molt into the pupal stage and turn into flies.
More about maggots. The larva, or maggot, is the main feeding stage of the fly. On hatching, first-instar larvae are roughly 2 mm long, growing to about 5 mm before shedding their skin. The second instar larvae grow to around 10 mm before they shed their skins to become third-instar larvae. 
Answers. Best Answer: A lot of it depends on the temperature and the food supply available. Typically, a fly life cycle goes like this: 8-20 hours after the eggs are laid, they hatch into maggots. Four to ten days later, the maggots turn into pupae. Three to six days after that, the pupae start to emerge as adult flies, which will live for about 15-20 days. So from maggot to pupa to fly, maybe seven to sixteen days, depending on the conditions. Source(s): 
Maggots on porcupine carcass. A maggot is the larva of a fly (order Diptera); it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies. Contents.
The fly emerges from the pupa, and its development is complete. Adult flies live between 15 and 30 days. Some female flies can begin laying eggs within a few hours after emerging from the pupa, and others need to be at least 2 days old. Female adult flies lay eggs throughout their lifespan. The Emergence of Maggots. Flies begin as eggs, which look like grains of rice. The eggs hatch between 8 and 20 hours after an adult fly lays them. What emerge from the eggs are larvae, also called maggots.
Will flies appear in my wound after maggot therapy? No, the immature larvae are removed after just 2 or 3 days and discarded. If not discarded, it would take 2 or 3 weeks for them to turn into flies. If any maggot escapes without re-capture, then it may be possible for it to hide for a couple weeks, pupate, mature, and emerge as an adult fly several weeks later. 