Introduction. Born Vladimir Ilich Ulanov in 1870, Lenin was the founder of the Russian Communist Party, leader of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, and the architect, builder, and first head of the Soviet Union.Lenin spent the years leading up to the 1917 revolution in exile, within Russia and abroad. He was born Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov on April 10, 1870, in Simbirsk, which was later renamed Ulyanovsk in his honor. He later adopted the last name Lenin in 1901 while doing underground party work. His family was well-educated, and Lenin, the third of six children, was close to his parents and siblings.
Vladimir Lenin was a great Communist revolutionary and the first leader of the Soviet Union. He died in 1924. Vladimir Illych Lenin. He lead the Bolsheviks to power through the civil war in 1917. He made peace with the Central Powers and began to reform his country, Russia, now called the USSR (although it has since been changed again).
Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov, better known as Lenin (info • help) (22 April 1870 – 21 January 1924) was a Russian lawyer, revolutionary, and the leader of the Bolshevik party and of the October Revolution. He was the first leader of the USSR and the government that took over Russia in 1917. Lenin was born on 22 April 1870 in the town of Simbirsk in the Russian Empire. His mother was a schoolteacher and his father was an education official (technically, his father's job made him and his family noblemen). Lenin began studying politics in high school.
Vladimir Lenin. (1870-1924). Regarded as one of the greatest revolutionary leaders in history, Vladimir Lenin was the founder of the Russian Communist Party, the leader of the Bolshevik Revolution, and the first head of the Soviet State. Profile. Vladimir Lenin was a Russian revolutionary leader and theorist, who presided over the first government of Soviet Russia and then that of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR).
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin (Russian: владимир ильич ленин), born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov (Russian: влади́мир ильи́ч ульянов) (22 April 1870 (10 April (O.S.)) – 21 January 1924) was a Russian revolutionary, the leader of the Bolshevik communist party, the first Premier of the Soviet Union and the main theorist of Leninism. 
Synopsis. Vladimir Lenin founded the Russian Communist Party, led the Bolshevik Revolution and was the architect of the Soviet state. He was the posthumous source of Leninism, the doctrine codified and conjoined with Marx's works by Lenin’s successors to form Marxism-Leninism, which became the Communist worldview. He was born Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov on April 22, 1870, in Simbirsk, Russia, which was later renamed Ulyanovsk in his honor. In 1901, he adopted the last name Lenin while doing underground party work. His family was well-educated, and Lenin, the third of six children, was close to his parents and siblings
Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov, better known by the name Lenin (April 22, 1870 – January 24, 1924), was a Marxist leader who served as the key architect of the October Revolution, and the first leader of the Soviet Russia. 
Context. Lenin was born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov on April 22, 1870, to an upper-middle class family in the Russian town of Simbirsk, on the Volga River. His father was an inspector of schools, and died in 1886. The next year his older brother, Alexander, was executed for taking part in a plot to assassinate Tsar Alexander III. Table of Contents. Lenin was born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov on April 22, 1870, to an upper-middle class family in the Russian town of Simbirsk, on the Volga River.