Glycolipids are glycosyl derivatives of lipids such as acylglycerols, ceramides and prenols. They are collectively part of a larger family of substances known as glycoconjugates. The major types of glycoconjugates are glycoproteins, glycopeptides, peptidoglycans, proteoglycans, glycolipids and lipopolysaccharides. Thus, the general name for the oligosaccharide residue of all glycosphingolipids containing ten monosaccharide residues is glycodecaosyl; it might be a glycodecaosylceramide or a 3-glycodecaosyl-1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol. Recommendations have been made for the nomenclature of oligosaccharides [ 3, 4 ].
glycolipid. [glī′kōlip′id]. Etymology: Gk, glykys, sweet, lipos, fat. a compound that consists of a lipid and a carbohydrate, usually galactose, found primarily in the tissue of the nervous system, especially the myelin sheath and the ganglion cells.
Examples: Glycolipid molecules exist from the most basic molecule, cerebroside which contains 1 fatty acid unit, a sphingosine backbone, and 1 sugar unit (glucose or galactose), to the most complex molecules containing branched chains of multiple sugar residues (up to seven residues in gangliosides). Cholesterol Cholesterol is a steroid and they are built from 4 fused hydrocarbon rings. The hydrocarbon tail is connected to the steroid at one end, and a hydroxyl group is connected to the other end. Cholesterol is a steroid important in cell membranes and acts as a precursor to some sex hormones.
Glycolipids [edit]. Glycolipids are sugar(glyco-)containing lipids. They are derived from sphingosine instead of a form of phospholipids that derives from glycerol (phospholipids exist in both derivatives from glycerol and sphingomyelin platform). Cholesterol Cholesterol is a steroid and they are built from 4 fused hydrocarbon rings. The hydrocarbon tail is connected to the steroid at one end, and a hydroxyl group is connected to the other end. Cholesterol is a steroid important in cell membranes and acts as a precursor to some sex hormones.
Glycolipids are lipids with a carbohydrate attached. Their role is to provide energy and also serve as markers for cellular recognition. The carbohydrates are found on the outer surface of all eukaryotic cell membranes. 
Phospholipids are found in all cell membranes. Cholesterol Cholesterol is a steroid and they are built from 4 fused hydrocarbon rings. The hydrocarbon tail is connected to the steroid at one end, and a hydroxyl group is connected to the other end. Cholesterol is a steroid important in cell membranes and acts as a precursor to some sex hormones.
Galactose is a monosaccharide sugar of the hexose class that is a constituent of lactose and many polysaccharides. Galactose is found in milk, sugar beets, gums, and mucilages. It is also synthesized in humans, and is a constituent of glycolipids and glycoproteins. Galactose is finding an ever-increasing use as a cell metabolism modulator in the optimization of protein therapeutics bioproduction. Pfanstiehl Brand High Purity Low Endotoxin (HPLE) Galactose was developed specifically for biopharmaceutical use, to the highest quality and purity standards.
It is also synthesized in humans, and is a constituent of glycolipids and glycoproteins. Galactose is finding an ever-increasing use as a cell metabolism modulator in the optimization of protein therapeutics bioproduction. Galactose is a monosaccharide sugar of the hexose class that is a constituent of lactose and many polysaccharides. Galactose is found in milk, sugar beets, gums, and mucilages.
A sphingolipid with an R group consisting of a hydrogen atom only is a ceramide. Other common R groups include phosphocholine, yielding a sphingomyelin, and various sugar monomers or dimers, yielding cerebrosides and globosides, respectively. Cerebrosides and globosides are collectively known as glycosphingolipids. 1 Ceramides, as a general class, are N-acylated sphingoid bases lacking additional head groups. 2  Dihydroceramide is produced by N-acylation of dihydrosphingosine. 3  Dihydroceramide is found in both yeast and mammalian systems.