Question and answer. Water is considered a polar molecule because _____. A)it has partial positive and negative charges at each end B)it expands when it freezes C)it dissolves solutes. The answer is A)it has partial positive and negative charges at each end. [ Its half side has a positive charge and the other half has a negative charge because the electrons spend more of their time with the oxygen and not with hydrogen and due to this they get more negative charge and due to this the water is a polar. molecule. ]. Expert answered| kristymisty |Points 11|.
The water is a polar molecule because it is not equally charged. [ Its half side has a positive charge and the other half has a negative charge because the electrons spend more of their time with the oxygen and not with hydrogen and due to this they get more negative charge and due to this the water is a polar. molecule. ]. Expert answered| kristymisty |Points 11|.
The water is a polar molecule because it is not equally charged. [ Its half side has a positive charge and the other half has a negative charge because the electrons spend more of their time with the oxygen and not with hydrogen and due to this they get more negative charge and due to this the water is a polar molecule.
Water is a polar molecule, meaning that there is an uneven distribution of electron density. Water has a partial negative charge near the oxygen atom due the unshared pairs of electrons, and partial positive charges near the hydrogen atoms. Deborah · 5 months ago. Thumbs up. 
1 The unequal sharing of electrons gives the water molecule a slight negative charge near its oxygen atom and a slight positive charge near its hydrogen atoms. 2  When a neutral molecule has a positive area at one end and a negative area at the other, it is a polar molecule. This makes the oxygen end of the molecule slightly negative. Since the electrons are not near the hydrogen end as much, that end is slightly positive. When a covalently bonded molecule has more electrons in one area than another, it is called
A water molecule, because of its shape, is a polar molecule. That is, it has one side that is positively charged and one side that is negatively charged. The molecule is made up of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. The bonds between the atoms are called covalent bonds, because the atoms share electrons. 
Answers. Best Answer: c. it has an unequal distribution of electrons. To determine polarity, one can also look at symmetry. Water seems to be symmetrical when you draw out the structure, but because the oxygen atom has two pairs of unpaired electrons, the structure is considered polar and asymmetrical.
As the water has slightly charged poles, it is considered polar. On a note, it would be non-polar if the oxygen didn't have two pairs of lone electrons. This forces the molecule to be unsymmetrical, by pushing the bonding pairs of electrons away, and therefore the hydrogens. Water seems to be symmetrical when you draw out the structure, but because the oxygen atom has two pairs of unpaired electrons, the structure is considered polar and asymmetrical.
You've already chosen the best response. Water is considered to be a polar molecule because there are different charges between the ends of the molecule. This means that one end of a water molecule has a positive charge while the other end has a negative charge. Opposing charges make a polar molecule. Not only does the electronegitivity difference between the hydrogen and oxygen exist, Its bent.