To show Maldives Rufiyaa and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Maldives Rufiyaa is the currency in Maldives (MV, MDV). The symbol for MVR can be written Rf. The Maldives Rufiyaa is divided into 100 lari. The exchange rate for the Maldives Rufiyaa was last updated on October 8, 2015 from Bloomberg. Maldives Rufiyaa (MVR) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. This currency convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 13, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button.
1.Our promise for RF Online Gold sending is 8 mins-24 hours.2.After you pay, please contact with our online support, we will arrange a face to face trade with you in game.3.If you any questions, you can see the FAQ first. Buy RF Money now ! Here is the best place for the RF Online players to buy your RF Online Gold & RF Money. We are the professional website for RF Online Gold & RF Money selling.
The rufiyaa (Dhivehi: ދިވެހި ރުފިޔާ) is the currency of the Maldives. Determining the exchange rate for the US dollar and the issuance of the currency is controlled by the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA). The most commonly used symbols for the rufiyaa are MRF and Rf. The ISO 4217 code for Maldivian rufiyaa is MVR. The rufiyaa is subdivided into 100 laari. The name rufiyaa is derived from the Hindi word rupiyaa (रुपया), ultimately from Sanskrit rupya (रूप्य; wrought silver). In 1951, 50 and 100 rufiyaa notes were introduced. The current series of banknotes was issued in 1983 in denominations of 2, 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 rufiyaa. 500 rufiyaa notes were added in 1990, with the 2 rufiyaa replaced by a coin in 1995.
The Maldivian Rufiyaa is the currency of Maldives (Maldive Islands). Our currency rankings show that the most popular Maldives (Maldive Islands) Rufiyaa exchange rate is the MVR to INR rate. The currency code for Rufiyaa is MVR. Below, you'll find Maldivian Rufiyaa rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take MVR rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.
A currency symbol is a graphic symbol used as a shorthand for a currency 's name, especially in reference to amounts of money. The European Commission considers the global recognition of the euro sign € part of its success. In 2009, India launched a public competition to replace the ₨ ligature it shared with neighboring countries. It finalized its new currency symbol, ₹ (₹) on 15 July 2010.
The United States Dollar is also known as the American Dollar, and the US Dollar. The symbol for MVR can be written Rf. The symbol for USD can be written $. The Maldives Rufiyaa is divided into 100 lari. The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Maldives Rufiyaa was last updated on October 20, 2015 from Bloomberg. The exchange rate for the United States Dollar was last updated on October 20, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund.
OFF Again`Atlantica Online Gold - 15.03.04. 1.Our promise for RF Online Gold sending is 8 mins-24 hours. 2.After you pay, please contact with our online support, we will arrange a face to face trade with you in game. 3.If you any questions, you can see the FAQ first. Buy RF Money now ! Here is the best place for the RF Online players to buy your RF Online Gold & RF Money. We are the professional website for RF Online Gold & RF Money selling.
1.Our promise for RF Online Gold,items,accounts sending is in 8 mins-24 hours. 2.Fill in your character name(in game name) and your contact way when you place an order. 3.After you pay, please contact with our online support, we will arrange a face to face trade with you or mail to you in game. Buy RF Money now ! Here is the best place for the RF Online players to buy your RF Online Gold & RF Money. We are the professional website for RF Online Gold & RF Money selling.