In American the meaning of the name Frank is: Free. Latin Meaning: The name Frank is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Frank is: meaning from France, or free one. French Meaning: The name Frank is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Frank is: A Latin Francis, meaning Frenchman or free one. Famous bearer: American singer Frank Sinatra. English Meaning: The name Frank is an English baby name. 
FRANK is a national drug education service jointly established by the Department of Health and Home Office of the British government in 2003. It is intended to reduce the use of both legal and illegal drugs by educating teenagers and adolescents about the potential effects of drugs and alcohol. FRANK provides the following services for people who seek information and/or advice about drugs: 1  A website. 2  A confidential telephone number, available 24 hours a day.
Definition of FRANK. transitive verb. 1. a: to mark (a piece of mail) with an official signature or sign indicating the right of the sender to free mailing b: to mail free c: to affix to (mail) a stamp or a marking indicating the payment of postage. 
adjective. verb. The definition of frank is a person who is honest and direct. An example of frank is someone telling a potential employee during the interview that they will get the job. Frank is defined as to send mail without paying for postag
Frank. 1. a member of a confederation of Germanic peoples living on the right bank of the lower Rhine in the 3rd century a.d. and by the 6th century ruling most of what is now France, the Low Countries, and W Germany. Frank implies directness, sometimes to the point of bluntness: And yes, to be frank, the singing was atrocious (Eileen Pollack). Candid and forthright often suggest refusal to evade difficult or unpleasant issues: Save, save, oh save me from the candid friend! (George Canning).
frank′ness n. Synonyms: frank 1, candid, forthright, outspoken, straightforward, open. These adjectives mean revealing or disposed to reveal one's thoughts freely and honestly. Frank implies directness, sometimes to the point of bluntness: And yes, to be frank, the singing was atrocious (Eileen Pollack). Candid and forthright often suggest refusal to evade difficult or unpleasant issues: Save, save, oh save me from the candid friend! (George Canning).
Patient discussion about frank. Q. Last week my younger son Frank, was punished in school because of kicking and throwing things at students... This is Donald, Last week my younger son Frank, was punished in school because of kicking and throwing things at teacher and on a few students. I don’t know why he behaved like that.
Jon convinces Frank to ignore Clara and to do the gig. Clara stabs Jon in the leg and is later arrested by the police. Back at the hotel room Drummer Nana (Carla Azar) and Baraque accuse Jon of getting rid of Clara and quit the band. Jon and Frank become a duo. Frank falls over and when Jon rushes over to him to check on him, Frank tells Jon that his music is bad, suffering a nervous breakdown. Frank passes out on stage with Jon trying to revive him. The next day, Jon attempts to reason with Frank and tries to remove his mask.
Frank. Frank was the girl group from Channel 4's comedy drama series Totally Frank. Frank consisted of lead singer Lauren Blake, guitarist Bryony Afferson, keyboard player Helena Dowling and drummer Hayley Angel Wardle. In the show Totally Frank, the girls played fictional characters Tasha, Charlie, Flo and Neve. 
Frank is a 2014 comedy-drama film directed by Lenny Abrahamson and starring Domhnall Gleeson, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Scoot McNairy and Michael Fassbender as the title character. The film premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival. Frank falls over and when Jon rushes over to him to check on him, Frank tells Jon that his music is bad, suffering a nervous breakdown. Frank passes out on stage with Jon trying to revive him. The next day, Jon attempts to reason with Frank and tries to remove his mask.