The portion of the nephron that leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule; it has a hairpin bend in the renal medulla and the main function of this structure is to reabsorb water and ions from the urine.   . The second stage in the function of the nephrons. Occurs between proximal tubule and peritubular capillary. The nephron selects needed water and nutrients to go back into the capillary and bloodstream.
The renal corpuscle of each kidney nephron has two parts-they are the Glomerulus, which is a network of small blood vessels called capillaries, and the Bowman's Capsule (also known as the Glomerular Capsule), which is the double-walled epithelial cup within which the glomerulus is contained. (2) Renal Tubule. The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) , which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above.
Kidney Health Care-David Mangusan Jr, PTRP. The nephron is the tiny filtering structure in your kidneys. Each of your kidneys contain more than a million tiny filtering nephrons that help clean your blood. Function of the Nephrons. Your nephrons help: Each nephron is composed of two main structures: the glomerulus and renal (kidney) tubule. The Glomerulus. The glomerulus is a tiny blood vessel or capillary, which looks like a ball of yarn. Actual filtering of your blood occurs in the glomerulus. Each of your glomeruli acts like a sieve that helps keep normal proteins and cells in your bloodstream and allows wastes, excess fluid and other substances to pass.
Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation. A nephron eliminates wastes from the body, regulates blood volume and blood pressure, controls levels of electrolytes and metabolites, and regulates blood pH.
In the kidney, a renal corpuscle is the initial blood-filtering component of a nephron. It consists of two structures: a glomerulus and a Bowman's capsule. 
There are two parts of a kidney nephron: the renal corpuscle, and the renal tubule. (1) Renal Corpuscle. The renal corpuscle is the part of the kidney nephron in which blood plasma is filtered. (2) Renal Tubule. The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) , which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above.
The Renal Corpuscle. Together, the glomerulus and its surrounding Bowman's capsule are called a renal corpuscle. This structure is located in the renal cortex. You should also be aware that the nephron is composed of two main parts: the renal tubule and the renal corpuscle. for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Together, the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule make up the renal corpuscle of the nephron. These parts of the nephron filter blood and are vital to our body's survival. In this lesson, you'll explore the major corpuscular structures and their functions.
The ureter is the structure through which urine is conveyed from the kidney to the urinary bladder. To learn more about the structure of the kidney, see our simple (labelled) diagram of a kidney nephron. Ureter: The ureter is the structure through which urine is conveyed from the kidney to the urinary bladder. To learn more about the structure of the kidney, see our simple (labelled) diagram of a kidney nephron. Terms of Use. Today's Study Tip: Don't waste time worrying about other people's progress.
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. A nephron eliminates wastes from the body, regulates blood volume and blood pressure, controls levels of electrolytes and metabolites, and regulates blood pH.
The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. A nephron eliminates wastes from the body, regulates blood volume and blood pressure, controls levels of electrolytes and metabolites, and regulates blood pH.