That’s not quite right. President Bill Clinton was impeached on two charges: perjury and obstruction of justice. Mr. Clinton lied under oath about his affair with Monica Lewinsky, but that was not the grounds for impeachment. To say that Republicans hated Mr. Clinton so much they impeached him for his philandering is like saying that Democrats hated Richard Nixon so much they impeached him for a two-bit burglary.
~ Bill Clinton Impeachment Trial in the U.S. Senate 1999 ~. A trial in the U.S. Senate to convict and remove President Clinton from office ended in an acquittal of the criminal charges against him. The Senate unable to reach the 2/3 majority vote to convict and Clinton finished out the remainder of his term. The Facts and Timeline of events for the second U.S. President in American History to be impeached. Second only to the impeachment of Andrew Johnson the 17th U.S. President, who succeeded to the Presidency when President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated in 1865. Bill Clinton was officially impeached on December 19, 1998 per Article II, Section 4 of the United States Constitution ﻿. Two Articles of impeachment were drawn against the President :
Upon the passage of H. Res. 611, Clinton was impeached on December 19, 1998, by the House of Representatives on grounds of perjury to a grand jury (by a 228–206 vote) and obstruction of justice (by a 221–212 vote). A two-thirds vote (67 senators) was required to remove Clinton from office. Fifty senators voted to remove Clinton on the obstruction of justice charge and 45 voted to remove him on the perjury charge; no Democrat voted guilty on either charge.
Bill Clinton was impeached because he was caught with a maid that cleaned the White House with him having a sexual intercourse with him and he was impeached on December 19,199 … 8 by the House of Representatives and on Febuary 12, 1999 by the Senate. President Clinton was impeached in 1998 on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice in the investigation into his relationship with Paula Jones, who had filed a civil sui … t against the President for sexual harassment. He was acquitted at trial in the Senate in February 1999
Two other impeachment articles, a second perjury charge and a charge of abuse of power, failed in the House, and he was acquitted of them by the Senate on February 12, 1999. Independent Counsel Ken Starr turned over documentation to the House Judiciary Committee. A two-thirds vote (67 senators) was required to remove Clinton from office. Fifty senators voted to remove Clinton on the obstruction of justice charge and 45 voted to remove him on the perjury charge; no Democrat voted guilty on either charge.
U.S. WASHINGTON, Dec. 19— William Jefferson Clinton was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice today by a divided House of Representatives, which recommended virtually along party lines that the Senate remove the nation's 42d President from office. 
President Bill Clinton was impeached in the US House of Representatives on December 19, 1998. He was tried in the Senate in January and February 1999, and acquitted of the imp … eachment charges on February 12, 1999. The House of Representatives and Senate are located in the United States' capital, Washington, DC. President Clinton was impeached in 1998 on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice in the investigation into his relationship with Paula Jones, who had filed a civil sui … t against the President for sexual harassment. He was acquitted at trial in the Senate in February 1999
Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States, was impeached by the House of Representatives on two charges, one of perjury and one of obstruction of justice, on December 19, 1998. A two-thirds vote (67 senators) was required to remove Clinton from office. Fifty senators voted to remove Clinton on the obstruction of justice charge and 45 voted to remove him on the perjury charge; no Democrat voted guilty on either charge.