Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia). Anemia can have many different causes, including vitamin deficiencies, bleeding and chronic disease
The main use for the fecal occult blood test (FOBT) or the fecal immunochemical test (FIT) is as a screen for early colon cancer. Most cases of colon cancer begin with the development of benign intestinal polyps. Benign polyps are relatively common in people over the age of 50. 
Blood in the stool can occur when a polyp or tumor pulls away slightly from the intestinal wall as stool moves past it. Although frank red blood may streak stool, you can't be sure if it is caused by something worrisome, or a benign condition such as hemorrhoids. Still, blood is not always visible to the naked eye, so doctors use a test that detects hemoglobin, a protein that is found inside a red blood cell.
A fecal occult blood test (FOBT) checks for hidden (occult) blood in the stool (feces). The use of tests for occult blood in disorders of the mouth, nasal passages, esophagus, lungs and stomach, while analogous to fecal testing, is often discouraged, due to technical considerations including poorly characterized test performance characteristics such as sensitivity, specificity, and analytical interference.
Fecal occult blood (FOB) refers to blood in the feces that is not visibly apparent (unlike other types of blood in stool such as melena or hematochezia). The use of tests for occult blood in disorders of the mouth, nasal passages, esophagus, lungs and stomach, while analogous to fecal testing, is often discouraged, due to technical considerations including poorly characterized test performance characteristics such as sensitivity, specificity, and analytical interference.
First, it is more sensitive for blood. This means that given the same amount of blood in the stool, the immunologic fecal occult blood test will more frequently be abnormal. In other words, it will more frequently detect cancers and precancerous polyps. Second, it is more specific for blood. A chemical fecal occult blood test is inexpensive and easy, but it has several disadvantages. 1  Substances in fruits and vegetables can mimic heme and cause chemical fecal occult blood tests to be falsely positive, that is, falsely abnormal.
Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example). The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include:
A hemoglobin test may be used to: 1  Screen for, diagnose, and measure the severity of anemia (low RBCs, hemoglobin and hematocrit) or polycythemia (high RBCs, hemoglobin and hematocrit). The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include:
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. 
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: