As a result, by 1919 Germany was no longer the second most economically advanced nation in the world. The immediate economic consequences of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles were a significant concern and added to Germany’s humiliation. Under the terms of the treaty Germany had to pay huge sums in reparations. In 1921, this amount was set at £6.6 billion; a sum that Germany could not pay. 
The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies. A detailed evaluation of the impact of the Treaty of Versailles on the German economy. Our excellent online testking-toefl sample test-certification training programs will lead you to success in the testinside-itil training-practice test exam.
Posted on. (Answer #1). The biggest negative effect of the Treaty of Versailles was on Germany. The treaty helped lead to German problems in at least two ways. Economically, it saddled Germany with a huge debt in the form of war reparations. This forced Germany to borrow money from the United States in order to pay. 
One of the chief contributing causes of the Second World War was the Treaty of Versailles (June, 1919), that officially ended the First World War. Its main terms were surrender of ALL German colonies in Africa and the Far East, which would be mandated to Britain, France, Belgium, South Africa, Japan and Australia. 
The Impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. A detailed evaluation of the impact of the Treaty of Versailles on the German economy. Our excellent online testking-toefl sample test-certification training programs will lead you to success in the testinside-itil training-practice test exam.
Mostly, if it isn't all, Germans detested the fact that their government signed the Treaty at all... 6,600 billion was going to be payed as reparations, to the Triple Entente. France, Britain and other countries were given colonies of Germany, land was constantly being taken from them. The Rhineland was abouts to be demilitarised (by Germany)... and these are just a few of the terms of the Treaty... The reparations, alone, was depressing the country. The treaty of Versailles was made up of 10 harsh terms, including number 5 - Germany had to pay $6.6 billion in reparations to the countries that had won the war. Germany didn … 't have this money, so they printed more, therefore creating hyperinflation, so an egg would cost 80 million marks! The effect was pretty bad.
France wanted Germany to pay (hence the Treaty), but Britain was worried by how harsh the terms of the Treaty was.. The depression of the Treaty, combined with that of when the World Market had crashed, caused the country to be vulnerable. It's people were desperate for change.... The treaty of Versailles was made up of 10 harsh terms, including number 5 - Germany had to pay $6.6 billion in reparations to the countries that had won the war. Germany didn … 't have this money, so they printed more, therefore creating hyperinflation, so an egg would cost 80 million marks! The effect was pretty bad.
Despite Germany’s claim that the terms of the treaty were far too harsh, most historians today agree that the terms, in fact were “relatively lenient.” 30 Henig alludes to this earlier in her book, when she concludes that “the Treaty of Versailles was not excessively harsh on Germany. France feared that not levying harsh enough penalties upon Germany would only make her stronger and she would eventually rise up against France in revenge. So while the British felt that the Treaty of Versailles was too harsh on Germany, France felt as though it were not harsh enough.
Play media. The Signing of the Peace Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. The treaty was made in 1919, but the German government did not participate in it. 