The 'dark' side of the moon. The moon orbits the Earth once every 27.322 days. It also takes approximately 27 days for the moon to rotate once on its axis. As a result, the moon does not seem to be spinning but appears to observers from Earth to be keeping almost perfectly still. Scientists call this sychronous rotation. The moon travels around the Earth in an elliptical orbit, a slightly stretched-out circle. When the moon is closest to Earth, its rotation is slower than its journey through space, allowing observers to see an additional 8 degrees on the eastern side.
The orbit and the rotation aren't perfectly matched, however. The moon travels around the Earth in an elliptical orbit, a slightly stretched-out circle. When the moon is closest to Earth, its rotation is slower than its journey through space, allowing observers to see an additional 8 degrees on the eastern side.
The moon moves around the Sun at the same time it moves around the Earth. Perhaps the best answer is to say the the moon interacts with both the Earth and the Sun at the same time. This is what we call “physics”. I don’t think you could say that the moon just orbits the Earth. 
First, take a look at the orbital velocity of the Moon. The Moon’s velocity around the Moon is a mere 1 km/second. But the Moon’s velocity around the Sun is 30 km/sec; same as the Earth. If they didn’t point towards Earth, the Moon would drift away from the Earth and orbit the Sun directly instead. In other words, because the Moon actually orbits around the Earth; it’s orbiting
The Moon orbits Earth in the prograde direction and completes one revolution in approximately 27.322 days (a sidereal month). Earth and the Moon orbit about their barycentre (common center of mass), which lies about 4600 km from Earth's center (about three quarters of the radius of Earth). On average, the Moon is at a distance of about 385000 km from Earth's center, which corresponds to about 60 Earth radii. The plane of the lunar orbit is inclined to the ecliptic by about 5.1°, whereas the Moon's spin axis is inclined by only 1.5°.
RSS Feeds. The Earth's Moon is the fifth largest in the whole solar system, and is bigger than the planet Pluto. The Moon has a nearly circular orbit (e=0.05) which is tilted about 5 to the plane of the Earth's orbit. Its average distance from the Earth is 384,400 km. In other words, it takes the Moon the same amount of time to rotate around once as it does for the Moon to go around the Earth once. Therefore, Earth-bound observers can never see the 'far-side' of the Moon. Tidal forces cause many of the moons of our solar system to have this type of orbit.
How long does it take the Moon to orbit the Earth? The Moon takes about 27 days (27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds) to go all the way around the Earth and return to its starting position. The Moon's orbit around the Earth is a slightly squashed circle called an ellipse.
The Moon's Orbit and Rotation. It takes the Moon 27.322 days to go around the Earth once. Because of this motion, the Moon appears to move about 13 against the stars each day, or about one-half degree per hour. In other words, it takes the Moon the same amount of time to rotate around once as it does for the Moon to go around the Earth once. Therefore, Earth-bound observers can never see the 'far-side' of the Moon. Tidal forces cause many of the moons of our solar system to have this type of orbit.
4.1 Introduction. The Moon revolves around Earth in an elliptical orbit with a mean eccentricity of 0.0549. Thus, the Moon's center-to-center distance from Earth varies with mean values of 363,396 km at perigee to 405,504 km at apogee. 4.4 Draconic Month. The plane of the Moon's orbit is inclined at a mean angle of 5.145° to the plane of Earth's orbit around the Sun. The intersection of these planes defines two points or nodes on the celestial sphere.
With a mean orbital velocity of 1.023 km/s, the Moon moves relative to the stars each hour by an amount roughly equal to its angular diameter, or by about 0.5°. The Moon differs from most satellites of other planets in that its orbit is close to the plane of the ecliptic, and not to Earth's equatorial plane. The plane of the lunar orbit is inclined to the ecliptic by about 5.1°, whereas the Moon's spin axis is inclined by only 1.5°.