A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. The neuromuscular junction is where a neuron activates a muscle to contract. Upon the arrival of an action potential at the presynaptic neuron terminal, voltage-dependent calcium channels open and Ca 2+ ions flow from the extracellular fluid into the presynaptic neuron's cytosol.
Interactive Physiology The Neuromuscular Junction Graphics are used with permission of:adam.com (http://www.adam.com/)Benjamin Cummings Publishing Co (http://www.awl.com/bc) Page 1. Introduction • Motor neurons stimulate muscle cells to contract at the neuromuscular junction. Page 2. Goals • To examine the structure of a neuromuscular junction.• To understand the sequence of events occurring at the neuromuscular junction following a stimulus. Page 3. Role of Motor Neuron • Axons of motor neurons innervate skeletal muscle cells at the neuromuscular junction.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used by the motor neurons to stimulate action potentials in the muscle cells. When an action potential reaches the end of a neuron, the acetylcholine is released and a new action potential begins in the muscle tissue. Nerves connecting to muscles are called motor neurons. 
• Calcium ions trigger a contraction of the muscle cell. Summary. • Each skeletal muscle cell is individually stimulated by a motor neuron. • The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which leads to depolarization of the motor end plate. Overview of Neuromuscular Junction Activity. • The muscle cell, including the T Tubules are polarized. Stimulation of the motor end plate on a muscle cell by acetylcholine triggers depolarization resulting in contraction of the sarcomeres.
Summary. • Each skeletal muscle cell is individually stimulated by a motor neuron. • The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which leads to depolarization of the motor end plate. Page 1. Introduction. • Motor neurons stimulate muscle cells to contract at the neuromuscular junction. Page 2. Goals. • To examine the structure of a neuromuscular junction. • To understand the sequence of events occurring at the neuromuscular junction following a stimulus. Page 3.
Excitation-Contraction Coupling: the Neuromuscular Junction. Each muscle cell is stimulated by a motor neuron axon. The point where the axon terminus contacts the sarcolemma is at a synapse called the neuromuscular junction. The terminus of the axon at the sarcolemma is called the motor end plate. 
End plate potentials (EPPs) are the depolarizations of skeletal muscle fibers caused by neurotransmitters binding to the postsynaptic membrane in the neuromuscular junction. They are called end plates because the postsynaptic terminals of muscle fibers have a large, saucer-like appearance. When an action potential reaches the axon terminal of a motor neuron, vesicles carrying neurotransmitters (mostly acetylcholine) are exocytosed and the contents are released into the neuromuscular junction. These neurotransmitters bind to receptors on the postsynaptic membrane and lead to its depolarization.
• The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a. muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which. leads to depolarization of the motor end plate. Overview of Neuromuscular Junction Activity• The muscle cell, including the T Tubules are polarized. Stimulation of the motor end plate on amuscle cell by acetylcholine triggers depolarization resulting in contraction of the sarcomeres.Page 6.