Although raw spinach doesn’t qualify as a high-fiber food, cooked spinach can be an excellent source of fiber, depending on the amount you consume. A standard 2-cup serving of raw spinach has 14 calories, 1.7 grams of protein, very little fat and 2.2 grams of carbohydrates, of which 1.4 grams are dietary fiber. Relative to its caloric content, spinach contains a significant amount of fiber. Kale and Swiss chard are lower in fiber than spinach, providing 2.6 grams and 3.7 grams of fiber per cup of boiled greens, respectively. Turnip greens and collards, on the other hand, are slightly better sources of fiber.
Raw Vegetables. Raw spinach is about one-fourth soluble fiber. Each 3.5-ounce portion of raw spinach has 3.2 grams of total fiber; nearly 0.8 gram of that amount is soluble. The soft inner part of cucumbers has a somewhat high soluble fiber content, but you should leave the peel on to boost insoluble fiber intake. Fruits often have a higher amount of soluble fiber than vegetables. A small 3.5-ounce apple has approximately 2.2 grams of total fiber and nearly 0.7 gram, or 30 percent, comes from soluble fiber. Haas avocados are loaded wi
As with spinach, all types of raw leafy greens are lower in fiber than their cooked counterparts. Kale and Swiss chard are lower in fiber than spinach, providing 2.6 grams and 3.7 grams of fiber per cup of boiled greens, respectively. Turnip greens and collards, on the other hand, are slightly better sources of fiber.
One medium artichoke contains approximately 10.3 grams of fiber. 4. Spinach. Spinach is a good source of iron and has a good amount of fiber as well. There are approximately 8 grams of fiber in 10 ounces of frozen spinach. Indulging in raw spinach salads or steamed fresh spinach is also advantageous. 5
Spinach. Spinach has many nutritional advantages and high fiber is just one. You can find approximately 8 grams of fiber in ten ounces of frozen spinach. Even if you eat raw spinach salads or steamed fresh spinach, the fiber value is great and either option is tasty. Whether you choose fresh, frozen or canned peas, they are a great vegetable option to increase your fiber intake. Just one cup of peas offers 8.8 grams of fiber
Spinach offers twice as much fiber as other greens. So when you want a salad that's going to fill you up, go for the spinach variety. Spinach is a nutrition superstar, even a fairly good source of iron. It's loaded with vitamins and minerals, some of which are hard to find in other foods. When you cook spinach, it cooks down tremendously. Because cooking concentrates nutrients and fiber, a serving of cooked spinach gives you even more bang for your buck than a serving of raw.Nutritional Values of Raw Spinach Serving Size: 1 cup.
Fiber in Spinach. The amount of dietary fiber in baby spinach doesn’t seem to differ from that of more mature leaves. The more tender texture of baby spinach suggests that the fiber may be a little more soluble, but no research has confirmed or denied this postulate.
One cup of cooked spinach contains 4 grams of fiber. While that may not sound like much, the nutritional density of spinach is displayed when you consider that 1 cup of spinach contains only 41 calories. In comparison, a 1 cup serving of corn also contains 4 grams of fiber, but also packs a hefty 177 calories. When thinking of ways to incorporate spinach in your diet and increase fiber intake, don't always think of the mushy stuff Popeye was so fond of. Spinach makes a surprisingly nice addition to a smoothie. It can also be used in an omelet or in a salad with cranberries and walnuts.
Fiber in Spinach. A standard 2-cup serving of raw spinach has 14 calories, 1.7 grams of protein, very little fat and 2.2 grams of carbohydrates, of which 1.4 grams are dietary fiber. Relative to its caloric content, spinach contains a significant amount of fiber. Kale and Swiss chard are lower in fiber than spinach, providing 2.6 grams and 3.7 grams of fiber per cup of boiled greens, respectively. Turnip greens and collards, on the other hand, are slightly better sources of fiber.
The list below gives the total Fiber content in the 10 items from the general description 'spinach'.These 10 types of spinach range from Spinach, frozen, chopped or leaf, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt through to Spinach souffle and are ranked by the content or amount per 100g. Using the list below for the 10 different spinach nutrition entries in our database, the highest amount of Fiber is found in Spinach, frozen, chopped or leaf, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt which contains 3.7 g of Fiber per 100g.