Warm a large, nonstick skillet over medium-high to high heat. 1  You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet. 1
Grill the chops. Add the lamb chops to the grill and grill over high heat with the lid open. If you get any flareups, move the chop to a cooler part of the grill until the flames die down. After about 4 minutes, turn the chops over and cook for another 4 to 5 minutes. As always, this varies based on the temperature outside, the temp and thickness of the meat, and the grill temp. If you use a instant read thermometer, 155° F is medium.
Cook the chops for 7 to 8 minutes, turning once. Place the lamb chops in the skillet and flip them over after 3 1/2 to 4 minutes using tongs. Continue cooking for an additional 3 1/2 to 4 minutes, or until done. 1 You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet.
1 Sprinkle chops with salt; place on plate. 2  Cover and refrigerate at least 30 minutes and up to 4 hours. 3  Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in heavy large skillet over medium heat. 4  Add 9 chops to skillet; cook to desired doneness, about 3 minutes per side for medium-rare. 5  Transfer to platter; cover with foil. 1 Cover and refrigerate at least 30 minutes and up to 4 hours. 2  Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in heavy large skillet over medium heat. 3  Add 9 chops to skillet; cook to desired doneness, about 3 minutes per side for medium-rare. 4  Transfer to platter; cover with foil. 5  Repeat with remaining oil and chops.
In mixture of heated butter and oil in a large heavy frying pan, cook lamb chops over moderately high heat until well browned on both sides (3 to 4 minutes per side). Salt to taste. Remove chops to a warm platter. 3. Pour off and discard fat in pan. 
1 Purchase lamb chops that are at least 1-inch to 1-1/2 inches thick, with bright red color and abundant marbling. 2  Bring chops to room temperature — removing them from refrigerator at least 2 hours prior to cooking. 3  This will prevent over-charring or taking too long to cook. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 1 This will help chops cook from all angles and sear in juices. 2  Cook lamb chops with lid down for 3–4 minutes. 3  Flip chops over (at 4 minutes) using grilling tongs. 4  Do not use a fork as it will let out all of the juices you are trying to keep in.
1 You can cook the onions further by quickly transferring them to a small skillet preheated over medium-high heat. 2  Melt 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of butter in the skillet and saute sauté the onions for 2 to 4 additional, minutes or until. 3  Caramelized serve over the.  chops 1 You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet.
I like to cook lamb chops quickly, in a frying pan, on high heat. Only seven minutes later, dinner’s ready! There are many different cuts of lamb available. These rib chops are have their own little “handle”, which makes them perfect for picking up and eating with your fingers. Start by sprinkling some salt and pepper on both sides of each lamb chop. Preheat your non-stick pan on high heat. To tell if the pan is hot enough, add about 1 Tablespoon of water to the pan. The water should sizzle and evaporate immediately.
Directions. In a food processor fitted with a metal blade add the garlic, rosemary, thyme, cayenne, and salt. Pulse until combined. Pour in olive oil and pulse into a paste. Rub the paste on both sides of the lamb chops and let them marinate for at least 1 hour in the refrigerator. Remove from refrigerator and allow the chops to come to room temperature; it will take about 20 minutes. Heat a grill pan over high heat until almost smoking, add the chops and sear for about 2 minutes. Flip the chops over and cook for another 3 minutes for medium-rare and 3 1/2 minutes for medium. Recipe courtesy of Giada De Laurentiis. 