21forme. I only played Foxwoods once, for a 2 day trip, and am now getting 7 day/wk room offers. I have no idea what they rated my average bet, but I wound up with about 500 comp points for the trip, which paid off almost all of the room and food costs. Quote: 21forme said : I only played Foxwoods once, for a 2 day trip, and am now getting 7 day/wk room offers. I have no idea what they rated my average bet, but I wound up with about 500 comp points for the trip, which paid off almost all of the room and food costs.
If you'd like to stay here for free, join the casino's rewards club and use the card as you play in the casino to build up comps. Step 1. Sign up for the Foxwoods Rewards players club card at the players club desk or online at Foxwoods.com. In addition to earning comps as you play, you will also receive room offers in the mail or online if you provide your email and mailing addresses. Step 2. Use your card when you gamble. Insert the card into slot and video poker machines to earn points, and give the card to the dealers when playing table games. A floor supervisor will put your information into the computer and track your play. 
With a Foxwoods Rewards Card you become one of our most valued guests. The Foxwoods Rewards Card is the free player rewards card for Foxwoods Resort Casino. Whether you play Slots or Tables, your play will be recognized and rewarded every time you use your card. Redeem your points for merchandise from one of our many retail stores, superior dining, rejuvenating spa treatments, overnight accommodations, theater tickets and so much more.
MOMENTUM DOLLARS. This is the Momentum name for Player’s Club points. Just like points, each Momentum Dollar is equal to $1 in cash you can spend on dining, shopping, hotel stays, spa services, entertainment and more! You earn them every time you play with your Momentum card. STATUS POINTS.
With the Foxwoods Rewards Card, no other casino in the world offers more places to earn and redeem rewards within one immense, multi-property resort complex. Absolutely! You can use Foxwoods Rewards Points accrued after June 1, 2006 from slot play only to obtain cash back at a 2:1 ratio. Some limits do apply, so please see a representative at a Foxwoods Rewards location for complete details.
The Foxwoods Rewards Card is the player rewards card for Foxwoods Resort Casino. With a Rewards Card, you become one of our most valued players and guests. Whether you play Slots, Tables, Poker, Keno, Bingo or place a bet in our Race Book, your play will be recognized and rewarded every time you use your card. Absolutely! You can use Foxwoods Rewards Points accrued after June 1, 2006 from slot play only to obtain cash back at a 2:1 ratio. Some limits do apply, so please see a representative at a Foxwoods Rewards location for complete details.
Tip #1- As soon as you arrive at the casino, go to the Players Club and get yourself a Foxwoods Rewards Points Club Card. By using this card at the slot machines, you can earn points for play, meals and more. 
Report Abuse. Most casino's calculate comp dollars by your average bet and how long you play. Winning or losing usually have nothing to do with the comp dollars you make. So if you have a comp rate of 1 for 5, that means every time you wager $5 you get one comp dollar. 
Earn Foxwoods Rewards when you play slots, tables, poker, Keno, bingo or place a bet at Race Book. Rewards Points may be redeemed for food, beverages, retail merchandise, theater tickets, bingo admissions, hotel accommodations, our cash back program Foxwoods Rewards Exchange and other approved privileges and rewards. Whether you play Slots or Tables, your play will be recognized and rewarded every time you use your card. Redeem your points for merchandise from one of our many retail stores, superior dining, rejuvenating spa treatments, overnight accommodations, theater tickets and so much more.