Journeyman Electrician Job Description and Profile. The job of a Journeyman Electrician in any sort of commercial or residential settings entails repairing, maintaining, designing and installing different kinds of electrical systems. 
Apprentice Electrician. Every Journeyman electrician begins his or her career as an apprentice. An apprentice electrician is an entry level position for someone with the desire to become an electrician. Apprentices receive on-the-job training as well as formal education throughout the course of their apprenticeship. What Is A Journeyman Electrician. A Journeyman electrician is a licensed electrician who works in the residential, commercial, or industrial side of the electrical trade.
Electricians are licensed by states, and regulations and designations vary, but all states follow the National Electrical Code, and all recognize three basic categories: apprentice, journeyman and master. A journeyman is licensed to work by himself, without direct supervision, installing wiring, outlets and fixtures. A journeyman also does service work, troubleshooting when a breaker fails or a light stops working.
Many apprenticeship programs provide a salary to the apprentice during training. A Journeyman electrician is a classification of licensing granted to those who have met the experience requirements for on the job training (usually 4080 to 6120 hours) and classroom hours (about 144 hours). An electrician is a tradesperson specializing in electrical wiring of buildings, stationary machines and related equipment. Electricians may be employed in the installation of new electrical components or the maintenance and repair of existing electrical infrastructure.
A Journeyman Electrician's License is required for electrical work performed without the supervision of a Master Electrician or another Journeyman. A Journeyman may supervise up to three other unlicensed electrical workers. 
Industrial Electrician. An industrial electrician is a licensed Journeyman electrician or a Master electrician who specializes in the knowledge and skills related to the installation and maintenance of electrical equipment found in industrial environments. What Is A Journeyman Electrician. A Journeyman electrician is a licensed electrician who works in the residential, commercial, or industrial side of the electrical trade.
The average salary for journeyman electrician jobs is $38,000. Average journeyman electrician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term journeyman electrician anywhere in the job listing.
Many states require journeyman electricians to be certified or licensed. Although requirements vary by state, this process typically entails accumulating 8,000 hours or 4-5 years of appropriate work experience. A journeyman electrician is a mid-level electrician who has not yet advanced to master electrician status but is much more experienced than apprentices and trainees. More information on this career can be found in the table below:
Research what it takes to become a journeyman electrician. Learn about the educational requirements, certification and licensing, job outlook and salary information to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Electrician degrees can also be found in these popular choices. A journeyman electrician is a mid-level electrician who has not yet advanced to master electrician status but is much more experienced than apprentices and trainees. More information on this career can be found in the table below: