Nerve vs. Neuron. Although nerve and neuron may sound similar to most people, they are, in fact, two different components of the body. However, they are closely related, as nerves are actually projections of neurons. There are three main types of nerves: Afferent nerves, efferent nerves and mixed nerves. There are two types of neurons ‘“ the sensory neurons and the motor neurons. Sensory neurons send signals to the brain and the spinal cord, while the motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord. Therefore, information is transmitted through neurons by electrochemical signaling.
The other cells, neurons, act as the communicators of the nervous system. Neurons receive information, integrate it, and pass it along. They communicate with one another, with cells in the sensory organs, and with muscles and glands. Each neuron has the same structure: 1  Each neuron has a soma, or cell body, which is the central area of the neuron. 2  It contains the nucleus and other structures common to all cells in the body, such as mitochondria. 1 Axons send information to other neurons, to muscle cells, or to gland cells. 2  What we call nerves are bundles of axons coming from many neurons. 3  Some of these axons have a coating called the myelin sheath. 4  Glial cells produce myelin, which is a fatty substance that protects the nerves.
You may mean 'are nerves and neurons the same?' They are not the same Nerve: Any of the cordlike bundles of fibers made up of neurons through which sensory stimuli and mo … tor impulses pass between the brain or other parts of the central nervous system and the eyes, glands, muscles, and other parts of the body. Nerves form a network of pathways for conducting information throughout the body. Neuron: Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell. (American heritage Dictionary).
Nerves form a network of pathways for conducting information throughout the body. Neuron: Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell.
Types of Neurons (Nerve Cells). The human body is made up of trillions of cells. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential. 
2.There are two types of neurons ‘“ sensory and motor neurons; while there are three types of nerves ‘“ afferent, efferent and mixed nerves. 3.Nerves are found in the peripheral nervous system, while neurons are found in the brain, spinal cord and the peripheral nerves. 4.A neuron can also be called a neurone or a nerve cell. 5.Neurons conduct nerve impulses, while nerves transmit information to various parts of the body. There are two types of neurons ‘“ the sensory neurons and the motor neurons. Sensory neurons send signals to the brain and the spinal cord, while the motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord. Therefore, information is transmitted through neurons by electrochemical signaling.
A nerve is an enclosed, cable-like bundle of axons (nerve fibers, the long and slender projections of neurons) in the peripheral nervous system. A nerve provides a common pathway for the electrochemical nerve impulses that are transmitted along each of the axons to peripheral organs. 1 Efferent nerves conduct signals from the central nervous system along motor neurons to their target muscles and glands. 2  Mixed nerves contain both afferent and efferent axons, and thus conduct both incoming sensory information and outgoing muscle commands in the same bundle.
They are not the same. Nerve: Any of the cordlike bundles of fibers made up of neurons through which sensory stimuli and motor impulses pass between the brain or other parts of the central nervous system and the eyes, glands, muscles, and other parts of the body. Neuron: Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell.