Chanel Iman. by ethnic on. Birth Name: Chanel Iman Robinson. Place of Birth: Atlanta, Georgia, United States. Date of Birth: December 1, 1990. Ethnicity: *African-American (father) *Korean, African-American (mother). Chanel Iman is an American model and actress. 
Best known as: The Victoria's Secret model with the part-Korean heritage. Name at birth: Chanel Iman Robinson. Chanel Iman is the American model of part-Korean heritage who became a regular in the Victoria's Secret stable in 2009. Chanel Iman was named after legendary designer Coco Chanel , according a Page Six Magazine story in 2009. She began modeling at age 12 in Los Angeles. She was born in Atlanta but moved to Los Angeles with her family as a child... According to Chanel Iman's official site, Chanel's mother, China Robinson, is half African-American and half Korean; her father, basketball coach George 'Tic' Price, is African-American...
IMAN Cosmetics is for Women with Skin of Color, regardless of ethnicity. Iman has three basic shade ranges: Sand for Olive Skin, Clay for Dark Olive to Light Brown Skin and Earth for Medium to Ebony Brown skin. 
Iman at the Metropolitan Opera opening night on September 25, 2006. While still at university, Iman was discovered by American photographer Peter Beard, and subsequently moved to the United States to begin a modeling career. Her first modeling assignment was for Vogue a year later in 1976. Iman first got married at the age of eighteen to a young Somali man with whom she had fallen in love. The marriage ended a few years later when she moved to the United States to pursue a modeling career. In 1977, she married American basketball player Spencer Haywood.
Synopsis. Iman was born on July 25, 1955, in Mogadishu, Somalia. A student at the University of Nairobi, she was discovered by photographer Peter Beard. Through the 1970s and 1980s, Iman was a favorite model in Vogue and Harper's Bazaar
Iman (aka, Iman Iman) was born Iman Abdulmajid on July 25, 1955 in Mogadishu, Somalia. She is the daughter of the Somali ambassador to Saudi Arabia, and attended high school in Egypt. She later lived in Nairobi, Kenya, where her parents still reside. She attended the University of Nairobi. 
Early Life in Somalia. Retired model and business executive Iman Mohamed Abdulmajid was born on July 25, 1955, in Mogadishu, Somalia. Iman is sometimes described as her native land's most famous export. Iman was born on July 25, 1955, in Mogadishu, Somalia. A student at the University of Nairobi, she was discovered by photographer Peter Beard.
Producer | Actress. Iman was born on July 25, 1955 in Mogadishu, Somalia as Iman Abdulmajid. She is a producer and actress, known for Project Runway Canada (2007), Out of Africa (1985) and No Way Out (1987). She has been married to David Bowie since June 6, 1992. They have one child. She was previously married to Spencer Haywood. 
Ethnicity: Somali. Iman is a Somali model, actress, and businesswoman. She is the daughter of Marian and Mohamed Abdulmajid. Iman is a Muslim and speaks five languages, Somali, Arabic, Italian, French, and English. She is married to English musician David Bowie. Photo by Prphotos.com