Vitamin A, also called retinol, is essential for eye and skin health. Vitamin A is an antioxidant, helping your body fight free radicals that can cause tissue and cell damage. Vitamin A is found in vegetables and fruits such as carrots, broccoli, kale, pumpkin, sweet potatoes, cantaloupe and red peppers. Fruits and vegetables contain essential vitamins and nutrients that can help lower blood pressure, reduce the risk of certain cancers and fight heart disease and stroke. Women should aim for 2 to 3 cups of each fruits and vegetables per day.
Some of the best sources of this vitamin include grapefruit, oranges, cantaloupes, kiwi fruit, papaya, mango, pineapple, watermelon, berries, broccoli, tomatoes, winter squash, green leafy vegetables, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, potatoes, sweet potatoes and bell peppers. Folate. Fruits and vegetables often contain folate, a B-vitamin you need for forming DNA and limiting the risk of neural tube birth defects. Consuming vegetables like Brussels sprouts, asparagus, black-eyed peas, spinach, broccoli, avocado, peas, lettuce and kidney beans will help you increase your folate intake.
However, this doesn't mean that all large amounts are necessarily harmless. Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air. They can also be lost in water used for cooking. 
Vitamin A is essential for proper immune function, reproduction, healthy vision and cell growth. Fruits and vegetables that contain significant amounts of this vitamin include sweet potatoes, carrots, spinach, cantaloupe, mangoes, bell peppers, apricots, black-eyed peas and broccoli. Folate. Fruits and vegetables often contain folate, a B-vitamin you need for forming DNA and limiting the risk of neural tube birth defects. Consuming vegetables like Brussels sprouts, asparagus, black-eyed peas, spinach, broccoli, avocado, peas, lettuce and kidney beans will help you increase your folate intake.
~~ Vitamins Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins. 
List of Vitamins Found in Fruits. Eat more fruit to increase your vitamin intake. Photo Credit Design Pics/Tomas del Amo/Design Pics/Getty Images. Fruits are nutrient-rich foods, with most providing at least small amounts of all the vitamins except for vitamin B-12, which is only found in animal foods. Eating fruits of a variety of different colors will help you get the best mix of nutrients because different colors often indicate a different nutrient profile. Folate and vitamins A, C and K are those most often found in significant amounts in fruits.
Dry fruits. Dry fruits are rich source of nutrients such as vitamins and minerals. Consumption of some dry fruits daily enhances the overall bioavailability of nutrients. Try raisins (dried grapes), apricots, dates, figs, tamarind ..., which are indeed very good in iron, calcium, zinc, selenium and manganese. 
~~ Fruit Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins.
B Vitamins. B vitamins, such as folate, niacin, riboflavin and thiamin, reduce heart disease and stroke, ease stress, alleviate depression, help the nervous system and help break down carbohydrates. B Vitamins can be found in bananas, lentils, chili peppers, dark leafy vegetables, berries and beans. Fruits and vegetables contain essential vitamins and nutrients that can help lower blood pressure, reduce the risk of certain cancers and fight heart disease and stroke. Women should aim for 2 to 3 cups of each fruits and vegetables per day.
While vitamin K isn't found in significant amounts in all fruits, a cup of grapes provides 17 percent of the DV, and a kiwi fruit has 35 percent of the DV. You need vitamin K for strong bones and forming blood clots. Eating fruits of a variety of different colors will help you get the best mix of nutrients because different colors often indicate a different nutrient profile. Folate and vitamins A, C and K are those most often found in significant amounts in fruits.