Internal Organs. During the initial incubation period, the circulatory system carries the virus to the rest the body where it reproduces primarily within the spleen and the bone marrow as well as in other organs, including the lungs and liver. Another form of the disease, known as mailgnant smallpox, produces flat lesions, rather than the raised bumps typical of the Variola major and minor. Hemorrhagic smallpox results in significant bleeding within the skin. Both of these forms of the disease are almost always fatal.
Variola major is fatal in 30 percent of those infected while Variola minor is fatal in less than 1 percent. Smallpox is a systemic infection, affecting all parts of the body, but is noted for it's profound and often disfiguring effects on the skin and themucosa. Another form of the disease, known as mailgnant smallpox, produces flat lesions, rather than the raised bumps typical of the Variola major and minor. Hemorrhagic smallpox results in significant bleeding within the skin. Both of these forms of the disease are almost always fatal.
1 If too many cells explode, entire organs could fail, and a person could die. 2  Smallpox also lives on in the blood after a person has died. 3  Since smallpox can be transferred by inhalation, it is highly contagious.]. 4  Think of a disease that is usually confined to one system within the body. Smallpox is spread when a person breathes it in…and out. The virus gets inside the cells lining the throat and hijacks the cellular machinery to make millions more smallpox viruses. The cells explode, releasing smallpox “bombs.” Those virus particles go on to infect other cells 
Variola (the virus that causes smallpox) is a member of the orthopoxvirus genus, which also includes viruses that cause cowpox, monkeypox, orf, and molluscum contagiosum. Poxviruses are the largest animal viruses, visible with a light microscope. Survivors of smallpox often have severely deformed skin from the pustules. 1  Types: Variola major, or smallpox, has a death rate of 30%. 2  Variola minor, or alastrim, is a milder form of the virus with a death rate of 1%. 3  Four types of variola exist: classic, hemorrhagic, malignant, and modified.
1 [anno: The smallpox virus normally enters the body through the respiratory system. 2  Smallpox can cause millions of cells within the body to explode. 3  If too many cells explode, entire organs could fail, and a person could die. 4  Smallpox also lives on in the blood after a person has died. Smallpox is spread when a person breathes it in…and out. The virus gets inside the cells lining the throat and hijacks the cellular machinery to make millions more smallpox viruses. The cells explode, releasing smallpox “bombs.” Those virus particles go on to infect other cells in the body.
The eyes and internal organs such as the liver and spleen are also affected by the virus. This painting by Constant Desbordes shows a doctor (Dr. Alibert) performing a smallpox vaccination on an infant in the year 1800. The doctor scratched the skin with cowpox, which conferred immunity against smallpox. 
No. The smallpox vaccine does not contain smallpox virus and cannot spread or cause smallpox. However, the vaccine does contain another virus called vaccinia which is live in the vaccine. Because the virus is alive, it can spread to other parts of the body or to other people from the vaccine site. 
Immune and Circulatory Systems. The disease will proliferate in the body through the circulatory system. It inevitably compromises the immune system by killing large numbers of macrophages, defensive cells within the body, which the virus uses to reproduce. The disease will also attack the blood vessels within the skin. Another form of the disease, known as mailgnant smallpox, produces flat lesions, rather than the raised bumps typical of the Variola major and minor. Hemorrhagic smallpox results in significant bleeding within the skin. Both of these forms of the disease are almost always fatal.
All organs need nutrients (such as protein, vitamins, sugar, water) and the digestive system makes those available. You could say, therefore, that the digestive system a … ffects other organs by keeping them alive. 13 people found this useful. In the pancreas, a leaf-shaped organ near the duodenoum, there are special cells called the Islets of Langherhans, of which there are 4 types, the A cells secrete … a hormone Glucagon which raises the blood glucose level. The B cells produce the hormone Insulin which lowers