The average cost of truck rental for the purposes of one way moving depends on how long one wants to move. The first day costs around $10, while 4 days costs around $20. The cost will also vary depending on the mileage, how far your move is. But since you're looking for a ballpark figure, I would say about $10,000+ for a move from say a state like Florida to Connecticut--that's with the full service.
Also include in your calculation a cost for hotel. Especially if your moving is at a bigger distance or out of state, you will certainly have to spend at least one night out. Depending on the prices in your area the approximate cost for one night at a hotel would be on average about $80. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving.
And open your wallet. According to the American Moving & Storage Association, the average cost of an intrastate move is $1,170, and the average move between states costs $5,630. (Both numbers are based on an average weight of 7,100 pounds.) Worldwide ERC, an association for professionals who work with employee transfers, places the number even higher: It says the cost of the average move within the U.S. is $12,459.
You may also decide to hire additional help for the moving to pack, load and unload the moving truck with your things. Based on the average cost per hour at about $90 for 3 people for 4 hours you would have to pay $320. This is one of the highest costs of all costs along with hiring a truck and paying for its fuel. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving.
The average cost may vary a lot depending on the specifics of the move. For example, moving a 3 bedroom house can go up to $8,000 if it includes extras like packing and it will be about $2,500 without packing. Packing itself is not that expensive – in the above mentioned case it would be about a few hundred dollars but if you add up all the small costs the price can go up a lot. One way to potentially prevent that is be acquainted with the hidden moving costs and fees. Of course, you can get precise costs for moving only after asking for a quote. In order to move cheaply to another state think about using discounts when moving, organizing a moving sale and finding boxes for free.
Preparation for Moving to Another State. When preparing to move interstate the most important first step is planning. Out of all tips on moving to a different state this one requires the most of your attention. Start by preparing your budget. See how much will moving cost you by filling in a free moving cost estimate. Decide what you are going to take along with you when moving to another state. This will define how much packing materials you will need and is part of the final cost for moving. When moving long distance like moving to another state think about an insurance.
The cost of a self-storage unit varies widely and depends on the location. CostHelper.com says a self-storage unit that’s 10 feet by 20 feet typically ranges from $95 to $155 a month, and $170 to $180 if the unit is climate-controlled. The unexpected. (Both numbers are based on an average weight of 7,100 pounds.) Worldwide ERC, an association for professionals who work with employee transfers, places the number even higher: It says the cost of the average move within the U.S. is $12,459.
For example if you’re moving from Chicago to Boston, MA and you live in a 4 bedroom house, your average moving cost with a full service moving company can go over $10000. But if you are moving locally within 100 miles from your old place, this cost will be based on hourly rate and will vary from company to company. 1 Most truck rental vans run between 7 and 10 miles per gallon based on the size of the truck. 2  If you get 26’ moving truck and your new home is 1500 miles away you’re looking at an average of 200 gallons of fuel at approximately $4 per gallon.
Based on my experience in the field, packing costs can be similar to the moving cost itself. A 4 bedroom house can take more than 12h to move from one town to another. In this case your average moving costs will be around $1800 to $2500 without including any packing. For an accurate moving estimate calculation use our fast & easy free moving calculator. 1 Most truck rental vans run between 7 and 10 miles per gallon based on the size of the truck. 2  If you get 26’ moving truck and your new home is 1500 miles away you’re looking at an average of 200 gallons of fuel at approximately $4 per gallon.
The average moving cost for hiring a truck to take you from Northern Virginia to Boston for example would cost you approximately between $650 and $750. If you decide to hire a truck for moving, this would cost you on average between $650 and $750 which is a price that does not include fuel cost. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving.