For the marinade, put all of the marinade ingredients into a large bowl and stir to combine. Add the chicken and allow to marinate while you preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6. Put the chicken drumsticks on a roasting tray and roast for 20-30 minutes, or until the skin is golden and the chicken is cooked through. (To check, pierce the drumstick at its thickest part, next to the bone. 
2 tsp. black pepper. 1 cup BBQ sauce of choice. Heat oven to 400 degrees. Rinse and pat dry the chicken (make sure it is completely thawed) and place it in a large roasting pan or a rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle the chicken with olive oil and season it generously with salt and pepper. Place the pan in the oven and bake for 25 minutes. Reduce the heat to 375. Remove from oven and brush both sides one more time. Place in oven for an extra 7 to 10 minutes until the bbq sauce caramelizes and the chicken registers 170 degrees on a meat thermometer placed close to the bone. You can also slice the chicken, close to the bone, and if it is pink cook it for longer.
1 Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. 4  Remove from oven and drain on paper towels. 
Pre-heat oven to Convection Roast 400 degrees. Meanwhile, cover a pan with foil, and spray with a thin layer of canola spray. Place the chicken legs on the foil until the oven is preheated-about 15 minutes. When ready, put the pan in the oven and set your timer for 20 minutes. When time is up, change your heat to 325 degrees, then set timer for 10 minutes. When time is up, remove pan from oven and let sit for 10 minutes before eating
Baking the Chicken: Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180°F when the chicken is done. 
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Bake another half an hour (or until cooked til 160 degrees)). Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5
Once all of the chicken legs are coated and on the baking sheet, take a pastry brush and give them one last coating of the butter mixture. Place them into the oven for 30 to 35 minutes, basting a couple of times during roasting. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Line baking sheets with foil. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the lemon juice, salt, black pepper, cayenne and garlic, and stir. Set aside. Rinse and pat the chicken legs dry. With metal tongs, dip them one by one into the butter mixture and place on the prepared baking sheets.
Bake the chicken. Put the chicken in the oven and set a timer for 30 minutes. Check the chicken after 30 minutes. It should be ready when the skin is crispy and golden brown, or when the internal temperature has reached 180 degrees. Use a meat thermometer to check the temperature. Baking, or roasting, chicken legs results in juicy, flavorful meat and crispy skin. Preparing them is as simple as tossing the legs with your favorite flavor combinations and popping them in the oven at a fairly high heat. Read on for three ways to make chicken legs: honey baked, spicy hot, and rosemary garlic.
Put a sheet tray in the oven to preheat. Wash and trim the chicken legs of any excess fat. Mix the garlic, rosemary and panko together in a shallow rimmed dish and season well with salt and pepper. Alternately, crush the garlic and rosemary with some olive oil and salt in a mortar and pestle. Roast until the chicken legs are golden and crispy, about 35 to 40 minutes Remove the chicken from the oven to a serving platter.