Full Definition of Y CHROMOSOME. : a sex chromosome that is characteristic of male cells in species in which the male typically has two unlike sex chromosomes — compare x chromosome. See Y chromosome defined for English-language learners
chromosome-a threadlike strand of DNA in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order; humans have 22 chromosome pairs plus two sex chromosomes. 1. A linear strand of DNA and associated proteins in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells that carries the genes and functions in the transmission of hereditary information. 2. A circular strand of DNA in bacteria and archaea that contains the hereditary information necessary for cell life.
Noun. 1. chromosome-a threadlike strand of DNA in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order; humans have 22 chromosome pairs plus two sex chromosomes. cell nucleus, karyon, nucleus-a part of the cell containing DNA and RNA and responsible for growth and reproduction
Share. By Regina Bailey. Definition: A chromosome is a long, stringy aggregate of genes that carries heredity information (DNA) and is formed from condensed chromatin. A non-duplicated chromosome is single-stranded and is comprised of a centromere region that connects two arm regions
Definition of CHROMOSOME for Kids. : one of the rod-shaped or threadlike structures of a cell nucleus that contain genes and divide when the cell divides. chromosome. noun chro·mo·some \ˈkrō-mə-ˌsōm, -ˌzōm\. Tweet. : the part of a cell that contains the genes which control how an animal or plant grows and what it becomes.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a chromosome is a thread-like structure of DNA (nucleic acids and proteins) that carries genes. The X or Y gene that determines whether you will be a boy or a girl is an example of a chromosome. chromosome. noun. 1  A linear strand of DNA and associated proteins in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells that carries the genes and functions in the transmission of hereditary information.
Noun. 1. chromosome-a threadlike strand of DNA in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order; humans have 22 chromosome pairs plus two sex chromosomes. cell nucleus, karyon, nucleus-a part of the cell containing DNA and RNA and responsible for growth and reproduction. 1. A linear strand of DNA and associated proteins in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells that carries the genes and functions in the transmission of hereditary information. 2. A circular strand of DNA in bacteria and archaea that contains the hereditary information necessary for cell life.
Each chromosome consists of a DNA double helix bearing a linear sequence of genes, coiled and recoiled around aggregated proteins (histones). Their number varies from species to species: humans have 22 pairs plus the two sex chromosomes (two X chromosomes in females, one X and one Y in males). During cell division each DNA strand is duplicated, and the chromosomes condense to become visible as distinct pairs of chromatids joined at the centromere.