Whereas the interneurons all lie within the CNS, portions of the afferent and efferent neurons project out of the CNS and constitute the nerves of the PNS. The cell bodies of afferent neurons reside in discrete structures called ganglia located near the CNS. Thus, the cell bodies of the afferent spinal nerves are located in dorsal root ganglia, present on either side of the spinal cord. The cell bodies of some preganglionic parasympathetic neurons are located in the gray matter of the brain stem. Their axons leave the CNS via cranial nerves. The cell bodies of the other preganglionic neurons are located in the gray matter of the sacral region
Visceral afferent neurons are unipolar neurons that enter the spinal cord through the dorsal root & their cell bodies are located in the dorsal root ganglia. Visceral efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses to smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, & glands. The dorsal root is sensory (all neurons conduct impulses into the spinal cord) while the ventral root is motor (all neurons conduct impulses out of the spinal cord). The dorsal root has a ganglion that contains the cell bodies of the sensory neurons that pass through the dorsal root.
The spinal ganglia or dorsal root ganglia contain the cell bodies of sensory neurons entering the cord at that region. nerve-a group of fibers (axons) outside the CNS. The spinal nerves contain the fibers of the sensory and motor neurons. A nerve does not contain cell bodies. They are located in the ganglion (sensory) or in the gray matter (motor). tract-a group of fibers inside the CNS. The spinal tracts carry information up or down the spinal cord, to or from the brain.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The dorsal root ganglia of the spinal cord. The cell bodies of the sensory neurons are in the dorsal root ganglion, but the motor neuron cell bodies are in the gray matter.
Visceral afferent neurons are unipolar neurons that enter the spinal cord through the dorsal root & their cell bodies are located in the dorsal root ganglia. Visceral efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses to smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, & glands. The dorsal root is sensory (all neurons conduct impulses into the spinal cord) while the ventral root is motor (all neurons conduct impulses out of the spinal cord). The dorsal root has a ganglion that contains the cell bodies of the sensory neurons that pass through the dorsal root.
The sensory impulse that is generated here travels along afferent fibers to cell bodies located in a dorsal root ganglion and from there to the spinal cord. Within the spinal cord, the afferent fibers synapse on the cell bodies of efferent neurons, whose long axons extend to innervate muscles in the leg. The cell bodies of some preganglionic parasympathetic neurons are located in the gray matter of the brain stem. Their axons leave the CNS via cranial nerves. The cell bodies of the other preganglionic neurons are located in the gray matter of the sacral region of
Somatic efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses from the spinal cord to skeletal muscles. These neurons are multipolar neurons, with cell bodies located in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons leave the spinal cord through the ventral root of spinal nerves. The dorsal root is sensory (all neurons conduct impulses into the spinal cord) while the ventral root is motor (all neurons conduct impulses out of the spinal cord). The dorsal root has a ganglion that contains the cell bodies of the sensory neurons that pass through the dorsal root.
A motor neuron (or motoneuron) is a nerve cell (neuron) whose cell body is located in the spinal cord and whose fiber (axon) projects outside the spinal cord to directly or indirectly control effector organs, mainly muscles and glands. There are upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons, with the cell type described above being a lower motor neuron. Upper motor neurons are cortico-spinal interneurons that arise from the motor cortex and descend to the spinal cord where they activate the lower motor neurons through synapses.
Somatic efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses from the spinal cord to skeletal muscles. These neurons are multipolar neurons, with cell bodies located in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons leave the spinal cord through the ventral root of spinal nerves. Visceral afferent neurons are sensory neurons that conduct impulses initiated in receptors in smooth muscle & cardiac muscle. The dorsal root is sensory (all neurons conduct impulses into the spinal cord) while the ventral root is motor (all neurons conduct impulses out of the spinal cord). The dorsal root has a ganglion that contains the cell bodies of the sensory neurons that pass through the dorsal root.
Motor neurons' axons are efferent nerve fibers that carry signals from the spinal cord to the effectors to produce effects. Types of motor neurons are alpha motor neurons, beta motor neurons, and gamma motor neurons. There are upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons, with the cell type described above being a lower motor neuron. Upper motor neurons are cortico-spinal interneurons that arise from the motor cortex and descend to the spinal cord where they activate the lower motor neurons through synapses.