A co-production of the United States and the United Kingdom, The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in North America, and on July 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom. The nickname the Dark Knight was first applied to Batman in Batman #1 (1940), in a story written by Bill Finger. The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
The Dark Knight location: the attack on the funeral of the police commission, and the Batman/Joker confrontation: South LaSalle Street, Chicago. The Dark Knight, Christopher Nolan ’s follow-up to Batman Begins, expands Batman’s universe with plenty of real locations in Chicago, Hong Kong and London. The Dark Knight location: the Joker’s crew robs ‘Gotham National Bank’: Chicago Post Office Building, West Van Buren Street, Chicago. As the tone changes, so ‘Gotham’ morphs from urban Gothic to sinister corporate sheen – and this time it’s mostly Chicago.
The Dark Knight Filming Locations. The Dark Knight was filmed in Los Angeles, CA, London, UK, and Chicago, IL. Chicago becomes Gotham City in Christopher Nolan's gritty remake of this classic superhero. See filming locations for Batman Begins and The Dark Knight Rise
Nolan's inspiration for the film was the Joker's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel The Killing Joke, and the 1996 series The Long Halloween, which retold Two-Face 's origin. The nickname the Dark Knight was first applied to Batman in Batman #1 (1940), in a story written by Bill Finger. The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
David S. Goyer and Christopher Nolan collaborated on the story of the film. The script itself was written by Nolan and his brother Jonathan Nolan. After watching 'The Dark Knight', Goyer stated I can't believe my name is on a movie this good. With that flashback, The Dark Knight not only becomes the only film in the trilogy where Bruce Wayne does not have a flashback, but also the only film where the content of the flashback references a previous scene within the film's main action.
Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the second part of Nolan's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005's Batman Begins, starring Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Heath Ledger, Gary Oldman, Aaron Eckhart, Maggie Gylenhaal and Morgan Freeman. The nickname the Dark Knight was first applied to Batman in Batman #1 (1940), in a story written by Bill Finger. The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Posted on May 23, 2012 by crystalchavez1993. In the ferry scene of The Dark Knight, the evil Joker has stranded prisoners on one ship and innocent citizens on the other. In the Joker’s sick and twisted game, he instructs the passengers that each boat has a bomb. Thus, each boat has the other’s detonator. 
This article is about the soundtrack of the film. For the film itself, see The Dark Knight (film) . The Dark Knight: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album to the 2008 film of the same name, which is a sequel to Christopher Nolan 's 2005 film Batman Begins. The soundtrack was released on July 15, 2008, in three editions: CD, limited edition CD digipak, and digital download
A lot of the interaction between Batman and The Joker is taken from The Long Halloween, specifically the interrogation scene in the film, which is also is similar to elements of The Dark Knight Returns. The copycat Batmen are clearly inspired by The Sons of The Batman from The Dark Knight Returns. With that flashback, The Dark Knight not only becomes the only film in the trilogy where Bruce Wayne does not have a flashback, but also the only film where the content of the flashback references a previous scene within the film's main action.