The largest mountain in Mexico is El Pixo de Orizaba. This mountain, which was formerly a volcano, is among the highest mountains in North America. Only Denali and Mount Logan are taller. The summit of El Pixo de Orizaba is approximately 18,900 feet above sea level--this is about three and a half miles.
Western North American Population. Monarchs living west of the Rocky Mountain range in North America overwinter in California along the Pacific coast near Santa Cruz and San Diego. Here microclimatic conditions are very similar to that in central Mexico. Monarchs roost in eucalyptus, Monterey pines, and Monterey cypresses in California. 
You can find most of the mountains in Mexico in one of two regions. The highest mountain peaks are located in the state of Puebla. The main mountain range in Mexico--the Sierra Madre Mountains--runs from the northwest to the southeast portion. The mountains start near the California border and continue into Guatemala. This mountain, which was formerly a volcano, is among the highest mountains in North America. Only Denali and Mount Logan are taller. The summit of El Pixo de Orizaba is approximately 18,900 feet above sea level--this is about three and a half miles.
The Sandia Mountains (Tiwa Pueblo name posu gai hoo-oo, where water slides down arroyo ) are a mountain range located in Bernalillo and Sandoval counties, immediately to the east of the city of Albuquerque in New Mexico in the southwestern United States. Lying to the east and northeast of the Sandias are two smaller ranges, the Ortiz Mountains and the San Pedro Mountains. The Sandia Mountains are home to the world's second longest tramway, which is 2.7 miles (4.3 km) long. Over this distance the tram cars ascend over 4,000 feet (1,200 m).
1 The deserts of the Basin and Range Province in the United States and Mexico, which includes the dry areas east of the Cascade Mountains of Oregon and Washington and the Great Basin, which covers almost all of Nevada and parts of Utah are rain shadowed. 1 The central region of Myanmar is in the rain shadow of the Arakan Mountains and is almost semi-arid with only 750 millimetres (30 in) of rain as against as much as 5.5 metres (220 in) on the Rakhine State coast.
Mountains. The Sierra Madres are the major mountain ranges in Mexico. They are an extension of the Rocky Mountains in the neighboring U.S. The ranges are divided into the Sierra Madre del Sur, Sierra Occidental and Sierra Oriental. The Sierra Occidental and Oriental run from north to south through Mexico. Although this is the least well known of the landforms in Mexico, the Mexican Plateau is famous within the country. It is located between the Sierra Madres Mountains, in the center of the country. The plateau receives a large amount of rain, and because volcanoes surround it, has very fertile soil.
Mountains on the flanks of the Rio Grande rift in the southwestern United States are examples of fault block mountains. Formation of these mountains started approximately 10 million years ago. This diagram shows a simplified cross section a side view of the geology in the vicinity of Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
An example of a rain shadow. A rain shadow is a dry area on the lee side of a mountainous area (away from the wind). The mountains block the passage of rain-producing weather systems and cast a shadow of dryness behind them. 1 The central region of Myanmar is in the rain shadow of the Arakan Mountains and is almost semi-arid with only 750 millimetres (30 in) of rain as against as much as 5.5 metres (220 in) on the Rakhine State coast.
Three ranges exist: * On the western coast is Sierra Madre Occidental * On the eastern side is Sierra Madre Oriental * and on the southern is Sierra Madre del Sur. It is the Pico de Orizaba, the seventh tallest mountain in the world, with 5,636 metres (18,490 ft) of height. 
The Rocky Mountains took shape during a period of intense plate tectonic activity that formed much of the rugged landscape of the western United States. Three major mountain-building episodes reshaped the west from about 170 to 40 million years ago (Jurassic to Cenozoic Periods). The last mountain building event, the Laramide orogeny, (about 70-40 million years ago) the last of the three episodes, is responsible for raising the Rocky Mountains. The Rockies form a majestic mountain barrier that stretches from Canada through central New Mexico. Although formidable, a look at the topography reveals a discontinuous series of mountain ranges with distinct geological origins. List of National Parks exhibiting the Rocky Mountain Province.