If the power is out for less than 2 hours, then the food in your refrigerator and freezer will be safe to consume. While the power is out, keep the refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible to keep food cold for longer. If the power is out for longer than 2 hours, follow the guidelines below: • For the Freezer section: A freezer that is half full will hold food safely for up to 24 hours. A full freezer will hold food safely for 48 hours. Do not open the freezer door if you can avoid it.
HOW LONG WILL MY FOOD STAY COLD? • A closed refrigerator should keep your food cool for 4 – 6 hours. • Kept closed, a full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 48 hours, while a half full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 24 hours. • The rate of thawing depends on the: o amount of food in the freezer.
The refrigerator: how long will foods remain safe without power? · All foods: at least 4 hours, if the fridge is left unopened. · Discard after 4 hours without power: Meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cooked leftovers, soft cheeses, deli cold cuts/salads and other perishable foods.
Perishable food in a refrigerator lasts about four hours without power, as long as the door is kept closed. Opening the door lets some of the cold escape and increases the temperature in the fridge, so keep it closed as long as possible. A refrigerator thermometer helps you keep an eye on the temperature. Freezer. Items stored in a freezer compartment will last longer than in the fridge because the temperature is cooler and the items have been frozen. A freezer that's full may keep food cool enough to be safe for 24 hours. Freezer food that thaws to above 40 degrees Fahrenheit for more than two hours should be discarded
Your freezer will stay frozen for several hours after a power outage. So will the contents. If the power is restored within 24 to 48 hrs the food should be okay. Edit: Actuall … y, when our power was out after a hurricane, our deep freezer stayed almost completely frozen for five days. Additional Information Food should last 2 days if the freezer is fully loaded. If it is only half full, then expect the food to last 1 day. Keep the door closed and do not open it unnecessarily.
Your freezer will stay frozen for several hours after a power outage. So will the contents. If the power is restored within 24 to 48 hrs the food should be okay. Edit: Actually, when our power was out after a hurricane, our deep freezer stayed almost completely frozen for five days. 
• A closed refrigerator should keep your food cool for 4 to 6 hours. • A closed, full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 48 hours, while a half full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 24 hours. • If food is warm for longer than 4 hours, throw the food out. • Kept closed, a full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 48 hours, while a half full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 24 hours. • The rate of thawing depends on the: o amount of food in the freezer.
Keep the refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible to maintain the cold temperature. The refrigerator will keep food safely cold for about 4 hours if it is unopened. A full freezer will hold the temperature for approximately 48 hours (24 hours if it is half full) if the door remains closed. (and you can buy dry ice…click link).
· Approximately 48 hours, if the freezer is full. · Approximately 24 hours, if the freezer is half-full. Keep the freezer door closed as much as possible to maintain its cold temperature. · All foods: at least 4 hours, if the fridge is left unopened. · Discard after 4 hours without power: Meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cooked leftovers, soft cheeses, deli cold cuts/salads and other perishable foods.