Definition of MULLEIN. : any of a genus (Verbascum) of usually woolly-leaved Eurasian herbs of the snapdragon family including some that are naturalized in North America. See mullein defined for kids. 
mullein. n. 1. (Plants) any of various European herbaceous plants of the scrophulariaceous genus Verbascum, such as V. thapsus (common mullein or Aaron's rod), typically having tall spikes of yellow flowers and broad hairy leaves. See also Aaron's rod. Noun. 1. mullein-any of various plants of the genus Verbascum having large usually woolly leaves and terminal spikes of yellow or white or purplish flowers.
Overview: Mullein is an easy to grow herb, often seen in disturbed areas such as fields and ditches. A multi-purpose herb, mullein offers many healing abilities from its flowers, leaves and root. Mullein is also a lovely addition to your landscaping. The stalk can grow 6 feet high, the leaves can grow up to 2 feet across. 
MULLEIN Overview Information. Mullein is a plant. The flower is used to make medicine. Mullein is used for cough, whooping cough, tuberculosis, bronchitis, hoarseness, pneumonia, earaches, colds, chills, flu, swine flu, fever, allergies, tonsillitis, and sore throat. Other uses include asthma, diarrhea, colic, gastrointestinal bleeding, migraines, joint pain, and gout. Mullein is POSSIBLY SAFE for when applied to the ear, short-term. A specific product (Otikon Otic Solution, Healthy-On Ltd.) that contains mullein, garlic, calendula, and St. John’s wort has been used in the ear for up to 3 days. Children: Mullein is POSSIBLY SAFE when applied to the ear, short-term.
Verbascum (/vɜrˈbaeskəm/), vɜrˈbæskəm common name (mullein. /sg/) (ˈmʌlɨn also known as velvet), plant is a genus of about 360 species of flowering plants in the figwort Family. Scrophulariaceae they are native To europe And, asia with the highest species diversity in The. mediterranean Verbascum (/vɜrˈbaeskəm/), vɜrˈbæskəm common name (mullein. sg
Common Mullein is a weed usually found in waste places (open areas where the ground has been disturbed). Other places it grows include fields, roadsides, streamsides, gardens, and forest openings. Common Mullein is a pioneer plant, so it is one of the first plants to grow in a place that has burned or otherwise been disturbed. Merel R. Black, Wisconsin State Herbarium. Copyright, Jim Stasz, USDA-NRCS PLANTS Database Mullein is biennial, so it lives for two years.
Mullein is an easily recognizable plant found throughout Michigan in fields, meadows, and anywhere the ground has been disturbed. It is a biennial, putting forth a rosette of fuzzy leaves upon the ground the first year, and sending up its characteristic yellow flowered stalk the second. After seeding, the plant dies. 
Verbascum thapsus (great mullein or common mullein) is a species of mullein native to Europe, northern Africa, and Asia, and introduced in the Americas and Australia. It is a hairy biennial plant that can grow to 2 meters tall or more. Verbascum thapsus is a dicotyledonous plant that produces a rosette of leaves in its first year of growth. The leaves are large, up to 50 cm long. The second year plants normally produce a single unbranched stem, usually 1–2 m tall.