A person who is required to charge VAT is referred to as an accountable person. An accountable person is, therefore, a taxable person (an individual, partnership, company etc.) who supplies taxable goods or services in the State and who is, or is required to be, registered for VAT. See VAT Registration.
The VAT 101 application for registration must be submitted in person at the SARS branch nearest to the place where your business is situated or carried on. A registered tax practitioner may appear in person on behalf of the applicant.
A person carrying on an enterprise which has not made R50 000 in taxable supplies is allowed to register for VAT, if there is a reasonable expectation to exceed R50 000 in taxable supplies within the 12 month period from date of registration.
VAT is an indirect tax on the consumption of goods and services in the economy. Revenue is raised for government by requiring certain businesses to register and to charge VAT on the taxable supplies of goods and services.
VAT registration may be compulsory or voluntary, depending on the level of a business’s current or future turnover. A company can only be registered if it is either currently making taxable supplies (sales where VAT would apply) or intends to make taxable supplies in the future.
The VAT threshold tends to be set each year in the Budget. The VAT registration threshold for the 2015-16 tax year it is set at £82,000. VAT registration is compulsory if your UK turnover of taxable goods and services (any sales that are not exempt from VAT) over the previous 12 months goes over the VAT threshold.
Compulsory registration. You must register for. if: 1  your VAT taxable turnover is more than £82,000 (the ‘threshold’) in a 12 month period. 2  you receive goods in the UK from the EU worth more than £82,000. 3  you expect to go over the threshold in a single 30 day period.
It is mandatory for a person to register for VAT if the taxable supplies made or to be made is, in excess of R1 million in any consecutive twelve month period. A person may also choose to register voluntarily if the taxable supplies made, in the past period of twelve months, exceeded R50 000.
1 In short, voluntary registration for VAT is now allowed for taxable supplies up to R50 000 within 12 months from date of registration; 2  and reclassification of Category F VAT vendors as Category A or B vendors.