Villa is single storey and Townhouse is double storey. The most important point AFAIK is that both villas and townhouses are on strata titles as the whole complex contains common areas and property. Hence you pay strata for the upkeep of the garden and common areas. 
The difference between a townhouse and a condo (of any size) is in the form of ownership. In a condominium, the homeowners own the inside of their home—but the exterior, the land and the common areas are owned by an association. A condo can look like an apartment, but it can also look like an attached one-story villa or a multi-level townhouse. In some areas, townhome-style condos are popular, because they offer the owners the feel of living in a townhouse without the responsibility of the exterior maintenance. 
A Townhouse is a two/three story semi detached house. Most of the townhouses are similar and have limited yard space. On the other hand, a Villa is an independent residence, fully detached with it's own private porch, garden and backyard space. A condo is a privately owned unit similar to an apartment housed in a larger building comlpex with other condos (a building of condos). A villa is a privately owned uni … t that is unattached or semi-attached.
Unit: A unit can mean an apartment, villa, or home unit. Townhouse: A townhouse can be a terraced house with multiple floors that are attached to other similar housesby party walls. Or it can also be a reference to a house nobility own in the city. 
The townhouse is the place you stay when you are not in a villa. If you say you live in a townhouse then you are presupposing the existence of a villa. If you say you live in villa you may not have a townhouse. 
A villa is a mansion. A condo is an apartment not rented but owned. A cottage is a a quaint old house with a ground floor, and sometimes a storey above. A townhouse is a condo most often with a second storey. A lodge is always free standing, housing only one person or family. Condo: Condo refers to a dwelling unit in a condominium. Condominium is basically an apartment complex (or in countries like USA, Townhouse complexes too) having a number of residences in a building or group of buildings on a single plot which share the common areas & amenities of the whole development.
Townhouses vs Villas. A townhouse and a villa are dream houses for almost anybody. Having a townhouse or a villa is a great living experience. These are the kinds of homes that you want your family to have. The main difference between a townhouse and a villa is how they appear. A townhouse is a residential house that emphasizes the terraced portion while a villa is a compound complete with the amenities you want.
Villa. A villa is a large, detached structure with spacious land surrounding it. It is very luxurious and may include amenities such as a pool, stables and gardens. A villa is generally home to a single family, in contrast to condos and townhomes that are designed to house multiple families. Villas are found in less populated areas while condos and townhomes are in more densely populated areas. A villa has the same maintenance and insurance requirements as a house or a townhouse. A single-family home -- a house -- is a single, detached building that is generally home to one owner or family. The owner is responsible for maintaining and insuring the entire home and the property included with the home.
One of the important differences between a townhouse and a villa is that a townhouse is used to represent a contemporary housing in the terraced style. A villa need not be in the terraced style. Most famous villas built in the Roman style were not in the terraced fashion. A villa is normally surrounded by beautiful gardens and landscapes whereas a townhouse is generally not surrounded by gardens or breathtaking landscapes. A villa is normally seen in areas that are not crowded. Townhouses on the other hand are seen in crowded areas
Townhouse vs Villa. Townhouse and villa are two different types of abode. A townhouse is a terraced residential building whereas a villa consists of a large central building with all amenities surrounded by warehouses, stables and the like according to the Roman construction of a villa. A villa need not be in the terraced style. Most famous villas built in the Roman style were not in the terraced fashion. A villa is normally surrounded by beautiful gardens and landscapes whereas a townhouse is generally not surrounded by gardens or breathtaking landscapes.