Meningococcal meningitis is caused by the bacterium called meningococcus. In addition to meningitis, meningococcus can cause other serious infections. For example, it can enter the bloodstream and cause an infection called meningococcal sepsis. 
1 Meningococcal meningitis, caused by Neisseria meningitidis, is primarily a disease of young children, with the incidence of cases declining in those older than 1 year of age. 2  The disease is most common during winter and spring. 3  In some persons, the bacteria can cause a severe blood infection called meningococcemia. 1 Haemophilus meningitis is most frequently caused by Haemophilus influenza type b, also known as Hib. 2  Before effective vaccines became available and widely used, Hib was the most frequent cause of bacterial meningitis in children 5 years of age and younger.
Most cases of meningococcal disease in the UK and Ireland are caused by group B meningococcal bacteria. A new MenB vaccine, called Bexsero®, is now being given free of charge to all babies in the UK at 2, 4 and 12 months of age. It is not yet freely available in Ireland. Find out more. 
Meningococcal disease is a serious bacterial illness. It is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis in children 2 through 18 years old in the United States. Meningitis is an infection of the covering of the brain and the spinal cord. Meningococcal disease also causes blood infections.
Viral meningitis (also called aseptic meningitis) is the most common type of meningitis and is less severe than bacterial meningitis. In Illinois, an average of 600 cases of aseptic meningitis is reported annually, with most occurring in late summer and early autumn. 1 Haemophilus meningitis is most frequently caused by Haemophilus influenza type b, also known as Hib. 2  Before effective vaccines became available and widely used, Hib was the most frequent cause of bacterial meningitis in children 5 years of age and younger.
Meningococcal disease is an infection caused by a strain of bacteria called Neisseria meningitidis. This invastive bacteria is one of the leading causes of bacterial meningitis in children aged 2 to 18 in the U.S. Meningococcal disease can include meningitis -- a serious, potentially life-threatening inflammation of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord -- and/or a life-threatening blood infection. Fortunately, meningococcal disease is preventable, and the key to prevention is the meningococcal vaccine. Here is information about the vaccine that you can use to help protect yourself and your family from meningococcal disease.
Hib meningitis is caused by bacteria called Haemophilus influenzae type b. Until the introduction of the Hib conjugate vaccine, this was the main form of meningitis in young children in the UK and Ireland. It affects mainly children under 4 years of age 1. Nowadays, Hib is rare in all age groups. Hib can cause a range of serious illness, most frequently meningitis. Hib meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. It has the same symptoms as other kinds of bacterial meningiti
Meningitis is defined as an inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. It's caused when the protective membranes around the brain and spinal cord known as the meninges become infected. There are actually several types of meningitis but bacterial and viral meningitis are the 2 most common. 
Meningitis is an inflammation of the membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. It can be caused by a number of infectious agents including viruses and bacteria. 1 Haemophilus meningitis is most frequently caused by Haemophilus influenza type b, also known as Hib. 2  Before effective vaccines became available and widely used, Hib was the most frequent cause of bacterial meningitis in children 5 years of age and younger.