DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
There are three main types of RNA: 1  Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper.
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring.
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
1 Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid). The building blocks of nucleic acids are nucleotides. Each nucleotide is made up of three different chemicals-a sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base: In DNA, the sugar is called deoxyribose. Its formula is C5H10O4.
Best Answer: there sugar groups DNA had no oxygen on carbon 2 so Deoxyribose and RNA does have an oxygen on carbon two Ribose anything with 'ose' denotes a sugar for example glucose fructose. Source(s): the science teacher should be sacked.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) is the genomic material in cells that contains the genetic information used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms. DNA, along with RNA and proteins, is one of the three major macromolecules that are essential for life.
RNA is a single strand whereas DNA is a double stranded helix. RNA has one less oxygen than DNA (RNA=ribose DNA=deoxyribose). RNA contains the bases Adenine, guanine, cytos … ine and uracil whereas DNA has Thymine instead of uracil.
RNA is a single strand whereas DNA is a double stranded helix. RNA has one less oxygen than DNA (RNA=ribose DNA=deoxyribose). RNA contains the bases Adenine, guanine, cytos … ine and uracil whereas DNA has Thymine instead of uracil.