DEFINITION of 'Quartile'. A statistical term describing a division of observations into four defined intervals based upon the values of the data and how they compare to the entire set of observations. Next Up
In descriptive statistics, the quartiles of a ranked set of data values are the three points that divide the data set into four equal groups, each group comprising a quarter of the data. A quartile is a type of quantile. The first quartile (Q 1) is defined as the middle number between the smallest number and the median of the data set. The second quartile (Q 2) is the median of the data. The third quartile (Q 3) is the middle value between the median and the highest value of the data set. The first quartile (Q 1) is defined as the middle number between the smallest number and the median of the data set. The second quartile (Q 2) is the median of the data
Definition of QUARTILE. : any of the three values that divide the items of a frequency distribution into four classes with each containing one fourth of the total population; also: any one of the four classes. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary, from Latin quartus. Tweet. : any of the three values that divide the items of a frequency distribution into four classes with each containing one fourth of the total population; also: any one of the four classes. ADVERTISEMENT
Quartile. Quartiles divide a rank-ordered data set into four equal parts. The values that divide each part are called the first, second, and third quartiles; and they are denoted by Q 1, Q 2, and Q 3, respectively. Note the relationship between quartiles and percentiles
1 A data set has three quartiles: the lower quartile, the median of the data set, and the upper quartile. 2  Median: The median divides a data set into two equal parts. 3  Lower quartile: Median of the lower half of the data. 4  Upper quartile: Median of the upper half of the data. More About Quartiles. 1  A data set has three quartiles: the lower quartile, the median of the data set, and the upper quartile. 2  Median: The median divides a data set into two equal parts.
Upper Quartile Definition. The Upper Quartile is the median of the upper half of a data set. This is located by dividing the data set with the median, and then dividing the upper half that remains with the median again, this median of the upper half being the upper quartile. The upper quartile of a data set, or Q3, is the median of the upper half of the data set. The term number of Q3 can be found using the formula. Once the term number is found with the formula, the term can then be located from
quartile. any of the three values that divide the range of a probability distribution into four parts of equal probability; the first, second, and third quartiles are the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles. 