rainforest. n. 1. (Forestry) dense forest found in tropical areas of heavy rainfall. The trees are broad-leaved and evergreen, and the vegetation tends to grow in three layers (undergrowth, intermediate trees and shrubs, and very tall trees, which form a canopy). Also called: selva. A dense evergreen forest with a minimum annual rainfall of approximately 180 centimeters (71 inches). Rainforests are found chiefly in the tropics but also occur in temperate regions, where the rainfall amount is somewhat lower.
Full Definition of RAIN FOREST. 1. : a tropical woodland with an annual rainfall of at least 100 inches (254 centimeters) and marked by lofty broad-leaved evergreen trees forming a continuous canopy —called also tropical rain forest. 2. : temperate rain forest
Noun. 1. rainforest-a forest with heavy annual rainfall. rain forest. forest, woods, wood-the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area. temperate rain forest-a rain forest in a temperate area. selva, tropical rain forest-a rain forest in a tropical area. Translations. [ˈreɪnfɒrɪst]. A dense evergreen forest with a minimum annual rainfall of approximately 180 centimeters (71 inches). Rainforests are found chiefly in the tropics but also occur in temperate regions, where the rainfall amount is somewhat lower.
A forest is a large area of land covered with trees or other woody vegetation. Hundreds of more precise definitions of forest are used throughout the world, incorporating factors such as tree density, tree height, land use, legal standing and ecological function. Such definitions typically define a forest as an area growing trees above some threshold. These thresholds are typically the number of trees per area (density), the area of ground under the tree canopy (canopy cover) or the section of land that is occupied by the cross-section of tree trunks (basal area).
Carlos NavajasStone/Getty Images. Rainforest is a term for a forest of broad-leaved evergreen trees that receives high annual rainfall and is characteristically associated with tropical and subtropical regions of the world. 
Tropical rainforests are forests with tall trees, warm climates, and lots of rain. In some rainforests it rains more than one inch nearly every day of the year! Rainforests are found in Africa, Asia, Australia, and Central and South America. The largest rainforest in the world is the Amazon rainforest in South America.
A tropical rainforest typically has a number of layers, each with different plants and animals adapted for life in that particular area. Examples include the emergent, canopy, understorey and forest floor layers. The densest areas of biodiversity are found in the forest canopy, a more or less continuous cover of foliage formed by adjacent treetops. The canopy, by some estimates, is home to 50 percent of all plant species.
WHAT IS A RAINFOREST Rainforests are the Earth's oldest living ecosystems. They are so amazing and beautiful. These incredible places cover only 6 %of the Earth's surface but yet they contain MORE THAN 1/2 of the world's plant and animal species! A Rainforest can be described as a tall, dense jungle. 
The undergrowth in some areas of a rainforest can be restricted by poor penetration of sunlight to ground level. If the leaf canopy is destroyed or thinned, the ground beneath is soon colonized by a dense, tangled growth of vines, shrubs and small trees, called a jungle. The densest areas of biodiversity are found in the forest canopy, a more or less continuous cover of foliage formed by adjacent treetops. The canopy, by some estimates, is home to 50 percent of all plant species.
Rainforest is defined as a dense, green, moist forest with at least 160 inches of rain each year that is mostly found in the tropics. An example of a rainforest is the Brazilian rainforest. 