Definition. Quoted in sale offers for (usually used) large equipment or lots, this term indicates that, in addition to as is restrictions, the buyer has to arrange removal and transportation.
The term is common but few people understand its meaning. Technically, an ''as is'' sale means the property is being offered in its present condition with no warranties or representations by the seller or real estate agent. In other words, the seller won't pay for any repairs. What you see, or don't see, is what you get. 
As-is Law & Legal Definition. As-is is a term used in warranty law to disclaim the seller's liability for faults in the item sold. The buyer accepts the item in the present condition, whether the faults are apparent or not. As-is language clarifies that no written or verbal warranties were made to the buyer and is used to protect the seller. However, the seller cannot misrepresent the item or use fraud to induce the sale. In most states as-is home sellers are now required to disclose to their buyers all known defects in the residence.
As is. A term used to describe a sales transaction in which the seller offers goods in their present, existing condition to prospective buyers. The term as is gives notice to buyers that they are taking a risk on the quality of the goods. The buyer is free to inspect the goods before purchase; but if any hidden defects are discovered after purchase, the buyer has no recourse against the seller. Any implied or express warranties that usually accompany goods for sale are excluded in an as is sale.
Definition. Term included in sale agreements to notify the buyer that no express or implied warranty is provided. The buyer therefore takes the goods or property at his or her own risk, without recourse against the seller for their condition or performance. 'As is' translates into 'with all faults .'. 
As is is a legal term used to disclaim some implied warranties for an item being sold. Certain types of implied warranties must be specifically disclaimed, such as the implied warranty of title. For example, a seller of a used automobile sells his car to a buyer, and puts into the contract of sale the statement: The buyer accepts the automobile AS IS, WITH ALL FAULTS.. Two minutes after the buyer drives off with it, the engine seizes, and the car stalls.
On the other hand, the phrase as is does not disclaim express warranties, such as those created by the seller's description of an item. In other words, the item may be sold as is, but if the item does not conform to the seller's description, the buyer has a right to reject it. For example, a seller of a used automobile sells his car to a buyer, and puts into the contract of sale the statement: The buyer accepts the automobile AS IS, WITH ALL FAULTS.. Two minutes after the buyer drives off with it, the engine seizes, and the car stalls.
A term in a sales contract providing that the buyer agrees to take property, such as a house, horse, auto, or appliance in its present condition, without the right to complain if it is faulty. 
See as defined for English-language learners. Like has been used as a conjunction since the 14th century. In the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries it was used in serious literature, but not often; in the 17th and 18th centuries it grew more frequent but less literary. Usage Discussion of AS
Former Definition. “The value of specific ownership rights to an identified parcel of real estate as of the effective date of the appraisal; relates to what physically exists and is legally permissible and excludes all assumptions concerning hypothetical market conditions or possible rezoning.”. 