Report Abuse. A frost is not a specific temperature. A frost is the freezing of plants caused by temperatures below 32 F. The lower the temp., the more powerful or killing the frost will be. Renaissance Kid · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
1 Black frost (or dry freeze): Black frost occurs when the temperature drops to freezing point, but the adjacent air does not contain enough moisture to form white frost on exposed surfaces. 2  This causes an internal freezing of the vegetation, leaving it with a blackened appearance and killing it. 
Frost forms when the temperature of a solid surface in the open cools to below the freezing point of water and for the most clearly crystalline forms of frost in particular, below the frost point in still air. Advection frost (also called wind frost) refers to tiny ice spikes that form when there is a very cold wind blowing over branches of trees, poles and other surfaces. It looks like rimming the edge of flowers and leaves and usually it forms against the direction of the wind. It can occur at any hour, day or night.
Frost (also called white or hoarfrost) occurs when air temperatures dip below 32°F and ice crystals form on plant leaves, injuring, and sometimes killing, tender plants. 
A light frost occurs when the temperature drops to below 32 degrees Fahrenheit, and refers to the conditions that allow a layer of ice crystals to form when water vapor condenses and freezes without first becoming dew. 1 Harvest basil and other tender herbs before a light frost (when the temperature drops to 32 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  Even if they survive the frost, they don't do well in cold temperatures. 3  The same is true for most annuals.
The formation of frost is not based on temperature alone. Frost is formed when the surface area of an object is below the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere. However, t … he surface area does have to be below freezing (32 degrees F). 
An air frost occurs when the air temperature falls to or below the freezing point of water. An air frost is usually defined as the air temperature being below freezing point of water at a height of at least one metre above the ground. Ground frost. A ground frost refers to the formation of ice on the ground, objects or trees, whose surface have a temperature below the freezing point of water. During situations when the ground cools quicker than the air, a ground frost can occur without an air frost.
Answer: Yes, if there is frost, then the temperature where the frost occurs (frost on the ground) must be at or below 32°F. Okay. . . here are two possible explanations: #1 - The simplest explanation is that at your location the temperature was actually at or below freezing that morning. 
Now frost is a covering of ice crystals on the surface produced by the depositing of water vapor to a surface cooler than 0° C (32° F). The deposition occurs when the temperature of the surface falls below the frost point. Similarly, dew forms when the air or surface temperature falls below the dew point temperature. (Note that the water vapor goes directly from gas to ice. Therefore, frost is not frozen dew.). 
Frost is the coating or deposit of ice that may form in humid air in cold conditions, usually overnight. In temperate climates it most commonly appears as fragile white crystals or frozen dew drops near the ground, but in cold climates it occurs in a greater variety of forms. Advection frost (also called wind frost) refers to tiny ice spikes that form when there is a very cold wind blowing over branches of trees, poles and other surfaces. It looks like rimming the edge of flowers and leaves and usually it forms against the direction of the wind. It can occur at any hour, day or night.