Full Definition of PLATE TECTONICS. 1. : a theory in geology: the lithosphere of the earth is divided into a small number of plates which float on and travel independently over the mantle and much of the earth's seismic activity occurs at the boundaries of these plates. 2. plate tectonics. noun plural but singular in construction. Tweet. geology: a scientific theory that the Earth's surface is made of very large sections that move very slowly; also: the movements of the large sections that form the Earth's surface.
Plate movement is thought to be driven by a combination of the motion of the seafloor away from the spreading ridge (due to variations in topography and density of the crust, which result in differences in gravitational forces) and drag, with downward suction, at the subduction zones. Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually.
Photo courtesy of Heather Walborn. Plate tectonics is an important geologic concept as it fills in the gaps to Earth's geologic history. The theory of plate tectonics helps explain the formation of mountain ranges, volcanism, earthquakes and the features associated with active plate boundaries. 
Definition: What is plate tectonics. The concept that describes and explains how the major features of the Earth form and/or deform. The essential processes of plate tectonics are 1)seafloor spreading and 2) subduction. These two processes operate on basic units called plates. Key surface features such as mountain ranges form in particular tectonic settings when these processes act on plates directly or indirectly. Plates exist as a consequence of the specific conditions of temperature and pressure, and materials found on Earth. 
1 This area is a good example of the interplay of tectonic and magmatic processes. 2  Even in fairly recent history the theory of tectonic plates beneath the earth's crust was discounted and scorned before it could eventually be proven. 1 In this paper, we discuss the tectonic settings and magmatic processes which allow these magmas to reach the surface. 2 
1 Geology Relating to the structure of the earth’s crust and the large-scale processes which take place within it: the movements of the tectonic plates areas of tectonic activity. More example sentences. 1  In this paper, we discuss the tectonic settings and magmatic processes which allow these magmas to reach the surface. 1 In this paper, we discuss the tectonic settings and magmatic processes which allow these magmas to reach the surface. 2  This area is a good example of the interplay of tectonic and magmatic processes.
Tectonics. (or geotectonics), a branch of geology that studies the structure of the earth’s crust and its changes under the influence of mechanical tectonic movements and deformations associated with the development of the earth as a whole (see and).
Tectonics (from the Late Latin tectonicus from the Greek τεκτονικός, pertaining to building ) is concerned with the processes which control the structure and properties of the Earth's crust, and its evolution through time. The lithosphere is divided into separate 'plates' that move relative to each other on the underlying, relatively weak asthenosphere in a process ultimately driven by the continuous loss of heat from the earth's interior.