Night blindness is due to a disorder of the cells in the retina that are responsible for vision in dim light. It has many causes, including: 1  Nearsightedness. 2  Glaucoma. 3  Glaucoma medications that work by constricting the pupil. 4  Cataracts. 5  Diabetes. 6  Retinitis pigmentosa. 7  Vitamin A deficiency. 
Night blindness. Night blindness, also called nyctalopia, means a person cannot see well at night or in poor light. Night blindness is not an eye condition itself, but is a symptom of other eye problems, such as untreated short-sightedness. Night blindness is due to a disorder of the cells in the retina that are responsible for vision in dim light. It has many causes, including: 1  Short-sightedness. 2  Glaucoma medications that work by constricting the pupil. 3  Cataracts.
Causes of Night Blindness / Nyctalopia. Night blindness, also called “Nyctalopia”, is a condition characterized by the inability to see well or to see at all in low light. It can also give a diminished ability to see contrast and difficulty transitioning from bright light to dim light. Common causes of untreatable night blindness include the following conditions. 1  X-linked congenital stationary night blindness – This type of night blindness is, as the name says, congenital. 2  It is caused by a genetic defect and comes in two forms: complete and incomplete.
Problems with the retina is usually the cause of night blindness. One cause of night blindness is cataracts, which is more common in individuals over 50 years of age. Those who are nearsighted can see nearby objects but things that are far away appear blurry. Night blindness can make it difficult to drive after dark. The underlying cause of night blindness is usually a problem with the retina. This is because the retina is made of rods and cones, and the rods help the eye see in areas with poor lighting. There are several medical conditions that can cause problems with the retina and lead to problems with vision in low light.
1 X-linked congenital stationary night blindness – This type of night blindness is, as the name says, congenital. 2  It is caused by a genetic defect and comes in two forms: complete and incomplete. 3  With complete night blindness, the rods do not respond to light at all. Common causes of untreatable night blindness include the following conditions. 1 
In rare cases, vitamin A deficiency can also lead to night blindness. Vitamin A, also called retinol, plays a role in transforming nerve impulses into images in the retina. The retina is a light-sensitive area in the back of your eye. Night blindness caused by nearsightedness, cataracts, or vitamin A deficiency is treatable. Corrective lenses, such as eyeglasses or contacts, can improve nearsighted vision both during the day and at night.
Causes. Night blindness is caused by a disorder of the cells in the retina that are responsible for vision in dim light (cones). There may be several common causes: 1  Lack of vitamin A, which can cause a disorder of the retina. 2  Cataracts, which are cloudy areas in the lens of the eye
Causes of Night Blindness. Night blindness, sometimes referred to as nyctalopia or impaired dark adaptation, is due to a disorder of the cells in the retina that are responsible for vision in dim light. It can be a symptom of a number of conditions that can be acquired or congenital (present at birth): 1 Vitamin A deficiency: Night blindness is one of the first signs of vitamin A deficiency, which is commonly associated with malnutrition. 2  The vitamin deficiency often develops in malnourished children who are too young to recognize a problem with their night vision or report a vision problem.