The reason for this is that the genomic RNA in cells with an active replicon is a mixture of molecules. One fraction is synthesized from the runoff MG by T7 RNA polymerase (input RNA), and the other fraction results from the replication of the antigenomic RNA by Lassa virus polymerase. An inhibitory effect of Z protein was previously demonstrated with the LCMV and Tacaribe virus replicon systems (12, 32). We therefore wondered whether a similar effect is also observed in the Lassa virus replicon system. Various amounts of pCITE-Z were cotransfected with pCITE-NP, pCITE-L, and genomic MG DNA or RNA.
Lassa virus (LASV) is an arenavirus that causes Lassa hemorrhagic fever, a type of viral hemorrhagic fever (VHF), in human and non-human primates. Lassa virus is an emerging virus and a select agent, requiring Biosafety Level 4-equivalent containment. The well-known Lassa fever is mostly caused by the Lassa virus. The symptoms include flu-like illness characterized by fever, general weakness, cough, sore throat, headache, and gastrointestinal manifestations.
Abstract. We describe the isolation and characterization of a new Lassa virus strain imported into Germany by a traveler who had visited Ghana, Cote Côte'D, ivoire And Burkina. Faso this, strain DESIGNATED, av originated from a region In West africa Where lassa fever has not been. reported Virus RNA was isolated from 140 µL of serum or cell culture supernatant of Lassa virus and LCMV-infected Vero and L cells, respectively, by using the QIAamp Viral RNA kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions (elution of RNA in 50 µL of buffer).
The arenavirus Lassa virus causes Lassa fever, a viral hemorrhagic fever that is endemic in the countries of Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Guinea and perhaps elsewhere in West Africa. 
Construction of plasmids for expression of Lassa virus proteins. Lassa virus strain AV, which had been previously isolated from a patient with fulminant Lassa fever (24), was selected as a basis for the replicon system. An inhibitory effect of Z protein was previously demonstrated with the LCMV and Tacaribe virus replicon systems (12, 32). We therefore wondered whether a similar effect is also observed in the Lassa virus replicon system. Various amounts of pCITE-Z were cotransfected with pCITE-NP, pCITE-L, and genomic MG DNA or RNA.
This is excluded in the Lassa virus system as well as in the RNA polymerase I-based LCMV system. Another difference from existing systems concerns the expression of the MG. The Lassa virus replicon was only functional with runoff MG transfected as DNA or RNA. An inhibitory effect of Z protein was previously demonstrated with the LCMV and Tacaribe virus replicon systems (12, 32). We therefore wondered whether a similar effect is also observed in the Lassa virus replicon system. Various amounts of pCITE-Z were cotransfected with pCITE-NP, pCITE-L, and genomic MG
Lassa fever causes hemorrhagic fever frequently shown by immunosuppression. Replication for Lassa virus is very rapid, while also demonstrating temporal control in replication. The first replication step is transcription of mRNA copies of the negative-or minus-sense genome. The well-known Lassa fever is mostly caused by the Lassa virus. The symptoms include flu-like illness characterized by fever, general weakness, cough, sore throat, headache, and gastrointestinal manifestations.
Lassa viruses are enveloped, single-stranded, bisegmented, ambisense RNA viruses. Their genome is contained in two RNA segments that code for two proteins each, one in each sense, for a total of four viral proteins. The well-known Lassa fever is mostly caused by the Lassa virus. The symptoms include flu-like illness characterized by fever, general weakness, cough, sore throat, headache, and gastrointestinal manifestations.
Lassa fever or Lassa hemorrhagic fever (LHF) is an acute viral hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus and first described in 1969 in the town of Lassa, in Borno State, Nigeria. Lassa fever is a member of the Arenaviridae virus family. Outbreaks of the disease have been observed in Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea, and the Central African Republic. The primary animal host of the Lassa virus is the Natal multimammate mouse (Mastomys natalensis), an animal found in most of sub-Saharan Africa.
All hemorrhagic fever viruses have single-stranded RNA genomes, which differ in polarity and in the number of segments (flaviviruses: positive-sense, 1 segment; filoviruses: negative-sense, 1 segment; arenaviruses: negative-sense, 2 segments; bunyaviruses: negative-sense, 3 segments). For example, many cases of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, Lassa or yellow fever are mild and go unrecognized, but Ebola and Marburg hemorrhagic fever is almost always a severe disease, in which the case fatality rate ranges from 50-90%.