Moreover, ceiling fans are less expensive to operate than air conditioners. National Average Cost of Ceiling Fan Installation. According to various home remodeling cost estimators, the 2013 national average price for new ceiling fan installation in the U.S. ranges from $95-$215, if done as a DIY project. The average DIYer spends around $143 on the project
$906.05. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Ceiling Fan! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Ceiling Fan Installation project. For a basic 1 fan project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Ceiling Fan ranges between $468.74 - $906.05 per fan. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
The ceiling fan you install should be the right size for the room: 1  Rooms that measure about 75 square feet need a fan with a 29- to 36-inch blade diameter. 2  For rooms measuring 76 to 144 square feet, choose a fan with a blade diameter of 36 to 42 inches. 
Need 4 ceiling fans installed. 1 in living area, 1 in stairwell, and 1 in each bedroom. Moderator Comments: You could expect to pay a low of about 1 hour per fan to a high of 2 hours per fan for the installation. I would like to install a ceiling fans in three bedrooms. There are no existing wires or light fixtures on the ceilings. Moderator Comments: Hard to estimate without knowing location of available power, attic access. Estimating $150 per fan, labor only.
1 Prices start at $20-$90 for a basic one-or two-speed ceiling fan that works off a pull chain or wall switch, usually with a straightforward design and a standardized (if unexciting) light fixture. 2  Expect to pay $200-$600 for a better-designed ceiling fan in a range of styles from Victorian to tropical to modernistic. 
So, the most it can cost you to run a ceiling fan without lights is about $126 per year, which is equal to about $10 per month and the least it will cost you is $19 per year, which comes out to just $1 per month...which in either case, is amazingly cheap. The highest wattage consumed by the most energy guzzling ceiling fan on our website is about 120 watts. So if you input 120 as the fan watts and run our calculator, you will see that it still costs less than 2 cents per hour to operate the most energy guzzling ceiling fan in most states.
tweet the cost to install a ceiling fan typically ranges from $ 440 to $ 970 including the fan itself supplies and labor ceiling fans are a practical energy efficient device for increasing interior air circulation in your home and reducing hvac costs both summer and winter cost breakdown cost to install a ceiling fan will normally include ceiling fan cost varies according to blade material hardwood tends to be the most expensive blade length finish and motor quality light fixture optional a light fixture may be built in to the ceiling fan model that you choose
If it`s installing a fan/light in place of an existing fixture, with the required box and support, we would charge $75. Reply. My hourly rate is $55 per hour. i charge $55 to assemble and install a new standard one only if there is existing wires in the ceiling. I would like to install a ceiling fans in three bedrooms. There are no existing wires or light fixtures on the ceilings. Moderator Comments: Hard to estimate without knowing location of available power, attic access. Estimating $150 per fan, labor only.
Lowe's Ceiling Fan Install. Find ceiling fans for every room in your home. Use a Lowe's professional installer and save 30% on installation when you have multiple fans installed. Use our 2013 Ceiling Fan Guide to choose ceiling fans to suit your taste and lifestyle. 1. Get Inspired. Browse ceiling fans on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right ceiling fan for your home and budget.