Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract.
Viruses, bacteria, and parasites that invade the digestive tract usually cause diarrhea. Large amounts of water are lost with the diarrhea, leading to dehydration in children. Children become dehydrated much quicker than adults, and this can lead to serious problems if fluids are not replaced. Salmonella is a bacteria that infects the intestines and causes diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. Over 1 million cases of salmonella infection are reported in the United States each year. The illness usually lasts four to seven days and most people recover without treatment
Food-borne illness often shows itself as flu-like symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or fever, so many people may not recognize the illness is caused by bacteria or other pathogens on food. Thousands of types of bacteria are naturally present in our environment. Not all bacteria cause disease in humans. 
Parasites such as Giardia lamblia and cryptosporidium can cause diarrhea. Common bacterial causes of diarrhea include campylobacter, salmonella, shigella and Escherichia coli. Diarrhea caused by bacteria and parasites can be common when traveling in developing countries and is often called traveler's diarrhea. 1  Medications. 2  Many medications can cause diarrhea. 3  The most common are antibiotics. 1 Many medications can cause diarrhea. 2  The most common are antibiotics. 3  Antibiotics destroy both good and bad bacteria, which can disturb the natural balance of bacteria in your intestines. 4  This disturbance sometimes leads to an infection with bacteria called Clostridium difficile, which also can cause diarrhea.
Causes – Acute Diarrhea. Most cases of acute, watery diarrhea are caused by viruses (viral gastroenteritis). The most common ones in children are rotavirus and in adults are norovirus (this is sometimes called “cruise ship diarrhea” due to well publicized epidemics). Bacteria are a common cause of traveler’s diarrhea. Parasitic intestinal infections such as giardiasis can cause chronic diarrhea. Diabetes mellitus may be associated with diarrhea due to nerve damage and bacterial overgrowth; this occurs mainly in patients with long-standing, poorly-controlled diabetes.
Bacteria, viruses, and parasites can cause a wide variety of illnesses, and can infect any of the organs of the body. Viruses are often responsible for respiratory illnesses (such as the common cold) and digestive illnesses (such as diarrhea). Bacteria can infect any part of the body, but often cause diarrhea when they invade the digestive tract. Salmonella. Description. Salmonella is a bacteria that infects the intestines and causes diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. Over 1 million cases of salmonella infection are reported in the United States each year.
1 Giardiasis is the name of the disease caused by Giardia lamblia parasites that infect the small bowel. 2  Giardiasis is caused by Giardialamblia parasites that damage the small intestine; Giardia lamblia forms cysts are transmitted to humans in contaminated water or food and by person-to-person contact. 
Bacteria, viruses, and parasites can cause a wide variety of illnesses, and can infect any of the organs of the body. Viruses are often responsible for respiratory illnesses (such as the common cold) and digestive illnesses (such as diarrhea). Bacteria can infect any part of the body, but often cause diarrhea when they invade the digestive tract. Salmonella is a bacteria that infects the intestines and causes diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. Over 1 million cases of salmonella infection are reported in the United States each year. The illness usually lasts four to seven days and most people recover without treatmen