1 The output of the assembler program is called the object code or object program relative to the input source program. 2  The sequence of 0's and 1's that constitute the object program is sometimes called machine code. 3  The object program can then be run (or executed) whenever desired. Like the assembler, a compiler takes higher-level language statements and reduces them to machine code. A newer idea in program preparation and portability is the concept of a virtual machine.
An assembler is a program that takes basic computer instruction s and converts them into a pattern of bit s that the computer's processor can use to perform its basic operations. Some people call these instructions assembler language and others use the term assembly language. Like the assembler, a compiler takes higher-level language statements and reduces them to machine code. A newer idea in program preparation and portability is the concept of a virtual machine.
Assembler is a software or a tool that translates Assembly language to machine code. So, an assembler is a type of a compiler and the source code is written in Assembly language. Assembly is a human readable language but it typically has a one to one relationship with the corresponding machine code. Compiler is a computer program that reads a program written in one language, which is called the source language, and translates it in to another language, which is called the target language. Most often, the source language is a high level language and the target language is a low level language.
Assembler (meaning one that assembles) may refer to: 1  Assembler (computing) , a computer program which translates assembly language to an object file or machine language format. 1 Assembler (computing) , a computer program which translates assembly language to an object file or machine language format. 2  the assembler (bioinformatics) , a program to perform genome assembly.
Transforming assembly language into machine code is the job of an assembler, and the reverse can at least partially be achieved by a disassembler. Unlike high-level languages, there is usually a one-to-one correspondence between simple assembly statements and machine language instructions. There are two types of assemblers based on how many passes through the source are needed to produce the executable program. 1  One-pass assemblers go through the source code once. 2  Multi-pass assemblers create a table with all symbols and their values in the first passes, then use the table in later passes to generate code.
An assembly language (or assembler language) is a low-level programming language for a computer, or other programmable device, in which there is a very strong (generally one-to-one) correspondence between the language and the architecture's machine code instructions. There are two types of assemblers based on how many passes through the source are needed to produce the executable program. 1  One-pass assemblers go through the source code once. 2  Multi-pass assemblers create a table with all symbols and their values in the first passes, then use the table in later passes to generate code.
assembler. Programming language processor that translates an assembly language program (the source program) to the machine language program (the object program) executable by a computer. Show more usage examples... It is important that you have a good assembler making the important pieces of your product to ensure its stability. 11 people found this helpful. You need to make sure that your assembler understands exactly what you hope to achieve from all of your products.
Assembly language is converted into executable machine code by a utility program referred to as an assembler; the conversion process is referred to as assembly, or assembling the code. Assembly language uses a mnemonic to represent each low-level machine instruction or operation. There are two types of assemblers based on how many passes through the source are needed to produce the executable program. 1  One-pass assemblers go through the source code once. 2  Multi-pass assemblers create a table with all symbols and their values in the first passes, then use the table in later passes to generate code.
Each assembly language is specific to a particular computer architecture, in contrast to most high-level programming languages, which are generally portable across multiple architectures, but require interpreting or compiling. There are two types of assemblers based on how many passes through the source are needed to produce the executable program. 1  One-pass assemblers go through the source code once. 2  Multi-pass assemblers create a table with all symbols and their values in the first passes, then use the table in later passes to generate code.