Any entry way for bacteria is an entry way for disease-causing agents. Hand contact with someone w … ho has those agents can cause one to Once contact occurs, disease-causing agents, such as viruses and bacteria, may enter a person through breaks in the skin, or they may be inhaled or swallowed.
Nature of Infectious Diseases. Microorganisms that are capable of causing disease are called pathogens. Although microorganisms that cause disease often receive the most attention, it is important to note that most microorganisms do not cause disease.
An infectious disease or communicable disease is caused by a biological agent such as by a virus, bacterium or parasite. The vector does not have to be biological. Many infectious diseases are transmitted by droplets which enter the airway (e.g. common cold and tuberculosis).
An infectious disease is a disease that is caused by the invasion of a host by agents whose activities harm the host's tissues (that is, they cause disease) and can be transmitted to other individuals (that is, they are infectious).
Infectious disease requires an agent and a mode of transmission (or vector). A good example is malaria, which is caused by Plasmodial parasites, chiefly Plasmodium falciparum but does not affect humans unless the vector, the Anopheles mosquito, is around to introduce the parasite into the human bloodstream.
Just like other infectious agents, viruses cause disease by disrupting normal cell function. They do this in a variety of ways. Some viruses make repressor proteins that stop the synthesis of the host cell's proteins, RNA, and DNA.
A disease causing agent is often referred to as a pathogen. A pathogen, such as a virus or a strain of bacteria can enter the body and cause a host of symptoms. Ma … ny times, these symptoms collectively indicate the presence of a type of disease and/or infection. 13 people found this useful.
Unfortunately, many diseases fall into this category. Ifthe cause of a disease is known, the agent responsible is called the etiologic agent .The term pathogenesis refers to the manner by which a disease develops, and a pathogen is any microorganism, such as a bacterium or virus, that can cause disease.