Mango can be eaten raw as a dessert fruit or processed to various products. Ripe fruits can be sliced and canned or processed to juice, jams, jellies, nectars and preserves. Eastern and Asian cultures use unripe mangos for pickles, chutney and relishes.
While the skin color of mangoes can vary from green to red, yellow or orange, the inner flesh of the mango is mostly a golden yellow. They have a sweet and creamy taste and contain over 20 vitamins and minerals.
Sweet and peppery mango is sometimes diced and added to salsa. Mangoes can be used when making lassi, a traditional drink from India. Mango smoothies can be made at home with a blender. Freshly peeled mangos are sometimes featured in Asian fruit salads.
The mango seeds are valuable in diarrhea. The seeds should be collected during the mango season, dried in the shade and powdered and stored for use as medicine. It should be given in doses of about one and a half gram to two grams with or without honey.
Step 3 - Prepare the sugar (or other sweetener) solution. Mangoes must be packed in a solution of water and sugar or fruit juice. It's up to you which to use. Sugar is added to improve flavor, help stabilize color, and retain the shape of the fruit.
See all recipes using mango. Mangoes are now grown in many tropical and sub-tropical regions and come in a wide variety of shapes, sizes and colours. They can be round, oval, kidney-shaped or egg-shaped, with yellow, green, red or purple-flushed skin.
In the winter when you open a jar, the mangoes will taste MUCH better than anything you've ever had from a store, and by selecting the right fruit, it will use less sugar than store-bought canned mangoes. Mangoes, like many sweet stone or pitted fruit, can be packed in very light, light or medium sugar syrup.
Mangos are best eaten as a fresh fruit. They have a high sugar content, although they are slightly acid in taste. Mangos are good used in combination with other fruits in salads, and in some parts of the world they are roasted. Both the flavor and aroma of mangos are spicy and attractive.
17 Reasons Why You Need a Mango Every Day. by Mae Chan PreventDisease.com. Mangoes may very well be the king of all fruits. They fight cancer, alkalize the body, aid in weight loss, regulate diabetes, help digestion, clean your skin, and make the perfect snack. Here are 17 healthy reasons why you should be eating a mango every day.