Average Cost. Fees for cosmetic plastic surgery generally are paid prior to surgery. Oftentimes the consultation fee is deducted from the procedure. Costs vary widely and depend on the complexity of the operation, where the surgery takes place and which anesthetic is administered. Below you will find the average physician/surgeon fees for the most popular procedures in the US in 2012. These figures are for the specific procedures themselves, and exclude surgical facility, anesthesia, medical tests, prescriptions, garments and other costs related
Plastic surgery costs are usually not covered by regular medical insurance, but a number of ways to pay plastic surgery costs exist. Paramount Plastic Surgery will work with you to determine the best way for you to cover your plastic surgery costs, including financing loans, or paying on an installment plan. Many times the advertised plastic surgery cost does not include the additional costs of a surgical facility, or there may be other associated hospital fees which are not shown below. We always do our best to make you aware of every expense involved in your surgery before you commit.
Facelift cost. Find Your Surgeon. Find Your Surgeon. The average cost of a facelift is $6,550, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Facelift costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses
Plastic surgery costs can vary widely from surgeon to surgeon, due to a number of factors. Doctors adjust plastic surgery costs based on expertise and experience, as well as the length and complexity of the procedure. Plastic surgery costs should be fully disclosed and agreed to up front, prior to any surgical procedure. Many times the advertised plastic surgery cost does not include the additional costs of a surgical facility, or there may be other associated hospital fees which are not shown below. We always do our best to make you aware of every expense involved in your surgery before you commit.
Some advertised Plastic surgery costs may appear lower because they reflect only the cost of the procedure, while other plastic surgery costs include the anesthesia, the pre-and post-operative exams, and even corrective surgery. Many times the advertised plastic surgery cost does not include the additional costs of a surgical facility, or there may be other associated hospital fees which are not shown below. We always do our best to make you aware of every expense involved in your surgery before you commit.
Liposuction: The cost of this procedure depends on what body parts are treated. The average cost for a treatment is about $2,900. Operating room charges, fees for anesthesia, medical tests, prescription drugs, and post-surgery garments increase the total price. Tummy tuck: Costs vary widely for a tummy tuck. The average cost for a tummy tuck is about $5,200. Surgeons base their fees on their experience and where in the country they work. Some charge extra for the anesthesia and lab work.
Plastic Surgery Costs. Below is a listing of plastic surgery procedures and their pricing. Included is a breakdown by procedure of surgeons’ fees (on average), number of treatments, and minimum required recovery time before a patient can return to work. This information serves as a guide to help potential plastic surgery patients prepare for elective surgery
Nose surgery: The average cost of a nose job—also known as rhinoplasty—in 2013 was about $4,500. Some doctors charge separately for anesthesia, operating room costs, lab work and prescription drugs. Tummy tuck: Costs vary widely for a tummy tuck. The average cost for a tummy tuck is about $5,200. Surgeons base their fees on their experience and where in the country they work. Some charge extra for the anesthesia and lab work.
The average cost of rhinoplasty is $4,694, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Rhinoplasty surgery costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. 
The Variables of Plastic Surgery Cost. Plastic surgery cost totals vary based on the treated area or areas. For example, the total average cost to have liposuction performed in one area of the body can be up to $4,000, in three areas between $6,000 and $8,000, and in five areas $8,000 to $11,000. The cost is higher for larger body areas. Plastic surgery costs also vary depending on overhead costs. The overall average cost of a facelift, for example, ranges from $6,000 to $15,000. Of that, the cost for anesthesia accounts for between $1,000 and $1,300, and the facility fee (or hospital fee) ranges from $500 to $2