Protein. Protein helps repair the damaged tissue from your wound. You'll want to take in more protein than usual to help the healing process. This means 2 to 3 servings of protein a day, with each serving containing at least 2 to 3 ounces of meat (1 cup of beans or 2 tablespoons of peanut butter are alternatives). Your doctor will want to monitor your diet closely. Zinc. Zinc helps the body synthesize proteins and develop collagen, so it is an important mineral for wound healing. As long as you are taking in sufficient amounts of protein from meats, you should be getting enough zinc in your diet. The level recommended by your doctor will vary from 15 to 50 mg per day.
The RDI for protein in a healthy adult is 0.8 to 1.0 grams per kilogram of body weight per day. But, in malnourished people, wound healing requires a protein intake of 1.25 to 1.5 grams per kilogram. Sauer and Smith point out that protein intake above that amount does not show any benefits and may cause dehydration. For people with non-healing wounds, adequate total calorie intake is crucial in addition to protein. Sauer and Smith report that inadequate calorie intake leads the body to use protein and lean body mass for energy.
Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) for wound healing in people with diabetes includes the following four areas: 1. Thirty to 35 kcal/kg body weight, adjusted based on changes in weight and wound healing1: According to Collins, calorie intake is the most important component of nutrition care for wound healing. There is no specific recommendation for an optimal blood glucose or hemoglobin A1c level to promote wound healing. According to the 2009 Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes, lowering A1c to below or around 7% has been shown to reduce microvascular and neuropathic complications of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Requirements for the nonessential amino acids glutamine and arginine increase during wound healing, although specific recommendations for dietary intake amounts are not yet established. Glutamine acts as a precursor for nucleotide synthesis, which is essential for rapidly proliferating cells during wound healing. Animal products are complete proteins because they contain all the essential amino acids. Whole eggs, with their full amino-acid profile, are the gold-standard protein against which all other protein sources are compared.
It’s known that adequate protein is crucial for proper wound healing, but the precise amount isn’t established. Postsurgically, 1 to 1.5 g protein/kg is recommended, but this may vary with the extent of the surgical wound. Animal products are complete proteins because they contain all the essential amino acids. Whole eggs, with their full amino-acid profile, are the gold-standard protein against which all other protein sources are compared.
Black beans are high in protein, which is essential for wound healing. Nutrition is an important factor in every aspect of life, as the foods we eat provide with the energy and nutrients our bodies need to function. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, a single serving – or 1/2 cup – of these legumes provides about 8 grams of protein, and they’re low in both sodium and saturated fats. When it comes to wound healing, protein is needed for the development of new tissue, and a deficiency could lead to slow recovery times.
Amino acids. All of the body’s 20 amino acids have the same basic structure—a central carbon, at least one amino group (-NH 2), at least one carboxylic acid group (-COOH), and a side chain group that makes each amino acid unique and determines its functional role in the body. Animal products are complete proteins because they contain all the essential amino acids. Whole eggs, with their full amino-acid profile, are the gold-standard protein against which all other protein sources are compared.
requires 1,772-2,068 calories and 74-88 grams of protein for healing. The daily menus in the majority of assisted living and/or nursing facilities provide approximately 1,800-2,200 calories and 75-85 grams of protein. The challenge is encouraging older adults to consume the meals. In addition to calories, multiple studies support the need for increasing protein to 1.0-1.5 grams/kg of body weight per day for the elderly vs. the 0.8 grams/kg/day for healthy younger adults.
Elderly patients with wounds pose a special challenge because of their decreased lean body mass and the likelihood of chronic illnesses and insufficient dietary protein intake. To promote a full recovery, wound care clinicians must address the increased protein needs of wound patients, especially elderly patients. Animal products are complete proteins because they contain all the essential amino acids. Whole eggs, with their full amino-acid profile, are the gold-standard protein against which all other protein sources are compared.
To promote optimal wound healing, increase your intake of protein. Meat, poultry and fish are all good sources of protein. As World's Healthiest Foods explains, protein is essential for immune system functions, skin health and the production of enzymes. 