Origin of the name Vivian: Cognate of the French Vivien (alive), a male name derived from the Latin Vivianus, which has its root in vivus (alive). Although in Great Britain it is occasionally bestowed upon females, the alternate spelling Vivien is the more common female form. In Arthurian legend, Vivian was the name of the Lady of the Lake, an enchantress who was the mistress of Merlin. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
Notes: Vivien is a name with French origins. The meaning of the name Vivien is alive. The most common variation of Vivien is Vivian but other common spellings are Vivienne and Vivianne. Nicknames include Vi, Vivi, Yen, and Viv. The popularity of the name Vivien has increased with the naming of Vivienne Jolie-Pitt by celebrities Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt.
Vivian is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Vivian is alive. The most common variation of Vivian is Vivien but other common spellings are Vivienne and Vivianne. Nicknames include Vi, Vivi, Yen, and Viv. The popularity of the name Vivian has increased with the naming of Vivienne Jolie-Pitt by celebrities Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt. Vivian Vance and Vivian Dandridge were actresses in the 20 th century. Vivien Leigh was also an actress and famous for portraying Scarlett O’Hara in Gone with the Wind
Origin of the name Vivian: Cognate of the French Vivien (alive), a male name derived from the Latin Vivianus, which has its root in vivus (alive). Although in Great Britain it is occasionally bestowed upon females, the alternate spelling Vivien is the more common female form. In Arthurian legend, Vivian was the name of the Lady of the Lake, an enchantress who was the mistress of Merlin. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
Variants of the name Vivian include Vivianne, Vivyan. The names Bibine, Viivi, Vivien are all forms of Vivian. Vivian has the diminutive (nickname) Viviette. Vivian falls into the easy nickname name category. Vivian is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Vi-vi-an. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 98 in baby name popularity for girls with 3040 occurrences. It ranked 13859 in popular baby names for boys with 5 occurrences.
Vivian is a very prominent first name for females (#184 out of 4276, Top 4%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#11070 out of 150436, Top 7%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Vivian for girls. In Malory's Morte d'Arthur, Vivien was the Lady of the Lake and also the enchantress of Merlin. Though not linguistically related, Vivian has been used as an English version of the Irish Gaelic name Bebhinn. See also Vianna. Actresses Vivien Leigh, Vivian Vance.
The name has a sense of beauty with a drop of danger and adventure and fun to it. It is derived from the Latin meaning life. Adrienne is also a great name for a girl but Vivian is exclusively used for girls.....aka Vivienne or other spellings. It is also special because Vivian is not as common as other names. Unlike some names that make the girl sound like a total bitch bitch, like Kristina, Jessica, Victoria, Emily, Ashley, Kelly, Nicole, or Lauren, Vivian sounds graceful and elegantly classy. Parents who name their girls Vivian have refined taste.
From the Latin name Vivianus which was derived from Latin vivus alive. Saint Vivian was a French bishop who provided protection during the Visigoth invasion of the 5th century. It has been occasionally used as an English (masculine) name since the Middle Ages. 
Vivian /vi-vian/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Vivian) is pronounced VIV-ee-en. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Vivian is lively. An ancient personal name; a saint's name. The name has been common only since the 19th century. In Malory's Morte d'Arthur, Vivien was the Lady of the Lake and also the enchantress of Merlin. Though not linguistically related, Vivian has been used as an English version of the Irish Gaelic name Bebhinn. See also Vianna. Actresses Vivien Leigh, Vivian Vance.