Now I upgraded to a 10 gallon tank, which, if you buy one without all of the fancy gadgets such as heaters, filters, etc., only costs about $10. We have 3 minnows, 1 guppy, 1 algae-eating fish, and 2 snails (which, for some wonderful reason, don't seem to be reproducing) in it. Because I'm sure that all of you have minnows. I'm not talking about Rosy-Reds, either. I mean the real thing that lives in ponds and gets used for fish bait. First, you need to know that no matter how big your minnows are, or how small your crayfish is, DO NOT, under any circumstances, keep them together.
You could do a school of White Cloud minnows, they require cooler water, so you wouldn't need a heater. I think if you check the profiles, the ideal temp should be no lower than 67 degrees. Not positive. For example: my goldfish tank is fine in the summer, but my house gets so cold in the winter that I need to have a heater to keep it above 70F. Fish need a constant temperature which is one of the reasons we use heaters.
Votes: 0. Well, i have 19 litres with 7 white cloud mountain minnows and their sooo happy!!!!! they prefer to be in groups of 4 or 5 but it can be less as long as you have other schooling fish in the tank with them. Jim, At the absolute minimum get a 2ft x 1ft tank, but bigger if you can afford cash and space wise. They are a schooling fish, so likely 5-6 is considered a reasonable group of them. If you have a bigger tank 7/8 perhaps. White clouds are very fast and active fish, and fun too.
Votes: 0. the white cloud mountain minnows are usually cold water fish, which prefer the temperatures between 18-24 Celsius, but they can survive the temperatures down to 5C for the short time. Usually they do not need a heater as they can survive in room temperature as long as the room temperature won't go below 5C+. 
The White Cloud Mountain minnows can survive in temperate (read: unheated) water, as can goldfish (which get too big for the tank, as was mentioned), and so can a number of really interesting invertebrates. Most of the fish at the pet store, however, need a water temp that stays above 74 degrees. You'll need a heater in a freshwater tank, unless: (1) you'll have coldwater fish like Goldfish, and (2) the climate in which you live is warm and stable, and will keep your tank at a warm and constant temperature. November 17th, 2007, 08:51 PM.
* White cloud mountain minnows could probably survive it that cold, but I am not sure if they would thrive. Again, a heater would come in handy as white clouds really prefer at least 65-72F. And guppies-from 65-80F. They really prefer water on the warmer scale even though they tolerate cooler water for a short period. 
Goldfish need very large tanks so this tank is way too small. Most all aquariums need to have a pump and a filter. Otherwise the water gets chemically toxic and your fish will die. If your tank is water tight, you don't want to purchase a pump or filter, then my suggestion is to get some WHITE CLOUD MOUNTAIN MINNOWS. These are small, beautiful, easy to care for fish. Report Abuse. No money no fish, especially a goldfish, they need a 20-30 gallon heavily filtered tank. Any other fish will need a heater on top of an aerator (optional if your filter is adequate) and a filter.
A tank without a heater will have more extreme temp fluxes which weakens the immune system of the inhabitants. If you are looking at cooler-water species you could try White Cloud Minnows as Gwen suggested, but if your house gets too cold for them in the winter, you will need a heater. For example: my goldfish tank is fine in the summer, but my house gets so cold in the winter that I need to have a heater to keep it above 70F. Fish need a constant temperature which is one of the reasons we use heaters.
The coldwater fish most suitable for small tanks are white cloud mountain minnows which can tolerate temperatures down to 12 C. If the water temperature will stay at around 20 C, you could also consider keeping zebra danios, temperate corydoras or some of the small barbs such as cherry barbs. Goldfish are the commonest coldwater fish and they are ABSOLUTELY NOT suitable for bowls or small tanks. You need a minimum of 20 gallons for one goldfish with an additional 10 gallons of space required for each additional goldfish.