The Human circulatory system is an organ system that is mainly concerned with transportation of nutrients, gases, blood cells and hormones throughout the body, through a network of blood vessels. It is also the main cooling as well as transportation system of the body. 
The four major functions of the cardiovascular system are: 1. To transport nutrients, gases and waste products around the body. 2. To protect the body from infection and blood loss. 3. To help the body maintain a constant body temperature (‘thermoregulation’). 4. The systemic circuit is made up of the heart and all the remaining arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins in the body. This circuit pumps oxygenated (red) blood from the heart to all the tissues, muscles and organs in the body, to provide them with the nutrients and gases they need in order to function.
Print PDF. The cardiovascular system or circulatory system is a system which moves nutrients, gases and wastes between cells, helps fight diseases, and transports blood throughout the body (Circulatory System). The main components of the human cardiovascular system include the heart, blood, and various blood vessels
The blood carries oxygen and nutrients to every cell of the body. The cardiovascular system is actually comprised of two systems: The pulmonary circulation, in which the heart pumps the blood to your lungs and back again, and the circulatory system, in which the heart pumps the oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body.
The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
The main function of the circulatory system is to get blood throught the body. Your blood is pumped around by the heart which is the main function in your circulatory system. The heart sends blood through your blood vessels. The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood vessels, lymph, blood, and the lymphatic vessels and glands. The heart's main function is to pump blood, making it the  functional core of the circulatory system. Incoming,  deoxygenated blood is pumped through the right side of the h … eart  and to the lungs, where the carbon dioxide is replaced with fresh  oxygen.
The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood and blood vessels. The functions of the circulatory system are: to carry nutrients to and waste away from every cell in your body As the name suggests, the circulatory system is involved with circulating blood (or fluid connective tissue) throughout the body. The heart's main function is to pump blood, making it the  functional core of the circulatory system. Incoming,  deoxygenated blood is pumped through the right side of the h … eart  and to the lungs, where the carbon dioxide is replaced with fresh  oxygen.
In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.