If you’re sadness is lasting longer than you think it should, or if you think your sadness is leaning toward depression, ask for professional help. If you want to help me, please don’t be sad for me. Instead, send your love, prayers, wishes and good thoughts to Guinness. Love has powerful healing properties. Another option is to simply allow the emotion and to be present with it or to be present with the feeling that you don’t want to be too sad. When I have done this with sadness, I came to see that the emotion is impermanent and changes and that gives me more peace and freedom.
Because I feel like crying most of the time, I’ve shifted my focus from feeling to doing. I recognize my sadness, but don’t want to feel that sad, so I’m keeping busy. If you are really sad, I hope this to do list will help until you feel better. 1. Write: I may not be sharing my feelings with all-day tears, but I am expressing them with ink on paper. I won’t share or keep everything I write about, but it helps to get it out. Another option is to simply allow the emotion and to be present with it or to be present with the feeling that you don’t want to be too sad. When I have done this with sadness, I came to see that the emotion is impermanent and changes and that gives me more peace and freedom.
1 In this sense, your friend can help remind you of the reasons why you broke up with your boyfriend when you're stuck being sad about the breakup itself. 2  Friends can also help you feel supported and alleviate the feeling that you are alone. 3  They offer you a place to be heard and understood. 1 Listen to music. 2  Resist the temptation to go for the sad music. 3  Try listening to energetic, jumpy, soulful, or happy tunes, along with songs that inspire you or remind you of good times. 4  Music can be and is used as a very effective therapeutic tool.
Please try again later. A lot of people ask what I do when I'm sad; so these are some things that I do and you could try too. Let me know if any of these help you guys, and subscribe! 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Recently, a sweet Things to Do When You're Sad list went viral on Tumblr, and it inspired us to compile our own list of tried-and-true pick-me-ups. 
2. This is simply a list of ideas for people to do when they feel lonely. The moment you feel lonely, here are 25 things to do to get you moving. I don’t claim that these ideas are cures. In fact, I state a cure for loneliness doesn’t exist. It’s an inevitable part of life, after all. 
3. Have a good cry. Even though you may not want to cry because you are trying to feel better and want to feel happy again, sometimes crying can improve your mood. If you feel the urge to cry, then don't hold back and instead let the tears out when you feel like it. 1 Listen to music. 2  Resist the temptation to go for the sad music. 3  Try listening to energetic, jumpy, soulful, or happy tunes, along with songs that inspire you or remind you of good times. 4  Music can be and is used as a very effective therapeutic tool.
1 In addition, knowing what is making you sad will also help you determine the appropriate methods to alleviate your sadness. 2  The sadness you feel after you've broken up with your boyfriend of 3 months, for instance, will be quite different than the sadness you feel if your husband of 10 years has recently passed away. 1 Listen to music. 2  Resist the temptation to go for the sad music. 3  Try listening to energetic, jumpy, soulful, or happy tunes, along with songs that inspire you or remind you of good times. 4  Music can be and is used as a very effective therapeutic tool.
Weight, it’s the only thing I can think of when it comes to sadness. So sad you feel as if people are dancing on your chest, listening to music uniquely their own. They mock you and they crush you, as they use you and you cannot enjoy their precious moves or the twists and turns of the melodies inside their heads. But even with the thinking, and the breathing and the play-acting at normalcy I am so sad I cannot breathe. The dancers on my chest are angry, they are stomping on me now. They are yelling things I cannot hear but know they are saying. What a waste sadness is.