The name Melissa is derived from the Greek word melissa mélissa meaning, honey owing to the abundance of nectar in the. Flowers the stems are, square like most other plants in the mint. Family the leaves are borne in opposite pairs on the, stems and are usually ovate or-heart shaped and emit a lemony scent when. bruised The name Melissa is derived from the Greek word melissa mélissa meaning, honey owing to the abundance of nectar in the. Flowers the stems are, square like most other plants in the mint. family
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Melissa officinalis, known as lemon balm, balm, common balm, or balm mint, is a perennial herbaceous plant in the mint family Lamiaceae, native to south-central Europe, North Africa, the Mediterranean region, and Central Asia. The white flowers attract bees, hence the genus name Melissa (Greek for 'honey bee'). Its flavour comes from citronellal (24%), geranial (16%), linalyl acetate (12%) and caryophyllene (12%).
The Arabs introduced it as medicinal herb, a tea that was taken for anxiety and depression. Melissa tea is still known in France today as a remedy for fatigue and headaches. Melissa derives its name from the Greek for honeybee. The leaves were rubbed onto beehives to prevent swarming and to encourage the bees to return to the hives. Lemon balm tea was known to have powers of longevity. Today the tea is taken to treat colds and flu, lower blood pressure and for insomnia and indigestion. Balm is an excellent carminative herb that relieves spasms in the digestive tract, and is used in cases of flatulent dyspepsia.
The leaves have a gentle lemon scent, related to mint. During summer, small white flowers full of nectar appear. It is not to be confused with bee balm (which is genus Monarda). The white flowers attract bees, hence the genus name Melissa (Greek for 'honey bee'). Its flavour comes from citronellal (24%), geranial (16%), linalyl acetate (12%) and caryophyllene (12%).
Overview. Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis), a member of the mint family, is considered a calming herb. It was used as far back as the Middle Ages to reduce stress and anxiety, promote sleep, improve appetite, and ease pain and discomfort from indigestion (including gas and bloating, as well as colic). Plant Description. Native to Europe, lemon balm is grown all over the world. It is grown not only in herb gardens or to attract bees, but also in crops for medicine, cosmetics, and furniture polish manufacturing. The plant grows up to 2 feet high, sometimes higher if not maintained.
Melissa is a genus of perennial herbs in the Lamiaceae, native to Europe and Asia but cultivated and naturalized in many other places. The name Melissa is derived from the Greek word melissa mélissa meaning, honey owing to the abundance of nectar in the. Flowers the stems are, square like most other plants in the mint. family
Lemon Balm was dedicated to the goddess Diana, and used medicinally by the Greeks some 2,000 years ago. In the Middles Ages lemon balm was used to soothe tension, to dress wounds, and as a cure for toothache, skin eruptions, mad dog bites, crooked necks, and sickness during pregnancy. It was even said to prevent baldness. A tea made from Lemon balm leaves is said to soothe menstrual cramps and helps relieve PMS. The herb is used for nervous agitation, sleeping problems, functional gastrointestinal complaints, menstrual cramps and urinary spasms.
Overview. Lemon balm, or “Melissa officinalis,” is an herb belonging to the mint family that’s been used for centuries to treat anxiety, sleep disorders, indigestion and wounds. You can make lemon balm tea by steeping 1/4 to 1 tsp. of dried herb in hot water. You can drink the tea up to four times daily. 
Lemon balm is a perennial herb from the mint family. The leaves, which have a mild lemon aroma, are used to make medicine. Lemon balm is used alone or as part of various multi-herb combination products. Lemon balm is also used for Alzheimer's disease, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), an autoimmune disease involving the thyroid (Graves' disease), swollen airways, rapid heartbeat due to nervousness, high blood pressure, sores, tumors, and insect bites.
A concentrated extract of Melisa is sold in Europe for the treatment of core sores, herpes HSV-1 and HSV-2, genital herpes. Preparation Methods & Dosage: Lemon balm Leaf tea, extracts, and the essential oil, melissa are all commonly used. Lemon balm is used to flavor chicken and fish, use it in any recipes that call for a lemon type seasoning. 