As a rule of thumb you can add 50% extra to the build cost of a single storey extension. So, £24,000 +50% = £36,000. + Add on 10-15% for professional fees (architect, planning application, building regs, structural engineer). + VAT. You may have heard that the rule of thumb is £1,000 per m2. However, this figure has been bandied about for rather a long time now! From experience, £1,200 per m2 is a now a more realistic estimate for a house extension cost in 2015 and reflects price increases over the last few years.
So, for your 4 x 5m extension, the build cost would be roughly £24,000. + Add on 10-15% for professional fees (architect, planning application, building regs, structural engineer). + VAT. You may have heard that the rule of thumb is £1,000 per m2. However, this figure has been bandied about for rather a long time now! From experience, £1,200 per m2 is a now a more realistic estimate for a house extension cost in 2015 and reflects price increases over the last few years.
ARTICLE Stephanie Matheson. A same level house extension in Australia will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check. In most cases, when you are extending your home you will be able to keep all the original cladding on your house and simply add the same style of cladding to your addition so it blends in perfectly. Painting the exterior of an average sized, single-storey house with a one-room extension is likely to cost around $15,000.
As a rough idea you can typically say that it will cost at least £1000 per m 2 or 93 per ft 2 including basic plumbing and electrician work. This price is per unit area of internal floor space and so a 5x4m single floor extension will have a total floor area of 20m 2 and a double storey will have 40m 2. The price per square metre also depends on the size of the property. There are basic costs that don't increase too much with size and hence the cost per square metre will decrease as the floor area increases. The price for a home extension depends on several factors. 1  Where you are in the country.
The best way to find out the cost of building an extension in your your area is to Post an Enquiry for home extension costs. You will get up to four house extension prices to compare and you are under no obligation whatsoever to accept any of them. Finding out the cost of building an extension is a good starting point as you will also get loads of advice on different extension designs and extension ideas. For example: 1  You can find and compare architect’s costs to create your extension plans; 2  You can find local builders and compare house extension costs for any type of home extension project; 3  You can find out about extension building regulations; 4  Find out about planning permission for extensions; 5  Download FREE building contracts for extension 6  ... Fin
Quick Tip:You can also build a full basement underneath these 2 story extensions and remodel it in the future for even more living space. Two Story Home Extension Plans Two Story Home Extension 360 sq/ft Two Story Home Extension 512 sq/ft Two Story Home Extension 768 sq/ft View Second Story Addition Plans instead. Two Story Addition. Sometimes people confuse 2 story addition plans with adding another level to their house. When you want to add another floor, we call that the add a level house extension or second story addition.
The cost of your house plans depends on the size and scope of the project. Larger properties will take longer for the drafter, architect or building designer to plan and document, so will cost more. Design fees may be charged by the house, at a fixed price or as a percentage of the total construction costs. Generally, it can cost anywhere between $5000 and $10,000 for a custom home design to be created and submitted to council. Your costs will increase if you choose an architect over a drafter or building designer. 
Renovation costs for a same level extension are roughly between $60,000 and $200,000 depending on your situation, including material, labour and project management (ready to move in). As a rough guideline, earmark around $60,000 for a one-bedroom addition to your home. In most cases, when you are extending your home you will be able to keep all the original cladding on your house and simply add the same style of cladding to your addition so it blends in perfectly. Painting the exterior of an average sized, single-storey house with a one-room extension is likely to cost around $15,000.