The lateral margin of the anterior surface is serrated, and articulates with the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid, completing the posterior ethmoidal cells; the lower margin articulates with the orbital process of the palatine bone, and the upper with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The superior surface of the body [Fig. 1] presents in front a prominent spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; behind this is a smooth surface slightly raised in the middle line, and grooved on either side for the olfactory lobes of the brain.
5. (Os vomer) - a thin, plow-shaped bone (L., - plowshare). The vertical plate of the vomer bone articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone to form the bony nasal septum. The septum separates the nasal cavity into two halves called nasal fossae. 4. (Concha nasalis inferior) - one of three bones that project into the nasal cavity from the ethmoid and maxilla bones. The inferior nasal concha is thin and shelf-like in appearance and articulates laterally with the maxilla bone.
3. (Os vomer) - a thin, plow-shaped bone (L., - plowshare). The vertical plate of the vomer bone articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone to form the bony nasal septum. The septum separates the nasal cavity into two halves called nasal fossae. 4. (Concha nasalis inferior) - one of three bones that project into the nasal cavity from the ethmoid and maxilla bones. The inferior nasal concha is thin and shelf-like in appearance and articulates laterally with the maxilla bone.
The Vomer is a single relatively flat bone located in the mid-sagittal plane. It articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid superiorly and together aid in forming the nasal septum. In addition to the Perpendicular Portion, superiorly the Vomer mushrooms out into a pair of Alae which terminate and articulate with the sphenoid in a heart shaped process. Inferiorly the Vomer rests on both the maxillae and the palatines.
Right side. The perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone (vertical plate) is a thin, flattened lamina, polygonal in form, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming the septum of the nose; it is generally deflected a little to one or other side. The surfaces of the plate are smooth, except above, where numerous grooves and canals are seen; these lead from the medial foramina on the cribriform plate and lodge filaments of the olfactory nerves.
The ethmoid articulates with fifteen bones: 1  four of the neurocranium—the frontal, and the sphenoid (at the sphenoidal body and at the sphenoidal conchae). 2  eleven of the viscerocranium—, two nasal bones, two maxillae, two lacrimals, two palatines, two inferior nasal conchae, and the vomer. The ethmoid bone (/ˈɛθmɔɪd/ ; from Greek ethmos, sieve) is a bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain.
The anterior surface of the body [Fig. 2] presents, in the middle line, a vertical crest, the sphenoidal crest, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and forms part of the nasal septum. On either side of the crest is an irregular opening leading into the corresponding sphenoidal air sinus. The superior surface of the body [Fig. 1] presents in front a prominent spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; behind this is a smooth surface slightly raised in the middle line, and grooved on either side for the olfactory lobes of the brain.
Anatomy. The bone consists of a horizontal and perpendicular plate and the pyramidal process.The horizontal plate forms the posterior portion of the hard palate of the oral cavity and is directly inferior to the nasal cavity. The perpendicular plate contributes to the lateral wall of the nasal cavity where it borders the pterygoid process of sphenoid bone. The orbital process arises anterosuperiorly forming part of the orbital floor and pterygopalatine fossa.
2. (Lamina perpendicularis) - a thin, vertical plate that extends down into the nasal cavity. It articulates with the vomer bone to form the bony nasal septum. Middle Nasal Concha (or Turbinate). 3. (Concha nasalis media) - a thin plate that extends into the nasal cavity lateral to perpendicular plate. It is covered with mucous membrane, which warms, moistens, and cleans inhaled air. (Lamina cribrosa; L., cribum = siev e) - a horizontal plate (or lamin a) in the cranial floor and roof of the nasal cavity that articulates with the frontal bone. It contains many small holes that transmit the olfactory nerves.