The gallbladder is a small sac found just under the liver. It stores bile made by the liver. Bile helps you digest fats. Bile moves from the gallbladder to the small intestine through tubes called the cystic duct and common bile duct. Gallstones are made from cholesterol and other things found in the bile. 
Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, hollow structure located under the liver and on the right side of the abdomen. Its primary function is to store and concentrate bile, a yellow-brown digestive enzyme produced by the liver. The gallbladder is part of the biliary tract
► The abdominal cavity in which the gallbladder is located, is termed as the gallbladder fossa, which is nothing but a depression on the undersurface of the liver, between the quadrate and the right lobes. The function of the gallbladder is to store the bile secreted by the liver. Location of the Gallbladder. ► The gallbladder is located beneath the liver. Its location corresponds to the lowest ribs, on the right side of the rib cage.
The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. 
Best Answer: your bladder is just at the base of your abdomen. The gallbladder is a small pear-shaped organ that stores and concentrates bile. It is connected to the liver (which produces the bile) by the hepatic duct. It is approximately 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10.2 cm) long and about 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide. it's located between your kidney and your liver. Source(s):
The gallbladder is a small, green, pear-shaped organ located in the abdominal cavity of vertebrates. It grows to a length of 8 centimeters, and has a diameter of 4 centimeters. The function of the gallbladder is to store the bile secreted by the liver. Location of the Gallbladder. ► The gallbladder is located beneath the liver. Its location corresponds to the lowest ribs, on the right side of the rib cage.
Gallbladder Pain Location. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, small organ on the right side of the abdomen, just underneath the liver. Location of gallbladder pain includes the right shoulder, between the shoulder blades, center of the abdomen below the breast bone. 