KYUSHU PREFECTURES. Fukuoka Prefecture. Fukuoka Prefecture is on the north east corner of Kyushu Island and is separated from the main island of Honshu by the Kanmon Strait. The capital of Fukuoka Prefecture is Fukuoka city. Nagasaki Prefecture. Nagasaki Prefecture is on the south-western coast of Kyushu Island, and includes several small islands as well as the land around the long peninsula (Nagasaki literally means long peninsula)... Oita Prefecture. Oita Prefecture is on the north eastern coastline of Kyushu island.
Most of Kyushu's population is concentrated along the northwest, in the cities of Fukuoka and Kitakyushu, with population corridors stretching southwest into Sasebo and Nagasaki and south into Kumamoto and Kagoshima. The island is mountainous, and Japan's most active volcano, Mt Aso at 1,591 metres (5,220 ft), is on Kyushu. There are many other signs of tectonic activity, including numerous areas of hot springs.
Local news for Kyushu, Japan continually updated from thousands of sources on the web. 
Parts of Kyushu have a subtropical climate, particularly Miyazaki and Kagoshima prefectures. Major agricultural products are rice, tea, tobacco, sweet potatoes, and soy; silk is also widely produced. The island is noted for various types of porcelain, including Arita, Imari, Satsuma, and Karatsu. The island is mountainous, and Japan's most active volcano, Mt Aso at 1,591 metres (5,220 ft), is on Kyushu. There are many other signs of tectonic activity, including numerous areas of hot springs.
The capital of Kumamoto Prefecture is Kumamoto city, which is famous for its landmark Kumamoto Castle and Suizenji Park. Kumamot... Miyazaki Prefecture. Miyazaki Prefecture is on the island of Kyushu, Japan. Miyazaki Prefecture is on the eastern coast of the island of Kyushu. Surrounded by the Pacific Ocean to the south and east. Nagasaki Prefecture. Nagasaki Prefecture is on the south-western coast of Kyushu Island, and includes several small islands as well as the land around the long peninsula (Nagasaki literally means long peninsula)... Oita Prefecture. Oita Prefecture is on the north eastern coastline of Kyushu island.
Japanese Restaurant and Sushi Bar based in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Enjoy exotic cuisines from Kyushu Japanese Restaurants, where everything is fresh and delicious. Located in Virginia Beach, Virginia, our authentic Japanese restaurant and sushi bar offers an extensive selection of dinners, delicacies, and savory Japanese beverages. 
Kyushu is the third largest island of Japan located in the most south westerly area of its four main islands. Kyushu consists of seven regions, Fukuoka, Oita, Saga, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, Miyazaki and Kagoshima. Each region has a completely different character and offers unique unspoilt tourist sites with an extra warm welcome.