This post is in support of Glad. For this experiment, I use Glad Cling Wrap around my bananas. Cling Wrap is a staple in my kitchen-I use it to cover leftovers, I use it to keep food safe from bugs on a picnic, and I even use it for steaming frozen veggies in the microwave. In an effort to save my bananas from the trash can, I tried an experiment on how to keep bananas fresh… and it WORKS! All you have to do is separate each banana from the bunch and wrap each stem in plastic cling wrap.
To keep a bunch of bananas fresh for longer, wrap the stems in some plastic wrap. Re-cover the bananas with the wrap after removing one. This method prevents ethylene gas, produced naturally in the ripening process, from reaching other parts of the fruit and prematurely ripening it. This technique is hit or miss, as the coverage from the plastic wrap is unlikely to fully prevent contact with the ethylene gas. Ethylene is actually used in the banana production facilities to induce ripening at just the right time to ensure that you buy a bunch of yellow (or greenish yellow) from your local grocer. (The next step is my preferred method, and the one that the science appears to back up with the most evidence.).
We've discussed how wrapping bananas with plastic wrap keeps a bunch fresher longer, but if you want your banans to last as long as possible, the real key is to separate them and then wrap each individual stem with plastic wrap. Here's why. You can also slice them up and rest the cut sides in a little acid (lemon juice works best, maybe a little vinegar) to prevent browning. Some people also swear by putting them in the fridge to slow the process. If you're uncertain of the science here, it's really straightforward. Bananas, like many fruits, release ethylene gas naturally, which controls enzymatic browning and ripening of not just itself, but other fruits nearb
Keep sliced bananas fresh. If you've sliced a banana, whether it's to put it in the fridge or to make a delicious fruit salad, you should cover the slices in a bit of lemon juice, pineapple juice, or vinegar, all of which will keep it fresher for longer. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/d/d7/Store Bananas Step 3 Version 2.360p.mp4. 1  Put green bananas into a brown paper bag to speed up the ripening process. 2  Another way to speed up the ripening process is to place the bananas near other ripe fruit in a bowl, such as other ripe bananas.
Wrapping your bananas in cling wrap will help slow the ripening process and keep your bananas fresh for 3-4 days longer than if you don’t wrap them. I am not just making this stuff up, here is the science behind it: Bananas, like many fruits, naturally release the gases that control browning and ripening. In an effort to save my bananas from the trash can, I tried an experiment on how to keep bananas fresh… and it WORKS! All you have to do is separate each banana from the bunch and wrap each stem in plastic cling wrap.
Much of that offgassing takes place at the stem—or the crown—of the banana. By wrapping the crown of a bunch, you slow down the ripening process a bit. For the best effect, separate the bananas and wrap them individually. You can also slice them up and rest the cut sides in a little acid (lemon juice works best, maybe a little vinegar) to prevent browning. Some people also swear by putting them in the fridge to slow the process. If you're uncertain of the science here, it's really straightforward. Bananas, like many fruits, release ethylene gas naturally, which controls enzymatic browning and ripening of not just itself, but other fruits nearb
Wrap the plastic tightly at the top/crown of the bananas. Carefully remove and replace the plastic cling wrap each time you get a banana. Enjoy 3-5 days longer than usual! 
3. Wrap the stems of the bananas in plastic wrap. This will prevent ethylene gas, which is produced naturally during the ripening process, from reaching other parts of the fruit and making it ripen too fast. You can even place some tape over the plastic wrap for some extra security. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/d/d7/Store Bananas Step 3 Version 2.360p.mp4. 1  Put green bananas into a brown paper bag to speed up the ripening process. 2  Another way to speed up the ripening process is to place the bananas near other ripe fruit in a bowl, such as other ripe bananas.
1 Put green bananas into a brown paper bag to speed up the ripening process. 2  Add an apple or a tomato to the bag to ripen the bananas in less than 1 day. 3  Another way to speed up the ripening process is to place the bananas near other ripe fruit in a bowl, such as other ripe bananas. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/d/d7/Store Bananas Step 3 Version 2.360p.mp4. 1  Put green bananas into a brown paper bag to speed up the ripening process. 2