Plantar fasciitis is thickening of the plantar fascia, a band of tissue running underneath the sole of the foot. The thickening can be due to recent damage or injury, or can be because of an accumulation of smaller injuries over the years. Plantar fasciitis can be painful. 
The plantar fascia is the thick connective tissue (aponeurosis) which supports the arch on the bottom (plantar side) of the foot. It runs from the tuberosity of the calcaneus (heel bone) forward to the heads of the metatarsal bones (the bone between each toe and the bones of the mid foot). 
Topic Overview. Plantar fasciitis (say PLAN-ter fash-ee-EYE-tus) is the most common cause of heel pain. The plantar fascia is the flat band of tissue (ligament) that connects your heel bone to your toes. It supports the arch of your foot. If you strain your plantar fascia, it gets weak, swollen, and irritated (inflamed). 
Plantar Fasciitis What is the plantar fascia? (#1 in the picture to the right) The plantar fascia is a thick, ligamentous connective tissue that runs from the calcaneus (heel bone - #2 in the picture to the right) to the ball of the foot. This strong and tight tissue helps maintain the arch of the foot.
Plantar fasciitis gets its name from the plantar fascia—the band of connective tissue that stretches from the heel to the ball of your foot. Over time, too much stress on that connective tissue causes overtightening, tearing, and inflammation. When that connective tissue becomes inflamed, plantar fasciitis sets in. 
Plantar fasciitis, also known as plantar fasciosis or jogger's heel, is a disorder that results in pain in the heel and bottom of the foot. The pain is usually most severe with the first steps of the day or following a period of rest. The plantar fascia is a thick fibrous band of connective tissue that originates from the medial tubercle and anterior aspect of the heel bone. From there, the fascia extends along the sole of the foot before inserting at the base of the toes, and supports the arch
The plantar fascia is a broad, thick band of tissue that runs from under the heel to the front of the foot. Through overuse or rupture, the fascia can become damaged and painful at its attachment to the heel bone or calcaneus. Plantar Fasciitis. Also referred to as 'jogger's heel', plantar fasciitis is probably the most common cause of heel pain. This injury is the result of damage and inflammation to a band of tissue in the foot, the plantar fascia. The pain caused by this injury often radiates into the arch
Plantar fasciitis (PLAN-tur fas-e-I-tis) is one of the most common causes of heel pain. It involves pain and inflammation of a thick band of tissue, called the plantar fascia, that runs across the bottom of your foot and connects your heel bone to your toes. Plantar fasciitis commonly causes stabbing pain that usually occurs with your very first steps in the morning.
388 Followers. A. Plantar fasciitis is inflammation of the thick, fibrous band of tissue (''fascia'') that reaches from the heel to the toes, supporting the muscles and arch of the foot. When the plantar fascia is overly stretched, tiny tears can occur in its surface, causing inflammation and pain. 
Plantar fasciitis causes pain in the bottom of the heel. The plantar fascia is a thin ligament that connects your heel to the front of your foot. It supports the arch in your foot and is important in helping you walk. Plantar fasciitis is one of the most common orthopedic complaints. Your plantar fascia ligaments experience a lot of wear and tear in your daily life. Normally, these ligaments act as shock absorbers, supporting the arch of the foot.