Humans have three pairs of salivary glands--parotid, su-bmandibular and sublingual. The parotid is the largest and is situated in front of the ear. 
Answer by Carayoshi. Confidence votes 13.5K. The function of the salivary glands is to make saliva and help the bolus (soft mass of chewed food) go down the esophagus easily. Saliva contains enzymes which help break down food to a form which the body can use. It is to secrete saliva to help digestion... the salivary glands produce saliva. Confidence votes 13.5K. The function of the salivary glands is to make saliva and help the bolus (soft mass of chewed food) go down the esophagus easily. Saliva contains enzymes which help break down food to a form which the body can use
Salivary Glands and Saliva. 1  parotid glands-produce a serous, watery secretion. 2  submaxillary (mandibular) glands-produce a mixed serous and mucous secretion. 3  sublingual glands-secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. 4  serous cells, which secrete a watery fluid, essentially devoid of mucus. 
A salivary gland scan is a nuclear medicine test that evaluates the function of the salivary glands. These glands include the parotid and submandibular glands, located on both sides of the neck just below the ears and under the jaw. Salivary gland function is assessed by the pattern of uptake and secretion of a radioactive tracer, technetium 99. 
The parotid gland is the largest of the major salivary glands and the most likely to develop cancer. It is located in the cheek in front of the ear. 
We call the major salivary glands the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. They all secrete saliva into your mouth, the parotid through tubes that drain saliva, called salivary ducts, near your upper teeth, submandibular under your tongue, and the sublingual through many ducts in the floor of your mouth.
The parotid gland (often simply parotid) is a major salivary gland in many animals. In humans, the two parotid glands occur under the mouth and in front of both ears. They are the largest of the salivary glands. Each parotid is wrapped around the mandibular ramus, and secretes saliva through the Stensen duct (or parotid duct) into the mouth, to facilitate mastication and swallowing and to begin the digestion of starches. The word parotid (paraotic) literally means beside the ear. The parotid gland also secretes salivary alpha-amylase (sAA), which is the first step in the decomposition of starches during mastication. It is the main exocrine gland to secrete this. It breaks down amylose (straight chain starch) and amylopectin (branched starch) by hydrolyzing alpha 1,4 bonds.
Salivary Gland. Salivary glands include major and minor glands. Major salivary glands include parotid glands that are located in front and below the ears, the submandibular glands that are under the lower jaw on each side of the neck, and the sublingual glands that are under the tongue and the floor of mouth area. Salivary glands produce saliva. Saliva plays a role in initiating the digestion of food. Saliva also provides continuing moisture for the mouth, hence preventing dryness, constantly washing the mouth as one produces a constant flow of saliva that is being swallowed.
Three pairs of major salivary glands (parotid, sublingual, and submandibular glands) and numerous smaller ones secrete saliva into the mouth (oral cavity), where it is mixed with food during mastication. Saliva contains water, mucus, and the enzyme amylase. The position of each of the three pairs of large salivary glands is indicated by their names. Parotid means near the ears; sublingual means under the tongue; and submandibular means under the mandible (that is, under the jaw-bone).