Split and merge into it. Answer by Artifaxiom. Confidence votes 174. Ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy is a method of determining which wavelengths (colours) of visible light a sample absorbs or emits. There are three main types of UV spectroscopy: transmittance, absorbance, and emission. Transmittance and absorbance spectroscopy are opposites of one another. 
UV-VISIBLE SPECTROSCOPY MENU Electromagnetic radiation. . . A simple introduction to the electromagnetic spectrum, and the place of ultra-violet and visible light in it. A double beam absorption spectrometer. . . Explains how a UV-visible absorption spectrum is obtained using a double-beam spectrometer Bonding theory for UV-visible absorption spectra. . .
Analysis of white light by dispersing it with a prism is an example of spectroscopy. Spectroscopy /spɛkˈtrɒskəpi/ is the study of the interaction between matter and electromagnetic radiation. Historically, spectroscopy originated through the study of visible light dispersed according to its wavelength, by a prism. Spectroscopy and spectrography are terms used to refer to the measurement of radiation intensity as a function of wavelength and are often used to describe experimental spectroscopic methods. Spectral measurement devices are referred to as spectrometers, spectrophotometers, spectrographs or spectral analyzers
Spectroscopy /spɛkˈtrɒskəpi/ is the study of the interaction between matter and electromagnetic radiation. Spectroscopy and spectrography are terms used to refer to the measurement of radiation intensity as a function of wavelength and are often used to describe experimental spectroscopic methods. Spectral measurement devices are referred to as spectrometers, spectrophotometers, spectrographs or spectral analyzers
Ultraviolet-Visible spectroscopy or Ultraviolet-Visible spectrophotometry (UV/VIS) involves the spectroscopy of photons (spectrophotometry). It uses light in the visible and adjacent near ultraviolet (UV) and near infrared (NIR) ranges. In this region of energy space molecules undergo electronic transitions. 
1 Ultraviolet and visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectroscopy is the measurement of the attenuation of a beam of light after it passes through a sample or after reflection from a sample surface. 2  Absorption measurements can be at a single wavelength or over an extended spectral range. 3  4. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 1 3. 2  Ultraviolet and visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectroscopy is the measurement of the attenuation of a beam of light after it passes through a sample or after reflection from a sample surface. 3  Absorption measurements can be at a single wavelength or over an extended spectral range. 4  4. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
Follow. Ultraviolet and visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectroscopy is the measurement of the attenuation of a beam of light after it passes through a sample or after reflection from a sample surface. Absorption measurements can be at a single wavelength or over an extended spectral range. 1 3. 2  Ultraviolet and visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectroscopy is the measurement of the attenuation of a beam of light after it passes through a sample or after reflection from a sample surface. 3  Absorption measurements can be at a single wavelength or over an extended spectral range. 4  4. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
The instrument used in ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy is called a UV/V is spectrophotometer. It measures the intensity of light passing through a sample (I), and compares it to the intensity of light before it passes through the sample (I o). Main Image: Ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy or ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometry (UV-Vis or UV/Vis) refers to absorption spectroscopy or reflectance spectroscopy in the ultraviolet-visible spectral region. Absorption spectroscopy refers to spectroscopic techniques that measure the absorption of radiation.