If You File as an Individual. If you file a federal tax return as an individual and your combined income (meaning your benefits plus any other sources of income) is between $25,000 and $34,000, you may have to pay taxes on 50 percent of your Social Security Disability benefits. If your combined income is more than $34,000, you may have to pay taxes on up to 85
In general, the amount of your benefits that will be taxed is based on the following rules: 1. If you are single and your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) plus half of your Social Security benefits is more than $25,000 but less than $34,000, then up to half of your disability benefits will be taxable. If your income is above $34,000, then up to 85 percent of your Social Security may be taxed. 2.
The Back Payment Issue. If you have just begun receiving Social Security Disability payments and you received a back payment from the SSA, you need to be very careful when filing taxes and claiming your back payment amount as income on your tax return. Back payments are usually paid as a lump-sum amount by the SSA. If you do not make more than $25,000 a year and file as an individual or your household income is less than $32,000 per year and you file jointly, you will not have to pay taxes on your Social Security Disability benefits. If your income exceeds those limits, a portion of your disability payments may indeed be taxable.
The amount of combined income will determine your tax bracket. Recipients of Social Security disability benefits, if they are taxed, usually fall into the 10-15% tax bracket. That means you would only pay about 10-15% taxes on up to 85% of your benefits. If you fall into one of these three scenarios you may choose to have federal taxes withheld from your benefit check.
Some people have to pay federal income taxes on their Social Security benefits. This usually happens only if you have other substantial income (such as wages, self-employment, interest, dividends and other taxable income that must be reported on your tax return) in addition to your benefits. No one pays federal income tax on more than 85 percent of his or her Social Security benefits based on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules. If you: 1  file a federal tax return as an individual and your combined income* is. 2  between $25,000 and $34,000, you may have to pay income tax on up to 50 percent of your benefits.
If your disability benefits are subject to taxation because your income is above these limits, your disability benefits would be taxed at your marginal tax rate. In other words, you would not pay taxes of 50% or 85% of your benefits, you would probably pay taxes of about 10-15% on 50%-85% of your benefits. If you receive a lump-sum payment for retroactive benefits and/or back payments, you may have to pay taxes on this amount all in one year, and your tax rate might be higher than usual because of receiving the lump sum.
Federal Taxation of Social Security Disability Benefits. Here's how it works. If you are married and you file jointly, and you and your spouse have more than $32,000 per year in income (including SSDI benefits), a portion of your SSDI benefits are subject to tax. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. Social Security disability benefits (SSDI) can be subject to tax, but most people do not end up paying taxes on them because they don't have much other income. About a third of Social Security disability recipients, however, do pay some taxes, because of their spouse's income or other household income