Full Definition of SPIRITLESS. : lacking animation, cheerfulness, or courage. — spir·it·less·ly adverb. — spir·it·less·ness noun. See spiritless defined for English-language learners. Synonym Discussion of SPIRITLESS. languid, languorous, lackadaisical, listless, spiritless mean lacking energy or enthusiasm.
He knows it is a field because, for the moment, positive signs of its identity remain: the few weeds and stubble showing last.. It is important to understand, then, that this is a cultivated field and not a natural clearing in the forest; it is nature given purpose and identity by man. The implied rebirth in the necessary melting of the snow and the reemergence of the field as a real thing is an unassimilated lump of hope, working for the moment in stubborn defiance of the tone and meaning of the poem as it stands at this point.
5 simply eclipses that of all his predecessors, and successors: the colourfulness of the woodwind instruments in the first movement, the enthralling agogics of the second movement and the rhythmic pregnancy of the third and fourth movements make the recording just as unforgettable as the exalted. 1. (Classical Music) music (often preceded by a tempo marking) to be played in a spirited or animated manner: allegro spiritoso. [Italian, from spirito spirit, from Latin spīritus breath; see spirit 1 ].
Emaciation is a predominant symptom of malnourishment, a basic component of poverty and famine that also occurs with diseases that interfere with the digestive system and appetite, other systems, and eating disorders. Slight emaciation is seen with nutrition disorders such as beriberi, caused by a lack of thiamine (vitamin B1), and pellagra, caused by insufficient intake of niacin (vitamin B3). The former is mainly characterized by mental impairment, and the latter is more serious, often leading to death.
Emaciation (/ɨˌmeɪʃiːˈeɪʃən/ or /ɨˌmeɪsiːˈeɪʃən/) is defined as extreme weight loss and thinness due to a loss of subcutaneous fat (the fatty, or adipose tissue beneath the skin) and muscle throughout the body. Slight emaciation is seen with nutrition disorders such as beriberi, caused by a lack of thiamine (vitamin B1), and pellagra, caused by insufficient intake of niacin (vitamin B3). The former is mainly characterized by mental impairment, and the latter is more serious, often leading to death.
More subtly in defiance of the tone and meaning is the paradoxical assertion that the blanker whiteness has nothing to expressa proposition which the very existence of the poem appears to jeopardize. Nothing actually becomes for once, then, something in a context which is consistently negative. The implied rebirth in the necessary melting of the snow and the reemergence of the field as a real thing is an unassimilated lump of hope, working for the moment in stubborn defiance of the tone and meaning of the poem as it stands at this point.
Proverbs of the week. The first step to health is to know that we are sick. (English proverb). As long as there will remain two men on Earth, Jealousy will reign (Breton proverb). He who plants thorns must never expect to gather roses. (Arabic proverb).
Confronted with the deadness, the spiritlessness, of the external world, the poet notes that he, too, is absent-spirited; he, too, is included in the loneliness, which is to say the separateness, of the universe of material objects. The implied rebirth in the necessary melting of the snow and the reemergence of the field as a real thing is an unassimilated lump of hope, working for the moment in stubborn defiance of the tone and meaning of the poem as it stands at this point.
The malnourishment associated with emaciation has been referred to as  inanition , while infection by parasites has been described as  adulteration . Treatment of emaciation includes gradual renourishment with a slow increase of daily caloric intake to help rebuild tissues and regain weight. Slight emaciation is seen with nutrition disorders such as beriberi, caused by a lack of thiamine (vitamin B1), and pellagra, caused by insufficient intake of niacin (vitamin B3). The former is mainly characterized by mental impairment, and the latter is more serious, often leading to death.