Dwarf Types. Ever Red Japanese maple (Acer palmatum Dissectum Atropurpureum) is a larger dwarf that grows to only 6 feet tall but up to 10 feet wide in USDA zones 6 through 8. Like other dissectum maples, Ever Red has lacy, delicate red foliage and a weeping habit. Homeowners have hundreds of dwarf Japanese varieties to choose from, ranging from 3 feet tall to as much as 12 feet, roughly half the height of standard red Japanese maples.
Dwarf fruit trees are miniature versions of the full-sized tree. Almost every fruit tree can be purchased in a dwarf variety at your local nursery. Citrus trees are the most common fruit trees that are dwarfed. These trees grow no bigger than approximately 8 feet tall but produce full-sized fruit. Dwarf fruit trees are typically grown in containers so they are perfect for someone who does not have the room for a regular-sized tree. The size of the tree is usually limited by the size of container that it is grown in
Semi-dwarf is the next-larger size in fruit trees. These trees will reach 12-15 feet tall/wide. Once semi-dwarf fruit trees are bearing fruit, a 6-foot tall person can harvest most of the fruit without needing a ladder. Sweet cherries are an exception: running a little larger, the semi-dwarf size sweet cherry tree reaches 15-18 feet tall/wide. The average semi-dwarf fruit tree may yield almost twice as much fruit as a dwarf-sized one, without taking up much more space.
These can get as tall as 4 to 7 feet in height and need the same care as the larger banana trees needs. There are different types of Dwarf Banana Trees. I will go into details for different types of these plants. The type that I am about to tell you how to care for is like a Musa the Dwarf Cavendish banana tree. 
Suitable for USDA zones 5 through 9, this plant grows into a bushy, mounded plant about 5 feet tall and 3 to 4 feet wide. Another lacy dissectum variety is Red Dragon (Acer palmatum dissectum Red Dragon), which grows 3 to 5 feet tall in USDA zones 5 through 8. Homeowners have hundreds of dwarf Japanese varieties to choose from, ranging from 3 feet tall to as much as 12 feet, roughly half the height of standard red Japanese maples.
Dwarf fruit trees will grow 8-10 feet tall and wide and, depending on the environment, may start bearing fruit sooner than their larger counterparts. Dwarf trees are ideal if space is limited, and care and maintenance (spraying, pruning, harvesting, etc.) can be done from the safety of the ground — no ladders needed! Sweet cherries are an exception: running a little larger, the semi-dwarf size sweet cherry tree reaches 15-18 feet tall/wide. The average semi-dwarf fruit tree may yield almost twice as much fruit as a dwarf-sized one, without taking up much more space.
Identification. The Chinese dwarf holly, as the name suggests, is a small holly species. It is also sometimes known as the dwarf horned holly or the dwarf Chinese holly, and is winter hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 6 through 9. Evergreen leaves are alternate, convex and triangular. Height. Although the word “holly” is commonly associated with tall trees like the American holly (Ilex opaca), hardy in USDA zones 5 through 9, there are many types that range in height. The Chinese dwarf holly is a smaller holly species, only growing to between 3 and 5 feet tall. It spreads an equal distance, giving it a round, shrubby form. It is dense and compact, which adds to its value as a hedge plant
1 Dwarfing Rootstocks For Miniature Fruit Trees. 2  Note: Dwarfing rootstocks are not the same across all fruit varieties. 3  Although you can produce 3 to four foot high dwarf apples, a dwarf cherry is still a tree 18 to 20 feet tall. 1 Note: Dwarfing rootstocks are not the same across all fruit varieties. 2
Miniature or Dwarf fruit trees produce regular sized fruit on smaller trees. The tree is reduced in size, but the fruit is identical to fruit grown on larger trees. A three to four foot high apple tree might produce up to 45 apples of a regular (full sized) apple variety. 1 Note: Dwarfing rootstocks are not the same across all fruit varieties. 2  Although you can produce 3 to four foot high dwarf apples, a dwarf cherry is still a tree 18 to 20 feet tall.