Notes: Chloe is a name with Greek origins. The meaning of the name Chloe is verdant and blooming. The most common alternative spelling is Khloe. Other spellings include Cloe, Chloey, Chloie, Kloey, ad Kloe. 
It ranked 10881 in popular baby names for boys with 6 occurrences. View the Chloe Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Chloe has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Chloe to other names. Variants of the name Chloe include Chloie, Khloe. The names Kloe, Kloey are all forms of Chloe. Chloe falls into the Greek myth name category. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Chloe. The English borrowed Chloe from the French Chloe. Chloé both forms are ultimately derived from The “greek” khloē “khlóē (meaning) small young green shoot of”. A plant the name is related To “the” greek “khloros-meaning” greenish yellow in reference to the color of, a small. young shoot 
Incoming search terms: acrostic meaning of the word chloe, chloe meaning bible, mean acrostic poem chloe, meaning of every letter in chloe, Meaning of name Chloe. Meaning of CHLOE name, name definition, origin of CHLOE name, Popularity of name, analysis, gender of CHLOE, Acrostic Poem, other details; Advertisement. 
Meaning: The Greek name Chloe means-blooming, verdant. Mythology: another name for Demeter, the goddess of agriculture. Rating: Variants: 
Meaning of Chloe. Greek name. In Greek, the name Chloe means-verdant and blooming.The name Chloe originated as an Greek name. The name Chloe is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-verdant and blooming. Origin-Greece. 
Chloe /chloe/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KHLOH-ee. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Chloe is  green shoot. From Khloe, originally used in the classical period to symbolize the fertility goddess Demeter in blooming and verdant glory. May be connected with Chloris. Chloe is a very popular first name for women (#1137 out of 4276, Top 27%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Chloe for girls. Chloe reached its top position of #9 in the U.S. in the year 2010, and is presently at #18.
Look up Chloe in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Chloe (also Chloe, Chloë, Cloe, Chloee, Chlöe, Chloe, Chloé, Clowy, Kloe, Khloe khloe Khloë) khloe khloé kloe kloé or kloe kloë is, a first or given Name For girls especially popular. in the united kingdom since about 1990 
Popularity. See worldwide popularity rankings of Chloe as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby girl name, Chloe is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 24 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . 