These are foods that contain vitamin A or its precursor called beta-carotene. Animal foods contain vitamin A whereas no plant food provides vitamin A but instead they have beta-carotene which is converted to vitamin A in the liver. The foods listed in this article are good sources of vitamin A or beta-carotene.
Vitamins and minerals are found in a wide array of foods. And therefore, a balanced diet contains many different nutrient-rich foods which will help ensure you are meeting your vitamin and mineral needs. Food Sources of B Vitamins and Vitamin D. B vitamins are found in a wide variety of foods including protein rich foods such as fish, poultry, meat, eggs and dairy. In addition, leafy green vegetables, beans and peas contain B vitamins, while breads and cereals often have added B vitamin
You can get B vitamins from proteins such as fish, poultry, meat, eggs, and dairy products. Leafy green vegetables, beans, and peas also have B vitamins. Many cereals and some breads (labeled fortified) have added B vitamins. If you are grocery shopping for foods that contain B vitamins, below you'll find a breakdown of the essential B vitamins, their individual benefits, and their most common food sources. Vitamin B1 can be found in: whole grain, enriched fortified products, bread and cereals. Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin) – Riboflavin is key in metabolism and in the conversion of food into energy; it also helps to produce red blood cells. Vitamin B2 can be found in: milk, bread products, and fortified cereals.
Not only are they one of the best vitamin E foods, but mustard greens are also high in vitamin K, vitamin A, folate, and vitamin c. Eating just one cup of boiled mustard greens contains about 14% of your daily dietary requirements. We would recommend eating organic mustard greens, if possible. 
A. Surprisingly few foods contain vitamin D -- unless it's added to the food. That's because your body is built to get vitamin D through your skin (from sunlight) rather than through your mouth (by food). But once your body has enough, it doesn't matter whether you got it through your skin or through your stomach.
Foods That Contain Vitamin B1. The term enriched on food labels means that three B vitamins (thiamin, niacin, and riboflavin) plus one mineral (iron) have been added back to that food to make up for some of the nutrients that were lost during processing. Enriched breads and cereals are, therefore, good sources of thiamin
It's true that vitamin D can be produced naturally via sunlight, but it is also in some common foods. However, some foods are better sources of vitamin D than others.Few foods contain significant amounts of vitamin D naturally, and the ones that do are not foods you want to overdo: butter, cream, egg yolks, and liver. But there are some good source
Liver, whole or fortified milk and milk products contain vitamin A. Leafy green vegetables such as spinach, broccoli and brussels sprouts as well as yellow and orange fruits and vegetables such as cantaloupe, carrots, sweet potatoes and squash contain beta-carotene, which converts to vitamin A in the body. The fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K are found in many foods, do not easily get lost in cooking and digest better when accompanied by fat. They are needed in only small amounts, and the excess is stored in the liver and fat tissues, so healthy persons need not consume them in food every day.