The largest artery in the circulatory system is the aorta. It has three branches called the brachiocephalic trunk, right common carotid, and left common carotid. The aorta tra … vels all the way from the heart to the common iliac artery. In other words, it reaches the hip region. 
The circulatory system consisting of the heart, arteries, capillaries, and veins, is the pumping mechanism that transports blood throughout the body. In the heart, the left ventricle contracts, pushing red blood cells into the aorta, the body's largest artery. From here, blood moves through a series of increasingly smaller arteries, until it reaches a capillary, the junction between arteries and veins.
The heart is the center or the main  source of the circulatory system, it pumps blood throughout a  network of blood vessels. An artery is a blood vessel that carries  blood away from the body. Capillaries are very thin vessels that  gases, nutrients, and wastes pass to body cells. A vein is a blood  vessel that carries blood to the heart. The three parts of the circulatory system are:   1. The heart-beats 60 to 100 times per minute   2. The blood vessels-about 60 000 miles / 96561 km of vessels,  i … ncluding the arteries, veins, and capillaries.
Your heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood to your body. Your heart is at the center of your circulatory system. This system consists of a network of blood vessels, such as arteries, veins, and capillaries. These blood vessels carry blood to and from all areas of
Closed circulatory systems (evolved in echinoderms and vertebrates) have the blood closed at all times within vessels of different size and wall thickness. In this type of system, blood is pumped by a heart through vessels, and does not normally fill body cavities. Blood flow is not sluggish. Most of this fluid is collected in the capillaries of a secondary circulatory system, the lymphatic system. Fluid in this system is known as lymph. Lymph flows from small lymph capillaries into lymph vessels that are similar to veins in having valves that prevent backflow.
The vertebrate cardiovascular system includes a heart, which is a muscular pump that contracts to propel blood out to the body through arteries, and a series of blood vessels. The upper chamber of the heart, the atrium (pl. atria), is where the blood enters the heart. Most of this fluid is collected in the capillaries of a secondary circulatory system, the lymphatic system. Fluid in this system is known as lymph. Lymph flows from small lymph capillaries into lymph vessels that are similar to veins in having valves that prevent backflow.
The circulatory system is the body system that brings blood to the body. The heart and all blood vessels make up the circulatory system. Blood vessels that take blood away from the heart are arteries. Arteries get smaller as they go away from the heart.