A reader writes: My office mates call me a hippocrite. When I found this misspelling on a chat site, I started wondering if there might be a connection between hypocrite and the “hippo” words n English. ὁ ἵππος (usually transliterated “ho hó” hippos híppos “or”) only hippo is a “noun”. For horse greeks already use this noun to form, other words using “the-”, steam ιππο-like (ἱππο-πόταμος, “hippo potamos”), pótamos-river (“horse-ἱππό, κομος horse hairy with”) a horse hair. and many others
Writing is one of those freelance careers that manifests itself in many places online — which makes sense, given that most of what we find online is written. There’s one place, though, that writing is conspicuously absent. Showcase, Gallery, and Inspiration posts typically ignore writing and focus on design and art (probably because of all the pretty pictures). Despite the ease of using all blogs as inspirational examples, there are many other sources that I’d rather not ignore. Getting Real is a book written by 37Signals about software design, and it is actually a remarkable example of good writing. The entire book is available to read online for free.
1 All formula has a lot of sugar (breastmilk is naturally quite sweet), and HiPP wins in this category, as it uses lactose as a sweetener, which is the best option (and also the most expensive). 2  Holle uses maltodextrin (a plant-based sweetener), although it seems to use less of it than most American formula brands. 1 Sugars. 2 
The writing here is not particularly funny or enlightening. What I do find interesting though is my use of words like “epistle” and “Laodiceans”. Very uncharacteristic for this stage of my writing career. Click here to read “The Hippopotamus”. English 400–1. In T.S. Eliot’s “The Hippopotamus,” the reader can see Eliot’s contempt for the church and all of its corruption. He compared the church and its people with a lazy Hippopotamus.
The children will write about what they can do to help the Earth. How this activity is completed will depend on the age of the child. Some children will be able to write this themselves using a model and other would need to have this information scribed. 
Be HIPP! HIPP is a strategy to help you interpret historical documents and write about them. This skill will be particularly useful in the writing of Document Based Question (DBQ) essays. HIPP STATEMENT: George Washington is writing to John Jay in response to the news of a Shay’s Rebellion, an uprising in 1786 of Massachusetts farmers hard hit by the economic depression of the mid-1780s.
The prefix “hypo” is from Greek and means “under.” In most English words it’s pronounced with a long i as in hypodermic. The pronunciation of hypocrite is an exception. hypodermic: hypo + derma (skin) – a needle that goes under the skin. hypothermic: hypo + therme (heat) – body temperature under normal. ὁ ἵππος (usually transliterated “ho hó” hippos híppos “or”) only hippo is a “noun”. For horse greeks already use this noun to form, other words using “the-”, steam ιππο-like (ἱππο-πόταμος, “hippo potamos”), pótamos-river (“horse-ἱππό, κομος horse hairy with”) a horse hair. and many others
They have large teeth and tusks that they use for fighting off others that they see as threats, including humans. Sometimes, their young are the victims of their temper. During a fight between two adults, a young hippo can be hurt or crushed. Though hippos move quite quickly through the water, they can't swim. 
Check out our range of fun hippopotamus facts for kids. Learn what they look like, where they live, what they eat and much more. Read on and enjoy a variety of interesting information about hippopotamuses. Hippopotamuses are found in Africa. The name hippopotamus means ‘river horse’ and is often shortened to hippo. The hippopotamus is generally considered the third largest land mammal (after the White rhinoceros and elephant). Hippopotamuses spend a large amount of time in water such as rivers, lakes and swamps.