Pregnancy symptoms at 6 weeks. For most women, morning sickness begins between 6 and 8 weeks. You may also be exhausted and experiencing mood swings, which could be due to hormonal changes as well as the stress of wondering what lies ahead in your pregnancy. About 25 percent of women have spotting in early pregnancy. Normally you get your period about 4 weeks from the start of your last period, but if you're pregnant, the clearest sign at this point is a missed period. Many women still feel fine at 4 weeks, but others may notice sore breasts, fatigue, frequent urination, and nausea.
Unfortunately, one of the more common pregnancy symptoms, morning sickness, may be one of the first to show up in pregnancy. Typically seen as early as a couple weeks after getting pregnant, or about the time you expect your period to arrive, nausea can cause food aversions or even vomiting. 
1 Tender, swollen breasts. 2  Early in pregnancy hormonal changes might make your breasts tender, sensitive or sore. 3  Or your breasts might feel fuller and heavier. 4  Nausea with or without vomiting. 5  Morning sickness, which can strike at any time of the day or night, sometimes begins as early as three weeks after conception. Classic symptoms of pregnancy. In addition to a missed period, the earliest signs and symptoms of pregnancy might include: 1  Tender, swollen breasts. 2  Early in pregnancy hormonal changes might make your breasts tender, sensitive or sore. 3  Or your breasts might feel fuller and heavier.
Swollen or Tender Breasts: Swollen or tender breasts is a pregnancy symptom which may begin as early as 1-2 weeks after conception. Women may notice changes in their breasts; they may be tender to the touch, sore, or swollen. You may experience pregnancy signs within a week of conception. However, some women report that they did not experience any symptom for a few weeks. If you need free testing, you can search below or order affordable early detection pregnancy tests online.
1 Some women start to feel symptoms as early as implantation when the embryo attaches itself to the uterus (6-12 days after ovulation). 2  Others will begin to feel symptoms around when they period is due (12-14 days past ovulation). 3  Well, I experienced sore breasts & enlarged breasts about 7dpo. 1 Pregnancy symptoms usually start as soon as the embryo implants in the uterus and starts releasing HCG. 2  Which is around day 7-8 of having sex. 3  If you are very slim you will start showing at about 3 months. 4  Alot of people experience morning sickness which would be an early sign
Most women don't feel very different at 3 weeks, but some may notice a tiny bit of  implantation spotting  or feel early pregnancy symptoms such as fatigue, tender breasts, nausea, a heightened sense of smell, food aversions, and more frequent urination. Normally you get your period about 4 weeks from the start of your last period, but if you're pregnant, the clearest sign at this point is a missed period. Many women still feel fine at 4 weeks, but others may notice sore breasts, fatigue, frequent urination, and nausea.
Other potential early pregnancy symptoms include fatigue, headaches, lower backaches, and increased urination. You may contact the American Pregnancy Association at 1-800-672-2296 M-F 10am-6pm to discuss your concerns or ask questions about the pregnancy symptoms you may be experiencing. You may experience pregnancy signs within a week of conception. However, some women report that they did not experience any symptom for a few weeks. If you need free testing, you can search below or order affordable early detection pregnancy tests online.
Every pregnancy is different.You may start having a few symptoms (i.e. breast tenderness,possibly frequent urination) as early as 2 weeks into the pregnancy or symptoms might … show up much later.Some women experience little or no symptoms at all. 1 Pregnancy symptoms usually start as soon as the embryo implants in the uterus and starts releasing HCG. 2  Which is around day 7-8 of having sex. 3  If you are very slim you will start showing at about 3 months. 4  Alot of people experience morning sickness which would be an early sign