Rock Salt vs. Calcium Chloride. It basically comes down to rock salt vs. calcium chloride when choosing an ice and snow removal product. Rock salt is the more common name for sodium chloride. Both products have their advantages and disadvantages. 
Typically, when calcium chloride is found in nature, it is in a liquid form and always coupled with other mineral salts, such as potassium chloride (potash), sodium chloride (salt brine), and magnesium chloride. Calcium chloride (chemical formula CaCl 2 :XH 2 O) is a salt of calcium and chlorine and is commercially sold in: 1  anhydrous CaCl 2 :0H 2 O. 2  monohydrate CaCl 2 :1H 2 O. 3  a di-hydrate CaCl 2 :2H 2 O.
FACT: Calcium chloride works well down to this temperature, while the melting action is impractically slow at this point. Melting temperature is a confusing area. Many suppliers quote the lowest temperature at which their product melts ice in a laboratory (the eutectic point), rather than what is practical in the field. 
At 25F (-4C), rock salt takes a full 19 minutes to embed in ice and hard-packed snow. Wetted with a 32% calcium chloride solution, rock salt immediately digs in and holds a close pattern on winter roads even when temperatures drop down to 0F (-18C). Wetted salt reduces the need for frequently repeated applications, decreasing material use by as much as 40%. 1 Wetted abrasives: spray calcium chloride solution on abrasives to help them embed quickly in ice and snow, save applications, material, manpower and equipment costs.
Calcium chloride can serve as a source of calcium ions in an aqueous solution, as calcium chloride is soluble in water. This property can be useful for displacing ions from solution. For example, phosphate is displaced from solution by calcium: CaCl 2(l) → Ca (s) + Cl 2(g). Calcium chloride has a very high enthalpy change of solution. A considerable temperature rise accompanies its dissolution in water. The anhydrous salt is deliquescent; it can accumulate enough water in its crystal lattice to form a solution.
Calcium Chloride is not a perfect ice melt solution. While it is indeed effective and can be used in a wide array of temperatures and winter conditions, you still have to be cautious and use the product as directed to get maximum results. Cold Temperatures. Calcium Chloride currently holds the record for melting ice at the coldest temperatures. While potassium chloride can melt ice down to approximately -13°F (-25°C) and rock salt down to -10°F (-23.3°C), Calcium Chloride can melt down to -25°F(-31.7°C).
In terms of snow and ice removal, it is often debated which snow melting compound (rock salt vs calcium chloride) is best for a particular application. 
When it comes to finding the most powerful ingredient for melting ice, Calcium Chloride ice melt is generally the top choice. Calcium Chloride is a chemical used for numerous purposes, including refrigeration, dust control, and melting ice. Calcium Chloride is available in liquid formulations, but as an ice melter it is usually provided in pellet or flake form. Cold Temperatures. Calcium Chloride currently holds the record for melting ice at the coldest temperatures. While potassium chloride can melt ice down to approximately -13°F (-25°C) and rock salt down to -10°F (-23.3°C), Calcium Chloride can melt down to -25°F(-31.7°C).
Calcium chloride melts ice faster than other deicers. Forms ice-melting brine faster – the faster an ice melter can dissolve and form a brine solution, the faster it will melt ice. On contact with ice, calcium chloride forms brine rapidly, which lowers the freezing point of water and melts snow and ice quickly. A melt volume comparison of PELADOW™ Calcium Chloride Pellets with other products at 5°F (-15°C) illustrates the greater effectiveness of calcium chloride when melting ice at low temperatures. PELADOW™ melts ice up to three times faster than competing materials.