Fungi generally have the following characteristics: 1. They are eukaryotes. This means they have a nucleus which contains their genetic material (unlike bacteria, which do not have a nucleus). 2. They are made of thin threads called hyphae. However some fungi are made of a single cell eg yeast. The hyphae have a cell wall (like plant cells) made of a material called chitin (unlike plant cells). The hyphae are often multinucleate. This means that the cytoplasm is not divided up into separate cells, but contains many individual nuclei.
Best Answer: The fungi (singular fungus) are a kingdom of eukaryotic organisms. They are heterotrophic and digest their food externally, absorbing nutrient molecules into their cells. Yeasts, molds, and mushrooms are examples of fungi. The branch of biology involving the study of fungi is known as mycology. Fungi often have important symbiotic relationships with other organisms. Fungi absorb their food while animals ingest it; also unlike animals, the cells of fungi have cell walls. For these reasons, these organisms are placed in their own kingdom, Fungi, or Eumycota. The Fungi are a monophyletic group, meaning all varieties of fungi come from a common ancestor.
Characteristics of Fungi and Plants. Both the plant and fungus kingdoms have some common characteristics. First, they are both eukaryotic, meaning they belong to the Eukarya domain and that their cells contain a nucleus and membrane-bound organelles. Plants, such as trees, flowers, and ferns, are eukaryotic, non-motile organisms that use photosynthesis to get energy. Remember that photosynthesis is a process that converts sunlight and carbon dioxide into oxygen and sugar. While both plants and fungi have cell walls, the cell walls in plants are made of cellulose
Fungi were first classified as plants. However they differ in that  they are heterotrophs while plants are photoautotrophs. Some  characterizes that plants and fungi share a … re: multicellular and  eukaryotic organisms, have cell wall, produce spores and are  non-motile. However some fungi are made of a single cell eg yeast. The hyphae have a cell wall (like plant cells) made of a material called chitin (unlike plant cells). The hyphae are often multinucleate. This means that the cytoplasm is not divided up into separate cells, but contains many individual nuclei.
Fungi were first classified as plants. However they differ in that  they are heterotrophs while plants are photoautotrophs. Some  characterizes that plants and fungi share a … re: multicellular and  eukaryotic organisms, have cell wall, produce spores and are  non-motile. Fungi generally have the following characteristics:  1. They are eukaryotes. This means they have a  nucleus which contains their genetic material (unlike bacteria,  which … do not have a nucleus).  2. They are made of thin threads called hyphae.  The hyphae form a branching network called a  mycelium.