Echinoderms are usually found in the shallow water near the shore. They spend much of the time resting in the sand or on rocks. Starfish can move using specialized structures called tube feet. Each arm of the starfish has hundreds of tubes with suckers on them to help them navigate over rocks and sand. Echinoderms do not have a highly developed nervous system, but they do have a nerve ring that surrounds the mouth and helps to coordinate their movements and responses. Sensory cells on their arms gather information about their surroundings, such as light and temperature to help the organism respond to its environment.
There are several distinct groups of echinoderms related to sea stars (also known as starfish). Sea urchins and sand dollars are grouped together because they have large solid plates that form around their soft bodies. Echinoderms do not have a highly developed nervous system, but they do have a nerve ring that surrounds the mouth and helps to coordinate their movements and responses. Sensory cells on their arms gather information about their surroundings, such as light and temperature to help the organism respond to its environment.
The adults are recognizable by their (usually five-point) radial symmetry, and include such well-known animals as starfish, sea urchins, sand dollars, and sea cucumbers, as well as the sea lilies or stone lilies. Echinoderms are found at every ocean depth, from the intertidal zone to the abyssal zone. The phylum contains about 7000 living species, making it the second-largest grouping of deuterostomes (a superphylum), after the chordates (which include the vertebrates, such as birds, fishes, mammals, and reptiles). Echinoderms evolved from animals with bilateral symmetry. Although adult echinoderms possess pentaradial, or five-sided, symmetry, echinoderm larvae are ciliated, free-swimming organisms that organize in bilateral symmetry which makes them look like embryonic chordates.
For educational use only. The phylum Echinodermata, which contains about 6000 species, gets its name from the Greek, literally meaning spiny skin.. Many echinoderms actually do have spiny skin, but others do not. This phylum exists exclusively in the sea, and cannot be found on land or in fresh water. 
1 Sand dollars and sea urchins (Echinoidea) - There are about 950 species of sand dollars and sea urchins alive today. 2  Members of this group have a round, spiny shell-like structure know as a test. 3  Sea cucumbers (Holothuroidea) - There are about 1300 species of sea cucumbers alive today. Animals Invertebrates. Echinoderms are divided into the following taxonomic groups: 1  Sea stars and starfishes (Asteroidea) - There are about 1500 species of sea stars and starfishe
Echinoderms (Phylum Echinodermata, from the Greek for spiny skin) are a phylum of marine invertebrates that are generally characterized by a hard, internal calcite skeleton (typically with spines), a water-vascular system, adhesive tube feet, and five-rayed radial symmetry (at some point in their lives). 1 Ophiuroidea (brittle stars and basket stars): The physically largest of echinoderms; about 1,500 species, the largest echinoderm class. 2  Primarily bottom feeders, and have long, narrow arms that allow relatively fast movement.
Echinoderms (scientific name Echinodermata) are a major group of only marine animals. The name comes from the Greek word for spiny skin. There are about 7,000 species found usually on the sea floor in every marine habitat from the intertidal zone to the ocean depths. They have a wide variety of colours. Echinoderms have a simple digestive system with a mouth, stomachs, intestineand anus. In many, the mouth is on the underside and the anus on the top surface of the animal. Sea stars can push their stomachs outside of their body and insert it into its prey allowint them to digest the food externally.
E chinoderms are radially symmetrical animals that are only found in the sea (there are none on land or in fresh water). Echinoderms mean spiny skin in Greek. Many, but not all, echinoderms have spiny skin. There are over 6,000 species. 
Starfish, sand dollars, and sea urchins all belong to a group (phylum) of invertebrates known as echinoderms. The word echinoderm means spiny skin, which describes most of the organisms in this phylum. Echinoderms do not have a highly developed nervous system, but they do have a nerve ring that surrounds the mouth and helps to coordinate their movements and responses. Sensory cells on their arms gather information about their surroundings, such as light and temperature to help the organism respond to its environment.
Echinoderms (Echinodermata) are a group of marine invertebrates that includes star fish, sea lilies, feather stars, brittle stars, sea cucumbers and sea urchins. There are about 6000 species of echinoderms alive today. Animals Invertebrates. Echinoderms are divided into the following taxonomic groups: 1  Sea stars and starfishes (Asteroidea) - There are about 1500 species of sea stars and starfishe