A reflex arc is a neural pathway that controls a reflex action. In higher animals, most sensory neurons do not pass directly into the brain, but synapse in the spinal cord. This characteristic allows reflex actions to occur relatively quickly by activating spinal motor neurons without the delay of routing signals through the brain, although the brain will receive sensory input while the reflex is carried out.
Mentioned in? 1  acquired reflex. 2  baclofen. 3  bulbocavernosus reflex. 4  bulbomimic reflex. 5  bulbospongiosus reflex. 6  carbamazepine. 7  consensual reflex. 8  deep reflex. 9  Diazemuls. 10  diazepam. 11  dorsal reflex. 12  erector spinae reflex. 13  formatio reticularis. 14  kinetic reflex. 15  near reflex. 16  oculocardiac reflex. 17  oligosynaptic. 18  orphenadrine citrate. 19  paucisynaptic. 
mon·o·sy·nap·tic. Referring to direct neural connections (those not involving an internuncial neuron); for example, the direct connection between primary sensory nerve cells and motor neurons characterizing the monosynaptic reflex arc. /mono·syn·ap·tic/ (-sĭ-nap´tik) pertaining to or passing through a single synapse. 
© A Dictionary of Biology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. polysynaptic reflex A reflex action that involves an electrical impulse being transferred from a sensory neuron to a motor neuron via at least one connecting neuron (interneuron) in the spinal cord. Citation styles. Encyclopedia.com gives you the ability to cite reference entries and articles according to common styles from the Modern Language Association (MLA), The Chicago Manual of Style, and the American Psychological Association (APA).
The stretch reflex (myotatic reflex) is a muscle contraction in response to stretching within the muscle. It is a monosynaptic reflex which provides automatic regulation of skeletal muscle length. When a muscle lengthens, the muscle spindle is stretched and its nerve activity increases. This increases alpha motor neuron activity, causing the muscle fibers to contract and thus resist the stretching.
A multineuron, or polysynaptic, reflex arc consists of a receptor neuron, several internuncial neurons, and an effector neuron, all of which are separated by synapses. a group of nerve structures involved in reflex action. The term “reflex arc,” or “nervous arc,” was introduced in 1850 by the British physician and physiologist M. Hall, who was describing the anatomic elements of a reflex.
in polysynaptic reflex pathways, one or more interneurons connect afferent (sensory) and efferent (motor) signals. All but the most simple reflexes are polysynaptic, allowing processing or inhibition of polysynaptic reflexes within the spinal cord. Describe Monosynaptic reflex: When a reflex arc consists of only two neurons in an animal (one sensory neuron, and one motor neuron), it is defined as monosynaptic. Monosynaptic refers to the presence of a single chemical synapse
involves only a sensory and motor neuron and the synapse which connects them in the spinal cord and results in the immediate and sudden contraction of muscle after stretching a tendon. 
monosynaptic reflex A simple reflex that involves transmission of information from a sensory neuron to the appropriate motor neuron across a single synapse in the spinal cord. The knee-jerk reflex action is an example of a monosynaptic reflex (see stretch reflex). Compare polysynaptic reflex. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography. MLA. Chicago. APA.  monosynaptic reflex. . . 2004. Encyclopedia.com.