The history of Wrigley Field, the home of Major League Baseball 's Chicago Cubs, begins well before the Cubs played their first game in that venue. 
Wrigley Field /ˈrɪɡli/ is a baseball park located on the North Side of Chicago, Illinois, United States. It is the home of the Chicago Cubs, one of the city's two Major League Baseball (MLB) franchises. It was built in 1914 as Weeghman Park for the Chicago Federal League baseball team, the Chicago Whales. 
The Chicago Cubs, one of major league baseball's least successful franchises on the field in recent years, were sold yesterday for $20.5 million by William Wrigley to the Tribune Company, parent of The Chicago Tribune and The Daily News in New York. 
A+E Networks. On this day in 1988, the Chicago Cubs host the first night game in the history of Wrigley Field. The first-ever night game in professional baseball took place nearly 60 years earlier, on May 2, 1930, when a Des Moines, Iowa, team hosted Wichita for a Western League game
The first game under the lights at Wrigley field was played August 8, 1988 between the Cubs and the Philadelphia Phillies. Ironically, the rains came and the game was called in the 4th inning. The first complete night game was played the next night against the New York Mets. The Cubs won 6-4. The first major league game in Wrigley Field was played April 23, 1914 between the Chicago Chi-Feds and the Kansas City Packers. Chicago won 9-1. At the time, the stadium was … known as Weeghman Park, named after the owner of the Chicago Chi-Feds.
Center field - 400 feet. Right-center - 368 feet. Right field - 353 feet. Wrigley Field, which was built in 1914, will be playing host to Major League Baseball for the 100th season in 2014 - and to the Cubs for the 98th year. Wrigley Field is the second-oldest ballpark in the majors behind Boston's Fenway Park (1912). The Friendly Confines has been the site of such historic moments as:
On Aug. 8, 1988, the lights go on in Wrigley Field, which had been the only major league park where night games were not played. On Aug. 8, 1988, the lights go on in Wrigley Field, which had been the only major league park where night games were not played. (Chicago Tribune photo by Frank Hanes). Phil VettelChicago Tribune. At 6:05 p.m., 91-year-old Cubs fan Harry Grossman began the countdown. Three. . . two. . . one. . . Let there be lights!. Grossman pressed a button, and to the cheers of thousands of fans, six light towers flickered to life. Night baseball had come to Wrigley Field.
For 74 seasons, the Cubs played only day games at home. Finally, on August 8, 1988, the Cubs played the Philadelphia Phillies in the park’s first night game. Ninety-one-year-old Cubs fan Harry Grossman was chosen to turn on the lights. On this day in 1988, the Chicago Cubs host the first night game in the history of Wrigley Field. The first-ever night game in professional baseball took place nearly 60 years earlier, on May 2, 1930, when a Des Moines, Iowa, team hosted Wichita for a Western League game