1 Pour over Tuna Steaks and marinade 20 minutes, turning occasionally. 2  Make sure grill is hot – place steaks in hottest section and Sear steaks 1 to 2 minutes per side to seal in the juices. 3  Finish cooking just slightly away from the hottest area – 8 to 10 minutes per inch of thickness.
Here's how to grill your tuna steak: 1  Decide on your flavor. 2  Tuna steaks go very nicely with Asian flavors, such as soy, teriyaki or sesame. 3  You can make a simple marinade by mixing soy and teriyaki sauces, sesame oil and some garlic powder and ginger. 4  Let the tuna steak marinade for one hour.
To grill the tuna, get a charcoal or stove-top cast-iron grill very hot. Brush the fish with olive oil, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Grill each side for only 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. The center should be raw, like sushi, or the tuna will be tough and dry. Allow to rest for 5 to 10 minutes and serve.
1 Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 2  Add the tuna steaks. 3  The steaks should sizzle when added. 4  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking.
Searing tuna steaks in a hot skillet caramelizes the surfaces of the fish and locks in the moisture. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet.
1 Mix Well. 2  Pour over Tuna Steaks and marinade 20 minutes, turning occasionally. 3  Make sure grill is hot – place steaks in hottest section and Sear steaks 1 to 2 minutes per side to seal in the juices. 4  Finish cooking just slightly away from the hottest area – 8 to 10 minutes per inch of thickness.
1 Add the tuna steaks. 2  The steaks should sizzle when added. 3  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. 4  Adjust the heat as needed if the skillet gets too hot.
Broil the tuna for 3 minutes per side. After 3 minutes, flip the tuna steaks over to the other side and return to the broiler for an additional 3 minutes or until done. 1  Place the broiler pan on the top rack of the oven, roughly 4 inches (10 cm) away from the top heating element.
1 Preheat grill for high heat. 2  Lightly oil grill grate. 3  Cook the tuna steaks for 5 to 6 minutes, then turn and baste with the marinade. 4  Cook for an additional 5 minutes, or to desired doneness.