Properties of the healing stone-Tiger iron is composed of a combination of three different stones Haematite, Jasper and Tiger Eye. It is a very important stone that is believed to bring energy, strength and confidence. It also increases your willpower and motivates you to do good things. 
Tiger Iron Properties. Nature combined tiger eye, red jasper, and hematite and created Tiger iron, or what is sometimes known as mugglestone. Tiger iron is said to carry the properties of the three stones from which it came. It is a motivating stone, said to provide us with energy, confidence, focus, and willpower. It is thought to give us strength to accomplish difficult tasks because it keeps us focused and determined. Tiger Iron is a text book example of a metamorphosed gemstone. Over two billion years ago deposits of red Jasper, Tiger Eye and Hematite were slowly smashed together when tectonic plates shifted to create the Australian continent.
Tiger Iron Gemstone meaning. Tiger Iron is a banded stone consisting of layers of tiger eye, jasper and hematite. The name comes from the combination of tiger eye and iron-rich hematite. Along with tiger's eye it is mined primarily in South Africa and Western Australia. 
Tiger Iron is a combination of hematite, red jasper, and sometimes yellow jasper or golden tiger eye. Tiger Iron also helps with creative endeavors and all types of artistic abilities. It is used to bring strength, vitality, confidence, willpower, and balance. It is an excellent stone for people wishing to bring more motivation to their lives, and is a stone of good luck.
Tiger Iron is sometimes called Iron Tiger Eye and is a rock combination of Tiger Eye, Jasper and Hematite. It therefore also holds the healing properties of all these stones. 
Walking Lightly on the Earth. A beautiful stone with black, golden, and red stripes, tiger iron blends the properties of three important grounding stones: hematite, red jasper, and golden tiger's eye. Hematite, a first chakra stone, is best known for its emotionally protective qualities. 
Tiger Iron Tumbles Example. Tiger Iron is a combination of hematite, red jasper, and sometimes yellow jasper or golden tiger eye. It is a grounding stone that also brings protection, especially protection from danger. It is also a stone of clarity, particularly clarity of knowledge, enabling one to see the truth below the apparent surface of issues. Tiger Iron also helps with creative endeavors and all types of artistic abilities. It is used to bring strength, vitality, confidence, willpower, and balance. It is an excellent stone for people wishing to bring more motivation to their lives, and is a stone of good luck.
Tiger Iron is a banded stone consisting of layers of tiger eye, jasper and hematite. The name comes from the combination of tiger eye and iron-rich hematite. Along with tiger's eye it is mined primarily in South Africa and Western Australia. Tiger Iron is a stone of courage, strength and stamina. It stimulates the root chakra. With its powerful combination of the vitality of red jasper, and the balancing effects of hematite, tiger iron makes a very powerful grounding and protective stone.