At a glance. A session is a group of interactions that take place on your website within a given time frame. For example a single session can contain multiple screen or page views, events, social interactions, and ecommerce transactions. Learn more about the different request types in Google Analytics. 
Page views gives you the number of total views of all pages (i.e., pages x views). So one unique visitor might visit your site 5 times in the same month, and view 3 pages on each visit, thus accounting for 15 page views. Pages per visit is the corresponding metric to page views: it is the average number of pages visitors looked at. But first, just scroll down to look at some basic metrics for your site: visits, unique visitors, page views, pages per visit, bounce rate, visit duration or time on site, and percentage of new visits.
Page tracking allows you to measure the number of views you had of a particular page on your web site. For a web app, you might decide to track a page when a large portion of the screen changes, for example when the user goes from the home screen to the settings screen. 
Hi, I need to investigate the traffic into specific web pages on my web site. I have Google Analytics set up OK but I need to know I can use the reporting facilities to see :-. 1. The number of page views for one specific page in my web sit on a particular date e .... and ... 2. 
Re: Can Google Show the Unique Visitors to a Specific Page (vs the Entire Site). Sachin Pratap. 21.03.15 05:20. Yes! google analytics provides this feature in Analytics, where you can find how many visitors comes on my a specific page. just use this trick and count your visitors. I have done this, Mr Pratap, but it displays only pageviews for previous month. Give the report a name like Unique Visitors by Page. 3. In the Metric Group area (blue) click add metric and search for Unique Visitors, then click it. NOTE: Repeat this step for any other metrics you'd like in the report (Visits, Pageviews, etc). 4.
To use this feature, you must install the Page Analytics Google Chrome extension. In addition to the metrics shown at the top of the page, you’ll see percentages next to each link on the page. Hover over the link to display the percentage and number of clicks the link receives. In-Page Analytics displayed on a website. In this article I’ll share how Google Analytics Behavior reports let you assess the performance of your content and the actions visitors take on your website. Note: One way to get the most out of any Google Analytics data is to set up conversion goals.
2. 1  To set up your own FREE Google Analytics account you must start by visiting the Google Analytics website at google.com/analytics. 2  Click on the Access Analytics blue button in the upper right corner of the page. 3  Click on the Add a new account button in the upper right corner. 1 To set up your own FREE Google Analytics account you must start by visiting the Google Analytics website at google.com/analytics. 2  Click on the Access Analytics blue button in the upper right corner of the page.
A unique pageview represents the number of sessions during which that page was viewed one or more times. Data in your Analytics account can be easy to misinterpret due to the many similar terms used in different reports. This article explains the terms that most often lead to questions. A pageview is defined as a view of a page on your site that is being tracked by the Analytics tracking code. If a user clicks reload after reaching the page, this is counted as an additional pageview. If a user navigates to a different page and then returns to the original page, a second pageview is recorded as well.
Web analytics provides information about the number of visitors to a website and the number of page views. It helps gauge traffic and popularity trends which is useful for market research. 