A shabti is a small figure that was placed in the tomb of an Ancient Egyptian. They are sometimes called ushabtis or shaptis. 
shabti each of a set of wooden, stone, or faience figurines, in the form of mummies, placed in an ancient Egyptian tomb to do any work that the dead person might be called upon to do in the afterlife. They were often 365 in number, one for each day of the year. Cite this article. Magazine article from: School Arts ...Significant Problem To recreate ancient Egyptian shabti sculptures, small statues that were placed...Practice Show students examples of Egyptian shabti and have them research and discuss the...rituals. Have students make sketches for a shabti.
by Joshua J. Mark. Shabti dolls (also known as `shawbti’ and `ushabti’) were funerary figures in ancient Egypt who accompanied the deceased to the after-life. Their name is derived from the Egyptian `swb’ for stick but also corresponds to the word for `answer’ (`wSb’) and so the Shabtis were known as `The Answerers’. In the Third Intermediate Period (1069-850 BCE) there appeared a special Shabti with one hand at the side and the other holding a whip; this was the overseer doll. During this period the Shabti seem to have been regarded less as replacement workers or servants for the deceased and more as slaves. The overseer was in charge of keeping ten Shabtis at work and, in the most elaborate tombs, there were thirty-six overseer figures for the 365 `worker’ dolls
However, this practice was quickly seen as unnecessary and wasteful, and instead symbolic images of servants were painted inside tombs to aid the deceased in the afterworld. This practice developed into the use of small statuettes known as Shabti (Shabtiu, Shabty, Shawabti or Ushabti). A Shabti is a small human figure representing a person who would perform a given task for the deceased in the afterlife. The Amduat (underworld) included tracts of land granted to the deceased by the sun god Ra from which the blessed dead could receive their nourishment. Later on Shawabti (and Ushabti) were inscribed with a magical formula which would activate them (see below). Shabti were made from various materials including; faience, wax, clay, wood, stone, terracotta and, occasionally, glass and bronze.
Ushabti in the British Museum in London. The ushabti (also called shabti or shawabti, with a number of variant spellings, Ancient Egyptian plural: ushabtiu) was a funerary figurine used in Ancient Egypt. The shabti figure answers, I am here and will come wherever you bid me.. The shawabti were a distinct class of funerary figurines within the area of Thebes during the New Kingdom. The term ushabti became prevalent after the 21st Dynasty and remained in use until Ptolemaic times.
Both the spellings of shabti and shawabti appear in early versions of these figures, but the latter term was restricted to the strange stick figures from the Theban area. However, it is probably a dialectical variant and is the least preferable of the three spellings for the general references to these figures. Later, many of these figures buried with the dead began to be called ushabti (ushabty, ushebti), shabti (shabty) or shawabti. These figures were made from various materials, including wax, clay, wood, stone, terracotta and rarely bronze or glass, but the most common material was faience.
Answer   The Shabti figures which were placed in Egyptian tombs to do the work of the dead, were made from various materials, including wax, clay, wood,  stone, … terracotta and rarely bronze or glass, but the most common material was  faience. 
Shabti dolls (also known as `shawbti’ and `ushabti’) were funerary figures in ancient Egypt who accompanied the deceased to the after-life. In the Third Intermediate Period (1069-850 BCE) there appeared a special Shabti with one hand at the side and the other holding a whip; this was the overseer doll. During this period the Shabti seem to have been regarded less as replacement workers or servants for the deceased and more as slaves. The overseer was in charge of keeping ten Shabtis at work and, in the most elaborate tombs, there were thirty-six overseer figures for the 365 `worker’ dolls
The term Shabti may have originally derived from the word Swb (stick) or Shab (the Persea Tree from which the first wooden Shabti may have been carved). However, it is also proposed that the terms derive from the verbs Sha (to command) or Shadj (to dig). Later on Shawabti (and Ushabti) were inscribed with a magical formula which would activate them (see below). Shabti were made from various materials including; faience, wax, clay, wood, stone, terracotta and, occasionally, glass and bronze.