Report Abuse. WELL, I went to a restaurant to watch the Mike Tyson vs. Lennox Lewis bout a few years ago and I remember they set up a $40 fee which included a meal plus the fight. Idk, who they'd split that up or what not but but I'm assuming more of the $40 went to pay for the meal than the individual share. I have been unable to go to any bar and see any pay per view fights in years in a bar. If they do allow it i would believe the skys the limit in terms of price.
Obviously if you want to watch the fight but don't want to go to a restaurant or bar you can always order pay-per-view at your house--but that's not cheap either. This fight will cost a record $99.95, which shatters the old record of $74.95. The average pay-per-view fight usually costs about $59. The majority of this money goes back to the two fighters and their people. Mayweather and Pacquiao are both expected to make somewhere around $200 million each on this one event. Filed in: News.
While it costs around $45 to $55 to order a UFC pay-per-view event for a private residence, public venues such as sports bars, restaurants and casinos must pay a commercial licensing fee. The commercial cost depends on the size of the establishment based on their Fire Occupancy Certificate. While it does cost more to show UFC pay-per-view events in commercial establishments, many bar and restaurant owners agree that it’s a great investment.
Watch Pay-Per-View. Tell us where you are and we'll show you the Pay-Per-View events and times for your area. Just use the locator in the upper-right corner of the page to pick your Cox market. Note: You must be in a Cox market to view Pay-Per-View Event Details. 
Without the UFC commercial license, an establishment can be subjected to pay-per-view piracy laws. Reporting an illegal broadcast location helps protect the investment made by authorized locations. You can anonymously report a pirate by calling 1-800-557-4263 or you can contact Joe Hand Promotions through our website. The commercial cost depends on the size of the establishment based on their Fire Occupancy Certificate. While it does cost more to show UFC pay-per-view events in commercial establishments, many bar and restaurant owners agree that it’s a great investment.
The ad posted by Edlund offers $250 per location found. A lot of people will want to watch Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao box each other this Saturday, but not a lot of people will want to plunk down a record-setting chunk of pay-per-view money to do so. The ad posted by Edlund offers $250 per location found. So if you’re going to watch the fight at a bar on Saturday, be a good customer. Don’t complain if you have to pay a cover, and definitely don’t enlist as a pay-per-view snitch.
Bars and restaurants will be packed with fans watching the Mayweather Pacquiao fight Saturday night. Fans will pay a record $99.99 to watch the fight in HD at home. But bars and restaurants have to pay much more, using a formula that accounts for a location's capacity. Naturally, the licensing fees for this fight are also at a record high. Sprinkled among them will be the Pay-Per-View police looking for venues that didn't pay the expensive licensing fee to show the match. Fans will pay a record $99.99 to watch the fight in HD at home.
An average Restaurant Host or Hostess in the United States can expect to take home roughly $8.67 per hour. Compensation ranges from $7.28 per hour on the lower end to $11.76 on the higher end. While tenure and the specific company impact pay for this group, residence is the most influential factor. 
When a bar or restaurant airs a pay per view event at their business, I know they don't pay the standard residential rate. I have been unable to go to any bar and see any pay per view fights in years in a bar. If they do allow it i would believe the skys the limit in terms of price.