This only happens when there is directed pressure; confining pressure does not accomplish it. The diagram illustrates the effect. A texture of this sort in a metamorphic rock is called FOLIATION and the rocks are said to be FOLIATED. 3. FLUIDS serve only to speed up other metamorphic processes, or perhaps even allow them to happen at all. Chemical reactions require water, and most proceed much faster as the amount of water goes up.
Fluids are an important agent of metamorphism. Most rocks contain some water, but sedimentary rocks hold the most. First there is the water that was trapped in the sediment as it became rock. Second is the water that is liberated by clay minerals as they change back to feldspar and mica. The Four Agents of Regional Metamorphism. Heat and pressure usually work together, because both rise as you go deeper in the Earth. At high temperatures and pressures, the minerals in most rocks break down and change into a different set of minerals that are stable in the new conditions.
The clay minerals of sedimentary rocks are a good example. Clays are surface minerals, which form as feldspar and mica break down in the conditions at the Earth's surface. With heat and pressure they slowly return to mica and feldspar. Fluids are an important agent of metamorphism. Every rock contains some water, but sedimentary rocks hold the most. First there is the water that was trapped in the sediment as it became rock. Second is the water that is liberated by clay minerals as they change back to feldspar and mica. The foliated rock types that form under these conditions are called schist or gneiss, depending on their texture. Schist is finely foliated whereas gneiss is organized in wide bands of minerals. Contact or Local Metamorphism A type of metamorphism that is important in specific localities is contact
By Andrew Alden. Metamorphic rocks are the third great class of rocks. These are what happens when sedimentary and igneous rocks become changed, or metamorphosed (changed in form), by conditions underground. The four main agents that metamorphose rocks are heat, pressure, fluids and strain. The Four Agents of Regional Metamorphism. Heat and pressure usually work together, because both rise as you go deeper in the Earth. At high temperatures and pressures, the minerals in most rocks break down and change into a different set of minerals that are stable in the new conditions.
Using the rock cycle, explain the statement  one rock is the raw material for another.. In short, the magma from which igneous rocks from may be produced when any rock is melted. Sedimentary rocks are formed from weathered products of preexisting rocks, whether igneous metamorphic, or sedimentary. Finally, metamorphic rocks are created when any rock type undergoes metamorphism
The way that this form of metamorphism works is that rocks are scraped against each other causing them to be ground into a powder. Then this powder is reformed due to the pressure in the zone and the heat caused by friction of the two rock surfaces. Rocks are classified by the processes under which they were formed. The differences in formation account for variations in the appearance of the rocks and, with some practice, you can learn to recognize the different types by sight. Metamorphic Rocks are rocks that have changed form due to heat and pressure.
Metamorphism is the change of minerals or geologic texture (distinct arrangement of minerals) in pre-existing rocks (protoliths), without the protolith melting into liquid magma (a solid-state change). The change occurs primarily due to heat, pressure, and the introduction of chemically active fluids. 
There are three agents of metamorphism in the changing of  metamorphic rocks. They are heat, pressure, and hydro thermal  solutions. The three main types of metamorphism are: Regional Metamorphism Contact Metamorphism Hydrothermal metamorphism Regional metamorphism is caused when high temperature and pressu … re affect large regions of Earths crust, It can range from low grade to high grade.
Metamorphic rocks have been modified by heat, pressure and chemical processes, usually while buried deep below Earth's surface. Exposure to these extreme conditions has altered the mineralogy, texture and chemical composition of the rocks. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure. Quartzite is a non-foliated metamorphic rock that is produced by the metamorphism of sandstone. It is composed primarily of quartz. The specimen above is about two inches (five centimeters) across.
The three agents of metamorphism are heat, pressure, and chemically active fluids. Heat is the most important agent of metamorphism because it provides the energy that drives the chemical reactions responsible for mineral and textural changes during metamorphism. In short, the magma from which igneous rocks from may be produced when any rock is melted. Sedimentary rocks are formed from weathered products of preexisting rocks, whether igneous metamorphic, or sedimentary.