On March 17th, 2013 I drove through the streets of Compton, CA. I drove down some of the well known streets and streets I've heard about in some of my favorite rap songs. Compton is actually a beautiful city, in my opinion.  1 Compton's N The House (Remix) by N.W.A. (Google Play • iTunes • AmazonMP3). 
8. Compton, CA (260.13). Compton, California is continuing to be ranked one of the most dangerous cities in America. Compton is one of three California cities considered one of the ’10 most dangerous cities in America and has a score of 260.13. 7. Cleveland, OH (260.60). Cleveland comes in at #7 with a score of 260.60
Photo via RapDict.com. Compton was incorporated as a city by Los Angeles County o n May 11, 1888, making it one of the oldest incorporated cities in California. To ensure the continuance of farming on the land, certain acreage was to be zoned solely for agriculture. After the Second World War, the city experienced a housing boom. 
Compton, like most cities has good and bad areas. It does have a higher rate of violent crime and murder than most cities in the country. It gets a bad rap for being probably the most gang infested city in LA county with almost all the areas in the city being claimed by different gangs. During 2006, Compton has deployed twice as many sheriff deputies and the murder rate has decreased from 22 in four months, to just five. Like parts of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Compton is also a hot bed for racial violence between Blacks and Latinos.
Compton is a city in southern Los Angeles County, California, United States, situated south of downtown Los Angeles. Compton is one of the oldest cities in the county and on May 11, 1888, was the eighth city to incorporate. As of the 2010 United States Census, the city had a total population of 96,455. It is known as the Hub City due to its geographic centrality in Los Angeles County. Neighborhoods in Compton include Sunny Cove, Leland, Downtown Compton, and Richland Farms. The city is generally a working class city with some middle-class neighborhoods, and is home to a relatively young community, at an average 25 years of age, compared to the American median age of 35 (2010 data). (see list List of people from Compton, California#Arts and entertainment) Compton has evolved into a younger community, the median age of people living in Compton, was 25 at the time of the last full census survey in 2010; the United States average at the time was 35.3.
Report Abuse. Compton has hot spots! Long Beach has a couple of good hip hop stars from the area!! Go to VIP Records on Pacific Coast Highway, that where snoop dogg-warren g and the dog pound roots came from.. How dangerous is COMPTON???? I'm travelling to America and the end of the year, me and my friends are big fans of hip-hop music and want to visit Compton to have a look and get a couple of pictures.
Report Abuse. In 2006, the Morgan Quitno Corporation rated Compton as the most dangerous city in the United States with a population of 75,000 to 99,999, and fourth most dangerous overall. The city is notorious for gang violence, primarily caused by the Bloods, the Crips, and Hispanic gangs. During 2006, Compton has deployed twice as many sheriff deputies and the murder rate has decreased from 22 in four months, to just five. Like parts of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Compton is also a hot bed for racial violence between Blacks and Latinos.
Worst Feature: Gang Warfare. Best Feature: You can turn in your guns for $100.00 of Groceries. We ve talked about Bangui, Brazzaville, Baghdad as dangerous cities, but hold on according to a 2006 study the 4th Most Dangerous City in The World is right here in the USA Compton, California. 