A sty is a bump that forms on or in the eyelid as the result of a blocked gland. The word sty can also be spelled stye. There are two distinct types of styes: hordeolum and chalazion. Each has different causes and treatments. A hordeolum is a blockage of one of the sweat glands or oil glands found in the skin of the eyelid, while a chalazion is a blockage of a meibomian gland, which is a special oil gland unique to the eyelids.
Noun. 1. stye-an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid. eye infection, hordeolum, sty. infection-the pathological state resulting from the invasion of the body by pathogenic microorganisms.
Noun. 1. sty-an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid. eye infection, hordeolum, stye. infection-the pathological state resulting from the invasion of the body by pathogenic microorganisms. or stye. a circumscribed abscess caused by bacterial infection of the glands on the edge of the eyelid; hordeolum. [1610–20; by false division of Middle English styanye sty (styan (Old English stīgend sty, literally, rising) + ye eye), taken to be sty on eye ].
n, pl styes or sties. 1. (Pathology) inflammation of a sebaceous gland of the eyelid, usually caused by bacteria. technical name hordeolum. [C15 styanye (mistakenly taken as sty on eye), from Old English stīgend rising, hence swelling, stye + ye eye]. 1. stye-an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid. eye infection, hordeolum, sty. infection-the pathological state resulting from the invasion of the body by pathogenic microorganisms.
A chalazion is very different from a stye and is not an infection. It is instead a firm, round, smooth, painless bump usually some distance from the edge of the lid. An internal stye (on the underside of the lid) also causes a red, painful swelling, but its location prevents the familiar whitehead from appearing on the eyelid.
When a chalazion is small and without symptoms, it may disappear without treatment. If the chalazion is large, it may cause blurred vision by distorting the shape of your eye. A chalazion is sometimes confused with a stye, which also appears as a lump in the eyelid. 
A stye or hordeolum is a small, painful lump on the inside or outside of the eyelid. It is actually an abscess filled with pus and is usually caused by a staphylococcus bacteria eye infection. Styes are common with most people experiencing one or two of them at some stage in their life. Styes are usually visible on the surface but can appear deeper inside the eyelid. An internal stye (on the underside of the lid) also causes a red, painful swelling, but its location prevents the familiar whitehead from appearing on
Sty. A sty is a red, painful lump near the edge of your eyelid that may look like a boil or a pimple. Sties are often filled with pus. A sty usually forms on the outside of your eyelid. But sometimes it can form on the inner part of your eyelid. In most cases, a sty will begin to disappear on its own in a couple days. In the meantime, you may be able to relieve the pain or discomfort of a sty by applying a warm washcloth to your eyelid
For the enclosure for raising pigs, see Sty. For other meanings, see Sty (disambiguation) . An external stye or sty /ˈstaɪ/ , also hordeolum /hɔrˈdiːələm/ , is an infection of the sebaceous glands of Zeis at the base of the eyelashes, or an infection of the apocrine sweat glands of Moll. External styes form on the outside of the lids and can be seen as small red bumps. Eye stye sufferers should avoid eye makeup (e.g., eyeliner), lotions, and wearing contact lenses, since these can aggravate and spread the infection (sometimes to the cornea). Medical treatment can also be provided by a doctor and it is aimed at relieving the symptoms.