Recorded in several modern spelling forms including Tyrwhitt, Truett, and Truitt, this is a surname of English origins. It is locational from a village called Trewhitt in the county of Northumberland. 
[ 1 syll. truet (t), tr-ue-tt ] The baby boy name Truett is pronounced as TR UW T †. The origin of Truett is English. Truett is a variation of the name Truitt. Truett is unusual as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Truett include Truit, Truitt, Truitte, Tjaard (Frisian), Tord (Scandinavian), Torde, Torht, Torhte, Trade, Treat, Treet, Treit, Trot, Tareat, Tareate, Tareet, Tareete, Tarit, Tarite, and Taryt. 
My middle name is Truett. It is the surname of a Baptist minister, whose name was George W. Truett. My Dad was a Baptist minister. He went to Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Ft. Worth Texas. That school has an auditorium named for George W. Truett. Dr. Truett was from Georgia. My son's name is Truett, and I echo what the others said, I think it is more common as a last name. My son is named after my dad, who in turn is named for someone whose last name was Truett. Living in the south, we often get asked if he is named for Truett Cathy (the founder of Chick-fil-A).
Unknown Meaning: The name Truett is an Unknown baby name. In Unknown the meaning of the name Truett is: Origin unknown. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth.
Meaning of Truett: Truett is an English transcription of the Old Norse name Tyrwhitt, which is comprised of the elements tyri, meaning dry wood and wvit, meaning meadow.. Tyrwhitt was historically used as a surname in reference to a person who came from the town of Trewhitt in Northumberland. 5 5. The meaning of Truett is  Dry wood meadow . Its origin is  English variant of the Norse name Trywhitt . Truett is a form of Tyrwhitt and is generally pronounced like  TROO eht . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 1,506th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names