The people of Dagestan include a large variety of ethnicities. According to the 2010 Census, Northeast Caucasians (including Avars, Dargins, Lezgins, Laks and Tabasarans) make up almost 75% of the population of Dagestan. Turkic peoples, Kumyks, Azerbaijanis and Nogais make up 21%, and Russians 3,6%. Dagestan used to be called Kohestan (Quhistan, mountainous place) in Persian and Arabized as Ghahestan. When the Persian language gradually faded in those regions and the Turkic language prevailed, the Persian koh (kuh in contemporary Persian) was replaced with its Turkic equivalent dagh.
Dagestan Republic overview. Dagestan Republic (other spellings Daghestan, Daghistan) is a federal subject of the Russian Federation, part of North Caucasian Federal District, located in the North Caucasus region. The capital city and administrative center of the republic is Makhachkala. The name of the republic is meaning “The country of mountains”. About 30 peaks in Dagestan are above 4,000 m, the highest peak Bazardyuzyu is 4,466 m. Dagestan Republic of the Russian Empire was formed after the Great Caucasus War in 1860.
The Russian Republic of Dagestan, which translates as land of the mountains, is situated in Russia's turbulent North Caucasus with Chechnya and Georgia to the west, Azerbaijan to the south and the Caspian Sea to the east. Dagestan was the birth place of Imam Shamil, the legendary fighter who in the 19th century spearheaded fierce resistance by tribesmen of Chechnya and Dagestan to the spread of the Russian empire. The name of Imam Shamil is still revered by many in both republics.
Dagestan Republic (other spellings Daghestan, Daghistan) is a federal subject of the Russian Federation, part of North Caucasian Federal District, located in the North Caucasus region. The name of the republic is meaning “The country of mountains”. About 30 peaks in Dagestan are above 4,000 m, the highest peak Bazardyuzyu is 4,466 m. Dagestan Republic of the Russian Empire was formed after the Great Caucasus War in 1860.
Republic Details. The Republic of Chechnya is located on the north slope of the Caucasus Mountains within 100 kilometers of the Caspian Sea. It's strategically vital to the Russian Federation for two reasons. 
Dagestan is a region of Russia in the North Caucasus bordering Chechnya and Georgia to the west, Stavropol Krai and Kalmykia to the north, the Caspian Sea to the east, and Azerbaijan to the South. 
With a population of 2,910,249, Dagestan is very ethnically diverse, and is Russia's most heterogeneous republic, with none of its several dozen ethnicities and subgroups forming a majority. Largest among these ethnicities are the Avar, Dargin, Kumyk, Lezgian, Laks, Azerbaijani, Tabasaran and Chechen. Dagestan used to be called Kohestan (Quhistan, mountainous place) in Persian and Arabized as Ghahestan. When the Persian language gradually faded in those regions and the Turkic language prevailed, the Persian koh (kuh in contemporary Persian) was replaced with its Turkic equivalent dagh.
The word Dagestan is of Turkic and Persian origin. Dağ means 'mountain' in Turkic and-stan is a Persian suffix meaning 'land'. Dagestan used to be called Kohestan (Quhistan, mountainous place) in Persian and Arabized as Ghahestan. When the Persian language gradually faded in those regions and the Turkic language prevailed, the Persian koh (kuh in contemporary Persian) was replaced with its Turkic equivalent dagh.
The Russian Republic of Dagestan, which translates as land of the mountains, is situated in Russia's turbulent North Caucasus with Chechnya and Georgia to the west, Azerbaijan to the south and the Caspian Sea to the east. So high are its peaks in some places that certain areas are accessible only by helicopter. Dagestan was the birth place of Imam Shamil, the legendary fighter who in the 19th century spearheaded fierce resistance by tribesmen of Chechnya and Dagestan to the spread of the Russian empire. His name is still revered by many in both republics.
Dagestan (Russian: респу́блика дагеста́н rees-POOB-lee-kuh dah-gee-STAHN) is a region of Russia in the North Caucasus bordering Chechnya and Georgia to the west, Stavropol Krai and Kalmykia to the north, the Caspian Sea to the east, and Azerbaijan to the South. Dagestan is famous for its local dishes of: hinkal (a tasty pasta/dough-like entity served with garlic sauce and some kind of meat, usually young, boiled lamb), chudu (a quesadilla-like thin dough with special meats, cheeses or vegetables inside), and shashlik (roast shishkabab, usually lamb meat).