A. The bones and teeth contain over 99% of the calcium in the human body. Calcium is also found in the blood, muscles, and other tissue. Calcium in the bones can be used as a reserve that can be released into the body as needed.
High levels of phosphate in the blood (hyperphosphatemia) or low levels of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphatemia) : Calcium and phosphate have to be in balance in the body. Taking too much calcium can throw this balance off and cause harm. Don’t take extra calcium without your health provider’s supervision. 
It is important to get the right amount of calcium in your food because the body loses calcium every day. Foods rich in calcium include dairy products (milk, cheese), eggs, fish, green vegetables, and fruit. Most people who have low or high levels of calcium do not have any symptoms. When blood calcium levels get high (hypercalcemia), the extra calcium is stored in the bones or passed out of the body in urine and stool. The amount of calcium in the body depends on the amount of: 1  Calcium you get in your food. 2  Calcium and vitamin D your intestines absorb. 3  Phosphate in the body
Calcium, being the fifth most common element in your body, is essential to life and accounts for two to three pounds of your total body weight. To understand how your body stores and uses calcium, think of your skeleton as a bank for your body’s minerals. You make withdrawals or deposits during your lifetime. If your body doesn’t get enough deposits of calcium, it will borrow it from the skeletal stores (your bones!). Over time, that leads to bone loss. 
Calcium is the most common mineral in the body and one of the most important. The body needs it to build and fix bones and teeth, help nerves work, make muscles squeeze together, help blood clot, and help the heart to work. When blood calcium levels get high (hypercalcemia), the extra calcium is stored in the bones or passed out of the body in urine and stool. The amount of calcium in the body depends on the amount of: 1  Calcium you get in your food. 2  Calcium and vitamin D your intestines absorb. 3  Phosphate in the body
Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body. It is essential for the development and maintenance of strong bones and teeth, where about 99% of the body's calcium is found. Calcium also helps the heart, nerves, muscles, and other body systems work properly. 1 Calcium citrate: Easily absorbed and digested by the body. 2  It does not contain as much elemental calcium -- the amount your body actually absorbs -- as calcium carbonate. 3  It is more expensive than calcium carbonate. 4  Also, calcium citrate should not be used with aluminum-containing antacids.
A blood calcium test can't be used to check for a lack of calcium in your diet or for the loss of calcium from the bones (osteoporosis). The body can have normal calcium levels even if your diet does not have enough calcium in it. Other tests, such as bone density, check the amount of calcium in the bones. When blood calcium levels get high (hypercalcemia), the extra calcium is stored in the bones or passed out of the body in urine and stool. The amount of calcium in the body depends on the amount of: 1  Calcium you get in your food. 2  Calcium and vitamin D your intestines absorb. 3  Phosphate in the body
Next to calcium, phosphorus is the most abundant mineral in the body. These 2 important nutrients work closely together to build strong bones and teeth. About 85% of the body's phosphorus is in bones and teeth. Phosphorous is also present in smaller amounts in cells and tissues throughout the body. When there is more phosphorus than calcium in the body, the body will use calcium stored in bones. This can cause osteoporosis (brittle bones) and lead to gum and teeth problems. A balance of dietary calcium and phosphorus can lower the risk of osteoporosis.