Step 1: You will need … 4 gammon steaks 8 slices of pineapple-juice reserved 3 tsp Worcester sauce 2 tsp brown sugar 1 baking tray prelined with aluminium foil scissors 1 spoon tongs 1 teaspoon --------------------------------------... Step 2: Preheat the grill Set the grill to a medium heat. --------------------------------------... Step 3: Snip the fat Using the scissors, snip the fat of each of the gammon steaks at 2.2cm or 1 inch intervals This stops them curling up during the cooking process. --------------------------------------... 
Preheat broiler with pan in position for 10 minutes. Place meat on pan 3 ½ inches below heat. Broil ½ inch thick steak for 10-12 minutes; broil ¾ inch thick steak for 15-17 minutes; broil 1 inch thick steak for 22-24 minutes. Place under broiler for 5 to 8 minutes until slightly brown; remove to platter and keep warm. Pour liquid from baking pan into a 1 cup measure. In a small saucepan combine cornstarch with the 1 cup liquid. Cook until slightly thickened and pour over ham steak.
1 Cook ham steak in a large skillet over medium heat until browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 2  Drain and remove ham. 3  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Cook ham steak in a large skillet over medium heat until browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 2  Drain and remove ham. 3  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar.
Lightly coat a heavy skillet with nonstick cooking spray or use a nonstick skillet. Preheat over medium-high heat until very hot. Add a ham steak, cut 1/2 inch thick, and reduce heat to medium. Cook, uncovered, for 9 to 11 minutes or until heated through (140 degrees F). Ham steaks are ideal for grilling and broiling as well. Cook a ham all day, unattended, in a slow cooker. For a 5-1/2- to 6-quart slow cooker, choose a boneless ham that is 5 to 5-1/2 pounds, brush it with a glaze, and cook it, covered, for 8 to 9 hours on low-heat setting.
1 Put the gammon steak on the griddle and cook it for 2 minutes. 2  Flip it over and give it another 2 minutes or cook until the color is paler. 3  If you want a crisscross effect, rotate it 90 degrees when you flip it. Gammon steak is the hind leg of a pig (the ham) after it is boned and rolled or cut into individual steaks. You usually get it vacuum-packed and it usually keeps for months because the brining process and vacuum packing preserve it and keep the flavor intact.
Remove wrapper. Apply your favorite glaze if desired. Cook steak in a preheated pan at medium setting. Cook approximately 3 minutes each side for Ham Steaks or approximately 8 minutes each side for Thick-Cut Ham Steaks. Place on microwave safe dish and cover with paper towel. In 1000 watt microwave, cook approximately 5 minutes for Ham Steaks or approximately 8 1/2 minutes for Thick-Cut Ham Steaks. Apply your favorite glaze if desired.
1 Drain and remove ham. 2  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar. 3  Return ham to skillet and cook over medium-low heat until heated through and brown sugar is dissolved, turning steak often, about 10 minutes. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Cook ham steak in a large skillet over medium heat until browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 2  Drain and remove ham. 3  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar.
As gammon is brined before it is cooked, it is not necessary to add salt when cooking. There are two main methods for cooking gammon steaks: Pan frying. Heat a little oil in a pan over a medium heat and fry for 2–3 minutes on each side until golden brown. Grilling. Rub the gammon steaks with oil and grill for 3–4 minutes on each side. One-pot gammon with braised vegetables by by Tom Aikens.