Expunge DV Arrests that Did Not Lead to a Conviction (Arrests Only). Even though you were not convicted, the record of an arrest can cause you to lose a job, housing and substantial embarrassment. Most states allow you to have your domestic violence arrest records sealed if you were NOT convicted. See our section on choosing an expungement attorney to find one who can consult with you about how to expunge domestic violence arrest records.
Here is a partial list of states that allow you to expunge domestic violence convictions: Arizona, Illinois, Minnesota, New Jersey, Nevada, and Utah. States that do NOT allow domestic violence convictions to be expunged include Florida, Texas, and Washington. If your domestic violence conviction is in a state not listed above see or section on choosing an attorney to find one what can consult with you about how to expunge domestic violence convictions. Most states allow you to have your domestic violence arrest records sealed if you were NOT convicted. See our section on choosing an expungement attorney to find one who can consult with you about how to expunge domestic violence arrest records.
Not all convictions are eligible for misdemeanor expungement. Misdemeanor records that can not be expunged include the following: 1  Conviction of an offense in a case where the victim was under 18 years of age and the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Under Ohio law, most misdemeanor criminal records can be expunged. Misdemeanor convictions leave a permanent criminal record that is accessible to the public, including employers.
Expungement of California domestic violence convictions. If you have been convicted of a domestic violence offense whether it was a misdemeanor, or a felony without prison time, you may be entitled to an expungement. In California a domestic violence allegation can be charged as a felony or a misdemeanor. An offense that can be charged as a felony or misdemeanor is referred to as a “wobbler.”. Misdemeanors are typically punishable by fines and up to one year in jail.
Share: Depending on the circumstances of the case it may be possible to have a domestic violence misdemeanor expunged from your record. In California a domestic violence allegation can be charged as a felony or a misdemeanor. An offense that can be charged as a felony or misdemeanor is referred to as a “wobbler.”. Misdemeanors are typically punishable by fines and up to one year in jail.
1 Your Domestic Violence conviction must be the only criminal conviction that you’ve ever had, with the following exception: you can have up to 1 other misdemeanor conviction, whether it be another Domestic Violence or something else. 2  Click here for the new Expungement law in Michigan, effective immediately. There are certain Michigan criminal convictions that cannot be expunged, but luckily Domestic Violence is not one of them. You can expunge a Michigan Domestic Violence conviction if you meet all of the requirements. But first, let’s make sure you understand what an “expungement” does.
Having a domestic charge or conviction on your record can be extremely detrimental to potential job prospects. Many with a domestic violence record have a difficult time re-entering the workforce as many companies turn down those who have been convicted of domestic violence. Most states allow you to have your domestic violence arrest records sealed if you were NOT convicted. See our section on choosing an expungement attorney to find one who can consult with you about how to expunge domestic violence arrest records.
Making it so that employer will not be able to see the arrest or court case is one of the main reasons people get their domestic violence charges expunged. It can also allow you to honestly answer “no” to any question about having had a criminal record. There are many benefits to record expungement. Chances of a Successful Domestic Violence Expungement. Each case, state and court are different, so the chances of success in expunging domestic violence can vary from state to state. Attorney Mathew Higbee says that his nationwide success rate is about 95% on domestic violence expungement cases.
Expungement laws vary by state, so the best thing to do is to take our free online eligibility test to see if you can have your domestic violence case expunged. If your record is in a state in which we do not offer expungement services, please call an attorney in your state. Chances of a Successful Domestic Violence Expungement. Each case, state and court are different, so the chances of success in expunging domestic violence can vary from state to state. Attorney Mathew Higbee says that his nationwide success rate is about 95% on domestic violence expungement cases.