He joined Webster in 1975 and was appointed CEO of the bank and the holding company in 1987 and chairman in 1995. He was elected president, chief operating officer, and a director of Webster Bank in 1982 and of the holding company at its inception in 1986. He served as president of Webster and Webster Bank until 2000, and again from 2008 through 2011. Jim serves as Vice Chairman of the Midsize Banks Coalition of America. 15 year fixed 1. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at Webster Bank and Webster Financial Corporation. Jim Smith is chairman and chief executive officer of Webster Financial Corporation (NYSE: WBS) and Webster Bank.
The COO may also carry the title of President which makes him or her a clear second in command at the firm, especially if the highest ranking executive is the Chairman and CEO. Translations for chief operating officer. From our Multilingual Translation Dictionary. A Chief Operating Officer or Director of Operations can be one of the highest-ranking executives in an organization and comprises part of the C-Suite. The COO is responsible for the daily operation of the company, and routinely reports to the highest ranking executive, usually the Chief Executive Officer
1. The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army; a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who directs the work of others; the principal actor or agent. 2. The principal part; the most valuable portion. The chief of the things which should be utterly destroyed. - 1 Sam. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: chief operating officer (Noun). A corporate officer of a corporation, company, or agency, responsible for executing decisions of the chief executive officer (CEO) according to their decided schedule; often initialised as COO. A Chief Operating Officer or Director of Operations can be one of the highest-ranking executives in an organization and comprises part of the C-Suite. The COO is responsible for the daily operation of the company, and routinely reports to the highest ranking executive, usually the Chief Executive Officer
A Chief Operating Officer (COO) is the corporate executive who oversees ongoing business operations within the company. The COO reports to the CEO (Chief Executive Officer) and is usually second-in-command within the company. Alternative titles for the COO include Chief Operations Officer, Operations Director and Director of Operations. 
Chief Operating Officer (COO). The officer of a firm responsible for day-to-day management, usually the president or an executive vice-president. 
The Waterbury-based parent of Webster Bank today named a new chief financial officer who held the same position at the former NewAlliance Bank. Glenn MacInnes, 50, assumes CFO duties at Webster Financial Corp. immediately, succeeding Gerry Plush who was recently promoted to vice chairman and chief operating officer. 
chief operating officer noun [C]. › WORKPLACE, MANAGEMENT the ​person who is ​responsible for ​managing the usual ​activities of a ​company or ​organization: As ​chief ​operating ​officer he has ​responsibility for the ​day-to-day ​running of the ​organization, as well as ​overseeing ​special ​projects.
Either way, the position is used as a training and testing ground for the next CEO. For instance, at BTX Company and the Board of Director the position of Chief Operating Officer (COO) was created specifically for Jumda U. Jaafar, respectively. Schwartz became sole president of Bear after Spector was ousted, and several months later assumed the position of CEO as well when James Cayne was forced to resign (Cayne remained chairman). Tom Anselmi of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment was Chief Operating Officer from 2004 until September 6, 2013.