1 Eat the arils with a spoon, like you would eat a bowl of cereal. 2  You can eat the hard seeds, or spit them out. 3  You can also cut the pomegranate into large chunks, pick them up, and bite down on the seeds. 4  This is a messier method and will require lots of clean up. There are two main ways to eat pomegranate on its own: 1  Eat the arils with a spoon, like you would eat a bowl of cereal. 2  You can eat the hard seeds, or spit them out. 3  You can also cut the pomegranate into large chunks, pick them up, and bite down on the seeds. 4  This is a messier method and will require lots of clean up.
How to freeze pomegranate seeds. Once you have de-seeded your pomegranate, make sure the seeds are dry. Arrange them in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet lined with wax paper. Place in freezer for 2 hours or until frozen. Once frozen, put them into a freezer bag or container and store them in the freezer. 
Arils -- the fancy name for pomegranate seeds -- are not bad for you at all. In fact, the seeds are loaded with key vitamins and minerals that are good for you and might even stave off certain health problems. You can cut a pomegranate open, separate the seeds from the white membranes -- which taste quite bitter -- and pop the seeds in your mouth just the way they are. The seeds also enhance the flavor and nutrition of many other recipes.
How to get the seeds out (no water in a bowl) of a pomegranate in 10 seconds or less. Taking it apart in a bowl of water sucks, don't ever waste your time doing this again. Step 1: Score the pomegranate all around its circumference. 
HOW TO JUICE A POMEGRANATE. 1  Place your pomegranate seeds in a blender. 2  Pulse the seeds a few times to break them apart and release their juice. 3  Don't blend them for a long period of time, or the seeds will break apart and create cloudy juice. 4  Use a mesh strainer to strain the pomegranate liquid into a container. 
How to Germinate Pomegranate Seeds. Pomegranate (punica granatum) originated in the Middle East and has been known to thrive in hot parts of the world. Its popularity stems from its beauty as an ornamental plant, boasting bright, orange-red flowers and shiny foliage, and its tart, fleshy fruit.
Arils Are More Than Seeds. Pomegranate seeds are enclosed in small, red, jewel-like drops called arils. The material inside the arils is tart and juicy and surrounds the white seeds of the pomegranate fruit. When a pomegranate is cut, you might assume the arils are the seeds, but this is a misconception. The arils and crunchy white seeds are the only edible portions of the pomegranate.
Arils are the jewels of the pomegranate, and they're the part you'll want to enjoy. Many people enjoy pomegranates alone as a snack, but you can also sprinkle the arils over salads or cooked dishes. Inside each aril is a crunchy fiber-rich seed. While some people spit them out, you can eat them whole, seed and all. 
Pomegranates are a delicious winter treat, but many people are afraid of the mess or simply don't know how to get the seeds out easily. Visit http://foodwishes.com to get more info, and watch over 300 free video recipes. If you have questions, ask on the website. 