Q: How much will it cost to fix my radon problem? A: Your cost will depend a lot on where you are in the US. In areas where there are lot of radon contractors, like the Washington, DC metro area where Infiltec is located, the price may be as low as $800 for a standard subslab depressurization system. Q: How long will it take to fix my radon problem? A: Most mitigation radon work is done during real estate transactions and must be completed quickly. A typical job takes about one man day, and the retest requires one day of closed house conditions, plus two or more days for the radon test.
1 Ground water wells can also be tested for radon, then, if needed, can get a water radon mitigation system installed. 2  Installing a water radon mitigation system runs from $1,000-$4,500, and maintenance runs $0 to $150 annually. 3  To find out about radon content in a city water system, call the local water provider. 1 A radon test kit, including laboratory analysis, costs $15-$35. 2  Short-term test kits cost a little bit less than long-term test kits. 3  Radon test kits are available at most home improvement stores, including Lowes and the home section of Wal-Mart.
In this area, it is not that costly to fix. Installation of a radon system runs from $700 - $900 and they come with guarantee to reduce the levels under the EPA recommended level of 4 pCi/L. Radon is something that can be remediated and should not keep you from purchasing a home that you love.
What you can do if your home has high levels of radon. There are a number of ways to reduce the levels of radon in your home. Many of these are simple to install and inexpensive. Many radon reduction techniques, often called radon remediation, can be undertaken by DIY enthusiasts or your local building firm. If you have measured the radon level in your home over a three month period and if it is above the national Reference Level of 200 Bq/m 3, then you should consider taking action to reduce it.
5. The average cost of a radon system is between $800 – $1200. Homes with a crawl space, no gravel under the slab, or a completely finished lower level, sometimes cost more. return to the top
Radon is a naturally occurring gas which is part of the air that we all breathe every day. It is present in all homes. You cannot see, smell or taste Radon and the only way to determine if unsafe levels of Radon exist in your home is to test for it. Generally, radon testing for locations with 20 miles of our office will cost $165. Radon mitigation costs approximately $1,200 to $1,600. For more information on our fees, see our Pricing Estimates Page.
Cost are dependent on your needs. Generally, radon testing for locations with 20 miles of our office will cost $165. Radon mitigation costs approximately $1,200 to $1,600. For more information on our fees, see our Pricing Estimates Page.
The EPA and the Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health believe that you should try to reduce your radon levels as much as possible. Most homes can be reduced to 4.0 pCi/l or lower. If your home has a radon problem, it can be fixed by installing a radon mitigation system in the home. EPA and the Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health recommends that you get a certified or licensed radon mitigation contractor to install the system. If you have to wait a while before you can reduce your radon problem, the EPA recommends these immediate steps to reduce risk: 1  Stop smoking and discourage smoking in your home. 2  This reduces an overall risk of lung cancer.
The cost of a mitigation system may vary according to the home's design, size, foundation, construction materials and the local climate. Radon reduction systems average costs nationally are $1,200 with a range from $800 to $1500 common depending on house and market conditions. One out of 15 (6%) homes nationally may have elevated indoor radon levels that should be lower. The percentage of elevated homes in your state may be much higher. The only way to know a house is elevated is to test.