Smut. Another species of Deuteromycota would be smut, which is a group of parasitic fungi that targets plants. Smut is type of biotrophic pathogen, which causes diseases in important agricultural crops like corn, barley, wheat, oats, sugarcane, and forage grasses. However, the imperfect fungi are not placed in the ascomycete phylum because being classified into that group is based on the structure of the sexual phase, which the Deuteromycota do not have. There has been found to be around 25,000 fungus species in the phylum of Deuteromycota.
Zygomycota: Rhizopus (black bread mold) Ascomycota: Black knot, yeast, blue green-red-brown molds, cup fungi, morels, chestnut blight, dutch elm disease Basidiomycota: mushr … ooms, puffballs, smuts, rusts, bracket fungi Deuteromycota: blue green molds, athletes foot, ringworm   Source(s):   college biology notes. Amphibia is the phylum name for monkey grass. It was first found by Brittany Spears in the time of Friday, April 13, 2009. She was soo pleased about it and made a reality tv … show calles  I found a Phylum Called Monkey Grass!.
Ascomycota is a division or phylum of the kingdom Fungi that, together with the Basidiomycota, form the subkingdom Dikarya. Its members are commonly known as the sac fungi or ascomycetes. However, some species of the Ascomycota are asexual, meaning that they do not have a sexual cycle and thus do not form asci or ascospores.
Deuteromycota is also called the Fungi Imperfecti or the Imperfect  Fungi. Amphibia is the phylum name for monkey grass. It was first found by Brittany Spears in the time of Friday, April 13, 2009. She was soo pleased about it and made a reality tv … show calles  I found a Phylum Called Monkey Grass!.
Only their asexual form of reproduction is known, meaning that this group of fungi produces their spores asexually, in the process called sporogenesis. The Deuteromycota (Greek for second fungi) were once considered a formal phylum of the kingdom Fungi. The term is now used only informally, to denote species of fungi that are asexually reproducing members of the fungal phyla Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. Although Fungi imperfecti/Deuteromycota is no longer formally accepted as a taxon, many of the fungi it included have yet to find a place in modern fungal classification.
Deuteromycota. The division Deuteromycota is also called the Fungi Imperfecti or Imperfect Fungi referring to our imperfect knowledge of their complete life cycles. The Deuteromycota are characterized by production of septate mycelium and/or yeasts, and a sexual life cycle that is either unknown or absent. Asexual reproduction is by means of conidia (sing.=conidium) or may be lacking. A conidium may be defined as an asexual spore that is not produced in a sporangium. Parasexual Cycle. There are many species of Deuteromycota in which a sexual stage is not known. Of these, there are, undoubtedly, species in which sexual reproduction occurs only in a restricted set of environmental conditions so that the occurrence of the sexual stage is infrequent.
There are about 25,000 species that have been classified in the deuteromycota and many are basidiomycota or ascomycota anamorphs. Fungi producing the antibiotic penicillin and those that cause athlete's foot and yeast infections are imperfect fungi. Although Fungi imperfecti/Deuteromycota is no longer formally accepted as a taxon, many of the fungi it included have yet to find a place in modern fungal classification.
This group of fungi comprises over 20,000 species and is very important in breaking down organic matter, as plant and animal pathogens and for industrial importance. They are all higher true fungi, which lack a known perfect stage. Form-genera of the Deuteromycota are based on such characters as type of conidiophores, and color, shape, and septation of conidia. Form-species are based almost entirely upon the host on which they are found and the size of their conidia.
Phylum Ascomycota The second phylum of fungi, the as-comycetes (phylum Ascomycota), is a verylarge group of about 32,000 named species,with more being discovered each year.Among the ascomycetes are such familiarand economically important fungi as yeasts,common molds, morels (figure 36.9 a,b), andtruffles. 
The division Deuteromycota is also called the Fungi Imperfecti or Imperfect Fungi referring to our imperfect knowledge of their complete life cycles. Parasexual Cycle. There are many species of Deuteromycota in which a sexual stage is not known. Of these, there are, undoubtedly, species in which sexual reproduction occurs only in a restricted set of environmental conditions so that the occurrence of the sexual stage is infrequent.