A prospective, randomized trial compared 2 analgesic regimens, morphine with ketamine (K group) or morphine with placebo (P group), for severe acute pain in 73 trauma patients with a visual analog scale (VAS) score of at least 60/100. Because of its high lipid solubility, ketamine rapidly crosses the blood-brain barrier, provides quick onset of action (peak concentration at 1 minute after intravenous push [IVP]) and rapid recovery to baseline (duration of action 5-15 minutes after IVP).
Pharmacologically, ketamine is classified as an NMDA receptor antagonist, but it also acts at numerous other sites (including opioid receptors and monoamine transporters). Like other drugs of the arylcyclohexylamine class, such as phencyclidine (PCP), ketamine is classified as a dissociative agent. In December 2013, the government of India, in response to rising abuse and the use of ketamine as a date rape drug, has added it to Schedule X of the Drug and Cosmetics Act requiring a special license for sale and maintenance of records of all sales for two years.
Ketamine can now be used in the management of pain. It is a white, crystalline powder or clear liquid. The use of ketamine for pain management has been hindered by its adverse effects and risks. Adverse effects of ketamine may include: 1  Vivid dreams or nightmares. 2  Hallucinations. 3  Anxiety/panic attacks. 4  Nausea/vomiting. 5  Loss of appetite. 6  Abdominal pain.
Ketamine is not as addictive as opioid, or narcotic, pain relievers however. As of late, interest has grown in the pain relief potential of ketamine. It is used in low doses to provide pain relief, as opposed to the high doses used for anesthesia. Ketamine can be given by various routes and vehicles. It is a white, crystalline powder or clear liquid. The use of ketamine for pain management has been hindered by its adverse effects and risks. Adverse effects of ketamine may include: 1  Vivid dreams or nightmares. 2  Hallucinations. 3  Anxiety/panic attacks. 4  Nausea/vomiting. 5  Loss of appetite. 6  Abdominal pain.
The effects of ketamine are considered dose dependent. That is, lower doses of the drug produce varying results when compared to higher doses. A dose of 1.0 to 2.0 mg per kilogram of body weight produces an intense experience lasting about one hour. 16 One of the most dangerous effects of ketamine is the helpless and/or confused state the user may be put into after use of the drug. This causes the user to have difficulty with balance, combined with numbness, muscle weakness, and impaired vision.
For patients who respond poorly or incompletely to opioids, ketamine may be the answer. In the middle of the past century, phencyclidine hydrochloride—called PCP or angel dust on the street—was developed to be a safe, effective anesthetic that did not cause cardiovascular and respiratory depression. 
A chart review analysis of 35 ED patients receiving low-dose ketamine (0.1-0.6 mg/kg) in addition to intravenous morphine demonstrated a decrease in pain intensity for 54% of the patients by a documented 3-point pain decrease on a 10-point scale. Because of its high lipid solubility, ketamine rapidly crosses the blood-brain barrier, provides quick onset of action (peak concentration at 1 minute after intravenous push [IVP]) and rapid recovery to baseline (duration of action 5-15 minutes after IVP).
Ketamine (INN) is a medication used mainly for starting and maintaining anesthesia. Other uses include sedation in intensive care, as a pain killer, as treatment of bronchospasm, as a treatment for complex regional pain syndrome and as an antidepressant. In December 2013, the government of India, in response to rising abuse and the use of ketamine as a date rape drug, has added it to Schedule X of the Drug and Cosmetics Act requiring a special license for sale and maintenance of records of all sales for two years.
Ketamine is frequently used in severely injured people and appears to be safe in this group. A 2011 clinical practice guideline supports the use of ketamine as a dissociative sedative in emergency medicine. It is the drug of choice for people in traumatic shock who are at risk of hypotension. In December 2013, the government of India, in response to rising abuse and the use of ketamine as a date rape drug, has added it to Schedule X of the Drug and Cosmetics Act requiring a special license for sale and maintenance of records of all sales for two years.
Low-dose ketamine is sometimes used in the treatment of complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). A 2013 systematic review found only low-quality evidence to support the use of ketamine for CRPS. In December 2013, the government of India, in response to rising abuse and the use of ketamine as a date rape drug, has added it to Schedule X of the Drug and Cosmetics Act requiring a special license for sale and maintenance of records of all sales for two years.