For an unusual berry crop, there are already a number of named varieties. Here is a selection of what's available to date. 'Berry Blue' – A large variety that grows to 8 feet tall and produces large berries as well. 'Blue Belle' – A 4- to 5-foot tall and wide variety that produces roundish, deep blue berries.
About the Honeyberry Shrub and Fruit. The flavor of honeyberries is very hard to describe, so it may be best to just say it's a mystery berry flavor, reminding some people of blackberry, cherry and even grape or kiwi. With a very thin skin, the zesty berries melt in your mouth!
The flavor of honeyberries is very hard to describe, so it may be best to just say it's a mystery berry flavor, reminding some people of blackberry, cherry and even grape or kiwi.
Haskap may be different, but the plant is not difficult to grow. In Nova Scotia, we prefer the soil type ‘Wolfville Loam Drumlins’ or undulating hills of sandy clay loam. However Haskap grows well in many differing soil types, provided the soil meets the needs of the plant in terms of minerals and biologically.
Honeyberries grow best in moist, well-drained soil. The ideal pH is 6.5, but they are adapted to a pH range of 5 to 8. Unlike many other berries, they produce well in a partly shaded location and on wet, clay soils, although they do best on a
Haskap plants will thrive in a well-structured fertile soil of a Ph. of around 6.4 However can grow in a Ph. range of 4.5 to 7.5. The recommended organic content of the soil should be 5 to 10%. The CEC (Cation Exchange Capacity) should be between 10 and 15%.
A member of the honeysuckle family, the honeyberry shrub (Lonicera caerulea) grows circumpolar in the northern hemisphere. They are known as zhimolost in Russia, haskap in Japan, and honeyberry in the USA! Some people refer to the Japanese varieties as haskap and to the Russian varieties as honeyberry.
Because of the plant's ultimate size, honeyberries are well adapted to being used as a hedge or a foundation plant in an edible landscape. The plants are attractive even when not flowering and fruiting, with grey-green foliage and yellow fall leaf color.
While there are plenty of great berry crops to grow in gardens, there also are some unusual ones that might be worthy of your attention. Amelanchier or service berries are a good example of a native shrub that is commonly grown as an ornamental, but has varieties (called saskatoons) that produce excellent fruit as well.