On March 18, 1893, Wilfred Edward Salter Owen was born in Shropshire, England. After the death of his grandfather in 1897, the family moved to Birkenhead, where Owen was educated at the Birkenhead Institute. 
Wilfred Edward Salter Owen was born on 18 March 1893, at Plas Wilmot, a large-ish house on the edge of Oswestry that belonged to his mother's family. While his family were outwardly wealthy, things were far from ideal. In 1897 Owen's maternal grandfather, Edward Shaw, died on the verge of bankruptcy. Wilfred Owen was born in Oswestry and later in life moved to the county town, Shrewsbury. He died on the 4 November 1918, aged 25... just seven days before the end of WWI. One of the greatest poets of his generation, only five of his poems were published before his death.
Wilfred Owen © Owen was an English poet whose work was characterised by his anger at the cruelty and waste of war, which he experienced during service on the Western Front. Wilfred Edward Salter Owen was born 18 March 1893 in Oswestry, Shropshire. After school he became a teaching assistant and in 1913 went to France for two years to work as a language tutor.
Wilfred Edward Salter Owen was born on March 18, 1893. He was on the Continent teaching until he visited a hospital for the wounded and then decided, in September, 1915, to return to England and enlist. 
Wilfred Owen: Biography. Wilfred Owen was born in 1893 to a middle-class family in Oswestry in the North of England. Two years later, Owen's grandfather, the financial mainstay of the family, died almost bankrupt. Owen's parents had to move into rented accommodation in the more urban area of Birkenhead. 
Read his war poetry here. Wilfred Owen's Youth. Wilfred Owen was born on March 18th 1893, to an apparently wealthy family; however, within two years his grandfather died on the verge of bankruptcy and, missing his support, the family were forced into poorer housing at Birkenhead. Born: 18th March 1893 in Oswestry, Britain. Died: 4th November 1918 in Ors, France. Overview of Wilfred Owen's Life. A compassionate poet, Wilfred Owen's work provides the finest description and critique of the soldier's experience during World War One.
Wilfred Owen: Poet of the Trenches. Wilfred Owen (1893-1918) - who was born in Oswestry on the Welsh borders, and brought up in Birkenhead and Shrewsbury-is widely recognised as one of the greatest voices of the First World War.
On March 18, 1893, Wilfred Edward Salter Owen was born in Shropshire, England. After the death of his grandfather in 1897, the family moved to Birkenhead, where Owen was educated at the Birkenhead Institute. After another move in 1906, he continued his studies at the Technical School in Shrewsbury. 
Like so many others in the British Army, Wilfred Owen was killed in battle but his poetry remains an enduring legacy of his thoughts and emotions about the war – raging against armchairs generals but in praise of those who actually fought at the front. Wilfred Owen was born on March 18 th 1893 in Oswestry, Shropshire. He was the eldest of four children; he had two brothers, Harold and Colin, and a sister, Mary. In 1897 the family moved to Merseyside. 
Wilfred Edward Salter Owen MC (18 March 1893 – 4 November 1918) was an English poet and soldier, one of the leading poets of the First World War. His great friend, the poet Siegfried Sassoon, later had a profound effect on Owen's poetic voice, and Owen's most famous poems (Dulce et Decorum est and Anthem for Doomed Youth) show direct results of Sassoon's influence. Manuscript copies of the poems survive, annotated in Sassoon's handwriting.