To create a multilink Frame Relay bundle link and to associate the link with a bundle, use the encapsulation frame-relay mfr command in interface configuration mode. To remove the bundle link from the bundle, use the no form of this command. The frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command can be configured only on a bundle's main interface. If no bandwidth class is specified by using the frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command, the Frame Relay bundle uses the class A (single link) criterion.
To create a multilink Frame Relay bundle link and associate the link with a bundle, use the encapsulation frame-relay mfr command in interface configuration mode. To remove the bundle link from the bundle, use the no form of this command. This feature provides a cost-effective way to increase bandwidth for particular applications by enabling multiple serial links to be aggregated into a single bundle of bandwidth. Multilink Frame Relay is supported on User-to-Network Interfaces (UNI) and Network-to-Network Interfaces (NNI) in Frame Relay networks.
Note When configured on the bundle interface, this command applies to all bundle links in the bundle. Step 5. Router(config-if)# interface mfr interface-number. subinterface-number point-to-point. Configures a point-to-point multilink Frame Relay subinterface. This feature provides a cost-effective way to increase bandwidth for particular applications by enabling multiple serial links to be aggregated into a single bundle of bandwidth. Multilink Frame Relay is supported on User-to-Network Interfaces (UNI) and Network-to-Network Interfaces (NNI) in Frame Relay networks.
1 1 Introduction 1.1 Purpose Multilink Frame Relay (MFR) for the User-to-Network Interface (UNI) and the Network-to-Network Interface (NNI) provides physical interface emulation for frame relay devices. The bundle link forwards the fragment by issuing a BL_DATA indication to the bundle. Multilink Frame Relay UNI/NNI Implementation Agreement FRF.16.1 23 A MFR frame fragment that is received at a bundle link endpoint in all other states must be silently discarded.
The Multilink Frame Relay feature enables you to create a virtual interface called a bundle or bundle interface. The bundle interface serves as the Frame Relay data link and performs the same functions as a physical interface. The bundle is made up of physical serial links, called bundle links. This feature provides a cost-effective way to increase bandwidth for particular applications by enabling multiple serial links to be aggregated into a single bundle of bandwidth. Multilink Frame Relay is supported on User-to-Network Interfaces (UNI) and Network-to-Network Interfaces (NNI) in Frame Relay networks.
The frame-relay multilink output-threshold command can be used on the bundle interface and the bundle links. If the command is used on the bundle interface, the configured output threshold will apply to all bundle links in the bundle. The frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command can be configured only on a bundle's main interface. If no bandwidth class is specified by using the frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command, the Frame Relay bundle uses the class A (single link) criterion.
To assign a bundle identification (BID) name to a multilink Frame Relay bundle, use the frame-relay multilink bid command in interface configuration mode. To reset the name to the default, use the no form of this command. The frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command can be configured only on a bundle's main interface. If no bandwidth class is specified by using the frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command, the Frame Relay bundle uses the class A (single link) criterion.
Multilink Frame Relay (MFR) is supported on User-to-Network Interfaces (UNI) and Network-to-Network Interfaces (NNI) in Frame Relay networks. The frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command can be configured only on a bundle's main interface. If no bandwidth class is specified by using the frame-relay multilink bandwidth-class command, the Frame Relay bundle uses the class A (single link) criterion.
Netsh commands for Interface IP. You can use commands in the Netsh Interface IP context to configure the TCP/IP protocol (including addresses, default gateways, DNS servers, and WINS servers) and to display configuration and statistical information. For these commands to work at the Windows XP command prompt, you must type netsh interface ip before typing commands and parameters as they appear in the syntax below.