Please be advised that there are no on-base buses or on-base bus routes. Once arrived on Kadena, newcomers are encouraged to coordinate with their sponsor to ensure that the sponsor can provide transportation until the newcomer secures a SOFA drivers license and vehicle. Okinawa is a semi-tropical island located between the East China Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Given the extensive tourism, cultural and historical sites, pristine ocean and beaches, live entertainment, parks and restaurants, most people find that Kadena is the best tour of their career!
Naha Airport (那覇空港 Naha-kūkō, OKA; [1]) is the largest airport in the Okinawa area and the main hub for international and inter-island flights. A new monorail, opened in 2003, connects the airport to the city center. Okinawa Peace Park has several memorials relating to the Battle of Okinawa. To get there by bus, take bus no. 89 from Naha bus terminal, change to bus no. 82 at Itoman bus terminal, and get off at the Heiwa-kinendo-iriguchi stop. 1  Peace Park.
Share a Ride -- Don't Miss Out! If you are missing many of Okinawa's top events because you cannot find a ride, do not have a car or cannot afford to take a taxi, you are not alone. However, the truth of the matter is you can afford a taxi ride if you are willing to plan ahead and carpool with a few of your friends. 
Kadena Air Base, Okinawa, Japan. The Korea Conflict of 1950 emphasized the need for maintaining a naval presence in Okinawa. On February 15, 1951, the US Naval Facility, Naha, was activated and later became commissioned on April 18th. Commander Fleet Activities, Ryukyus was commissioned on March 8, 1957. 
Kadena Air Base. Location. Kadena AB is located in Okinawa City, Okinawa, Japan. Okinawa is a semi-tropical island located between the East China Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Given the extensive tourism, cultural and historical sites, pristine ocean and beaches, live entertainment, parks and restaurants, most people find that Kadena is the best tour of their career!
Directions. Directions to Kadena AB. Okinawa is located southwest of mainland Japan, surrounded by the Pacific Ocean and East China Sea. The nearest commercial airport is Naha International Airport located in the city of Naha, located off of Highway 58. From the AMC Terminal. The military contracted flight The Patriot Express lands at Kadena AB's AMC flight terminal. How to Contact Kadena. If you were routed through mainland Japan, you will arrive at the domestic terminal. If you have yen, you can use a pay phone and call 938-1111, then after the dial tone, dial the base phone number. Once in Naha, the Naha International terminal has a DSN line available at the Information Booth.
AF News. About Kadena. Kadena Air Base is the hub of airpower in the Pacific, and home to the Air Force's largest combat wing -- the 18th Wing -- and a variety of associate units. Together they form Team Kadena -- a world-class combat team ready to fight and win from the Keystone of the Pacific. 
There is no longer a shuttle bus service between Naha International Airport and Kadena Air Base Airport. 1  Note that there may also be hotels near Kadena Air Base Airport that provide a shuttle service. Kadena Air Base Airport shuttle services are typically shared with other passengers heading to the same general area, such as a hotel district in the city center. Shuttle transfers are generally cheaper than taking a taxi, but take a little longer to reach your destination.
Kadena Air Base Airport taxi photo. If you arrive after hours at DNA Kadena Air Base Airport, you may call 99-939-1660 for a taxi on base. On base taxis accept only JPY. If you arrive at Naha International Airport, commercial taxi service is also available to Kadena AB for approximately JPY 5,000 (USD 60 equivalent). Please be certain the taxi is labelled on-base access or you will not be able to enter the installation. The taxi drivers accept JPY only. If you arrive after hours at DNA Kadena Air Base Airport, you may call 99-939-1660 for a taxi on base. On base taxis accept only JPY.