Sandstone is a clastic sedimentary rock made up mainly of sand-size (1/16 to 2 millimeter diameter) weathering debris. Environments where large amounts of sand can accumulate include beaches, deserts, flood plains and deltas. Picture Gallery of the Most Common Rock Types. Breccia is a clastic sedimentary rock that is composed of large (over two millimeter diameter) angular fragments. The spaces between the large fragments can be filled with a matrix of smaller particles or a mineral cement which binds the rock together.
Figure 10f-2: Sandstone. All sedimentary rocks are lithified into some collective mass. Lithification is any process that turns raw rock sediment into consolidated sedimentary rock. The process of lithification usually produces identifiable layering in these type of rocks (Figure 10f-3). Lithification can occur by way of: Drying and compaction. Oxidation of iron and aluminum.
Sandstone Basics. Sandstone is a category of rock made from sediment (a sedimentary rock). The sediment particles are clasts, or pieces, of minerals and fragments of rock, thus sandstone is a clastic sedimentary rock. Sandstone has two different kinds of material in it besides the sediment particles: matrix and cement. Matrix is the fine-grained stuff (silt and clay size) that was in the sediment along with the sand whereas cement is the mineral matter, introduced later, that binds the sediment into rock.
Sandstone with a lot of matrix is called poorly sorted. If matrix amounts to more than 10 percent of the rock, it is called a wacke (wacky). A well-sorted sandstone (little matrix) with little cement is called an arenite. Another way to look at it is that wacke is dirty and arenite is clean. Sandstone has two different kinds of material in it besides the sediment particles: matrix and cement. Matrix is the fine-grained stuff (silt and clay size) that was in the sediment along with the sand whereas cement is the mineral matter, introduced later, that binds the sediment into rock.
In geology, rock or stone is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids. For example, the common rock granite is a combination of the quartz, feldspar and biotite minerals. The Earth's outer solid layer, the lithosphere, is made of rock. 
Sandstone (sometimes known as arenite) is a clastic sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand-sized minerals or rock grains. Most sandstone is composed of quartz and/or feldspar because these are the most common minerals in the Earth's crust. Like sand, sandstone may be any color, but the most common colors are: tan, brown, yellow, red, grey, pink, white, and black. Since sandstone beds often form highly visible cliffs and other topographic features, certain colors of sandstone have been strongly identified with certain regions. Cement is a secondary mineral that forms after deposition and during burial of the sandstone. These cementing materials may be either silicate minerals or non-silicate minerals, such as calcite. 1  Silica cement can consist of either quartz or opal minerals. 2  Quartz is the most common silicate mineral that acts as cement.
It is composed mostly of sand, which means particles of a medium size, so sandstone is a medium-grained clastic sedimentary rock. More precisely, sand is between 1/16 millimeter and 2 mm in size (silt is finer and gravel is coarser). Sandstone has two different kinds of material in it besides the sediment particles: matrix and cement. Matrix is the fine-grained stuff (silt and clay size) that was in the sediment along with the sand whereas cement is the mineral matter, introduced later, that binds the sediment into rock.
Limestone Features. Limestone is the name given to rock which is composed mainly of calcium carbonate. Calcium carbonate is a chemical compound of calcium, carbon and oxygen. The chemical formula for calcium carbonate is CaCO 3. Limestone is a sedimentary rock which is formed underwater. 
Sandstone is a sedimentary rock formed from cemented sand-sized clasts. The cement that binds the clasts can vary from clay minerals to calcite, silica or iron oxides. Sandstone can be further divided according to: Clast size-fine (0.06-0.2mm), medium (0.2-0.6mm), coarse (0.6-2mm); Mineral content-a sandstone consisting of more than 25% feldspar clasts is termed arkose; a sandstone consisting of more than 90% quartz clasts is called quartzose;