A person can most probably go without air for 5-6 mins. but for adults it would be like 7 mins. How long will man survive without air? This depends on a few more variables not given but a person will stay conscious for 3-5 minutes. After that, and assuming someone gets oxygen to them they will be resuscitated … for another 5 minutes or so before permanent brain damage and death ensue.
Depends on the human. The average is about 3 minutes, after which you start risking brain damage and death. However, some people can hold their breaths for over 5 minutes. David Blaine recently set a record for about 17 minutes, but that was after hyperventilating with pure oxygen to flush the CO2 out of his system. However, in cases of drowning, after passing unconscious, you can survive about 12 minutes (I believe) before you risk brain death. However, in certain cases, children who have fallen into very cold water have survived over an hour without air.
Usually a person can only survive 3 minutes without breathing, although there are women divers In Japan and other countries who dive for abalone or pearls who are able to survive for 5 minutes at a time, even diving to a depth of 100 feet, on a single breath, though this requires years of training. Conclusion: If we can only survive a month or two  at the most  without food, and only 3-10 days  at the most  without water, and 3  22 minutes  at the most  without air (breath), we must understand that these are the physical requirements of our physical body to sustain physical life.
If you're ever stuck out in the wilderness, remember what survival experts call 'the Rule of Threes'. You can live 3 minutes without air, though we don't recommend trying. In a harsh environment — it's snowing, say — you have 3 hours to survive without shelter. After 3 days, you need water or you'll perish. You can make it 3 weeks without food, though we promise you that won't be fun. Despite this possibly helpful rule, some people have survived 8 to 10 days without water.
An average person over 21 can survive about six minutes without air and then the brain starts to die. How long will man survive without air? This depends on a few more variables not given but a person will stay conscious for 3-5 minutes. After that, and assuming someone gets oxygen to them they will be resuscitated … for another 5 minutes or so before permanent brain damage and death ensue.
The longest record for a man holding his breath underwater and remaining conscious is about 10 minutes http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2007-1... . However, in cases of drowning, after passing unconscious, you can survive about 12 minutes (I believe) before you risk brain death. However, in certain cases, children who have fallen into very cold water have survived over an hour without air.
We can't live on air and sunshine alone. The human body needs food and water to survive. A human can go for more than three weeks without food (Mahatma Gandhi survived 21 days of complete starvation), but water is a different story. At least 60% of the adult body is made of it and every living cell in the body needs it to keep functioning
As mentioned, temperature (specifically metabolism) plays a very big role in how long you can go without oxygen, but as general guideline: Thus, the main areas of concern is the heart and the brain. A human body ca only live for six minutes without oxygen, before the brain cells start to die. About 6 minutes before brain cells start to die. If a person has a cardiac arrest resuscitation has to begin within this time to be successful. The time may be prolonged if the body is cooled, for example by drowning in ice cold water.
Many of the boundaries within which a typical human can survive have been fully established; the well-known rule of threes dictates how long we can forgo air, water and food (roughly three minutes, three days and three weeks, respectively). 