Proteins. Proteins are digested in the stomach and small intestine. Protease enzymes break down proteins into amino acids. Digestion of proteins in the stomach is helped by stomach acid, which is strong hydrochloric acid. This also kills harmful micro-organisms that may be in the food. This is only a start to the process of digestion, as chewed pieces of food are still too large to be absorbed by the body. Food has to be broken down chemically into really small particles before it can be absorbed.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The process by which large food molecules are broken down into smaller ones is called Digestion. This can be divided into Physical & Chemical process.. Physical process include the Chewing, Mixing the food with Saliva which breaks the large molecules into smaller ones but it cant be absorbed. Chemical Process: Brought about by Enzymes(biological catalysts), Acids, Electrolytes etc..
Most food molecules exist as large complex organic molecules which require breaking down into small simple soluble molecules which can enter the blood, move around the body (in the blood circulatory system) and enter cells where they are needed for a particular function. The process of breakdown is known as. digestion. The nutrients which require digestion are: complex carbohydrates, which are broken down into monosaccharides. proteins, which are broken down into amino acids. lipids, which are broken down into glycerol and fatty acids. Nutrients such as vitamins and minerals can be used directly without
Absorption is the process that allows substances you eat to be taken up by the blood. After food is broken down into small nutrient molecules, the molecules are absorbed by the blood. After absorption, the nutrient molecules travel in the bloodstream to cells throughout the body. Some substances in food cannot be broken down into nutrients. 
They are just special proteins that can break large molecules into small molecules. Different types of enzymes can break down different nutrients: carbohydrase or amylase enzymes break down starch into sugar. protease enzymes break down proteins into amino acids. This is only a start to the process of digestion, as chewed pieces of food are still too large to be absorbed by the body. Food has to be broken down chemically into really small particles before it can be absorbed.
In catabolism, large molecules, such as polysaccharides, fatty acids, nucleic acids, and proteins, are broken down into ** smaller units ** such as monosaccharides, fatty acids, nucleotides & amino acids, respectively. In catabolism, large molecules such as polysaccharides, fatty acids, nucleic acids and proteins are broken down into smaller units such as monosaccharides, fatty acids, nucleotides and amino acids. jujri · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The term mechanical digestion refers to the physical breakdown of large pieces of food into smaller pieces which can subsequently be accessed by digestive enzymes. In chemical digestion, enzymes break down food into the small molecules the body can use. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion.
All metabolic reactions can be broken down into one of two general categories: catabolic and anabolic reactions. Catabolism is the process by which large molecules are broken down into smaller ones with the release of energy. Anabolism is the process by which energy is used to build up complex molecules needed by the body to maintain itself and develop. Catabolism: The process by which large molecules are broken down into smaller ones with the release of energy. Chemical bond: A force of attraction between two atoms. Enzyme: Chemical compounds that act as catalysts, increasing the rate at which reactions take place in a living organism.
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion.