Medical Definition of PAPAIN. : a crystallizable protease in the juice of the green fruit of the papaya obtained usually as a brownish powder and used chiefly as a tenderizer for meat and in medicine as a digestant and as a topical agent in the debridement of necrotic tissue.
: a protease in the juice of unripe papaya that is used especially as a tenderizer for meat and in medicine (as in the topical debridement of necrotic tissue). See papain defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
What is Papain. Papain is an enzyme that is found in green papaya (papaya that is not quite ripe). It has been used in traditional medicine for thousands of years because of its many health benefits which include treating wounds and cuts, stings and burns and internal illnesses.
Papain is taken from the fruit of the papaya tree. It is used to make medicine. Papain is used for pain and swelling (inflammation) as well as fluid retention following trauma and surgery.
Definition of PAPAIN. : a protease in the juice of unripe papaya that is used especially as a tenderizer for meat and in medicine (as in the topical debridement of necrotic tissue). See papain defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary, from papaya.
Share. Papain is a powerful digestive enzyme commonly found and extracted from the papaya fruit (Carica papaya) , it is also referred to as papaya proteinase. The papaya-enzyme papain plays a key role in digestive processes involving breaking down tough protein fibers.
Papain is a powerful digestive enzyme commonly found and extracted from the papaya fruit (Carica papaya) , it is also referred to as papaya proteinase. The papaya-enzyme papain plays a key role in digestive processes involving breaking down tough protein fibers.
papain. a proteolytic enzyme from the latex of papaw, Carica papaya, the active ingredient of meat tenderizers. In medicine, it is used as a protein digestant and for enzymatic debridement débridement and promotion of normal healing of surface. lesions