Wernicke's encephalopathy is a degenerative brain disorder caused by the lack of thiamine (vitamin B1). It may result from alcohol abuse, dietary deficiencies, prolonged vomiting, eating disorders, or the effects of chemotherapy. Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome-a memory disorder-also results from a deficiency of thiamine, and is associated with alcoholism. The heart, vascular, and nervous system are involved. Symptoms include amnesia, confabulation, attention deficit, disorientation, and vision impairment.
Definition. Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome (WKS) is a neurological disorder. Wernicke’s Encephalopathy and Korsakoff’s Psychosis are the acute and chronic phases, respectively, of the same disease. WKS is caused by a deficiency in the B vitamin thiamine. Thiamine plays a role in metabolizing glucose to produce energy for the brain. 
Due to the close relationship between these two disorders, patients suffering from both are usually diagnosed with WKS, as a single syndrome. It is a manifestation of thiamine (vitamin B 1) deficiency, a spectrum of disorders which also encompasses beriberi, Wernicke's encephalopathy, and Korsakoff's psychosis. These disorders may manifest concurrently or separately. WKS is usually secondary to alcohol abus
Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS) is a type of brain disorder caused by a lack of vitamin B1. The syndrome is actually two separate conditions that can occur at the same time. Usually you’ll experience symptoms of Wernicke’s encephalopathy first. Signs of Korsakoff psychosis tend to follow as the Wernicke’s symptoms wane. If Wernicke’s disease is treated quickly and effectively, Korsakoff syndrome may not develop (Mayo Clinic). Korsakoff psychosis is the result of chronic brain damage. Korsakoff syndrome affects the areas of your brain that control memory.
The syndrome is a combined manifestation of two namesake disorders, Wernicke's encephalopathy and Korsakoff's psychosis, named after Carl Wernicke and Sergei Korsakoff respectively. It involves an acute Wernicke-encephalopathy phase, followed by the development of a chronic Korsakoff's syndrome phase. It is a manifestation of thiamine (vitamin B 1) deficiency, a spectrum of disorders which also encompasses beriberi, Wernicke's encephalopathy, and Korsakoff's psychosis.
Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. 
Knowledge center. Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is directly caused by a thiamin deficiency and is linked to long-term (chronic) alcohol consumption-however, some patients who do not abuse alcohol may also develop this syndrome. 
Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome (WKS), also called wet brain, Korsakoff's psychosis, and alcoholic encephalopathy, is the combined presence of Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) and Korsakoff's syndrome. It is a manifestation of thiamine (vitamin B 1) deficiency, a spectrum of disorders which also encompasses beriberi, Wernicke's encephalopathy, and Korsakoff's psychosis.
This neurological disorder is caused by a lack of thiamine (vitamin B1) in the brain, and is also often exacerbated by the neurotoxic effects of alcohol. When Wernicke's encephalopathy accompanies Korsakoff's syndrome, the combination is called the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. Korsakoff's is a continuum of Wernicke's encephalopathy or disease, though a recognized episode of Wernicke's is not always obvious. Korsakoff's syndrome (also called Korsakoff's dementia, Korsakoff's psychosis, or amnesic-confabulatory syndrome) is a manifestation of Wernicke's encephalopathy, also called Wernicke's disease. It happens in Wernicke's disease in almost all alcohol abuser