The absolute minimum is 8 weeks but ideally a kitten should stay with its mom until he's at least 12 weeks. Kittens need much more from their moms than just milk, contrary to popular belief, so the longer the kitten stays with mom the better. Reply. 1. Kittens will nurse up to 8 weeks old. 2. They really are not reliable with the litter pan under 12 weeks old. 3. They need more social time with mom/siblings to be mentally and physically ready to leave. 4. Many kitten problems are due to kittens being taken too soon.
· just now. Report Abuse. kittens should not be seperated from their mother until they are at least 6 weeks of age most pet shops will take them from 8 weeks it is the time when they no longer need milk and cat eat dry cat food and use a litter tray properly. Report Abuse. New born kittens should have their mother for the first 4 weeks of their lives. If they don't, then they should be bottle fed kitten formula in order to be sure they are getting all of the correct nutrients. You can tell how old a kitten is by this.
Kittens six to eight weeks old have not learned any important socialisation or behaviour skills yet, which kittens learn from eight weeks onwards. During this time kittens will learn how to play and interact with their littermates, mother and any other animals and humans in the house. Keeping kittens with their mothers and siblings until they are twelve weeks old is ideal. Sadly, too many kittens are taken away from their mo … thers too early, usually around six to eight weeks old (some kittens aren't even weaned properly at that age).
Report Abuse. To be fully socialized, kittens should stay with the mother and litter mates for at least 12 weeks-perhaps as little as 10 weeks but it will depend upon the kitten. Removing kittens before this will almost always product behavior problems in the first year of the kitten's life. Report Abuse. New born kittens should have their mother for the first 4 weeks of their lives. If they don't, then they should be bottle fed kitten formula in order to be sure they are getting all of the correct nutrients. You can tell how old a kitten is by this.
· just now. Report Abuse. 8 weeks is the minimum A kitten should stay with its mother for an absolute minimum of eight weeks and preferably 12 weeks. Although they may be weaned prior to eight weeks, they will still have the occasional need to nurse. Report Abuse. Kittens and puppies need to stay with their mother until they are at least 6 weeks old, but 8 weeks is better. The mother teaches the kittens appropriate behaviors as they become less dependent upon her.
Report Abuse. A kitten should stay with its mother for an absolute minimum of eight weeks and preferably 12 weeks. Although they may be weaned prior to eight weeks, they will still have the occasional need to nurse. 
The ASPCA indicates that mother cats usually start weaning the little fluff balls when they are about 1 month old. In general, kittens need their mother's milk until they are a minimum of 4 weeks old. The complete weaning process generally takes about a month, meaning that the wee kittens are usually fully weaned when they are between 8 and 10 weeks in age. Towards the end of the run, however, kittens should be receiving the vast majority of their dietary intake via food that is made specifically for kittens.
When puppies stay with their mother and littermates for a minimum of between 8 and 10 weeks, they have sufficient time to develop a strong foundation of social skills. In regular playing with their siblings, puppies receive an important education on life in the canine real world.. It is important for puppies to stay with their mothers at least until they are all through with weaning. However, in certain situations, that may not be realistic -- such as in the event of the mother dog's illness.
I'm not sure how long the kittens should stay with their mother, so would you please let me know what is the appropriate length of time a kitten should stay with its mother? Answer: Thank you for asking! A kitten should stay with its mother for an absolute minimum of eight weeks and preferably 12 weeks. Although they may be weaned prior to eight weeks, they will still have the occasional need to nurse. Kittens taken from their momcats before this time often develop nursing behavior on themselves, other cats, humans, or fabric, and these habits will often continue throughout adulthood. 