Antoine Lavoisier, a French chemist, also discovered oxygen in 1775, was the first to recognize it as an element, and coined its name oxygen - which comes from a Greek word that means acid-former. There is a historic dispute about who discovered oxygen. Priestley, a big supporter of the phlogiston theory, called his discovery dephlogisticated air on the theory that it supported combustion so well because it had no phlogiston in it, and hence could absorb the maximum amount during burning.
First of the men who discovered oxygen was Carl Wilhelm Scheele, a Swede who, in 1772, isolated oxygen by burning nitrates and mercuric oxides together. Knowing oxygen is a combustible gas, he dubbed the new-found element as ‘fire-air’. Oxygen is the most important thing in the universe for us humans and it is only befitting that we be aware of the men who discovered oxygen labored to understand deeply the very element that we breathe in and breathe out every moment of our life.
Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 1774 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published. Priestley, a big supporter of the phlogiston theory, called his discovery dephlogisticated air on the theory that it supported combustion so well because it had no phlogiston in it, and hence could absorb the maximum amount during burning.
Oxygen was discovered in 1772 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, but he did  not publish his discovery until after Joseph Priestly had published  his independent discovery of oxygen i … n 1775. As a result, Priestly  is usually credited with the discovery. Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. He called the gas fire air because of the brilliant sparks it produced when it … came in contact with hot charcoal dust.
Oxygen was discovered in 1772 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, but he did  not publish his discovery until after Joseph Priestly had published  his independent discovery of oxygen i … n 1775. As a result, Priestly  is usually credited with the discovery. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 17 … 74 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published.
Oxygen was discovered independently by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in Uppsala, in 1773 or earlier, and Joseph Priestley in Wiltshire, in 1774, but Priestley is often given priority because his work was published first. By mass, oxygen is the third-most abundant element in the universe, after hydrogen and helium. At standardized conditions for temperature and pressure, two atoms of the element bind to form dioxygen, a diatomic gas that is colorless, odorless, and tasteless, with the formula O 2.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 1774 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published. Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. He called the gas fire air because of the brilliant sparks it produced when it … came in contact with hot charcoal dust.
Scheele was born in Stralsund, in western Pomerania, which was at the time part of Sweden. Scheele's father Joachim (or Johann) Christian Scheele, was a grain dealer and brewer from a respected German family. His mother was Margaretha Eleanore Warnekros. Scheele had a bad habit of sniffing and tasting any new substances he discovered. Cumulative exposure to arsenic, mercury, lead, their compounds, and perhaps hydrofluoric acid which he had discovered, and other substances took their toll on Scheele, who died at the early age of 43, on 21 May 1786, at his home in Koeping. köping
Antoine Lavoisier, a French chemist, also discovered oxygen in 1775, was the first to recognize it as an element, and coined its name oxygen - which comes from a Greek word that means acid-former. There is a historic dispute about who discovered oxygen. Most credit Priestly alone or Both Priestly and Scheele. Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. He called the gas fire air because of the brilliant sparks it produced when it … came in contact with hot charcoal dust.