From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The common wombat (Vombatus ursinus), also known as the coarse-haired wombat or bare-nosed wombat, is a marsupial, one of three species of wombats and the only one in the genus Vombatus. The common wombat grows to an average of 98 cm (39 in) long and a weight of 26 kg (57 lb). Three subspecies are noted, though their distinctness is somewhat uncertain: 1  V. u. hirsutus, the nominate form, is found on the Australian mainland. 2  V. u. tasmaniensis is found in Tasmania. 3  V. u. ursinus was once found throughout the Bass Strait Islands, but is now restricted to Flinders Island to the north of Tasmania.
Definition of VOMBATUS. : a genus of mammals comprising the common Australian and Tasmanian wombats and being the type of the family Vombatidae. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, modification of English wombat
Common Wombat is the only living member of its genus Vombatus, and is similar in appearance to two remaining wombat species (Southern and Northern Hairy-nosed Wombats) belonging to the genus Lasiorhinus. Tasmanian and island species are generally smaller. Females tend to be slightly larger than males of the same age, but the geographical variation makes it difficult to generalise. Average head and body length of mainland wombat is 985 mm (840-1150 mm). Weight is 26 kg (22-39 kg).
Wombats are native to the Australian biogeographic region. Coarse-haired wombats are found along the eastern edge of Queensland and New South Whales, in addition to Victoria, Flinder's Island, Tasmania, and parts of South Australia. (Vombatus ursinus, 2011; Paris, et al., 2002). 1  Biogeographic Regions. 
Common wombat in Narawntapu National Park, Tasmania. It is widespread in the cooler and better-watered parts of southern and eastern Australia, including Tasmania, and in mountain districts as far north as the south of Queensland, but is declining in western Victoria and South Australia. Three subspecies are noted, though their distinctness is somewhat uncertain: 1  V. u. hirsutus, the nominate form, is found on the Australian mainland. 2  V. u. tasmaniensis is found in Tasmania. 3  V. u. ursinus was once found throughout the Bass Strait Islands, but is now restricted to Flinders Island to the north of Tasmania.
Origin of VOMBATUS. New Latin, modification of English wombat. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. : a genus of mammals comprising the common Australian and Tasmanian wombats and being the type of the family Vombatidae. ADVERTISEMENT.
Full Definition of WOMBAT. : any of several stocky burrowing Australian marsupials (genera Vombatus and Lasiorhinus of the family Vombatidae) resembling small bears. See wombat defined for English-language learners. See wombat defined for kids. ADVERTISEMEN
The largest of the living species, the common wombat, Vombatus ursinus, from the moist forests of southeastern Australia, reaches a size of up to 40 kg. It is restricted to altitudes above 600 m at the northern limit of its range. 
The dental formula of wombats is 1.0.1.41.0.1.4 × 2 = 24. Wombats' fur can vary from a sandy colour to brown, or from grey to black. All three known extant species average around a metre in length and weigh between 20 and 35 kg (44 and 77 lb). Wombats dig extensive burrow systems with their rodent-like front teeth and powerful claws. One distinctive adaptation of wombats is their backwards pouch. The advantage of a backwards-facing pouch is that when digging, the wombat does not gather soil in its pouch over its young.
The wombat is a medium sized marsupial that is found only in Australia and it's surrounding islands. Wombats are burrowing mammals that spend most of the day under ground, coming out at night to feed. The common wombat is thought to be a descendant of the giant wombat that existed around 50 million years ago. 