Some places and some events have more significance in the history of nations. In Eritrea that place is Nakfa. Nakfa was, physically and symbolically, the core of the Eritrean struggle for liberation. Just as was declared at that moment, the liberation of Nakfa was a revolutionary victory that determined the future of the struggle of the Eritrean people, both on the ground and in the hearts and minds of the people.
With the introduction of the Nakfa, Eritrea has entered a new era in its history. from: Eritrea Horizons The magazine of Eritrea's tourist industry Vol 2 No 1. by Jacky Sutton. In ancient history, an outstanding feature of trade between the Mediterranean countries and the Eritrean Sea was the use f money. Now the first Eritrean currency, the Nakfa, has replaced the Ethiopian birr. It may seem strange, at a time when countries such as those of the European Union are trying to create or revive pan-national regional currencies, that Eritrea is devising a new one.
Nakfa (Tigrinya: ናቕፋ) is a town in northern Eritrea, after which the nakfa currency is named. It served as the base for the Eritrean People's Liberation Front, during the Eritrean War of Independence. During the war, Nakfa was subjected to a number of destructive attacks that left only the mosque standing. Close to Nacfa are the trenches of Denden
Nakfa is the remotest village of Eritrea but at the same time the most sought after place. This was the place where the Eritrean Peoples Liberation Front or the E.P.L.F. fought bravely for nearly 30 years before liberating Eritrea from the rule of the Ethiopian government. For this reason the currency of Eritrea is also named ‘Nakfa’. The road from Afabet to Nakfa is winding like all the other roads in this country. But in this sector it is extremely narrow and the village van bulges with passengers.
The Eritrean Nakfa is issued in notes with denominations of 100, 50, 10, five and one Nakfa. Coins are 100 cents, 50, 25, 10, five and one cent. The one-cent coin has so little purchasing power that you might find you are given five cents in change instead of six. Now the first Eritrean currency, the Nakfa, has replaced the Ethiopian birr. It may seem strange, at a time when countries such as those of the European Union are trying to create or revive pan-national regional currencies, that Eritrea is devising a new one.
The Nakfa trenches that foiled the consecutive offensives of the Drge forces are living testimony for the perseverance, endurance and high determination of the liberation fighter to reach their desired goal, the liberation of Eritrea from the yoke of colonialism. The town of Nakfa that the Derge regime tried to regain with all its capacity, by deploying an army that was supposedly the strongest army in sub-Sahara, stood firm in allegiance with the Eritrean liberation fighters and it never gave up.
The nakfa (ISO 4217 code: ERN) is the currency of Eritrea. It was introduced on 8 November 1997 to replace the Ethiopian birr at par. Named after the town of Nakfa, it is divided into 100 cents. 
Nakfa is the remotest village of Eritrea but at the same time the most sought after place for any casual tourist from Italy or China. This was the place where the Eritrean Peoples Liberation Front or the E.P.L.F. fought bravely for nearly 30 years before liberation of Eritrea from the rule of the Ethiopian government. For this reason the currency of Eritrea is also named ‘Nakfa’. The road from Afabet to Nakfa is winding like all the other roads in this country. But in this sector it is so narrow and the village van is so bulging that you end up paying offering to all the temples back home in India.
The Eritrean Nakfa is the currency of Eritrea. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Eritrea Nakfa exchange rate is the ERN to USD rate. The currency code for Nakfa is ERN. Below, you'll find Eritrean Nakfa rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take ERN rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.