Business Day. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing gave an optimistic outlook for the first quarter yesterday and said it would change its name to the 3M Company, as it is already commonly known. 3M, based in St. Paul, also said it expected its first quarter profit to be at the top or above earlier forecasts. The company, which makes Post-It notes and Scotch tape, said it expected to earn $1.20 a share or slightly more in its first quarter, compared with its earlier expectation of $1.05 to $1.20 a share.
Despite the name, Scotch tape wasn't invented by the Scottish. It was invented by a college dropout named Richard Drew from Minnesota who worked for a small sandpaper company founded in 1902 called Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, later known as 3M. The name Scotch itself has an origin story almost as interesting as the invention of Scotch tape
Among the products produced by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing (3M) that did not contain asbestos, but are named in asbestos-related lawsuits for allegedly failing to protect individuals from contracting asbestos-related diseases are: 1  3M 8500 dust mask (first manufactured in 1962). Among the products produced by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing (3M) that may have contained asbestos are: 1  3M Caulk (1935-1986). 2  3M Sticky Tar Caulking (1935-1940). 3  3M Adhesive (1935-1986). 4  3M Wet Adhesives
3M, originally known as Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, was started by five men from Two Harbors. When the five founders of the company thought they had found mineral called corundum, which would be used for making sandpaper, they began the process of setting up a mining company. 
When it came to finding a simple company name, the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company had its hands full. Founded in 1902 by five entrepreneurs in Two Harbors, Minnesota, the company wanted to be innovative, but the name sounded robotic and dull. The founders eventually discovered the company's nickname 3M was the solution. The simple name now matches its innovative products like Post-It notes and Scotch tape.
The 3M Company, formerly known as the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, is an American multinational conglomerate corporation based in Maplewood, Minnesota, a suburb of St. Paul. Today, 3M is one of the 30 companies included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (added on August 9, 1976), and is 97 on the 2011 Fortune 500 list. The company has 132 plants and over 67,000 employees worldwide, with sales offices in over 200 countries.
The company, which is also known as the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, said that it discovered in 1998 that the chemical compound used to make many Scotchgard products, perfluorooctanyl, was pervasive; it persisted for years in the environment, and could even be found in human blood, at very low levels. CHICAGO, May 16— The 3M Company, the giant consumer products company, said today that it would stop making many of its well-known Scotchgard products after tests showed that the chemical compounds used to make the products linger in the environment and in humans for years.
The Dwan Office Building, first home of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing. Now home to the 3M Museum. In 1902 five businessmen entered into a venture to capitalize on minerals on the north shore in Two Harbors, Minnesota. They were Henry S. Bryan, J. Daniel Budd MD, Herman Cable, John Dwan, and William McGonagle.
1 William L. McKnight joined Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. in 1907 as an assistant bookkeeper. 2  He quickly rose through the company, becoming president in 1929 and chairman of the board in 1949. 3  He is known for shaping the company’s culture of innovation and collaboration. Resources. What was born as a small-scale mining venture in 1902 has grown into a global powerhouse whose products improve the daily lives of people around the world.
A Rich History of Ideas. 1  William L. McKnight joined Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. in 1907 as an assistant bookkeeper. 2  He quickly rose through the company, becoming president in 1929 and chairman of the board in 1949. 3  He is known for shaping the company’s culture of innovation and collaboration. Resources. What was born as a small-scale mining venture in 1902 has grown into a global powerhouse whose products improve the daily lives of people around the world.