A Bank Code is a series of numbers that are used to identify banks around the world. It is equivalent to Australia's 'BSB' code, and can be between 3 and 23 digits depending on the country of the bank and the type of code. A Bank Code may be known as: 1  BSB. 2  SWIFT Code/BIC (Bank Identification Code). The BIC is used by the SWIFT system to identify specific banks worldwide. CommBank's BIC/SWIFT code is: CTBAAU2S. A BIC has eight or 11 digits, depending on the bank in question.
SWIFT code (also known as SWIFT-BIC, BIC code or ISO 9362) is a standard format of Bank Identifier Codes approved by the International Standard Organization (ISO). The best place to find your swift code is the swift website-swift.com. Once you go there you can use the search box to find the swift code for your specific Bank Branch if you have little idea about what the swift code for the bank in that particular country is.
ISO 9362 (also known as SWIFT-BIC, BIC code, SWIFT ID or SWIFT code) defines a standard format of Business Identifier Codes approved by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). It is a unique identification code for both financial and non-financial institutions. When assigned to a non-financial institution, the code may also be known as a Business Entity Identifier or BEI. These codes are used when transferring money between banks, particularly for international wire transfers, and also for the exchange of other messages between banks.
Find SWIFT/BIC codes. 1  When you send a payment overseas, the SWIFT/BIC code is mandatory and identifies the beneficiary (receiving) bank or financial institution. 2  Some countries will allow the option to enter a Branch number or a SWIFT/BIC code. 3  ANZ Australia’s SWIFT/BIC code is ANZBAU3M. 
The SWIFT/BIC (Bank Identifier Code) is an international standard for the identification of banks. Danske Bank’s SWIFT address is DABADKKK. Using the IBAN and SWIFT for cross-border payments is an advantage as payments are rarely delayed. As no manual processing is involved, the transaction costs are lower. Use the creditor’s IBAN and SWIFT/BIC to make the payment in the safest and cheapest way. If the IBAN and SWIFT/BIC are not stated on the invoice, please contact the creditor to get the information. The IBAN is a unique international identification of a bank account, and only the creditor can give you the number.
The directory of Bank Identification Codes and Bank BIC Codes of SwiftBIC is updated on a regular basis in order to offer accurate and reliable directory for businesses on the internet that must verify or discover a Bank BIC Code. Because of this, there is a website that offers database on Bank BIC Code. SwiftBIC is an online page committed to offering directory of Bank BIC Code or Bank BIC Code for free that helps people in terms of searching for Bank Identification Code on financial institutions.
It is a simple process. You just need to add the bank's name and you will be provided with all the information about that bank that is available in our database. SWIFT Code, BIC Code, ISO 9362. SWIFT Code or BIC code are part of ISO 9362 standards. It is a standard format of Business Identifier Codes (BIC). Now every bank can have its unique swift code which every customer can have it from the bank customer support department. You may also find it online from your bank site. This will never cause any kind of confusion or overlapping. The swift code bic organization never takes part in any financial transactions.
1 Searching: You can search here (in free text) by typing the SWIFT/BIC code or bank name or branch name or address (city or address or location or area postal code) or any combination of those. 
BIC sometimes also refers to Bank Identifier Code. SWIFT Code or BIC Code is a unique code to identify financial and non-financial institutions. These codes are mostly used when transferring money between banks, especially for international wire transfers or telegraphic transfer (TT). Now every bank can have its unique swift code which every customer can have it from the bank customer support department. You may also find it online from your bank site. This will never cause any kind of confusion or overlapping. The swift code bic organization never takes part in any financial transactions.