In the modern idiom the surname can be found recorded as Bowen, Boohan, Bohane, (O)Boughoan and (O)Boghan. Daniell, son of John Abowen, was christened at St. Peter's, Cornhill, London, in 1568. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Madocus ap Oweyn, which was dated 1292, in Placita de Que Warranto, Shropshire, during the reign of King Edward 1, known as The Hammer of the Scots, 1272 - 1307.
Firstly, it can be of Welsh origin, being a patronymic form of the Welsh personal name Owain, itself coming from the Latin Eugenius, which derives from the Greek Eugenios, meaning well-born or noble, with the Welsh patronymic element ab or ap, son of; hence, son of Owen. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Madocus ap Oweyn, which was dated 1292, in Placita de Que Warranto, Shropshire, during the reign of King Edward 1, known as The Hammer of the Scots, 1272 - 1307.
Hello, Guest. Bowen is a Celtic surname representing two separate Celtic strains, one Welsh and one Irish, and entered the US Top 1000 for the first time in 2011. Football Hall of Famer Drew Brees named his son Bowen, as did a recent reality show couple looking for the perfect name to 'brand' their baby. 
Answers. Best Answer: The following is from MyFamily.com: Search results for: Bowen (origin: Welsh.) A corruption of Ap Owen, the son of Owen, so Price from Ap Rice, and Prichard from Ap Richard. Source(s): Mark A · 9 years ago.
Did the last name Bowen originate in Ireland? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. Why should guys take your advice? Where does the last name Fitzpatrick originate and the history of name in Ireland? Where did the last name Taylor originate? Where did the last name Childers originate from? (Cork and Angus): A variant  of the Irish surname Carver, of unexplained  origin. This surname Carver is also found in  Angus, Scotland. A variant surname is McCarver.  Perhaps the same dervative as the English Carver,  or perhaps of Gaelic origin.
The surname Bowen has two origins. The Welsh origin means 'son of Owain', meaning well-born or noble. The Irish origin is an Anglicized form of the Gaelic O'Buadhachain, the prefix O, meaning grandson or descendant of, and Buadhach, a personal name meaning victorious. The surname dates back to the late 13th Century when John Bowen was recorded in the 1305 in the Register of the Freemen of the City of York. Now, there is of English origin, but the English surname Stroop is very rare. 2. English (Lancashire, Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire): Origin uncertain and rare. Perhaps a variant of English: Stopp, Stripp, or perhaps a variant of Irish surname Scroope. For more information, see related links below.
Bowen Name Meaning. English, of Welsh origin: Anglicized form of Welsh ap Owain ‘son of Owain’ (see Owen).Irish: Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘buadhachain buadhacháin Descendant’, of buadhachan buadhachán A ‘diminutive’ (of Buadhach). Victorious: See bohan Source Dictionary Of ©american, Family Names 2013. oxford university press You can find out when most of the Bowen families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Bowen Name Meaning. English, of Welsh origin: Anglicized form of Welsh ap Owain ‘son of Owain’ (see Owen).Irish: Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘buadhachain buadhacháin Descendant’, of buadhachan buadhachán A ‘diminutive’ (of Buadhach). victorious see bohan You can find out when most of the Bowen families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.