A normal menstrual cycle could be as short as 22 days or as long as 36 days. When doctors talk about the length of your cycle, they include the days when you have your period. If you have a regular 28-day cycle you will start your period every four weeks. If you have a 22-day cycle you'll have a period about every three weeks. The average period lasts for three to four days, but it can be shorter or longer, ranging from between one and seven
But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
Most women ovulate between 12 and 14 days before their period. This is an average, so it could be a few days sooner or later than this. If you have a 28-day cycle, you will probably ovulate in the middle of your cycle. If you have a 22-day cycle, you could ovulate just a few days after your period. When doctors talk about the length of your cycle, they include the days when you have your period. If you have a regular 28-day cycle you will start your period every four weeks. If you have a 22-day cycle you'll have a period about every three weeks.
28 days is the normal average. But every person is different. As long as it is normal when you get it. I wouldn't worry. 37 days isn't too long. If you are too concerned, tell your doctor. Going on the pill will regulate your period if there is a medical issue causing it. Report Abuse. It is normal. In fact, some people have cycles that are 45-50 days long (lucky ones!) and some have them that are as short as 23-25 days (like me and we want to shoot someone all the time!). It all depends on your body. Some people are never fully regular in their life (my mom was not).
The menstrual cycle is from Day 1 of bleeding to Day 1 of the next time of bleeding. Although the average cycle is 28 days, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. Girls usually start having menstrual periods between the ages of 11 and 14. Women usually start to have fewer periods between ages 39 and 51. Women in their 40s and teens may have cycles that are longer or change a lot. If you are nearing menopause, your cycles will probably get longer and then will stop. Talk to your doctor if you notice any big change in your cycle. It's especially important to check with your doctor if you have three or more menstrual periods that last longer than 7 days or are very heavy.
Normal menstrual flow lasts about 4 days (plus or minus 2 - 3 days). It produces a total blood loss of 30 - 80 ml (about 2 - 8 tablespoons), and occurs normally every 28 days (plus or minus 7 days). Vaginal bleeding that occurs between periods or after menopause can be caused by various problems. 
Causes of Vaginal Bleeding Between Periods. Bleeding between periods is not a normal part of the menstrual cycle. On average, the cycle is 28 days long with a four-day period of bleeding. A cycle between 21 and 35 days long and a period that lasts between two and seven days is normal. Any bleeding outside of this is considered abnormal and can be caused by a variety of factors: 1  Hormonal imbalance: Estrogen and progesterone are the two hormones that regulate your cycle.
In some cases, changes in the body that lead to the menopause can start as early as 10 years before a final period. On average, a menstrual cycle lasts about 28 days, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days may be considered normal. One of the first signs of changing hormone levels is a change in the pattern of your monthly period. As your body transitions to menopause you may experience a range of symptoms that include changes in: 