1. Penis size: Among primates, humans have the biggest penises, with an average size of 2.8 to 3.9 inches flaccid and 5.9 inches erect. The world record for largest human penis is 6.25 inches flaccid and 13.5 inches erect. That record was set a century ago by a doctor named Robert Dickinson. 
Largest Monkey of the World. Mandrill is the largest monkey in the world. It is not only the biggest but also the tallest monkey as well with a shoulder height of over 50 cm. According to its weight measurement, it is also the heaviest monkey in the world with an average weight of over 50 kg. Except being the largest monkey of the world, it is perhaps the most colorful monkey as well. So there are a lots of discretions attached with its name. Mandrills are found in the tropical rainforests and occasionally woodlands of southern Cameroon, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, and Congo.
Zorba, an English Mastiff from London, has won Guinness World Record for the largest dog ever at 343 lbs. He was measured from his nose to the tip of his tail at 8 feet, 3 inches and 37 inches at the shoulder. 8.Gary: A 112-Pound Rodent. 
Some are world famous, some are in the Guinness World Records, some are very rare. Several of these animals are unique because they are some of the only known animals with the characteristics. This includes Fluffy, a reticulated python, python reticulates, who is considered the world's largest exhibited snake. The 2011 Guinness World Records book shows she is the longest snake in custody at over 24 feet long, 300 pounds, and 15 years old. Fluffy's waist is the size of a watermelon. She is a world record holder and is shown striking. 
It is said that the largest rattlesnake on the planet is the  Eastern diamondback. The record length for this venomous snake is  96 inches.    Tim Manning, Herp.  …  If you google Texas you will see a man with a 9 ft 1 inch 90 lb  rattler.it was at Tow, Texas off hwy 281. 
It lives in a difficult to reach area. This video shows the world’s largest known chimpanzee. It also shows a omparison of Kermit, the large chimpanzee, and Daryl, a common chimpanzee. Kermit weighs over 250 lbs. The light faced chimp near the camera view is Daryl. Kermit is huge and may belong to a new species – a giant chimpanzee. His appearance differs from most other chimpanzees. 
Bili ape, also Bondo mystery ape, is the name given to large chimpanzees that inhabit Bili Forest in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The apes nest on the ground like gorillas, but they have a diet and features characteristic of chimpanzees , according to a National Geographic report. 
Gigantism in hybrid species is not unknown. The liger is a cross between a male lion and a female tiger, and it is the largest cat on earth. For a comparison, the Amur tiger is the largest natural cat and weighs 400-600 lbs.(with a record weight of 900 lbs.), while the average male lion weighs 400-500 lbs. Now the average male liger weighs over 900 lbs. and as much as 1400 lbs. 