Turn Do Not Disturb on or off. When Do Not Disturb is on, a crescent moon, or half-moon, icon will appear in the status bar. There are two ways to turn Do Not Disturb on or off: 1  set a schedule. 2  Swipe up from the bottom of the screen to open Control Center. 3  Tap the crescent moon
1 36% - I have verizon iphone 5 and husband has galaxy 5s. when the text me i don`t get a notification just a crescent moon next to his name. what is going..? 2  43% - How do i take the crescent moon icon off my i pad? 3  52% - What is the crescent moon key for on my pc keyboard? The crescent moon symbol on your laptop means a sleep mode.... 0. 1. The crescent moon symbol on your laptop means a sleep mode. To set the sleep mode on your laptop, follow the procedures: 1. Go to Start. 2. Click on Control Panel.
The answer helped. It was the DND for me. In response to the thread where there is still a problem. Select the text message with the crescent moon. Then select details. There is a Do Not Disturb option in that window. You may see that your thread or contact has the Do Not Disturb turned on. 
While your phone is locked, it won't alert you of any notifications and only allows calls from people under your favorites. ---. Sent from my iPhone via PowerFAQs 1.11. That's the do not disturb icon. 
1 26% - Iphonee symbols cresent moon. 2  my do not disturb is off. on my text messages, one of my friends names has a half moon symble next to it. 3  wh? 4  36% - I have a square peice of metal and it has a carving on it and its says 1835 and it has a half moon and a star on it and in the half moon it has a oval? Turn it off you will not get messages and sounds (all.... 86. 5. The moon is the new do not disturb feature. you can go into settings to turn it off. If you do not turn it off you will not get messages and sounds (all) are turned off for a preset period.
there is a crescent symbol in the left side to the name in text messages. it turns blue when you received a message from that person and turns gray after reading it... i have asked him if turned on do not disturb symbol but he hasn't. Brand new today. AND I also just realized all his photos from our 7 month convo are gone except the last couple of days. All prior photos have a big icon with a question mark but the photo will not appear :---(I just noticed it when i went into details to turn off the do not disturb (which was on ?!?) as you suggested.
Muting Messages in iOS 8. One of the most useful (and hidden) features I’ve come across in iOS 8 is the ability to mute IM threads in Messages. Think of it like Do Not Disturb but on a case by case basis. I first noticed it by accident when a tiny crescent moon icon appeared next to one of my IM threads and so I Googled it to figure out what exactly it was. When do not disturb is turned on for a particular message thread, you won’t be notified when that person(s) replies via text or iMessage. 
The half moon means your iphone is in don`t disturb mode the.... 2. 1. The half moon means your iphone is in don`t disturb mode the same goes for facebook. To turn it off go to your setting and just turn off do not disturb. Turn it off you will not get messages and sounds (all.... 86. 5. The moon is the new do not disturb feature. you can go into settings to turn it off. If you do not turn it off you will not get messages and sounds (all) are turned off for a preset period.