How long it takes to boil 10 pounds of potatoes depends on the size  of the potatoes. Cutting them into small pieces will speed up the  cooking process. Typically, potatoes … cook at a rate of 15 minutes  per pound. When I make sweet potato pie I bake the potatoes for 45 to 55 minutes. Or until soft on the inside. Soft enough to pierce with a fork. Or you can boil them for 15 to 20 minute … s. Just do as you do with regular potatoes. Boil until you can pierce with a fork and it's soft enough to fall apart.
1 Check the potatoes after 5 minutes: Cubed potatoes will cook more quickly than whole potatoes; smaller potatoes will cook more quickly than larger potatoes. 2  Begin checking the potatoes after around 5 minutes of boiling; most potatoes will be done in 10 to 20 minutes. 1 Begin checking the potatoes after around 5 minutes of boiling; most potatoes will be done in 10 to 20 minutes. 2  Potatoes are done when tender: The potatoes are done when they are tender all the way through. 3  You can test this by poking the potato with a fork, paring knife, or skewer.
1 Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 2  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 3  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 4  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked. 1 Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 2
1 Cover the pan with a lid. 2  Cook the potatoes in gently boiling water until tender, about 15 minutes for cubed potatoes and new potatoes and 20 to 25 minutes for quartered potatoes. 3  Drain the potatoes in a colander. Boiling Potatoes. 1  Place the potatoes in a large saucepan or pot. 2  Add enough cold water to cover the tops of the potatoes. 3  Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon salt to the water. 4  Turn the burner on high and bring water to boiling. 5  Reduce heat to medium low or low. 6 
1 Reduce heat to medium low or low. 2  Cover the pan with a lid. 3  Cook the potatoes in gently boiling water until tender, about 15 minutes for cubed potatoes and new potatoes and 20 to 25 minutes for quartered potatoes. Boiling Potatoes. 1  Place the potatoes in a large saucepan or pot. 2  Add enough cold water to cover the tops of the potatoes. 3  Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon salt to the water. 4  Turn the burner on high and bring water to boiling. 5  Reduce heat to medium low or low. 6
1 Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 2  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 3  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked. 1 Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 2
Cook until the potatoes are tender all the way through when pierced with a fork, 8 to 12 minutes. Exact cooking time depends on the size of your cubes and the type of potatoes. For full step-by-step instructions, see How To Boil Potatoes. Drain and rinse the potatoes: Drain the potatoes and rinse them under cool water. 
Approximately 10 to 25 minutes at a high boil. The time required to boil potatoes depends on whether and how the potatoes are cut up. Smaller pieces, such as cubes, expose more surface area to the boiling water and so cook more quickly than larger pieces. Whole potatoes will take the longest time to boil until done. How long it takes to boil 10 pounds of potatoes depends on the size  of the potatoes. Cutting them into small pieces will speed up the  cooking process. Typically, potatoes … cook at a rate of 15 minutes  per pound. 6 people found this useful
1 Put your potatoes, peeled or unpeeled, cut or whole, into a cooking pot and completely cover them with cold water. 2  Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 3  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 4  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 1 Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 2  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked.