Antipsychotic drugs are often used in combination with other anxiety medication. They are a second-line option due to the possibility of severe side effects. A list of antipsychotic drugs used to treat anxiety includes:1. 1  Molindone (Moban) – research suggests antianxiety properties. List of Anticonvulsants Used to Treat Anxiety. While considered investigational, some anticonvulsants (antiseizure medication) are being used to treat anxiety. A list of anticonvulsants used to treat anxiety off label include: 8. 1  Divalproex (Depakote, Depakote ER). 2  Gabapentin (Neurontin). 3  Pregabalin (Lyrica)
Before taking medication for an anxiety disorder: 1  Ask your doctor to tell you about the effects and side effects of the drug. 2  Tell your doctor about any alternative therapies or over-the-counter medications you are using. Anxiety medication is one of the effective treatments for anxiety disorders that have been developed through research. There are two types of treatment available for anxiety disorders: medication and specific types of psychotherapy (sometimes called talk therapy ). Both approaches can be effective for most disorders.
Benzodiazepines are effective medications for most anxiety disorders and have been the standard of treatment for years. However, their longterm daily use is associated with a risk for dependency and abuse. Therefore, they have been replaced in most cases by SSRIs and other newer antidepressants. These drugs include alprazolam (Xanax, generic), clonazepam (Klonopin, generic), and lorazepam (Ativan, generic). Benzodiazepines can have many side effects, which are generally associated with chronic use. The most common are daytime drowsiness and a hung-over feeling. In rare cases, they can cause agitation.
Medication. Medication treatment of anxiety is generally safe and effective and is often used in conjunction with therapy. Medication may be a short-term or long-term treatment option, depending on severity of symptoms, other medical conditions, and other individual circumstances. Four major classes of medications are used in the treatment of anxiety disorders: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRIs relieve symptoms by blocking the reabsorption, or reuptake, of serotonin by certain nerve cells in the brain. This leaves more serotonin available, which improves mood.
The standard approach to treating most anxiety disorders is a combination of talk therapy, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and an antidepressant medication. Other types of medications (benzodiazepines, azapirones, beta blockers, or atypical antipsychotics) may also be prescribed. These drugs include alprazolam (Xanax, generic), clonazepam (Klonopin, generic), and lorazepam (Ativan, generic). Benzodiazepines can have many side effects, which are generally associated with chronic use. The most common are daytime drowsiness and a hung-over feeling. In rare cases, they can cause agitation.
That distress may also manifest itself in physical symptoms such as muscle tension, headaches, or chest pain. Anxiety medications include multiple types of drugs that are used to treat the symptoms of anxiety disorders. The three most commonly prescribed types of anxiety medication are antidepressants, anti-anxiety medications (also known as anxiolytics), and beta-blockers. 
Considering taking medication to treat Anxiety with Depression? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Anxiety with Depression. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. 
Anxiety medications are used either alone or in combination with psychotherapy to treat a number of different disorders all classified as “anxiety disorders.” These include: 1  Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). 2  Phobias. 3  Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). 4  Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 5  Panic disorder (PD). 