No matter the denomination or the size of a local church, the purpose is to do corporately what all who name the name of Jesus are to do individually—glorify God in worship, obey and honor Him in all we do, and encourage one another to do the same. The church is not a building; it is a group of people. Now, it often is used to mean a particular denomination. But the truest meaning of the word church is the group of believers. Christ is the head of the church, and the church is the body of Christ (Ephesians 1:22-23). The members of the body are all Christians.
A parish is a church territorial unit constituting a division within a diocese. A parish is under the pastoral care and clerical jurisdiction of a parish priest, who might be assisted by one or more curates, and who operates from a parish church. Historically, a parish often covered the same geographical area as a manor (its association with the parish church remaining paramount). By extension the term parish refers not only to the territorial unit but to the people of its community or congregation as well as to church property within it. In England this church property was technically in ownership of the parish priest ex-officio, vested in him on his institution to that parish. In the wider picture of ecclesiastical polity, a parish comprises a division of a diocese or see. Parishes within a diocese may be grouped into a deanery or vicariate forane (or simply vicariate), overseen by a dean or vicar forane, or in some cases by an archpriest.
Wiktionary (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: parish (Noun). In the Anglican, Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Church or certain civil government entities such as the state of Louisiana, an administrative part of a diocese that has its own church. parish (Noun). that circuit of ground committed to the charge of one parson or vicar, or other minister having cure of souls therein. Parish (noun). the same district, constituting a civil jurisdiction, with its own officers and regulations, as respects the poor, taxes, etc.
The church was the people, not the building. With the legitimization and affluence of Christianity in later years, the church came to mean the building where people met. Now, it often is used to mean a particular denomination. But the truest meaning of the word church is the group of believers. Christ is the head of the church, and the church is the body of Christ (Ephesians 1:22-23). The members of the body are all Christians.
parish. a district or area with a particular church and priest or minister. Our house is in the parish of St Mary('s); (also adjective) parish affairs. gemeente, parogie أبْرَشِيَّه енория paroquia paróquia; farnost farni Farní; Die-... gemeinde gemeinde Take a lodging near a large parish church, in a remote part of London'-- (this is my friend's advice)--'go to the clerk, tell him you want to be married by banns, and say you belong to that parish.
Full Definition of PARISH. 1. a (1) : the ecclesiastical unit of area committed to one pastor (2) : the residents of such an area b British: a subdivision of a county often coinciding with an original ecclesiastical parish and constituting the unit of local government. 
1. district, community the vicar of a small parish in a West Country town. 2. community, fold, flock, church, congregation, parishioners, churchgoers The whole parish will object if he is appointed as priest. Take a lodging near a large parish church, in a remote part of London'-- (this is my friend's advice)--'go to the clerk, tell him you want to be married by banns, and say you belong to that parish.
In the Roman Catholic Church, a parish (Latin: parochus) is a stable community of the faithful within a Particular Church, whose pastoral care has been entrusted to a parish priest (Latin: pastor), under the authority of the diocesan bishop. Most parishes are territorial parishes, which comprise all Catholics living within a defined geographic area. A parish may be joined with others in a deanery or vicariate forane and overseen by a vicar forane, also known as a dean or archpriest.
Church is commonly defined as a building used for public worship (1). However, many people refer to a church as an organization. Examples are the Catholic Church, the Church of England, and the Southern Baptist Church amongst many others. 