Train service is available via Caltrain with service between San Francisco and San Jose and extending to Gilroy. Caltrain has two regular stops in Palo Alto, one at University Avenue (local and express) and the other at California Avenue (local only). Palo Alto ranks in as the 5th most expensive city in the United States, with an average home sales price of $1,677,000 as of 2007. In 2010, Palo Alto ranked as the 2nd most expensive city in the United States, with a four-bedroom, two-bathroom home listing for $1.48 million on average.
Driving distance from SFO to Palo Alto, CA. The total driving distance from SFO to Palo Alto, CA is 21 miles or 34 kilometers. Your trip begins at San Francisco International Airport in San Francisco, California. It ends in Palo Alto, California. If you are planning a road trip, you might also want to calculate the total driving time from SFO to Palo Alto, CA so you can see when you'll arrive at your destination. You can also calculate the cost of driving from SFO to Palo Alto, CA based on current local fuel prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between SFO and
Palo Alto is in the south-eastern section of the San Francisco Peninsula. It is bordered to the north by East Palo Alto, to the east by Mountain View, to the southeast and south by Los Altos and Los Altos Hills, to the southwest by Portola Valley, and to the west by Stanford and Menlo Park. Palo Alto ranks in as the 5th most expensive city in the United States, with an average home sales price of $1,677,000 as of 2007. In 2010, Palo Alto ranked as the 2nd most expensive city in the United States, with a four-bedroom, two-bathroom home listing for $1.48 million on average.
The San Francisco Bay Area is a populous region surrounding the San Francisco and San Pablo estuaries in Northern California. The region encompasses the major cities and metropolitan areas of San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose, along with smaller urban and rural areas. The Bay Area's nine counties are Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma.
About Palo Alto. Located 35 miles south of San Francisco and 14 miles north of San Jose, Palo Alto is a community of approximately 61,200 residents. Part of the San Francisco Metropolitan Bay Area and the Silicon Valley, Palo Alto is located within Santa Clara County and borders San Mateo County. Air transportation is easily accessible by bus, automobile or shuttle service to San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland international airports. Within the City, commuter rail transportation is conveniently located and the Palo Alto stop is one of the most used in the CalTrain system.
San Francisco International Airport (SFO). Much larger than SJC is the San Francisco International Airport (flysfo.com), which is 22 miles from Palo Alto. It has an international terminal separate from its domestic terminal, and an automated AirTrain can help whisk you to your gate on time. Although this makes it slightly farther from Palo Alto than other options, it's a convenient East Bay location if you're staying in the Bay Area or sightseeing someplace nearby, including San Francisco. Like SJC, it serves 11 airlines, and most flights are domestic.
Oakland International Airport (OAK). Oakland International Airport (flyoakland.com) is 29 miles from Palo Alto. Although this makes it slightly farther from Palo Alto than other options, it's a convenient East Bay location if you're staying in the Bay Area or sightseeing someplace nearby, including San Francisco. Like SJC, it serves 11 airlines, and most flights are domestic.
Palo Alto (/ˌpɑːloʊˈɑːltoʊ/ , /ˌpaeloʊˈaeltoʊ/ ; ˌpæloʊˈæltoʊ: spanish: palo literally, stick: colloquial tree and : alto; tall: meaning tall) tree is a charter city located in the northwest corner Of Santa Clara, County, california in The San Francisco Bay area of The United. states Palo Alto ranks in as the 5th most expensive city in the United States, with an average home sales price of $1,677,000 as of 2007. In 2010, Palo Alto ranked as the 2nd most expensive city in the United States, with a four-bedroom, two-bathroom home listing for $1.48 million on average.