I heard before that they were, but then I’m a sushi cheif, and I know that they are used to set food on and as decoration, and some asian coutries stem sweet rice inside of them. No i dont think so. Yes you are right, cheif frequently use bamboo leaves to wrape and also as an ingredient of recepie. Bamboo shoots are very common in Thai cousine. Bamboo is a woody grass—not a tree. There are approximately 1,000 species of bamboo from small plants to giant timber bamboos that can grow to over 40m. Bamboo grows in temperate and tropical countries around the world, but is best known in China and S.E. Asia. It is used for food, construction, and making tools. 
Bamboo Plant. Bamboo is a woody, tree-like, fast-growing plant that some people plant outside or keep in pots in the home. Additionally, bamboo is found in flooring, furniture, baskets and toys, among other products. When grown outside, bamboo can spread quickly. It may appear invasive, like weeds. Your curious pet may chew or eat the bamboo plant if there's a lot of it in your yard; however, no bamboo species will harm your pet.
Be sure to check out our list of the 17 most common plants that are poisonous to our furry friends. People Foods Pets Should Never Eat. Our nutrition experts have put together a handy list of the top toxic people foods to avoid feeding your pet. 
Dracaena (Dracaena sp.), also known as the Cornstalk plant, Corn plant, Ribbon plant, Dragon tree, Money tree, or Lucky bamboo are a few names used for these plants in the Agavaceae family. 
Aloe is among many plants that are toxic to dogs and cats. Many common plants are poisonous to pets, but bamboo is not one of them. Bamboo is non-toxic to dogs, cats or horses. Additionally, bamboo is found in flooring, furniture, baskets and toys, among other products. When grown outside, bamboo can spread quickly. It may appear invasive, like weeds. Your curious pet may chew or eat the bamboo plant if there's a lot of it in your yard; however, no bamboo species will harm your pet.
Best Answer: According to the APCA Animal Poison Control website, no. They have an extensive list of poisonous houseplants, and bamboo is not on it. I put the link below in case you want to look at the list for other potential harmful plants you may have. I keep this page bookmarked just in case of an emergency. 
February 4, 2013 at 12:40 pm. Diana, although lucky bamboo is toxic, if your cat only ate a leaf, he should be okay. Lucky bamboo can cause vomiting (occasionally with blood), depression, anorexia, hypersalivation, dilated pupils in cats in larger doses. Just keep an eye on him for a few days and if you notice anything unusual, give your vet a call. 
kstanwick (6/NWNJ). Could it be the lucky Bamboo plant you are talking about or is it the actual bamboo. i.e bamboo grows in soil, not water and rocks, has branches off the culms not leaves....lucky bamboo often falls into this forum because of advertising and such. Just a bit of FYI.... Kurt. Like Bookmark August 20, 2005 at 10:51AM. Undo. 