Full Definition of TRANSPORT. 1. : an act or process of transporting: transportation. 2. 3. a: a ship for carrying soldiers or military equipment b: a vehicle (as a truck or airplane) used to transport persons or goods c: transportation 3. 4. : a transported convict. See transport defined for English-language learners. banish, exile, deport, transport mean to remove by authority from a state or country. banish implies compulsory removal from a country not necessarily one's own. exile may imply compulsory removal or an enforced or voluntary absence from one's own country.
Classified under: Nouns denoting acts or actions. Synonyms: shipping; transport; transportation. Hypernyms (transportation is a kind of...): business; business enterprise; commercial enterprise (the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects). Domain member category: 
V n prep/adv 5 verb If you say that you are transported to another place or time, you mean that something causes you to feel that you are living in the other place or at the other time. mainly LITERARY Dr Drummond felt that he had been transported into a world that rivalled the Arabian Nights... be V-ed prep/adv. 3 n-uncount Transport is the activity of taking goods or people from one place to another in a vehicle. (mainly BRIT). Local production virtually eliminates transport costs. in AM, usually use transportation. 4 verb To transport people or goods somewhere is to take them
Definition of TRANSPORT for Kids. 1. : the act of carrying from one place to another: transportation. 2. : a ship for carrying soldiers or military equipment. 3. : a vehicle used to carry people or goods from one place to another. 4. : a state of great joy or pleasure. banish, exile, deport, transport mean to remove by authority from a state or country. banish implies compulsory removal from a country not necessarily one's own. exile may imply compulsory removal or an enforced or voluntary absence from one's own country.
transport: intrafacility, a nursing intervention from the Nursing Interventions Classification (NIC) defined as moving a patient from one area of a facility to another. See also Nursing Interventions Classification. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
air transportation system-a transportation system for moving passengers or goods by air. bridge, span-a structure that allows people or vehicles to cross an obstacle such as a river or canal or railway etc. It's easier to travel if you have your own transport. You can get to the museum by public transport. Transport is an uncountable noun. Don't refer to a single vehicle as ' a transport '. British speakers also use transport to refer to the moving of goods or people from one place to another.
Emergency logistics is a term used by the logistics, supply chain, and manufacturing industries to denote specific time-critical modes of transport used to move goods or objects rapidly in the event of an emergency. The logistics of physical items usually involves the integration of information flow, which is material handling, production, packaging, inventory, transportation, warehousing, and often security.
There's no petrol, so it's very difficult to transport goods... V n. They use tankers to transport the oil to Los Angeles... V n prep/adv. 5 verb If you say that you are transported to another place or time, you mean that something causes you to feel that you are living in the other place or at the other time. mainly LITERARY Dr Drummond felt that he had been transported into a world that rivalled the Arabian Nights... be V-ed prep/adv. 3 n-uncount Transport is the activity of taking goods or people from one place to another in a vehicle. (mainly BRIT). Local production virtually eliminates transport costs. in AM, usually use transportation. 4 verb To transport people or goods somewhere is to take them
Logistics is the management of the flow of things between the point of origin and the point of consumption in order to meet requirements of customers or corporations. The logistics of physical items usually involves the integration of information flow, which is material handling, production, packaging, inventory, transportation, warehousing, and often security.
facility, installation-a building or place that provides a particular service or is used for a particular industry; the assembly plant is an enormous facility. highway system-a transportation system consisting of roads for motor transport. It's easier to travel if you have your own transport. You can get to the museum by public transport. Transport is an uncountable noun. Don't refer to a single vehicle as ' a transport '. British speakers also use transport to refer to the moving of goods or people from one place to another.