The fall and rise of the family. The Don is shot. In December 1945, Vito was nearly killed in an assassination attempt after he refused the request of Virgil Sollozzo to invest in a heroin operation and use his political contacts for the operation's protection. 
by Gil Kaufman 12/20/2007. You will not be hearing from Don Vito anytime soon. Vincent Margera, the uncle of “Viva La Bam” star Bam Margera, was ordered to give up his lecherous alter ego for 10 years after a Colorado judge sentenced him to 10 years probation Thursday (December 20).
Vito. is generally a great name to give your first grandson if your family is from a long line of hustlers. he is gifted in all he does and tends to draw much attention to any situation he is involved in. Vito's can be very transparent from group to group using little resources to stay alive and on top of the 'Social Ladder'.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Vito birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. Click on a circle in the chart to view Vito immigration records. You can find out when most of the Vito families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.
How popular is Vito? Vito is a somewhat prominent first name for men (#738 out of 1220, Top 60%) and an even more prominent last name for all people (#15590 out of 150436, Top 10%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Vito for boys. Vito /vi-to/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced VEE-toh. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Vito is life-giving. Mostly Italian use. Saint Vitus was an early martyr who supposedly could cure epilepsy and a disorder known as Saint Vitus' dance. See also Vidal.
People with this name include: 1  Vito the Saint Protector of the Normands overseas, in medieval Latin called San Vito dei Normanni. 2  Vito LoGrasso, American professional wrestler. 3  Vito Fossella, American politician from New York. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Vito in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Vito in Nautical Flags page. 