Chinook winds /ʃɪˈnʊk/ , or simply chinooks, are foehn winds in the interior West of North America, where the Canadian Prairies and Great Plains meet various mountain ranges, although the original usage is in reference to wet, warm coastal winds in the Pacific Northwest. The term is also used in the Puget Sound area of Washington. Chinook is not pronounced as it is east of the Cascades – shinook – but is in the original coastal pronunciation tshinook. The resulting outflow wind is more or less the opposite of British Columbia / Pacific Northwest Chinook.
Definition of CHINOOK. 1. : a member of an American Indian people of the north shore of the Columbia River at its mouth. 2. : a Chinookan language of the Chinook and other nearby peoples. 3.
Chinooks are generally called foehn winds by meteorologists and climatologists, and, regardless of name, can occur in most places on the leeward side of a nearby mountain range. They are called Chinook winds throughout most of inland western North America, particularly the Rocky Mountain region. The term is also used in the Puget Sound area of Washington. Chinook is not pronounced as it is east of the Cascades – shinook – but is in the original coastal pronunciation tshinook. The resulting outflow wind is more or less the opposite of British Columbia / Pacific Northwest Chinook.
Chinook are anadromous fish native to the North Pacific Ocean and the river systems of western North America, ranging from California to Alaska, as well as Asian rivers ranging from northern Japan to the Palyavaam River in the Arctic north-east Siberia. Chinook spawn in larger and deeper waters than other salmon species and can be found on the spawning redds (nests) from September to December. After laying eggs, females guard the redd from four to 25 days before dying, while males seek additional mates.
The Boeing CH-47 Chinook is an American twin-engine, tandem rotor heavy-lift helicopter. Its primary roles are troop movement, artillery placement and battlefield resupply. The Royal Air Force variant of the CH-47C is known as the Chinook HC1. The export version of the CH-47C Chinook for the Italian Army was designated CH-47C Plus. The Royal Air Force versions of the CH-47D are known as the Chinook HC2 and HC2A.
The Chinook salmon is an important keystone species of the Pacific Northwest. It is a vital food source for a diversity of wildlife, including orca whales, bears, seals and large birds of prey. The health of Chinook salmon depends entirely on your location – Alaskan stocks are very healthy, while those in the Columbia River are in danger. Protection of Chinook salmon is crucial to maintain healthy Pacific Northwest ecosystems and to provide a delicious food source for years to come.
Chinook is a sample database available for SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, etc. It can be created by running a single SQL script. Chinook database is an alternative to the Northwind database, being ideal for demos and testing ORM tools targeting single and multiple database servers. Chinooks are winds in the interior West of North America, where the Canadian Prairies and Great Plains meet various mountain ranges. Chinooks are most prevalent over southern Alberta in Canada. Chinook is a good name choice for a database that intents to be an alternative to Northwind.
CH-47 Chinook Customers. The Chinook is a multi-mission aircraft in use by U.S. Army, U.S. Army Reserve, National Guard and more than 19 countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Japan, Italy, Greece, Spain, South Korea, Australia and the United Arab Emirates. 
Chi·nook. n. pl. Chinook or Chi·nooks. 1. a. A member of a Native American people formerly inhabiting the lower Columbia River valley and adjoining coastal regions of Washington and Oregon, now located in western Washington. The Chinook traded widely throughout the Pacific Northwest. Chinook. n pl-nook or-nooks. 1. (Peoples) a Native American people of the Pacific coast near the Columbia River. 2. (Languages) the language of this people, probably forming a separate branch of the Penutian phylum.
The Chinook can seem to do battle with the Arctic air mass at times. It is not unheard of for people in Lethbridge to complain of -20 °C temperatures while those in Cardston, just 77 km (48 mi) down the road, enjoy 10 °C temperatures. The term is also used in the Puget Sound area of Washington. Chinook is not pronounced as it is east of the Cascades – shinook – but is in the original coastal pronunciation tshinook. The resulting outflow wind is more or less the opposite of British Columbia / Pacific Northwest Chinook.