A. No, thrush is not contagious in the way a cold or the flu is. Thrush is caused by a fungus (more specifically, a yeast) called candida. Candida is a commensal organism, meaning that under healthy conditions it lives harmlessly in our bodies.
Breastfeeding. If you’re breastfeeding and your baby has oral thrush, it is possible for a thrush infection to be passed on to you. This is known as nipple thrush and can affect your nipples or breasts. It is not usually serious and can be treated with antifungal cream.
Baby thrush is an infection that occurs in a baby’s mouth. It’s caused by the overgrowth of a natural bacterium by the name of Candida, which means yeast. All babies are born with this bacteria already present in their mouths, which is perfectly normal and of no concern to you.
Thrush is a bacterial infection caused by the yeast virus. It is highly contagious. This is true of adults. Nursing mothers often contract this bacterial infection on their breasts as a result of being in direct contact with the bacteria in your child’s mouth.
Oral thrush, a fungal infection, is not considered contagious. The causative fungus, Candida albicans, is often already a natural inhabitant of the mouth and throat. When the oral environment changes (usually due to an immature or depressed immune system), the fungus can multiply and cause symptoms.
Thrush, whether affecting the mouth or genitals, is not contagious in the way a cold or flu is, but it can still be passed on in some circumstances. The candida yeast occurs naturally in our bodies and, in healthy circumstances, it is harmless.
Thrush is also termed oral thrush, oral candidiasis, and oropharyngeal candidiasis. Thrush infection is not very common in the healthy population. However, thrush can be present in about 5%-7% of babies less than 1 month old, in AIDS patients (about 9%-31%), and in approximately 20% of cancer patients.
Is oral thrush contagious is a question that naturally enough everyone asks if they learn that their lover/spouse has symptoms of this yeast infection in the mouth.
Oral thrush is a fungal infection of the mouth. It is not contagious and is usually successfully treated with antifungal medication. It is also called oral candidosis (or candiasis) because it is caused by a group of yeasts called Candida.