The Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) is a professional degree in architecture, qualifying the graduate to move through the various stages of professional accreditation (internship, exams) that result in receiving a license. 1 This degree is not 3 year, depending on the nature and quality of your undergraduate study performance, and the evaluation of your master's degree program school of your undergraduate study) Master of Architecture program.
Types of Architecture Degrees. Many different paths can take you toward an Architecture degree. One route is to enroll in a 5-year Bachelor or Master of Architecture program. Or, you can earn a bachelor's degree in another field such as mathematics, engineering, or even art. Then go on to graduate school for a 2- or 3-year Masters degree in Architecture. These different paths each have advantages and disadvantages. Consult with your academic advisers and teachers. 1  Video: Types of Architecture Programs. However, before you can earn a degree from an accredited architecture program, you'll need to attend seminars and participate in design studios. If you can't attend classes full-time, look for universities that combine online courses with weekend seminars, summer programs, and on-the-job training.
Architects are responsible for designing buildings and managing complex construction projects. In order to be an architect, candidates need to complete either a bachelor's or master's degree in architecture. Upon graduation from an approved degree program, candidates are eligible to sit for the licensing Architect Registration Examination (ARE). View 10 Popular Schools ». Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) degree programs are designed to provide students who have a pre-professional degree in architecture or architectural studies a professional education. There are also some advanced M.Arch.
There are generally three types of graduate degree programs: The first-professional Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) is for persons who hold an undergraduate degree in a field other than landscape architecture, and intend to become landscape architecture practitioners. It can usually be earned in three years of full-time study.
The Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) is a bachelor's degree designed to satisfy the academic component of professional accreditation bodies, to be followed by a period of practical training prior to professional examination and registration. It is awarded for a course of study that lasts up to five years. In France, architectural education is offered in various independent schools of architecture, both private and public. The first step of architectural education is the Diploma of Studies in Architecture, a three-year degree equivalent to a Bachelor of Architecture.
Architecture Undergraduate Degrees. Undergraduate degrees in architecture generally fall into two categories-professional degrees (usually five years in length) and pre-professional degrees (usually four years in length). The School of Architecture offers both types of undergraduate degrees. Bachelor of Architecture. A five-year professional degree, the Bachelor of Architecture features a rigorous design-oriented curriculum with a solid foundation in technology and the history of architecture. The curriculum prepares students for the challenges and demands of professional practice.
The Bachelor of Architecture is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) as a professional degree, allowing the recipient to qualify for the Architect Registration Examination (ARE). NAAB-accredited B.Arch. In France, architectural education is offered in various independent schools of architecture, both private and public. The first step of architectural education is the Diploma of Studies in Architecture, a three-year degree equivalent to a Bachelor of Architecture.
One route is to enroll in a five-year Bachelor or Master of Architecture program. Or, you can earn a bachelor's degree in another field—such as mathematics, engineering, or even art—and then continue on to graduate school for a two-or three-year master's degree in architecture. There are a number of different academic degrees related to the study of architecture, all of which incorporate between five and seven years of total study. For someone intending to become a registered architect, there are three accredited professional degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture (B.
Available as a Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Arts and professional Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) program, architecture degree programs often take five years to finish and cover a variety of topics related to selecting construction sites, designing buildings and construction. Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) degree programs are designed to provide students who have a pre-professional degree in architecture or architectural studies a professional education. There are also some advanced M.Arch.