Shadow's genome project could take years, but for now researchers have the map of the dog genome. The map is a resource that researchers can use to undertake genome-wide scans for genes of interest with a high degree of confidence, says Ostrander. It will allow investigators to study the nitty-gritty of how gene families are arranged in the dog.. The dog genome is basically the human genome divided into about 70 different pieces and rearranged on a greater number of chromosomes, according to a new map of the dog genome. While making the map, the researchers lined up each chromosome segment in the dog with its corresponding region of the human genome
Biology teaches us that there are two main ingredients that contribute to making all of us what we are: genetics (“nature”) and the environment (“nurture”). In dogs a large proportion of their personality is due to their inherited genes. Consider, for example, the group of breeds that we call Spaniels. Most dog breeds are named after the place that they originated or the person who created the breed. 
Genetics is the study of genes, heredity, and genetic variation in living organisms. It is generally considered a field of biology, but it intersects frequently with many of the life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems. The father of genetics is Gregor Mendel, a late 19th-century scientist and Augustinian friar. Mendel studied 'trait inheritance', patterns in the way traits were handed down from parents to offspring.
Of the thousands of genes in the genome (dogs have about 19,000, compared to humans’ approximately 23,000), an inordinate number are involved in communicating with one another, sending information that either activates or represses a “dimmer switch” in other genes. Dogs come in countless shapes and sizes and exhibit more diversity than any other land mammal on earth, a fact that makes them especially appealing to geneticists.
Geneticists use the termheritability to indicate the proportion of the total possible variability in a trait that is genetic.However, except for the cases where genetics is the main source of variability, the heritability ofa trait is difficult to establish, and may not be the same for different breeds. Genes other than those determin-ing sex can also be located on these chromosomes. These genes are said to be sex-linked. Agood example of this is the tortoiseshell color. The genes that control the color black and thatcontrol the color red in the cat are located on the X chromosomes (one color on each chromo-some).
Backcrossing is a crossing of a hybrid with one of its parents or an individual genetically similar to its parent, in order to achieve offspring with a genetic identity which is closer to that of the parent. It is used in horticulture, animal breeding and in production of gene knockout organisms. This image demonstrates backcrossing of a heterozygous mouse from one genetic background onto another genetic background. In this example, the gene knockout is performed on 129/Sv cells and then backcrossed into the C57B/6J
Scientists in the US and Europe are making progress in identifying the genetic mutations that cause inherited illnesses, developing tests for themand mapping the dog genome. Canine genetics research is beginning to make important contributions to the understanding of human genetic disorders. 
Dog Genome Project. The genome of the domesticated dog, a close evolutionary relation to human, is a powerful new tool for understanding the human genome. Comparison of the dog with human and other mammals reveals key information about the structure and evolution of genes and genomes. By comparing Tasha with many other breeds, the project also compiled a comprehensive set of SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) useful in all dog breeds. These closely spaced genomic landmarks are critical for disease mapping.