The Art Deco Story. The Art Deco period began around 1900 and ended around 1930. If, in fact, it ever did have an ending. At least, however, this is the period during which the greatest volume of work was produced. And it wasn t just the Arts
View Slideshow View Thumbnails. To a great extent, Art Deco is epitomized by the works that were shown at the Exposition Internationale des Arts Decoratifs décoratifs Et Industriels (Modernes International exhibition Of modern And Industrial Decorative), arts held In paris in. 1925 
Art deco began in Europe, particularly Paris, in the early years of the 20th century, but didn't really take hold until after World War I. It reigned until the outbreak of World War II. 
Examples of Art Deco Architecture. Many cities with building projects completed during the period 1927-1935 used Art Deco design plans, of which the following is a short selection. For more information, see: American Architecture (1600-present), and for a list of top designers, see: American Architects (1700-2000). NOTE: For other art and design movements similar to Art Deco, see Art Movements, Periods, Schools (from about 100 BCE). The art deco style, which above all reflected modern technology, was characterized by smooth lines, geometric shapes, streamlined forms and bright, sometimes garish colours.
art nouveau to art deco by Richard Whitehouse Chrysler Building. New York (1928-1930) William Van Allen art nouveau The Art Nouveau style appeared in the early 1880s and was gone by the eve of the First World War. 
Art Deco Era. Art deco (/ˌɑrt ˈdɛkoʊ/), or deco, is an eclectic artistic and design style that began in Paris in the 1920s and flourished internationally throughout the 1930s and into the World War II era. Teresa Rogers. 
The ever popular art deco style is an architectural and decorative-arts style, popular from 1910 to 1940. Art Deco is characterised by highly stylised natural and geometric forms and ornaments, which are usually strongly symmetrical. Outstanding American examples of Art Deco are the Chrysler Building and Radio City Music Hall in New York City. Art Deco emerged as a reaction to Art Nouveau. The two forerunners of the art deco style were Charles Rennie Mackintosh of Scotland and Josef Hoffmann of Vienna.
Of importance also, when referring to the 'Art Deco' period, is the fact that of all the famed art deco artists & design-setters of the period, Tamara de Lempicka (some of you might spell it differently) must be noted. She was a Polish-born artist from a wealthy family & was schooled in Switzerland. THE ARTS & CRAFTS PERIOD ~ 1905 through approx 1935 ~ Notable designers, architects, etc. were / are Frank Lloyd Wright, G. Stickley to name a few ~ Characteristics of this era in time were /are simplistic, functional designs with straight lines & angular shapes.
Art Deco (/ˌɑrt ˈdɛkoʊ/), or Deco, is an influential visual arts design style that first appeared in France just before World War I and began flourishing internationally in the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s before its popularity waned after World War II. The term Art Deco has since been applied to a wide variety of works produced during the Interwar period (L'Entre Deux Guerres), and even to those of the Bauhaus in Germany. However, Art Deco originated in France.