In conclusion, you can potentially earn your salary 100% free of tax in Dubai if you are tax resident in the emirate and have no other obligation to any other state for the payment of tax on foreign earned and sourced income.
To answer the question on everyone’s mind, yes! Dubai is largely a tax-free country with massive tax advantages for those who live and work here, but there are circumstances in which you will be required to pay taxation in some form.
However, if you earn your income in Dubai but are tax resident elsewhere, you may be subject to taxation on your income – this is because where you pay tax and what you pay it on also depends on where you are resident for taxation purposes.
Taxes in Dubai and the UAE, tax advisors, expat resident tax obligations in their home country, a brief guide to tax-terms such as tax-resident, non-resident, domicile, and what working in a tax-free country really means.
We have been preparing US income tax returns for US Citizens and permanent residents living in the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES for over 20 years. As a US Citizen or permanent resident (green card holder) you are required to file a US return each year regardless of the fact that you file and pay taxes in your residence country. The expatriate earned income exemption ($92,900 for 2011) only can be claimed if you file a timely tax return. It is not automatic if you fail to file. We have scores of clients located in the UAE and know how to integrate your US taxes into the local income taxes you pay.
For example, if you are a tax resident of the UK and you own a property in Dubai that you earn a rental income from, you are required to declare this income on your British tax returns and may potentially have to pay tax on it, subject to certain conditions.
Income tax in the UAE. The UAE does not have any federal income tax on wages or salaries. Each emirate can impose income taxes but none do, and it would be very unlikely for that to change in the near future although there has been talk of introducing income tax in the past.