1 Temperature influence on growth – Seeds of cool season crops germinate at 40°F to 80°F. Warm season crop seeds germinate at 50°F to 90°F. 2  In the spring, cool soil temperatures are a limiting factor for plant growth. 3  In mid-summer, hot soil temperatures may prohibit seed germination. Temperature affects the growth and productivity of plants, depending on whether the plant is a warm season or cool season crop. 1  Photosynthesis – Within limits, rates of photosynthesis and respiration both rise with increasing temperatures.
Cool-season veggies grow best at temperatures averaging 15° cooler than those needed by warm season types. Many have edible leaves or roots (lettuce, spinach, carrots, and radishes); others (artichokes, broccoli, cauliflower) are grown for their immature flowers. A few (peas, broad beans) produce edible seeds. 
Never thaw food at room temperature, on a counter or in warm water. These methods let harmful bacteria grow to high numbers (the Danger Zone).ever thaw food at room temperature, on a counter or in warm water. These methods let harmful bacteria grow to high numbers (the Danger Zone). Set the temperature control a little above 135°F, and then check the food with your metal stem thermometer to make sure the food stays at least at 135°F at all times. Stir liquid foods (like soups and gravies) so they don't get cold on top. Covers on the pans will help to keep the heat in and the food warm enough.
Vegetables that grow best in hot weather are primarily from subtropical areas, and they need average temperatures between 65 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit. Summer crops are mostly fruits as opposed to cool-season's leafy crops. Corn germinates best in temperatures ranging from 68 to 86 F and grows best in temperatures between 64 and 70 F. Corn is another crop taken from the West Indies to Europe at an early date. Many corn cultivars exist because corn has been grown for hundreds of years throughout the Americas.
Vegetables are classed as either warm-or cool-season, depending on the weather they need for best growth. Warm-season veggies require both warm soil and high temperatures (with a little cooling at night) to grow steadily and produce crops. They include traditional summer crops such as snap beans, corn, cucumbers, melons, peppers, tomatoes, and squas
Each vegetable crop grows best in its own range of temperatures. The optimal temperature range for peppers and eggplants, for example, is 70° to 85°F; pollination will not occur if the night temperature falls below 55°F, and blossoms may fall if the temperature rises above 85°F. 
Keep hot food above 63°C (for example in a bain marie). This is outside the danger zone (5°C - 63°C). Bacteria grow best in warm temperatures, approximately 25°C – 40°C. Lukewarm food is dangerous as it is a perfect environment for bacteria to thrive. If cooked food is not stored above 63°C, it should be used up within two hours of cooking. Ensure the first batch of cooked food being hot held is served first. 
Lettuce grows best in cool weather and sunny locations. Spring, mid-summer, and early fall are the times of year to plant lettuce, but you can grow lettuce in the summer even in warm regions if you choose heat-tolerant and bolt-resistant varieties. Temperature. Lettuce does best in cool weather, temperatures between 60° and 65°F. To grow lettuce where temperatures are higher (especially 80°F or greater), make sure your planting bed gets afternoon shade. Warm-weather growing. Plant heat-resistant lettuce cultivars where the weather is warm
Best plants to grow: Vine tomatoes, lettuce, kale, broccoli, asparagus, eggplant, other vegetables with short time between planting and harvest. Located in the northernmost US states and cool mountain regions, these zones enjoy a slightly warmer and longer growing season with very cold winters. • Coldest temperatures: -20 to 0F. • Best plants to grow: Tomatoes, corn, squash, melons, beans, strawberries, lettuce and other greens in the spring and fall. Zones 7-8. Defined by long, hot summers and mild winters, these zones cover much of the southern US, including the desert southwest and many southern states.