The expansion will double the shopping, dining and entertainment experiences at Downtown Disney. Each of Disney's four theme parks have new attractions or expansions in the works, the largest of which is the Avatar-themed expansion coming to Disney's Animal Kingdom in 2017. Here's what's on tap for Walt Disney World in the coming months and years. Coming to Animal Kingdom. 
Downtown Disney. A major expansion is coming to Downtown Disney. There will be more than twice as many shops and restaurants. Downtown Disney is being re-named to Disney Springs. Next year is the predicted opening date to the landing, which is the first element of the new shopping, dining and entertainment neighborhood.
A major Fantasyland expansion now underway at Disney World's Magic Kingdom in Florida will more than double the size of the area. 
Disney says it will announce major plans for more Star Wars in the company's theme parks. Disney CEO Bob Iger said during an earnings call on Tuesday that the company is  developing designs for a far greater 'Star Wars' presence in the parks , according to multiple reports. Jedi Mickey Mouse leads a Star Wars at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The company says it plans to expand the Star Wars presence in its theme parks. | ASSOCIATED PRESS. Jedi Mickey Mouse leads a Star Wars at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The company says it plans to expand the Star Wars presence in its theme parks. | ASSOCIATED PRESS.  Star Wars  fans have more than just a new movie to look forward to next year
Disney is constantly evolving and they recently announced some expansions that will be coming soon. On Friday, Disney announced that May 28 will be the official opening day for the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train. Although it is the final addition to New Fantasyland, it is not the end of the growth at Disney World. The park's growth and expansion over the last year has brought many exciting and new experiences to guests. A major expansion is coming to Downtown Disney. There will be more than twice as many shops and restaurants. Downtown Disney is being re-named to Disney Springs. Next year is the predicted opening date to the landing, which is the first element of the new shopping, dining and entertainment neighborhood.
Rumors of a major Star Wars expansion or even the creation of a Star Wars Land in one or more Disney parks have been a mainstay of the fan community for years, intensifying in 2012 when the company acquired Lucasfilm and announced new movies in the franchise. Jedi Mickey Mouse leads a Star Wars at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The company says it plans to expand the Star Wars presence in its theme parks. | ASSOCIATED PRESS. Jedi Mickey Mouse leads a Star Wars at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The company says it plans to expand the Star Wars presence in its theme parks. | ASSOCIATED PRESS.  Star Wars  fans have more than just a new movie to look forward to next year
Star Wars already has a significant presence in Disney parks around the world. The  Star Tours  simulator ride is in Disney's Hollywood Studios in Florida, Disneyland in California, Tokyo Disneyland and Disneyland Paris. Jedi Mickey Mouse leads a Star Wars at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The company says it plans to expand the Star Wars presence in its theme parks. | ASSOCIATED PRESS. Jedi Mickey Mouse leads a Star Wars at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The company says it plans to expand the Star Wars presence in its theme parks. | ASSOCIATED PRESS.  Star Wars  fans have more than just a new movie to look forward to next year
George Lucas poses with a group of 'Star Wars'-inspired Disney characters Aug. 14, 2010 at Disney's Hollywood Studios theme park in Lake Buena Vista, Fla. (Credit: Disney via Getty Images). A new Disney theme park in Anaheim is probably not in the works but an expansion of Disneyland is very likely. Walt Disney Co. Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Iger dismissed rumors that the company may open a third theme park adjacent to Disneyland and Disney California Adventure. But in the same breath, he said an expansion of Disneyland is in the works.