Codeine Withdrawal Syndrome. Withdrawal symptoms begin within eight to 12 hours of the last codeine dosage, and peak within 48 to 72 hours. The discomfort can last a week or more, depending on individual factors such as how long you were addicted and how much codeine you were using. 
The length of withdrawal from codeine is variant on many factors. Duration is dependant on many factors including length of use and dosage being taken. The timeline of withdrawal can last anywhere from a week to well over a month. 
If you have been through codeine withdrawal, you probably know how uncomfortable this can be. Taking codeine for a long period of time or abusing it can lead to codeine dependence and codeine addiction. 
The severity of Codeine withdrawal symptoms depends on the dosage and length of time the individual has been using the drug. Withdrawal begins within six hours of the last dose and can be experienced for up to one week. The symptoms of Codeine withdrawal are extremely unpleasant, and can exacerbate other conditions. Codeine withdrawal is when individuals experience physical and psychological symptoms as a result of abrupt cessation of use of the opiate drug Codeine. Codeine is an opiate which metabolizes into morphine in the body, and is used for its pain relieving properties.
Codeine Withdrawal Timeline. The timeline of a person’s codeine withdrawal will depend on the severity of their addiction. Long term codeine use takes a toll on the body leaving it dependent on the drug’s effects to function normally. For someone who stops using, the body requires a certain amount of time to repair and restore normal functions. With ongoing use, a person’s tolerance level and overall dependence on codeine indicate the level of damage that’s been done to the body. Depending on how long a person has used, codeine withdrawal phases tend to follow a timeline in which different groups of symptoms occur.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long before I am free of codeine addiction withdrawal symptoms? Six weeks ago, I realised I had got myself addicted to Boots own paracetamol and codeine tablets - 6/8 a day taken regular as clockwork for at least eight years. I stopped immediately and went cold turkey. I suffered all of the classic opiate withdrawal symptoms: muscle ache, tiredness and exhaustion, sneezing,... 
Post-Acute Withdrawal. With long-time codeine use, a person will likely experience post-acute withdrawal effects. This stage can last considerably longer than the other two, though the severity of symptoms is greatly reduced. As withdrawal becomes one of the biggest fears addicts face when it comes to breaking an addiction habit, knowing how long codeine withdrawal typically lasts can better prepare a person for the experience.
Physical withdrawal symptoms are strongest in the first few days after you stop taking codeine. Most symptoms are gone within two weeks. But cravings for the drug and behavioral symptoms can last months or even years. Because codeine is widely available, it can be easy to relapse. Commonly prescribed for mild pain management or cough suppression, codeine is the most widely used opiate in the world. It’s often found in cough syrups, and it also comes in tablet form. Tablets can be combined with non-opioid pain relievers like acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen.
Codeine withdrawal typically starts within 12-24 hours after the last dose. Acute withdrawal symptoms peak between 48 and 72 hours and generally subside within a week; however, withdrawal syndrome can potentially affect a person for weeks or months after the initial Codeine withdrawal phase. Codeine withdrawal is when individuals experience physical and psychological symptoms as a result of abrupt cessation of use of the opiate drug Codeine. Codeine is an opiate which metabolizes into morphine in the body, and is used for its pain relieving properties.