This work included production of doors and window frames; hence exposure to oak dust was likely. Overall evaluation. Carpentry and joinery entail exposures that are possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B) . For definition of the italicized terms, see Preamble Evaluation. 
Health Warnings. CAREX Canada is a multidisciplinary team of researchers based at the University of British Columbia that is developing estimates of the number of Canadians exposed to known probable and possible carcinogens in workplace and community environments. 
The chemical, group of chemicals, industrial process or occupational exposure is probably carcinogenic to humans. GROUP 2B. The chemical, group of chemicals, industrial process or occupational exposure is possibly carcinogenic to humans. Available evidence suggests that the agent is not likely to cause cancer in humans except under uncommon or unlikely routes or levels of exposure. A4 - Not Classifiable as a Human Carcinogen: There is inadequate data on which to classify the agent in terms of its carcinogenicity in humans and/or animals.
Exposure to wood dust also occurs among workers in joinery shops, window and door manufacture, wooden boat manufacture, installation and refinishing of wood floors, pattern and model making, pulp and paper manufacture, construction carpentry and logging. Dust from beech wood was tested for carcinogenicity by inhalation and for enhancement of carcinogenicity when administered with sidestream cigarette smoke or formaldehyde in two studies in rats, or with N-nitrosodiethylamine administered by subcutaneous injection in two studies in hamsters.
Wood dust can cause serious health problems. It can cause asthma, which carpenters and joiners are four times more likely to get compared with other UK workers. The Control of Substances Hazardous to Health (COSHH) Regulations 2002 require that you protect workers from the hazards of wood dust. Hardwood dust can cause cancer, particularly of the nose.
Airborne sawdust and sawdust accumulations present a number of health and safety hazards. Wood dust becomes a potential health problem when, for example, the wood particles, from processes such as sanding, become airborne and are inhaled. Wood dust is a known human carcinogen. For other uses, see Sawdust (disambiguation) . Sawdust made with hand saw. Ogatan, Japanese charcoal briquettes made from sawdust. Sawdust or wood dust is a by-product of cutting, grinding, drilling, sanding, or otherwise pulverizing wood with a saw or other tool; it is composed of fine particles of wood. It is also the byproduct of certain animals, birds and insects which live in wood, such as the woodpecker and carpenter ant
Fluoride-benefit or harm Read here Fluoride Is A Carcinogen Fluoride Increases Hip Fractures Purchase one usual magazine (Times or Newsweek, or Cosmopolitan,..), or a brand new book. Open it and smell it. (Do not smell it too long time, as you may faint or get sever headache. Check the ingredients listed on your shampoo bottle and see if they have a substance by the name of Sodium Laureth Sulfate, or simply SLS. This substance is found in most shampoos, and the manufacturers use it because it produces a lot of foam and it is cheap.
Substances, mixtures and exposure circumstances in this list have been classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as Group 2B: The agent (mixture) is possibly carcinogenic to humans. The exposure circumstance entails exposures that are possibly carcinogenic to humans. This category is used for agents, mixtures and exposure circumstances for which there is limited evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and less than sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. 1 Agents Classified by the IARC Monographs, International Agency for Research on Cancer. 2  IARC Monographs-Classifications-by Group. 3  IARC Monographs on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans, Volume 51: Coffee, Tea, Mate, Methylxanthines and Methylglyoxal.
407 1. Exposure Data1.1 Identification, chemical, and physical properties of the agent Wood dust, generated in the processing of wood for a wide range of uses, is a complex substance. 