Please try again later. Watch Corning® Gorilla® Glass 2 endure a ball drop test, an abraded ring on ring test, Vickers indentation test, a flexibility test, a scratch test and the ball launch test. You will be amazed by the results. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
By studying glass' atomic structure and bonding properties, Corning's team was able to invent another kind of glass that makes the substance less brittle, and less prone to scratches, says David Velasquez, Gorilla Glass' director of marketing and commercial operations. Although Corning is concerned mostly about deep scratches -- they look bad and their radiating pattern can lead to future breaks -- the company also credits Gorilla Glass 3 with reducing scratch visibility by 40 percent.
No new products will feature Gorilla Glass 3 at the show, but Corning has sampled its tougher glass with customers (read: device manufacturers like Asus and Samsung), which in turn test the displays in their own punishing labs before placing orders. Although Corning is concerned mostly about deep scratches -- they look bad and their radiating pattern can lead to future breaks -- the company also credits Gorilla Glass 3 with reducing scratch visibility by 40 percent.
Gorilla Glass hardness is comparable to that of sapphire, which is 9 on the Mohs scale of hardness. Regular glass is much softer, closer to a 7 on the Mohs scale. Gorilla Glass is strengthened using an ion-exchange process which forces large ions into the spaces between molecules on the glass surface. Specifically, glass is placed in a 400°C molten potassium salt bath, which forces potassium ions to replace the sodium ions originally in the glass.
A number of consumer products, such as the Galaxy S6, have screens made of Gorilla Glass. Gorilla Glass is a brand of specialized toughened glass developed and manufactured by Corning, now in its fourth generation, designed to be thin, light and damage-resistant. This type of glass is not unique to Corning; similar glasses include Asahi Glass Co. Dragontrail and Schott AG Xensation. When Gorilla Glass 3 was announced Corning indicated that areas for future improvements included reducing reflectivity and susceptibility to fingerprint smudges, and changing the surface treatments and the way it is finished.
Gorilla Glass 3 was introduced at CES 2013. According to Corning, Gorilla Glass 3 is up to three times more scratch-resistant than the previous version, with enhanced ability to resist deep scratches that typically weaken glass. When Gorilla Glass 3 was announced Corning indicated that areas for future improvements included reducing reflectivity and susceptibility to fingerprint smudges, and changing the surface treatments and the way it is finished.
The most recent development in Corning's Gorilla Glass technology for protecting mobile and computing device screens. 
An advanced alkali-aluminosilicate glass technology developed by Corning that is used in a variety of screens for mobile devices like smartphones and tablets as well as displays for PCs and TVs. While Gorilla Glass is now the predominant technology used in protecting mobile device screens, it may face competition in the future from another Corning product, Willow Glass, which offers flexible, bendable qualities that make it ideal for wearable computing devices like Apple’s rumored iWatch device. PREVIOUSgopher.
Gorilla Glass is an unscratchable, unshatterable material used as a protective window for your mobile phone, PMP, or laptop display. It's in 65 products already, and I can assure you that the very nice man from Corning is not faking it. 