Thibodaux (/ˈtɪbədoʊ/ TIB-ə-doh) is a city in and the parish seat of Lafourche Parish, Louisiana, United States, along the banks of Bayou Lafourche in the northwestern part of the parish. The population was 14,567 at the 2010 census. They were challenged by a coalition of Populists and Republicans, as well as labor unrest as agricultural workers tried to organize to ease their conditions. A sugar cane workers' strike culminated in the  Thibodaux massacre  of November 22, 1887, one of the bloodiest labor disputes in U.S. history.
Indigency Determination and Availability of Clients: In the 17th Judicial District, the Court makes the determination of indigence. Adult clients may be held at the Lafourche Parish Detention Center but are often held outside of the district in Claiborne, East Carroll, West Carroll, St. Charles or Madison Parishes. At the end of 2012 the district reported five staff attorneys in addition to the District Defender and five part-time contract attorneys. There are no restrictions on private practice outside of the Public Defenders' Office.
Click HERE to view our searchable, interactive Council District map. Below are the Lafourche Parish Council District maps a s per the 2010 Census Reapportionment Plan 3A (Final) approved by the Parish Council on April 26, 2011. Map of Council Districts (entire Parish with district boundaries). 1  Council District 1. 2  Council District 2
Bayou Lafourche Fresh Water District. October 13 at 3:08pm ·. Special thanks to Restore or Retreat for co-hosting a boat tour for our Phase 2 Project. We are proud of the progress we have made on this project. Bayou Lafourche Fresh Water District. This is another huge step in not only protecting the fresh water source that so many of us are dependent upon in our daily lives, but it is also a major milestone in the implementation of the Mississippi River Reintroduction into Bayou Lafourche.
In the Louisiana Legislature, Thibodaux is represented by Rep. Jerome Richard (I-Thibodaux) and Sen. Joel Chaisson (D-Destrehan). In the United States Congress, it is represented by Rep. Garret Graves (R-Baton Rouge), Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-Baton Rouge) and Sen. David Vitter (R-Metairie). They were challenged by a coalition of Populists and Republicans, as well as labor unrest as agricultural workers tried to organize to ease their conditions. A sugar cane workers' strike culminated in the  Thibodaux massacre  of November 22, 1887, one of the bloodiest labor disputes in U.S. history.
In 1896, the first rural free delivery of mail in Louisiana began in Thibodaux. It was the second such RFD in the United States. The name was changed to Thibodeaux in 1838, and the current spelling Thibodaux was officially adopted in 1918. They were challenged by a coalition of Populists and Republicans, as well as labor unrest as agricultural workers tried to organize to ease their conditions. A sugar cane workers' strike culminated in the  Thibodaux massacre  of November 22, 1887, one of the bloodiest labor disputes in U.S. history.
Phone: (985) 446-5631. District website. In Louisiana your child can attend any school in the district (called intradistrict choice) or outside the district (interdistrict choice) if the school your child is enrolled in is considered low performing.
In the 17th Judicial District, there are five sections of District Court and one City Court (Thibodaux). There is a specialty drug court program in this district. At the end of 2012 the district reported five staff attorneys in addition to the District Defender and five part-time contract attorneys. There are no restrictions on private practice outside of the Public Defenders' Office.
The community was settled by French colonists in the 18th century, who imported African slaves as workers. It was incorporated as a town in 1830 under the name Thibodauxville, in honor of local plantation owner Henry Schuyler Thibodaux. They were challenged by a coalition of Populists and Republicans, as well as labor unrest as agricultural workers tried to organize to ease their conditions. A sugar cane workers' strike culminated in the  Thibodaux massacre  of November 22, 1887, one of the bloodiest labor disputes in U.S. history.
District Staff: The District Defender in the 17th Judicial District is Christopher J. Boudreaux, who has served in the position for six years and has been a public defender in Louisiana for 14 years. The 17th Judicial District Public Defenders' Office is a mixed staff and contract office. At the end of 2012 the district reported five staff attorneys in addition to the District Defender and five part-time contract attorneys. There are no restrictions on private practice outside of the Public Defenders' Office.