An application of Fabpro's Soot Sealer to rough, hard to clean surfaces such as wood, concrete, cinder block, crawl spaces or basements can bond dust and other fine particles to the surface. Fabpro Soot Sealer was specially developed to provide an easy, efficient and cost effective means of creating a clean environmental space. Sets and hold smoke, dust, pollen-fine particles-in air or heat ducts. A must do step after a fire damage or smoke removal cleaning.
Soot Seal is a ready-to-use acrylic polymer sealant used for sealing duct systems. Soot Seal's water based formula is ideal for wet-fogging to seal duct work. 
When applying in a spraying: 1. Use Fabpro Soot Sealer undiluted as it comes from container. Pour Soot Sealer into clean hand pump or electric sprayer with #4 nozzle. 2. Apply Soot Sealer evenly and uniformly over the surface just to the point of run off. Allow application to dry. Repeat if necessary. 6. Clean equipment immediately after use. 1. Pour Fabpro Soot Sealer into clean painters bucket. 2. Using a quality, clean brush designed for oil based paints, apply Soot Sealer to surface using painting industry acceptable techniques
SOOT SEAL Soot Seal is a water based polymer encapsulant sealer that forms a protective coating that will encapsulate and seal contaminants. The protective coating seals surfaces and encapsulates particulates. Thoroughly clean & decontaminate the affected surfaces,2. Prepare a ready to use solution of Soot Seal by mixing 26 oz of Soot Seal with enough water to make one gallon (1:4 dilution).3. Apply to structural materials, voids, cracks and crevices.4.
Soot Sealer. A specifically developed clear coating designed to bond smoke, dust, pollen or other fine particles to metal, wood or other surface types when complete removal is impractical. Can be brushed, sprayed or fogged. Specifically developed as a result of Fabpro research. Fabpro Soot Sealer was specially developed to provide an easy, efficient and cost effective means of creating a clean environmental space. Sets and hold smoke, dust, pollen-fine particles-in air or heat ducts. A must do step after a fire damage or smoke removal cleaning.
Soot Seal. Soot Seal is a water based polymer encapsulant sealer that forms a protective coating that will encapsulate and seal contaminates. The protective coating seals surfaces and encapsulates particulates. 
Economical to use. One gallon of Soot Sealer will seal approximately 80 cubic feet of duct work found in a typical 3 bedroom home. On flat surfaces, one gallon will treat up to 800 square feet depending on surface type and porosity. Easy to use directions. Fabpro Soot Sealer was specially developed to provide an easy, efficient and cost effective means of creating a clean environmental space. Sets and hold smoke, dust, pollen-fine particles-in air or heat ducts. A must do step after a fire damage or smoke removal cleaning.
One gallon of Soot Sealer will seal approximately 80 cubic feet of duct work found in a typical 3 bedroom home. On flat surfaces, one gallon will treat up to 800 square feet depending on surface type and porosity. Fabpro Soot Sealer was specially developed to provide an easy, efficient and cost effective means of creating a clean environmental space. Sets and hold smoke, dust, pollen-fine particles-in air or heat ducts. A must do step after a fire damage or smoke removal cleaning.