This occurs, for example, when students are doing Project-Based Learning and are using IT as both a research aid and as a presentation aid. Over the past 20 years or so, a learning theory called Situated Learning has been developed. Some references that help to define this theory are given below. The focus is on learning by doing, and on addressing real problems. 
1 Educators who embrace cognitive theory believe that the definition oflearning as a change in behavior is too narrow and prefer to study the learner rather than herenvironment, and in particular the complexities of human memory. 1 Gestalt views of learning have been incorporated into what have come to belabeled cognitive theories. 2  Two key assumptions underlie this cognitive approach: that thememory system is an active organized processor of information and that prior knowledge playsan important role in learning.
Introduction to Learning Theory and Behavioral Psychology. Learning can be defined as the process leading to relatively permanent behavioral change or potential behavioral change. In other words, as we learn, we alter the way we perceive our environment, the way we interpret the incoming stimuli, and therefore the way we interact, or behave
The social-cognitive theory is a theoretical perspective in which learning by observing others is the focus of study. Social-cognitive theory is grounded by several basic assumptions. One is that people can learn by observing others. Learners can acquire new behaviors and knowledge by simply observing a model. The social-cognitive theory focuses on the learning that occurs within a social context. Within this social context, learners observe new behaviors and skills from a model. They may internalize and demonstrate those skills or sometimes not.
Educators who embrace cognitive theory believe that the definition of learning as a change in behavior is too narrow and prefer to study the learner rather than their environment and in particular the complexities of human memory. This theory further aligns with the idea that teaching the concepts and the language of a subject should be split into multiple steps. Other informal learning theories look at the sources of motivation for learning.
Learning theory a definition. 1  1. Learning theory (education)Learning theories are conceptual frameworks that describe how information is absorbed,processed, and retained during learning. 1 Gestalt views of learning have been incorporated into what have come to belabeled cognitive theories. 2  Two key assumptions underlie this cognitive approach: that thememory system is an active organized processor of information and that prior knowledge playsan important role in learning.
No notes for slide. 1  1. Learning theory (education)Learning theories are conceptual frameworks that describe how information is absorbed,processed, and retained during learning. 1 Gestalt views of learning have been incorporated into what have come to belabeled cognitive theories. 2  Two key assumptions underlie this cognitive approach: that thememory system is an active organized processor of information and that prior knowledge playsan important role in learning.
a view that learning is mainly due to our social interactions with others. Behaviour is assumed to be developed and regulated (a) by external stimulus events, such as the influence of other individuals. SOCIAL LEARNING THEORY: The social learning theory says that learning is done in social situations.. 
Definition of Social Learning Theory. Social learning theory is the view that people learn by observing others. Associated with Albert Bandura's work in the 1960s, social learning theory explains how people learn new behaviors, values, and attitudes. For example, a teenager might learn slang by observing peers. Social learning requires attention to the person(s) observed, remembering the observed behavior, the ability to replicate the behavior, and a motivation to act the same way.
Learning theories are conceptual frameworks describing how information is absorbed, processed, and retained during learning. Cognitive, emotional, and environmental influences, as well as prior experience, all play a part in how understanding, or a world view, is acquired or changed and knowledge and skills retained. Behaviorists look at learning as an aspect of conditioning and will advocate a system of rewards and targets in education. This theory further aligns with the idea that teaching the concepts and the language of a subject should be split into multiple steps. Other informal learning theories look at the sources of motivation for learning.