Yes, TB is contagious and can be transmitted from person to person, mainly when a person with TB coughs, sneezes, speaks, or even sings (airborne transmission). Other people who breathe in the aerosolized bacteria can become infected. Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a bacterium named Mycobacterium tuberculosis that usually infects the lungs, but in some individuals, the bacteria can attack any part of the body. Before treatments were effective against TB, it was the leading cause of death in the United States.
TB is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis. TB disease most often affects the lungs, but can occur anywhere in the body. Some types of TB disease are contagious, and some are not. TB diseases of the lung or larynx are contagious. 
About TB. TB is a contagious and often severe airborne disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). TB typically affects the lungs, but it also can affect any other organ of the body. It is usually treated with a regimen of drugs taken for 6 months to 2 years depending on the type of infection. 
Advertisement. Tuberculosis (TB) is a highly infectious disease that is caused by strains of bacteria that belong to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. Though TB mainly affects the lungs, it could also affect other parts of the body. A person is diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis, when the lungs get infected. Pulmonary tuberculosis is the most common form of tuberculosis. Bacteria that cause tuberculosis could also spread from the lungs to other parts of the body through blood or the lymph fluid. An active TB disease of the lungs, airways, or larynx is considered to be highly contagious. Factors that are associated with contagiousness include the presence of cough and cavity in lungs. The causative bacteria can spread to others when a person affected by pulmonary tuberculosis disease coughs or sneezes
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a germ called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. 
Tuberculosis is a serious disease caused by a bacterial infection of the lungs but can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, kidneys and bones. Tuberculosis, commonly known as TB, is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) . People with latent tuberculosis are not contagious and cannot spread the disease to others. However, anything that stresses the immune system, such as malnutrition or a chronic disease, can lower the body’s resistance and allow the bacteria to become active and multiply in the body.
TB is a contagious and often severe airborne disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) bacteria. TB typically affects the lungs, but it also can affect any other organ of the body. 
Report Abuse. Tuberculosis (TB) is a contagious disease that usually affects the lungs, but can also spread to other parts of the body. It is caused by the airborne bacterium Myobacterium tuberculosis. 