Entry-Level Information Technology Consultants can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Arlington (+21 percent), Washington (+16 percent), New York (+13 percent), and Seattle (+11 percent). The smallest paychecks in the market, 10 percent south of the national average, can be found in Denver. Entry-Level Information Technology (IT) Consultant Salary. (United States). The average Entry-Level Information Technology Consultant earns approximately $61K annually.
Similar discrepancies can be expected in pay at the entry level, as well. Computer Programmers. Starting pay for programmers, consistent with compensation offered to the lowest 10 percent of the category, was as much as $40,820 in 2010. Developers of systems software have the highest median incomes, earning $94,180. Software developers who focus on applications development have median earnings at the low end of the scale, with median salaries of $87,790. Get entry level IT training information.
The average salary for entry level technician jobs is $37,000. Average entry level technician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term entry level technician anywhere in the job listing. The entry level technician salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional entry level technician salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Median pay for network and systems administrators stood at $69,160 in 2010. The lowest 10 percent, consistent with entry-level positions, earned up to $42,400, but salary estimates are complicated by wide variation among industries. Network and systems administrators employed by educational institutions, whether public or private, earned median salaries of $59,230. Developers of systems software have the highest median incomes, earning $94,180. Software developers who focus on applications development have median earnings at the low end of the scale, with median salaries of $87,790. Get entry level IT training information.
Entry-Level Information Technology Support Technicians can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Boston (+30 percent), Washington (+27 percent), Minneapolis (+27 percent), and Los Angeles (+21 percent). Job satisfaction for Entry-Level Information Technology Support Technicians is high. Respondents to the PayScale salary survey provided the data for this report.
For Entry-Level Information Technology Consultants, busy San Francisco offers a higher-than-average pay rate, 25 percent above the national average. Entry-Level Information Technology (IT) Consultant Salary. (United States). The average Entry-Level Information Technology Consultant earns approximately $61K annually.
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Entry Level category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Entry Level jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. If you are unsure how much your Entry Level job pays you can choose to either browse all Entry Level salaries below or you can search all Entry Level salaries. Other related categories you may wish to browse are Administrative, Support, and Clerical jobs and Skilled and Trades jobs.
On the whole, entry-level administrators, at the lowest 10 percent of the salary range, can expect to earn up to $41,570, with a median for all administrators of $73,710. Developers of systems software have the highest median incomes, earning $94,180. Software developers who focus on applications development have median earnings at the low end of the scale, with median salaries of $87,790. Get entry level IT training information.
In the world of Entry-Level Information Technology Support Technicians, overall income ranges from $25K near the bottom to $50K at the top; this can include more than $3K from bonuses and more than $6K from profit sharing in exceptional cases. Job satisfaction for Entry-Level Information Technology Support Technicians is high. Respondents to the PayScale salary survey provided the data for this report.
Overall compensation packages to Entry-Level Information Technology Consultants range from $36K on the low end to $91K on the high end; this includes bonuses that peak near $10K and profit sharing that approaches $6K, with some high rollers snagging commissions as high as $136K. Entry-Level Information Technology (IT) Consultant Salary. (United States). The average Entry-Level Information Technology Consultant earns approximately $61K annually.