How long does TT swelling last? Swelling after a Tummy Tuck kind of goes in two phases..By 6 weeks the tummy starts to look much better and much flatter...But even at 3 months, women may take their belt off at the end of a day and still see a distinct impression in their skin. 
Then a tummy tuck also is not for you. A tummy tuck should be a last resort after you've tried everything else. It should not be used as an alternative to weight loss. You should also consider the appearance of scars after a tummy tuck. You can talk about scar placement and length with the doctor before the surgery. 1 The surgeon will cut your abdomen from hipbone to hipbone and then contour the skin, tissue, and muscle as needed. 2  The surgery will involve moving your belly button, and you may need drainage tubes under your skin for a few days. 3  Partial or mini abdominoplasty.
Because of the type of incision made with a tummy tuck, pain and swelling can be substantial. However, people who are in good health tend to recover quicker. According to the Mayo Clinic, swelling can last anywhere from six weeks to three months. Swelling with a partial tummy tuck is not as severe with a full tummy tuck. As with a full tummy tuck, an abdominal binder will be placed around the waist to reduce swelling.
Recovery. Average recovery time after a tummy tuck is generally two to four weeks, at which point many patients can return to school or work. The scars from the procedure usually take longer to fade and heal. In some cases, it can take a few years for the scars to heal considerably. A tummy tuck, also called an abdominoplasty, is a plastic surgery procedure in which the excess fat and skin around the abdominal area is removed. In some cases, torn muscles are repaired to further strengthen the abdominal wall.
There’s good news. The fact is that a tummy tuck surgery can bring you long-lasting, almost permanent results. Studies and surveys have documented the fact that the benefits of an abdominoplasty can last for many years after you’ve had the procedure. 1 A pregnancy can alter your body greatly, whether you’ve had a tummy tuck or not. 2  Again, this procedure will not stop, or defend you from, the changes that giving. 3  birth can bring if you become pregnant afterward.
Procedure. A tummy tuck is a relatively straightforward surgery. The surgeon makes a horizontal incision above the pubic area. A second incision may be made above the belly button if there is excess skin around that area. Then the extra fat is removed, and the loose muscles are tightened with sutures. A tummy tuck, also called an abdominoplasty, is a plastic surgery procedure in which the excess fat and skin around the abdominal area is removed. In some cases, torn muscles are repaired to further strengthen the abdominal wall.
Duration of Surgery. Barring any complications, a tummy tuck procedure usually lasts about two to five hours. A partial tummy tuck lasts about one to two hours. A partial tummy tuck is often recommended for patients who fall within 10 percent of their ideal weight. A tummy tuck, also called an abdominoplasty, is a plastic surgery procedure in which the excess fat and skin around the abdominal area is removed. In some cases, torn muscles are repaired to further strengthen the abdominal wall.
The hours of a tummy tuck in surgery depends upon the size of the tummy. The average tummy tuck takes approximately 1-2 hours. Larger panniculectomies can take 3-4 hours depending upon the amount of skin to be removed, contouring of the hips, and the thighs (if necessary).
Despite these rewards, there are some important influences that will greatly affect the retention of your tummy tuck benefits: 1  You still must follow a proper diet. 2  not change that. 3  A pregnancy can alter your body greatly, whether you’ve had a tummy tuck or not. 4  birth can bring if you become pregnant afterward. 5  Exercise will remain important to ... 1 A pregnancy can alter your body greatly, whether you’ve had a tummy tuck or not. 2  Again, this procedure will not stop, or defend you from, the changes that giving. 3