Marble is a metamorphic rock that comes from metamorphosed limestone or dolomite. Limestone is mostly calcite or calcium carbonate, CaCO 3. Dolomite CaMg(CO 3) 2 is related to limestone but is rich in magnesium. Marble has a uniform texture (non-foliated). It can be most any color including white, black, reds, greens, and more. It is usually course grained though fine-grained marble is found in some places and is highly prized for creating sculptures. Marble is used as building materials for its strength and beauty.
Marble is a metamorphic rock that forms when limestone is subjected to the heat and pressure of metamorphism. A related rock, dolomitic marble, is produced when dolostone is subjected to heat and pressure. Photo Gallery: The Many Uses of Marble. Most marble forms at convergent plate boundaries where large areas of Earth's crust are exposed to regional
Color: Marble is usually a light-colored rock. When it is formed from a limestone with very few impurities it will be white in color. Marble that contains impurities such as clay minerals, iron oxides or bituminous material can be bluish, gray, pink, yellow or black in color. Marble of extremely high purity with a bright white color is very useful. A related rock, dolomitic marble, is produced when dolostone is subjected to heat and pressure. Photo Gallery: The Many Uses of Marble. Most marble forms at convergent plate boundaries where large areas of Earth's crust are exposed to regional metamorphism.
It can be found in mountainous areas all over the world...in particular, Italy, China, Turkey and Mexico, but also in Belgium, France, Great Britain, Spain, India, and in many parts of the United States, such as Vermont, Colorado, Tennessee and Alabama. Marble is found in the U.S., Greece, Romania, Italy, Pakistan, Spain, India, Turkey, Russia, United Kingdom, Germany and Russia. See Sources and related links for breakdown ac … cording to type of marble
Ashford Black Marble is the name given to a dark limestone, quarried from mines near Ashford-in-the-Water, in Derbyshire, England. Once cut, turned and polished, its shiny black surface is highly decorative. Ashford Black Marble is a very fine-grained sedimentary rock, and is not a true marble in the geological sense. It can be cut and inlaid with other decorative stones and minerals, using a technique known as pietra dura. Derby Museum has a diagram of Ecton Hill made from Ashford Black Marble and other minerals
Marble is a non-foliated metamorphic rock composed of recrystallized carbonate minerals, most commonly calcite or dolomite. Geologists use the term marble to refer to metamorphosed limestone; however, stonemasons use the term more broadly to encompass unmetamorphosed limestone. Marble is commonly used for sculpture and as a building material
There is a lot of variation in the color and texture of marble. The two main influences are the kind of limestone that makes up the parent rock and the kind and degree of metamorphism. It can be most any color including white, black, reds, greens, and more. It is usually course grained though fine-grained marble is found in some places and is highly prized for creating sculptures. Marble is used as building materials for its strength and beauty.
Marble can be found in many mountainous places in the world. In particular, it is found mainly in Italy, China, Turkey and Mexico, but also in Belgium, France, Great Britain, … Spain, India, and in many parts of the United States, such as Vermont, Colorado, Tennessee and Alabama. Hope this helps! Marble is found in the U.S., Greece, Romania, Italy, Pakistan, Spain, India, Turkey, Russia, United Kingdom, Germany and Russia. See Sources and related links for breakdown ac … cording to type of marble.
It’s extremely hard and resistant to the elements. In fact, granite can be found almost anywhere in the world, but black granite is highly valued because of its unique and expensive look especially for creating grave markers and headstones. Some of the regions in the world where black granite can be found are China, South Africa, Scandinavia, and India. China has very pure forms of black granite known as Shanxi Black A Grade, one of the densest forms of granite. 