Auckland Airport to City/Port. Hello Sue....AIRBUS runs to and from Auckland Airport every 20 minutes at a cost of NZ$15 per person.....allow 40 minutes. The Langham Hotel is a designated stop. For latest route and timetable check www.airbus.co.nz A Taxi is NZ$60 approximately. We were in Auckland in March and the airport to the city is about 1/2 hr. We got a taxi, however it was what they call the discount taxis. Cost us $30 which we thought was great as it was the same price as the shuttle and the shuttle can take forever to get to your hotel depending on where it is on the stops.
Please phone +64 9 363 7029 or email exec.cars@skycity.co.nz. The SKYCITY Airport Shuttle runs 365 days a year from $30 per person with direct transfers between the hotel and the airport – click here for full details and to book. Auckland Airport is an easy 45 minute drive away by bus, car or taxi. If you are travelling by taxi, they are located outside the domestic and international terminals and cost approximately NZ$75 into the city. 
How much would be the distance if one could just fly from Auckland Airport to city centre auckland like a bird in a staight line? Check the Flight distance between Auckland Airport and city centre auckland. Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Auckland Airport to city centre auckland. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from Auckland Airport to city centre auckland.
The Auckland International Airport is about 21 kilometres southwest of the city centre. A large number of Auckland hotels and motels will have a free shuttle service. If you booked your accommodation with one of these, there should be no problem getting to Auckland from the airport. If you have not pre-booked accommodation, there is a free phone service at the international terminal which connects you to a number of hotels. Descriptions and locations would very likely be posted on an information board. Try for one with a free airport shuttle service and ask to be picked up.
Check the Flight distance between Auckland Airport and City Centre. Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Auckland Airport to City Centre. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from Auckland Airport to City Centre.
The airport is located near Mangere, a residential suburb and Airport Oaks, a service hub suburb 21 kilometres (13 mi) south of the downtown Auckland city centre. It is both a domestic and international hub for Air New Zealand, a New Zealand hub of Virgin Australia, and a focus city for Jetstar Airways. Auckland Airport is one of New Zealand’s most important infrastructure assets, providing thousands of jobs for the region.
Bus-Airbus Express. $16 Adult One Way-takes approximately 45-60 minutes. Airbus Express is the airport-to-city bus transfer service that operates 24/7 from Auckland Airport. Airbus departs every 10 minutes on weekdays between 6am and 7pm, and every 15-30 minutes at other times. Please check their online timetable for departures. The airport is located 20km south of the city centre, in the suburb of Mangere. Inter-terminal bus service. A free bus runs between the international and domestic terminals from 5am to 10.30pm daily. There is also a walkway between the international and domestic terminals, which takes approximately 10 minutes.
You can use this unique route planner that will give you Auckland Airport to City Centre Route.Are you planning to take a road trip? Do want an estimate of the fuel cost that you will be spending on this trip? Check the Trip Cost from Auckland Airport to City Centre. Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Auckland Airport to City Centre. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distanc