Actor | Producer | Writer. Jesse James was born in Southern California to Shane and Jaime. He started acting when his father was getting head-shots of himself taken. Shane asked the photographer, who was also a manager, to take photos of Jesse. 
On April 3, 1882, Jesse James was killed by a member of his own gang, Robert Ford, who hoped to collect a reward on James' head. Jesse and his brother Frank James were Confederate guerrillas or Bushwhackers during the Civil War. They were accused of participating in atrocities committed against Union soldiers, including the Centralia Massacre.
Early Life. Custom motorcycle manufacturer and public figure Jesse Gregory James was born on April 19, 1969, in Lynwood, California, a suburb of Los Angeles. His parents divorced when James was very young, and he was raised by his father, Larry, an antiques dealer
Jesse Woodson James was born in Clay County, Missouri, near the site of present-day Kearney, on September 5, 1847. Jesse James had two full siblings: his older brother, Alexander Franklin Frank , and a younger sister, Susan Lavenia James. Jesse and his brother Frank James were Confederate guerrillas or Bushwhackers during the Civil War. They were accused of participating in atrocities committed against Union soldiers, including the Centralia Massacre.
Biography: Jesse James. A teenager when he rode off to join Confederate guerrillas in 1864, Jesse James never really stopped fighting the Civil War. Unable to accept the defeat of the secessionist cause, Jesse trained his fury on banks, trains and stagecoaches. 
Jesse Woodson James (September 5, 1847 – April 3, 1882) was an American outlaw, guerrilla, gang leader, bank robber, train robber, and murderer from the state of Missouri and the most famous member of the James-Younger Gang. Jesse and his brother Frank James were Confederate guerrillas or Bushwhackers during the Civil War. They were accused of participating in atrocities committed against Union soldiers, including the Centralia Massacre.
Jesse James summary: Jesse Woodson James was born into a hard working family. His parents lived in Clay County Missouri, where Jesse and his two full siblings were born. Robert James, Jesse’s father, was a successful farmer who eventually helped found William Jewell College located in Liberty, Missouri. When Jesse was three years old, his father died in California, preaching to those looking for gold. Jesse’s mother remarried. DEATH OF A FIRST COUSIN Sometime in the fall of 1881, Jesse James resumed his pursuit of Jim Cummins. This took him to the home of Bill Ford, whose wife was Cummins’ sister. In an effort to get information on Cummins’ location, Jesse roughed-up Samuel Ford, 15-year-old first cousin of Bob and Charlie.
Producer | Actor. At first glance, Jesse James is the consummate biker rebel. Tattoos, knives, goatee, black t-shirts and skulls all around him and his world help create that image. That image, in turn, reflects a mere fraction of the man that is West Coast Choppers. 
Synopsis. Jesse James was born on September 5, 1847, in Kearney, Missouri. James and his brother Frank served for the Confederate Army before embarking on criminal careers in the Old West. Jesse James-First Bank Robbery (TV-14; 2:47) At a time when bank robberies were an uncommon occurrence, Jesse James became one of the first individuals to do so