On a side note, when I see a FB page with the commenting option turned off I assume it is either because the company gets lots of complaints or the owner is too lazy to respond so they just turn it off. Either way, bad strategy. Frank. Great post, Jim. In dealing with upset fans, you must remember that you are closer to your industry, products and services than they are. What may seem like basic, common knowledge to you is often foreign to the end user. Take a step back and put yourself in your customer’s shoes.
To report a Page: 1  Go to the Page you want to report. 2  Click on the Page's cover photo. 3  Select Report Page. 4  Choose the option that best describes the issue and follow the on-screen instructions. You can report spam using the report links near most content types and features on Facebook. Keep in mind that you may have to log in to do so. If your account is sending spam, reset your password. Malware can also sometimes cause your account to post things without your knowledge. Learn how to remove malware.
None of us are perfect. We all get complaints from time to time and how we deal with them will be the difference between a good company and a great company. Facebook has made it easier to complain but dealing with that complaint will always remain that bit tricky. Be sure to keep these points in mind if you get any in the future…. Respond, don’t react. Walk away (only for a few minutes, speed is important when dealing with complaints) and think about your response. Go have a cuppa and really think about how you can take this bad comment and turn it around. If you react to it straight away you will probably do more harm than good.
Step 2. Respond to the post publicly and then take the conversation offline. Don't delete the complaint post. On the contrary, leave the post on your Facebook wall to show other customers that your business takes customer concerns seriously and deals with any issues. Respond to the post acknowledging the customer's complaint, apologize for the issue and offer to rectify. Instruct the customer to contact you via email or phone. 
As a general rule, you, the Facebook page admin, should not remove negative posts. Not everyone is going to have a glowing review of your product or company. Social media users know this, and if they see nothing but positive comments, they’ll assume your company is deleting the bad comments. In dealing with upset fans, you must remember that you are closer to your industry, products and services than they are. What may seem like basic, common knowledge to you is often foreign to the end user. Take a step back and put yourself in your customer’s shoes.
The customer could have a simple complaint, or be so upset he’s gone on the offensive, making sure you and the rest of your community knows he’s angry. Your next steps are key to retaining not only the business of the angry customer, but the business of other fans who like your page as well. In dealing with upset fans, you must remember that you are closer to your industry, products and services than they are. What may seem like basic, common knowledge to you is often foreign to the end user. Take a step back and put yourself in your customer’s shoes.
Great tips Sandra. A short cooling off period is definitely key. If only Cinnamon had read this before their Twitter fiasco last year! Sandra: I like your common sense approach on how to deal with a complaint on Facebook. Respond, don’t react. Walk away (only for a few minutes, speed is important when dealing with complaints) and think about your response. Go have a cuppa and really think about how you can take this bad comment and turn it around. If you react to it straight away you will probably do more harm than good.
If you think an account is pretending to be you but you can't see it: 1  Ask one of your friends to report the account. 2  You'll receive a message from your friend with a link. 3  Click the link in the message to report the account. You can report spam using the report links near most content types and features on Facebook. Keep in mind that you may have to log in to do so. If your account is sending spam, reset your password. Malware can also sometimes cause your account to post things without your knowledge. Learn how to remove malware.
How to Handle Customer Complaints Quickly. Customer service is the interaction a person experiences when conducting business with a company or an individual. The experience can be positive or negative. Successful businesses train their staffs on how to handle customer complaints quickly. 5. Find out how the customer wants the issue resolved. The resolution could be in the form of a replacement, refund, exchange, store credit or discount on price. 1  If the customer's request can be met, explain the time it takes to process or what it will entail to make it happen.
How to Deal With Customer Complaints Online. Social media can amplify customer complaints, but your response can be an effective marketing tool. Here are two simple rules you can adopt to turn the negative into a positive. By Dave Kerpen. By Dave Kerpen. Dave Kerpen is the CEO of Likeable Local. No matter the size of your business, your success will always lie in your ability to deal with customers. In an age when consumers have so many different options they can turn to, one factor that can significantly set you apart is effective, reliable customer service.