Introduction. A lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test measures the amount of LDH in the blood. Lactate dehydrogenase is an enzyme that the body uses during the process of turning sugar into energy for your cells to use. LDH is found in many of the body's tissues and organs, including the muscles, liver, heart, pancreas, kidneys, brain and blood cells
A test for lactic acid is done to: 1  Check for lactic acidosis. 2  See whether the right amount of oxygen is reaching the body's tissues. 3  Find the cause for a high amount of acid (low pH) in the blood. A lactic acid test is generally done on a blood sample taken from a vein in the arm but it may also be done on a sample of blood taken from an artery (arterial blood gas).
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme that helps facilitate the process of turning sugar into energy for your cells to use. LDH is present in many kinds of organs and tissues throughout the body, including the liver, heart, pancreas, kidneys, skeletal muscles, brain, and blood cells. When illness or injury damages your cells, LDH may be released into the bloodstream, causing the level of LDH in your blood to rise.
This is a blood test that measures the level of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in your body. LDH is an enzyme, or catalyst, found in many different tissues in your body. These include your red blood cells, skeletal muscles, kidneys, brain, and lungs. 
Lactic Acid. Guide. A lactic acid test is a blood test that measures the level of lactic acid made in the body. Most of it is made by muscle tissue and red blood cells. When the oxygen level in the body is normal, carbohydrate breaks down into water and carbon dioxide. A lactic acid test is generally done on a blood sample taken from a vein in the arm but it may also be done on a sample of blood taken from an artery (arterial blood gas).
A high lactate level in the blood means that the disease or condition a person has is causing lactate to accumulate. In general, a greater increase in lactate means a greater severity of the condition. When associated with lack of oxygen, an increase in lactate can indicate that organs are not functioning properly. The Test. The lactate test is primarily ordered to help determine if someone has lactic acidosis, a level of lactate that is high enough to disrupt a person's acid-base (ph) balance.
The lactate test measures the level of lactate in the blood at a given point in time. A normal lactate level indicates that a person does not have lactic acidosis, that there is sufficient oxygen at the cellular level, and/or that their signs and symptoms are not caused by lactic acidosis. ^ Back to top. The Test. The lactate test is primarily ordered to help determine if someone has lactic acidosis, a level of lactate that is high enough to disrupt a person's acid-base (ph) balance.