A febrile seizure, also known as a fever fit or febrile convulsion, is a seizure associated with a high body temperature but without any serious underlying health issue. They most commonly occur in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years. Simple febrile seizures involve an otherwise healthy child who has at most one tonic-clonic seizure lasting less than 15 minutes in a 24 hour period. Blood testing, imaging of the brain or an electroencephalogram (EEG) is typically not needed for the diagnosis.
A febrile convulsion is a fit or seizure caused by a fever. They are caused by a sudden change in your child's body temperature and are usually associated with a fever (a temperature above 38°C). A high temperature is a sign of infection somewhere in the body and is often caused by a virus or bacteria. Treatment of a fever with paracetamol or ibuprofen does not prevent a febrile convulsion. However, if your child is very uncomfortable, you can follow the simple steps found on the Kids Health Info factsheet: Fever in children.
Definition. A febrile seizure is a convulsion in a child that may be caused by a spike in body temperature, often from an infection. Your child's having a febrile seizure can be alarming, and the few minutes it lasts can seem like an eternity
A febrile seizure is sometimes called a febrile convulsion. Any illness that causes a high temperature (fever) can cause a febrile seizure. Most occur with common illnesses such as ear infections, coughs, colds, flu and other viral infections. No. Febrile seizures and epilepsy are two different conditions. 1  The cause of a febrile seizure is related to the feverish illness and is not due to epilepsy or any brain abnormality. 2  Epilepsy causes seizures without a high temperature (fever).
Fever seizures (sometimes called fever convulsions or febrile seizures) can occur in children who have a rapid increase in body temperature. You may not even know that your child has a fever. The rapid increase in body temperature in a short period of time may happen at the same time as the fever seizure. 
Introduction. A febrile seizure is a fit that can happen when a child has a fever. Febrile seizures are also sometimes called febrile convulsions. They are relatively common and, in most cases, aren't serious. Around one in 20 children will have at least one febrile seizure at some point. If your child is having a febrile seizure, place them in the recovery position. Lay them on their side, on a soft surface, with their face turned to one side. This will stop them swallowing any vomit, keep their airway open and help prevent injury.
Febrile seizures are convulsions brought on by a fever in infants or small children. During a febrile seizure, a child often loses consciousness and shakes, moving limbs on both sides of the body. Most febrile seizures occur during the first day of a child's fever. Children prone to febrile seizures are not considered to have epilepsy, since epilepsy is characterized by recurrent seizures that are not triggered by fever.
A febrile convulsion is a seizure that happens with a fever. Many infections in children cause fevers. In some children the fever triggers a convulsion. It is usually related to a fast rise in temperature, not how high the temperature is. Febrile convulsions are also called fever fits, or febrile seizures. 
Approximately one in every 25 children will have at least one febrile seizure. Febrile seizures usually occur in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years, with the risk peaking in the second year of life. The older a child is when the first febrile seizure occurs, the less likely that child is to have more. Febrile seizures are convulsions or seizures in infants or small children that are brought on by a fever. Most often during a febrile seizure, a child loses consciousness and shakes uncontrollably. Less commonly, a child becomes rigid or has twitches in only a portion of the body