Share This: Polyvinylidene Fluoride (PVDF) resin is one of the most stable and pure of all commercial resins. It resists strong acids, solvents, and reducing agents and is used in a number of industries, including electrical and electronic manufacturing, chemical processing, pulp and paper, and transportation. 
Superior resistance properties. Polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) is a fluorocarbon and is classified as “Self Extinguishing, Group 1” by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc. It is unaffected by long-term exposure to sunlight and other sources of ultraviolet radiation. For example, if you need a polymer that will withstand exposure to harsh thermal, chemical, or ultraviolet conditions, porous PVDF offers superior stability similar to the performance of fluoropolymers in these environments. PVDF is the homopolymer of 1, 1-di-fluoro-ethene.
PVDF has excellent chemical and physical properties, even at low temperatures, and has considerable resistance to abrasion. It is resistant to most of the inorganic acids and bases, and to aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons, organic acids, alcohols and halogenated solvents. 
Kynar PVDF Coating. PVDF coating (polyvinylidene fluoride) or Kynar® coating is a pure thermoplastic fluoropolymer that is non-reactive and possesses multiple coating benefits. Kynar PVDF coatings also have a high dielectric strength, excellent resistance to weathering elements in harsh environments. Along with the ability to self extinguish, PVDF generates little smoke in the event of a fire.
What is Kynar ® PVDF resin. For over 50 years, Kynar® polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) resin, a specialty thermoplastic fluoropolymer, has been used in applications that require high strength and purity. An extensive history: Kynar ® PVDF. As a world leader in the production of PVDF, Arkema has worked for over 50 years to develop Kynar ® PVDF resins for advanced applications such as new energies (battery and photovoltaics), lightweighting for the automotive industry and advanced, weatherable coatings.
It is a resin used in architectural coatings that has exceptional weathering characteristics. PVDF stands for polyvinylidene fluoride. It is also known as “Kynar”, or more properly, Kynar 500. Kynar 500 is a registered trade mark of Arkema Inc. North America, Inc. To quote Arkema: “Kynar polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) resin is one of the most stable and pure of all commercial resins. 
Polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), commonly referred to as Kynar®, is a high molecular weight fluorocarbon that has superior abrasion resistance, dielectric properties and mechanical strength. General / chemical grade polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) is a high molecular weight fluorocarbon with superior abrasion resistance, dielectric properties and mechanical strength. It is available from 1/2 to 16.
Confidence votes 21.3K. Polyvinalidene Fluoride: PVDF is a specialty plastic material in the fluoropolymer family; it is used generally in applications requiring the highest purity, strength, and resistance to solvents, acids, bases and heat and low smoke generation during a fire event. 