How long does it take for package to arrive Iraq?   My husband is currently deployed to Iraq and it takes anywhere from 5-7 days for him to get a package. I usually send letters priority or in a priority box to him becaus … e if I dont it can take anywhere from 10-14 days to just get a letter. It should arrive in about 4 days. However, there can be conditions which result in delays, such as weather.   Your best bet is to call the post office and ask.
I think it will take at least 2 weeks from Canada to the US, for it's international shipping. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  5 Holiday Hotel Packages in D.C. 2  The holidays are a great time to see the United States. 3  Hotels often offer special packages and rates that coincide with major holiday seasons. Well. I often order things from amazon and when they are in stock it takes no more than 4 days and usually i get them within 2-3 and when they aren't in stock you will get an … email but usually between 5-10 days.
Different factors affect the delivery times such as: You can generally count on about 2 weeks for your care packages to arrive at your Marine's base station in the Middle East (Iraq, Kuwait, Afghanistan) and Africa, and 1-2 weeks for arrival to the Pacific Region. After the packages arrive in country, they will need to be sorted for delivery to your Marine. Generally the care package will be delivered to that location for your Marine. If your Marine is not at the base camp, s/he will receive the package upon his/her return to the base camp. This could add an additional delay to your packages actually getting
If you send them within the United States, they generally arrive in 2-3 days, although a bigger and heavier package may take an extra day. But if you are in a hurr … y, consider sending the package by Express Mail, which guarantees it to arrive the next day. It costs more, but it's much faster. Well. I often order things from amazon and when they are in stock it takes no more than 4 days and usually i get them within 2-3 and when they aren't in stock you will get an … email but usually between 5-10 days.
Report Abuse. Amazon states that free shipping is 3 to 7 days. But, since you're preordering, that means the product isn't available yet. It cannot ship before the product becomes available. Example: I ordered the Kindle 2 the other day. It's not releasing until February 24th. I didn't want to pay for shipping. I order often from Amazon. The time varies. If you're pre-ordering, that means the product is not in stock and your order will be filled when they get it. Sometimes that can take a while. Yes it usually takes a little longer to ship if you take the free option but in general, Amazon is pretty fast.
How long does it take for package to arrive Iraq?   My husband is currently deployed to Iraq and it takes anywhere from 5-7 days for him to get a package. I usually send letters priority or in a priority box to him becaus … e if I dont it can take anywhere from 10-14 days to just get a letter. Well. I often order things from amazon and when they are in stock it takes no more than 4 days and usually i get them within 2-3 and when they aren't in stock you will get an … email but usually between 5-10 days.
Report Abuse. It depends on what their shipping method is but usually it take 5 - 7 business days for a package to arrive, but that may take longer if there is road construction, bad weather, etc. · 3 years ago. Thumbs up. 2.