DirecTV. DirecTV doesn't really have a cheap HBO deal, though it offers new subscribers three months of the channel for free. After that, it costs as much as the regular service (current best deal is $25 a month for 12 months, which increases to $50/month afterwards) plus $18 a month for HBO. Dish. This price does not expire after a year. If you add Internet, it will cost an additional $40 a month. Comcast (about $50/month; $70/month after 1 year). The Internet Plus package includes Internet access (up to 25 Mbps), a basic channel lineup (about 10 channels, mainly broadcast networks) and HBO.
When you start adding on packages to your DIRECTV bundle, cost is something you have to be wary of. You could end up paying an arm and a leg if you are not careful. We know these channels are a must have and you definitely need to be aware of the cost. With DirecTV, you get access to 10 HBO channels, nine of which are in HD. Plus watch the hottest original shows and movies anywhere. You will also be able to access your programming whererever you are. Whether it is on your TVs at home, your laptop, tablet or cell phone.
Get Playboy TV for only $12.99 per month for the first 3 months. IF AFTER 3 CONSECUTIVE MONTHS CUSTOMER DOES NOT CONTACT DIRECTV TO CHANGE SERVICE, THEN ALL SERVICES TO WHICH CUSTOMER IS SUBSCRIBING WILL AUTOMATICALLY CONTINUE IN THE 4TH MONTH AT THE THEN-PREVAILING RATES (currently $15.99/mo). Experience premium TV like never before. They’re the shows that have everyone buzzing, the movies you wish you’d caught at the theater or can’t wait to see again. You won’t find them on just any channel—they’re only on HBO ® , STARZ ® , SHOWTIME ® , and CINEMAX ® .
On DIRECTV, this channel is considered to be a premium channel and as such, you will not receive it unless you sign up for DIRECTV’s highest package, Premier that allows you to get every single channel. If you just want HBO by itself, then you can pay for it separately. $91.99 per month is the Premier package price. With your subscription, you will also be able to access HBO On Demand and HBO Go at no extra cost. Both of these free services will allow you to access hundreds of movies and TV shows, all through the click of the remote or mouse button. It is like having your own library and you will be able to access when you want.
That way, the more entertainment you get, the more you'll be able to save, and enjoy! By adding HBO ® , STARZ ® , SHOWTIME ® , CINEMAX ® , and ENCORE ® , to your monthly package, you'll be able to save over $18 a month! Take a look at the chart below to see how much you can save on the best premium networks. 
Add HBO to your package for a low monthly fee and save with each additional premium package you order! HBO is broadcast in more than one hundred and fifty countries and is the second largest premium subscription channel in America. You get access to 11 unique channels with original programming, movies and more. Plus, your subscription comes with HBO on Demand and HBO GO at no extra charge! HBO is included with the DIRECTV PREMIER package, or can be added to any other package a la carte. Add several premium movie channels and you'll save money on each one. Call now for limited time offers and free trials of premium networks
DirecTV and Dish, as well as AT&T, seem to be holding the line on HBO pricing, at least for now. DirecTV is running a special promotion offering new HBO subscribers a $50 Visa gift card, provided they sign up by April 15 and keep HBO for at least three months. That might take some of the sting out of the $18-per-month fee DirecTV normally charges for HBO. Judging by a quick survey of cable, satellite, and telephone-company pay-TV services, HBO's upcoming launch of the HBO Now streaming-only service on Apple TV is already having an impact: Many of those service providers are cutting the cost of HBO as part of a TV package.
HBO is a $15 add-on to the $15/month Broadcast Basic package, with the cable box costing an additional $7 per month, for a total of $37. This price does not expire after a year. If you add Internet, it will cost an additional $40 a month. Comcast (about $50/month; $70/month after 1 year). The Internet Plus package includes Internet access (up to 25 Mbps), a basic channel lineup (about 10 channels, mainly broadcast networks) and HBO.
DIRECTV • 4437 answers • 90% helpful. for all 4 premiums: hbo/stz/sho/max it is $45 per month. HBO is $15.99 and all others are $12.99. The more premium channels you have the less expensive each additional one is. Call 1-800-531-5000 to see what specials are available on your account. There are presenty 2for1 sales going on for eligible accounts. 