Treating Raynaud's. You can usually treat Raynaud's phenomenon yourself, although medication is sometimes necessary. If you've been diagnosed with secondary Raynaud’s, you may be referred to a specialist in the treatment of the underlying condition. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In medicine, Raynaud's /reɪˈnoʊz/ Disease or Raynaud phenomenon is excessively reduced blood flow in response to cold or emotional stress, causing discolouration of the fingers, toes, and occasionally other areas. This condition may also cause nails to become brittle with longitudinal ridges. Raynaud's disease, or Primary Raynaud's, is diagnosed if the symptoms are idiopathic, that is, if they occur by themselves and not in association with other diseases. Some refer to Primary Raynaud's disease as being allergic to coldness.
Primary Raynaud’s phenomenon does not lead to tissue damage, so nondrug treatment is used first. Treatment with medicine is more common with secondary Raynaud’s. Severe cases of Raynaud’s can lead to sores or gangrene (tissue death) in the fingers and toes. These cases can be painful and hard to treat. In severe cases that cause skin ulcers and serious tissue damage, surgery may be used.
Secondary Raynaud’s is caused by an underlying disease, condition, or other factor. This type of Raynaud's is often called Raynaud's phenomenon. If you have primary or secondary Raynaud's, cold temperatures or stress can trigger Raynaud's attacks.. During an attack, little or no blood flows to affected body parts. As a result, the skin may turn white and then blue for a short time. Raynaud's sometimes is called a disease, syndrome, or phenomenon. The disorder is marked by brief episodes of vasospasm (VA-so-spazm), which is a narrowing of the blood vessels. Vasospasm of the arteries reduces blood flow to the fingers and toes.
Definition. Raynaud's (ray-NOHZ) disease causes some areas of your body — such as your fingers and toes — to feel numb and cold in response to cold temperatures or stress. In Raynaud's disease, smaller arteries that supply blood to your skin narrow, limiting blood circulation to affected areas (vasospasm). 
1 Primary Raynaud's. 2  Also called Raynaud's disease, this most common form isn't the result of an underlying associated medical condition that could provoke vasospasm. 3  Secondary Raynaud's. 4  Also called Raynaud's phenomenon, this form is caused by an underlying problem. With Raynaud's, arteries to your fingers and toes go into vasospasm when exposed to cold or stress, narrowing your vessels and temporarily limiting blood supply. Over time, these small arteries may thicken slightly, further limiting blood flow.
Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to different parts of your body. Raynaud's sometimes is called a disease, syndrome, or phenomenon. The disorder is marked by brief episodes of vasospasm (VA-so-spazm), which is a narrowing of the blood vessels. Vasospasm of the arteries reduces blood flow to the fingers and toes. In people who have Raynaud's, the disorder usually affects the fingers
(This is sometimes called primary Raynaud's.). Raynaud's is usually a symptom of another disease, such as lupus, scleroderma, rheumatoid arthritis, or atherosclerosis. It may also be caused by taking certain medicines, using vibrating power tools for several years, smoking, or having frostbite.
Raynaud's (say ray-NOHZ) phenomenon is a problem with blood flow. Your body doesn't send enough blood to your hands and feet, so they feel very cold and numb. In most cases, this lasts for a short time when your body overreacts to cold temperatures. Raynaud's is usually a symptom of another disease, such as lupus, scleroderma, rheumatoid arthritis, or atherosclerosis. It may also be caused by taking certain medicines, using vibrating power tools for several years, smoking, or having frostbite.
Raynaud’s phenomenon is a condition where blood flow to your fingers, toes, ears or nose is restricted or interrupted. This occurs when the blood vessels in your hands or feet constrict. Episodes of constriction are called vasospasms. Cold temperatures and emotional stress can trigger episodes of Raynaud’s phenomenon. 