Once you have created your salary key, give the person needing proof of your employment and income the following information: 1  Your Social Security Number. 2  Columbia University Employer Code: 12529. 3  Your salary key. 4  The Work Number web address, http://www.theworknumber.com/ , or the telephone number, 1-800-367-5690. Proof of Employment plus Salary Verification. To release income information, you must first create a unique authorization number, called a salary key, from The Work Number. The salary key is a 6-digit number that expires after 30 days and can only be used once by a verifier. You are not able to access your own salary information; however, if the verifier sees a discrepancy, you should contact The Work Number using the phone number at the bottom of this page
Step 1: Access The Work Number to create a “Salary Key” that grants one-time access to your income data: 1  The Work Number Access Options for Employees: 2  Option a) www.theworknumber.com. 3  Option b) 1-800-367-2884. 
How to Create a Salary Key Some verifiers will request that you create a salary key in order to obtain your income information. Once you have created your one-time use salary key, you will need to provide it to the verifier. After logging into The Work Number, you will be directed to the Main Menu screen.Select the Salary Key tab.Click the New Salary Key button.Your new Salary Key will be added to the list and highlighted. From there you can email, print, or delete it.
Employees authorize release of salary and W-2 information by obtaining a salary key from The Work Number web site provided by TALX Corporation (a third party service provider). Verifiers then use the salary key to access employee's employment and salary information directly from The Work Number web site. Note: For security reasons, you must create a separate salary key for each person / verifier who needs proof of your employment and income.
Here’s how to create a Salary Key: Step 1) Access The Work Number either via the Web or telephone: a) www.theworknumber.com b) 1-800-367-2884 Step 2) Select the Employee option and Login. 
Salary Key – Income Verification Provide the 6-digit number (salary key) in this field to the party requesting your salary information. A separate salary key is required for each party requesting verification. Important to note :The salary key expiresafter 3 days OR when another salary key is created 1/15/2010. 