There is no real place in Australia called Mako Island. It is not a real place as in a named, populated spot on the planet. It has been animated and all the underwater scenes are filmed at Sea World on the Gold Coast. Mako Island is a fictitious place made specifically for the TV shows. The island is a fictional place in the Australian teen show H2O:Just Add Water that aired on Nickolodeon Australia from 2006 to 2010.
Mako Island is a fictional island in the two popular television series' H2O: Just Add Water and Mako Mermaids. It's located approximately 50 km off the Gold Coast. Mako Island was formed by a comet that crashed into the Earth. One of the shards impacted near Ireland (Eire) forming the Sea Caves of Ireland. 
No. Mako Island is not a real place. Mako Island is a fictitious  place, created for the H2O television series and filmed at Sea  World, on The Spit on Queensland's Gold Coa … st in Australia. There  is no actual island there. 1 person found this useful. It has been animated and all the underwater scenes are filmed at Sea World on the Gold Coast. Mako Island is a fictitious place made specifically for the TV shows. The island is a fictional place in the Australian teen show H2O:Just Add Water that aired on Nickolodeon Australia from 2006 to 2010.
There is no real place in Australia called Mako Island. It is not a real place as in a named, populated spot on the planet. It has been animated and all the underwater scene … s are filmed at Sea World on the Gold Coast. Mako Island is a fictitious place made specifically for the TV shows. * There is no real place called Mako Island in Australia. It is a film set on Queensland's Gold Coast.  * There is no Quebec in Australia  * Th … ere are no such things as mermaids.
There is no real place in Australia called Mako Island. It is not a  real place as in a named, populated spot on the planet. It has  been animated and all the underwater s … cenes are filmed at Sea World  on the Gold Coast, which is in southeast Queensland, Austalia. * There is no real place called Mako Island in Australia. It is a film set on Queensland's Gold Coast.  * There is no Quebec in Australia  * Th … ere are no such things as mermaids.
404 pages on this wiki. Mako Island is a fictional island in the H2O: Just Add Water, Mako: Island of Secrets and H2O-Mermaid Adventures series. It is located approximately 50 km off the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. This article is a stub. You can help H2O Just Add Water Wiki by expanding it. History. Mako Island was formed after a comet crashed into the Earth. We know that one of the shards impacted in Ireland forming the Sea Caves of Ireland. So other shards may have landed in other locations creating moon pools wherever they impacted.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There is no real place in Australia called Mako Island. It is not a real place as in a named, populated spot on the planet. It has been animated and all the underwater scenes are filmed at Sea World on the Gold Coast. Mako Island is a fictitious place made specifically for the TV shows. Mako island is a fictional place that they used in H2O and sopposedly became mermaids.there is no place in australia called mako island ,but this is just my opinion you would have to go to australia to check it out yourself.
Mako Island is not a real place. Mako Island is a fictitious place, created for the H2O television series and filmed at Sea World, on The Spit on Queensland's Gold Coas … t. There is no actual island there. * There is no real place called Mako Island in Australia. It is a film set on Queensland's Gold Coast.  * There is no Quebec in Australia  * Th … ere are no such things as mermaids.