The ampulla of Vater, also known as the hepatopancreatic ampulla ,or as hepatopancreatic duct, is formed by the union of the pancreatic duct and the common bile duct. The ampulla is specifically located at the major duodenal papilla. Hepatopancreatic anatomy: The cystic duct leaves the gallbladder and joins with the common hepatic duct to form the common bile duct. This duct subsequently joins with the pancreatic duct; this junction is known as the ampulla of Vater.
Ampulla of Vater is the anatomical landmark that is formed at the junction where the fusion of common bile duct(CBD) and pancreatic duct enter the C-shaped curve of the duodenum i.e the first part of the small intestine. 1 Impacted Calculi in the Ampulla of Vater: Calculi may get stuck at the ampulla of vater, thus obstructing the outflow of digetsive juices into the duodenum. 2  These calculi originate from the gallbladder and may be formed of cholestrol or bile. 3  There is obstruction in the outflow of bile leading to obstructive jaundice.
Ampullae are an important part of the water vascular system of starfish, which is the responsible for the animal's locomotion. The only function of the ampullae is to store the water that enters the vascular system and send it to the minuscule tube feet, located in the ventral side of the starfish's arms. The contraction of the muscles also causes the water stored in the ampullae to move to the tube feet, which are the locomotion organs of the starfish. Nerve cells connected to the ampullae and other parts of the vascular water system control the relaxation and contraction of the ampullae's muscle fibers.
hepatopancreatic ampulla ampulla of Vater; a flasklike cavity in the major duodenal papilla into which the common bile duct and pancreatic duct open. Hepatopancreatic ampulla, receiving the common bile and pancreatic ducts and entering the duodenum at the major duodenal papilla. ampulla of Thoma one of the small terminal expansions of an interlobar artery in the pulp of the spleen. ampulla of uterine tube the thin-walled, almost muscle-free, midregion of the uterine tube; its mucosa is greatly plicated.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ampullae are bulb-shaped structures located above the tube feet of starfish and other echinoderms. Ampullae are an important part of the water vascular system of starfish, which is the responsible for the animal's locomotion. The ampulla on a starfish is part of the water vascular system, and  stores water and sends it to tiny tube feet on the ventral side of  a starfish's arms. This process help … s starfish move, as the water  vascular system is the part of the starfish responsible for  locomotion. JenHee. 4 Contributions.
The ampulla of vater (hapetopancreatic ampulla) is joinig between the bile duct and the main pancreatic duct.   It is located in the abdomen between the pancreas and the … second part of the duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The three semicircular canals (SSCs) within the vestibular organ of each ear contain fluid and hair receptor cells encased inside a fragile membrane called the cupula. The cupula is located in a widened area of each canal called the ampulla.
The ampulla is the second portion of the fallopian tube. It is an intermediate dilated portion, which curves over the ovary. It is the most common site of mouse and human fertilization. The word ampulla is from Latin for flask. 
What is the function of the ampulla? The ampulla on a starfish is part of the water vascular system, and  stores water and sends it to tiny tube feet on the ventral side of  a starfish's arms. This process help … s starfish move, as the water  vascular system is the part of the starfish responsible for  locomotion. JenHee. 4 Contributions.
Ampullae are an important part of the water vascular system of starfish, whi … ch is the responsible for the animal's locomotion. The only function of the ampullae is to store the water that enters the vascular system and send it to the minuscule tube feet, located in the ventral side of the starfish's arms. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The three semicircular canals (SSCs) within the vestibular organ of each ear contain fluid and hair receptor cells encased inside a fragile membrane called the cupula. The cupula is located in a widened area of each canal called the ampulla.