The Missouri Compromise, as the first great Congressional compromise over the slavery issue, was also important as it set a precedent that Congress could regulate slavery in new territories and states. And that very issue would become a very important topic for debate decades later, especially in the 1850s. The Missouri Compromise, in 1820, was a measure hammered out in Congress to find a way to determine whether slavery would be legal in new territories admitted as states to the Union. It was the result of complicated and fiery debates, but once enacted the compromise did seem to reduce tension for a time.
The Missouri Compromise of 1820 admitted Missouri as a slave state,  and Maine as a free state, to keep the balance of slave/non-slave  states equal in Congress. It also est … ablished the 36-30 line, and  said that slavery would not be allowed above that line except for  in Missouri. The Missouri Compromise was an agreement between the North and the  South and passed by Congress in 1820 that allowed Missouri to be  admitted as the 24th state in 1821. One … slave state (Missouri) and  one free state (Maine) were admitted to the Union, maintaining the  balance.
First, Missouri would be admitted to the union as a slave state, but would be balanced by the admission of Maine, a free state, that had long wanted to be separated from Massachusetts. Second, slavery was to be excluded from all new states in the Louisiana Purchase north of the southern boundary of Missouri. In an attempt to keep a legislative balance between the pro-and anti-slavery factions, the Missouri Compromise delineated which states would be free and which would not. African Americans obviously opposed slavery and news of some congressional opposition to its expansion circulated widely within slave communities.
The Compromise of 1850 was basically about the expansion of slavery. Before, the Missouri Compromise had been in effect, which said that all territory North of a border would automatically be free and all the territory South of it would be slave. The slave states were unhappy with that arrangement. 
Introduction. In the years leading up to the Missouri Compromise of 1820, tensions began to rise between pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions within the U.S. Congress and across the country. 
Answer by Collin Bruey. Confidence votes 24. The Missouri Compromise basically gave the pro-slaver states Missouri, and gave the non-slavery states Maine. This Compromise also enacted the 36-30 (36 Degrees North- 30 minutes) which made all states that entered the Union south of that line pro-slavery. The Missouri Compromise of 1820 admitted Missouri as a slave state,  and Maine as a free state, to keep the balance of slave/non-slave  states equal in Congress. It also est … ablished the 36-30 line, and  said that slavery would not be allowed above that line except for  in Missouri
The Compromise consisted of three main provisions: 1  Missouri would be admitted to the Union as a slave state. 2  Maine would be admitted at the same time as a free state in order to maintain the balance between free and slave states. 3  Slavery would be declared illegal north of the 36 o 30' parallel west of Missouri. 1 Maine would be admitted at the same time as a free state in order to maintain the balance between free and slave states. 2
The compromise was agreed to by both the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States Congress and passed as a law in 1820, under the presidency of James Monroe. The Missouri Compromise was effectively repealed by the Kansas–Nebraska Act, submitted to Congress by Stephen A. Douglas in January 1854. 
1 Missouri would be admitted to the Union as a slave state. 2  Maine would be admitted at the same time as a free state in order to maintain the balance between free and slave states. 3  Slavery would be declared illegal north of the 36 o 30' parallel west of Missouri. 1 Maine would be admitted at the same time as a free state in order to maintain the balance between free and slave states. 2