Votes. 0. Edit Answer (for another -17 minute). The average labor cost to install a bathroom sink faucet runs between $140 to $200 to replace. Since you have three to replace it would probably be on the lower end of the scale and also depends on the complexity of the install. If the sink is in a small vanity that makes it hard to get to it may run higher
A plumber will charge $250 to remove an old faucet and replace it with a good quality and stylish new one. That includes the labor and new faucet. You can do it for $145, the cost of the new unit, and save 42 percent. Compare the cost to replace a kitchen faucet yourself with the labor and material cost to hire a plumber for the job.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Faucet! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Faucet Installation project. For a basic 1 faucet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Faucet ranges between $250.76 - $411.17 per faucet. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
1 You can have your bathroom faucets installed for a price ranging from $180 to $335. 2  A kitchen faucet is one of the most important faucets in the house and the price range for this installation is anywhere from $188 to $347 depending on the complexity of the sink and the options and attachments it has. 1 Prices for shower faucet installation is higher than most installation cost since it is a bit more complicated to install. 2  The price range for this type of installation is from $240 to as much as $419. 3  If you have a bath tub at home, a faucet must also be installed for it as well.
Reply. It would take about 1 to 2 hours to remove the old faucet and replace it with a new one if the water shutoff valves are in good condition. Including 30 minutes for driving time and $5 worth of supplies my estimate would be $80 to $130 at $50-hr labor. 
I bought the faucet set and the plumber took 2 hours and charged me $180 for labor and $50 for the parts to make the new faucet set fit. I was flabergasted at thte price. thought it would be about $100. 
The cost of kitchen faucet replacement will be affected by many factors and total expenses primary depend on faucet price and labor cost to complete the work. But calculating total expenses for replacing kitchen faucet some additional aspects should be taken into consideration. 
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Kitchen Faucet! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Kitchen Faucet Installation project. For a basic 1 faucet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Kitchen Faucet ranges between $256.87 - $416.23 per faucet. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
1 A kitchen faucet is one of the most important faucets in the house and the price range for this installation is anywhere from $188 to $347 depending on the complexity of the sink and the options and attachments it has. 2  For example, a sink with a hose attachment will cost more than a sink without one. 1 Prices for shower faucet installation is higher than most installation cost since it is a bit more complicated to install. 2  The price range for this type of installation is from $240 to as much as $419. 3  If you have a bath tub at home, a faucet must also be installed for it as well.