“The average church that makes it 7 years [has a life span of] 80 years.” via George Bullard ] [“… the average life of a church is about the same as that of the average human: 70 years.” Russell Burrill via MinistryMagazine.org ].
(via Chuck Warnock) And it doesn’t matter if the church is organized formally as a church church or informally as a house church aka simple church. Frank Viola commented on the average life span of a house church: “ most churches survive from 6 months to two years.” (via).
The Birth of a Congregation Overview This article explores the ten stages of development in the life cycle and stages of congregational development. The ten stages are grouped into five phases. Phase One: Early Growth, involves the first five to seven years of the life of a congregation.
For example, in Cambodia, after about 22 years of active church planting, church and mission leaders acknowledge most churches in the country (the vast majority use a traditional model) have average attendance somewhere between 15-20. Only a handful of churches have grown larger than 50 in attendance.
[. “The average church that makes it 7 years [has a life span of] 80 years.” via George Bullard ] [“… the average life of a church is about the same as that of the average human: 70 years.” Russell Burrill via MinistryMagazine.org ]. Given time, those young families have children that grow up, and parents that grow old.
Posted in church dialogue and tagged kingdom lifespan size on February 23, 2011. Churches like any kind of organizations have a natural life cycle. An organization starts up enthusiastically with a reason for its existance, gathering resources (people and money) to fulfill a mission.
The Adulthood of a Congregation Overview This article explores the fifth of ten stages of development in the life cycle and stages of congregational development: Adulthood. The ten stages are grouped into five phases. Phase Three: Prime/Plateau involves seven to nine years of the life of a congregation.
1. PricePrice is an important factor since most churches operate on limited budgets. Depending on size and specs, the average price for a new bus is around $125,000 to $175,000 for a full-size bus. That may seem like a lot of money, but consider the cost over 10 years, which is the average lifespan of a church bus.
The researchers estimated that people who attended religious services more than once a week had an average additional life expectancy of 62.9 years at age 20, versus 55.3 years for those who did not attend church at all.