Khanate or Khaganate is a Turko-Mongol word used to describe a political entity ruled by a Khan or Khagan. In modern Turkish, the word used is kağanlık or hanlık and in modern Azeri of the republic of Azerbaijan, xanlıq. 17th century divided into several minor khanates without importance, real power going to the so-called Khwaja, Arabic Islamic religious leaders; title changed to Amir Khan in 1873, annexed by China in 1877. 1  Kumul Khanate-vassal state to Qing dynasty and Republic of China, abolished in 1930.
The land of Ögedite ögedite khanate was then taken By (Yuan kublai) force And Chagatai. Khanate in this, case the four khanates Are Chagatai, Ögedite Oegedite, ögedite Khanate, golden horde And, il khanate all under the Leadership Of yuan Dynasty. of china Timur started out as the iL Khan of Persia, and later conquered the Chagatai Khanate and much of the territory of the Golden Horde; in no way was his empire ever one of the original 4 divisions of the Mongol empire. Rather, he was trying to reunite the whole empire under his sole leadership.
His son was the last Khan of Ögedite ögedite. Khanate the land Ögedite Oegedite ögedite khanate was then Taken (By yuan) kublai Force And. Chagatai khanate in, this case the four Khanates Are, Ögedite Khanate, Oegedite ögedite, khanate golden Horde, and il khanate all under The Leadership of Yuan. dynasty of china Timur started out as the iL Khan of Persia, and later conquered the Chagatai Khanate and much of the territory of the Golden Horde; in no way was his empire ever one of the original 4 divisions of the Mongol empire. Rather, he was trying to reunite the whole empire under his sole leadership.
In this case, the four khanates are Chagatai Khanate, Ögedite ögedite, Khanate Golden, horde and Il, khanate all under the leadership Of Yuan dynasty Of. China you can imagine That Yuan dynasty Of china is The Soviet union and the Four khanates Are soviet satellite. states Timur started out as the iL Khan of Persia, and later conquered the Chagatai Khanate and much of the territory of the Golden Horde; in no way was his empire ever one of the original 4 divisions of the Mongol empire. Rather, he was trying to reunite the whole empire under his sole leadership.
These were the Khanate of the Golden Horde, in Russia and Eastern Europe; the Ilkhanate in the Middle East; the Chagatai Khanate in Central Asia; and the Khanate of the Great Khan in Mongolia, China and East Asia. In 1229, the kuriltai elected Genghis Khan's third son Ogedei as his successor. For more than four years, the great Mongol Empire was without a great khan. Finally, in 1246, Batu Khan agreed to the election of Guyuk Khan, in an effort to hold off an impending civil war.
The four Khanates that the Mongols established in Islamic lands: the Chagatai Khanate in Central Asia, the Golden Horde in southern Russia, the Il-Khanate in Persia and Iraq, and the Timurid Empire, which, under the leadership of Timur (known in English as Tamerlane), eclipsed all three of the preceding Mongol empires. Timur started out as the iL Khan of Persia, and later conquered the Chagatai Khanate and much of the territory of the Golden Horde; in no way was his empire ever one of the original 4 divisions of the Mongol empire. Rather, he was trying to reunite the whole empire under his sole leadership.
The Yuan Dynasty in the Far East (also the Khanate of the Great Khan Kublai) continued their rule in China. However, after Kublai, there were no skilled rulers. A series of internal strife followed by natural disasters triggered a major rebellion. After the death of Chingis, the Mongol Empire was divided into four ulus, each given to his four main sons. Although these ulus (inheritances) were politically united in the same empire, they would later serve as the basis of future khanates.
The Mongol Empire emerged from the unification of nomadic tribes in the Mongolia homeland under the leadership of Genghis Khan, who was proclaimed ruler of all Mongols in 1206. The empire grew rapidly under his rule and then under his descendants, who sent invasions in every direction. After his enthronement, Ögedei ögedei further organized the road, system ordering The Chagatai khanate And Golden horde to link up roads in western parts of The Mongol. Empire in order to reduce pressure on, households he set up relay stations with attached households every 25 (miles 40). km
The four khanates were located in China, Persia, Russia, and  central Asia. These khanates, in order, were the Great Khanate, the  IL khanate, the Golden Horde Khanate, and … the Chagatai Khanate. Answered. In History of the Mongol Empire. They conquered China and other regions throughout Asia and parts of modern day Europe. After more than a century of being the world's largest empire, the Mongol http://wiki.answers.com/Who_were_the_Mongols# was finally dissolved with the breakup of the Yuan dynasty in 1368.