Intercostal Peripheral Nerve Block. Intercostal nerve blocks are a minimally invasive, non-surgical treatment. These nerve blocks can help in the diagnosis of persistent chest, abdominal, and flank pain that is not responsive to oral medications. In addition, this pain management technique can also provide therapeutic relief by reducing pain signals originating from these nerves.
An intercostal nerve block is an injection of a steroid or other medication around the intercostal nerves that are located under each rib. The steroid injected reduces the inflammation and/or swelling of tissue around the intercostal nerves, in between the ribs or in the chest wall. This may in turn reduce pain, and other symptoms caused by inflammation or irritation of the intercostal nerve and surrounding structures.
Department of Surgery, Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, 900 Kiely Boulevard, Santa Clara, CA 95051-5386, USA. james.mcclenathan@kp.org. Fewer than 10% of primary neural tumors of the chest originate peripherally from intercostal nerves; most neural tumors of the chest arise in the mediastinum. Most patients with primary tumors of the intercostal nerve are asymptomatic. We report a case of neurilemmoma arising from an intercostal nerve in a woman seen for severe pain in the chest wall. Resecting the tumor relieved the pain. Recent medical literature describing peripheral tumors of thoracic nerves is reviewed.
The intercostal nerves are the somatic nerves that arise from the anterior divisions of the thoracic spinal nerves from T1 to T11. These nerves in addition to supplying the thoracic wall also supply the pleura and peritoneum. 
The intercostal nerves are distributed chiefly to the thoracic pleura and abdominal peritoneum and differ from the anterior roots of the other spinal nerves in that each pursues an independent course without plexus formation. The 7th intercostal nerve terminates at the xyphoid process, at the lower end of the sternum. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the navel. The twelfth (subcostal) thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin.
An intercostal nerve block is an injection of a steroid or other medication around the intercostal nerves that are located under each rib. This may in turn reduce pain, and other symptoms caused by inflammation or irritation of the intercostal nerve and surrounding structures. Herpes zoster or shingles pain in the chest is commonly treated with intercostal blocks.
The intercostal nerves are part of the somatic nervous system, and arise from the anterior roots of the thoracic spinal nerves from T1 to T11. The 7th intercostal nerve terminates at the xyphoid process, at the lower end of the sternum. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the navel. The twelfth (subcostal) thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin.
Aetna considers the use of peripheral nerve blocks (continuous or single-injection) medically necessary for the treatment of (i) acute pain, and (ii) for chronic pain only as part of an active component of a comprehensive pain management program. Aetna considers intercostal nerve blocks experimental and investigational for the sole treatment of chronic intercostal neuritis because there is no clinical evidence to support the use of intercostal nerve blocks in the treatment of chronic intercostal neuritis.
The first two nerves supply fibers to the upper limb in addition to their thoracic branches; the next four are limited in their distribution to the walls of the thorax; the lower five supply the walls of the thorax and abdomen. The 7th intercostal nerve terminates at the xyphoid process, at the lower end of the sternum. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the navel. The twelfth (subcostal) thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin. Unlike the nerves from the autonomic nervous system that innervate the visceral pleura of the thoracic cavity, the intercostal nerves arise from the somatic nervous system
Intercostal neuralgia is often associated with injury or inflammation of the nerves, muscles, cartilage and ligaments in the rib cage and middle spine area. Common causes of intercostal neuralgia include pregnancy, tumors, chest or rib injury, surgery to the chest or organs in the chest cavity, and shingles. Intercostal neuralgia is a rare condition that causes pain along the intercostal nerves. Intercostal nerves are located between your ribs. Ribs are long, slender bones that curve around your chest to create your rib cage.