Get the answers you need with a confidential, rapid and accurate Hepatitis blood test from Request A Test. Whether you're seeking Hepatitis A testing, Hepatitis B testing, or Hepatitis C testing, we provide a full range of Hepatitis tests, including early detection viral testing. 
For example, false positive anti-HCV tests happen more often in persons such as blood donors who are at low risk for hepatitis C. Therefore, it is important to confirm a positive anti-HCV test with a supplemental test as most false positive anti-HCV tests are reported as negative on supplemental testing. 
Viral hepatitis, such as hepatitis C (HCV), hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis A (HAV), is diagnosed by your symptoms, a physical exam, and blood tests. Someties imaging studies such as a sonogram or CAT scan and a liver biopsy are also used. People this age are five times more likely than others to get the virus, which causes swelling and scarring of the liver. For hepatitis C, the CDC recommends that you have a blood test if any of the following is true: 1  You have received an organ transplant or transfusion in the past.
Hepatitis B (HBV). 6 Weeks; hepatitis B can occasionally be detected as early as 3 weeks after exposure, but for more accurate results we recommend getting tested after 6 weeks. Retesting is not necessary, since Hepatitis B is a virus, and remains in your system for life. Hepatitis C (HCV). 8-9 Weeks
1 A hepatitis C virus test. 2  This is a blood test that looks for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus. 3  It shows whether you have been exposed to the virus. 4  A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minutes. 5  A blood test that looks for the genetic material (RNA) of the hepatitis C virus. 1 This is a blood test that looks for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus. 2  It shows whether you have been exposed to the virus. 3
When your doctor wants to test you for hepatitis C, the first test you will have is the hepatitis C antibody (anti-HCV). If this test is positive, it means you were infected with the hepatitis C virus at some point in the past. But this test alone is not enough. So, the second test that your doctor should request is called hepatitis C virus RNA or HCV RNA test. There are several different tests available to check the HCV RNA. What matters is that if the RNA test is positive, then you do have chronic hepatitis C virus infection.
The incubation period (when a person starts showing symptoms) for Hepatitis B is usually 45-180 days with an average of 60-90 days. There are several tests that we can use to detect Hepatitis B. These include both antigen tests and antibody tests. I will get an HIV antibody test in 6 months, but how soon should I be tested for Hepatitis exposure (either A or B)? This incident scared me--if my Hepatitis test is negative, I'll get the vaccine (I'm a gay man). But I want to make sure any negative result is REALLY negative before getting vaccinated.
The incubation period for Hepatitis C is 2 weeks to 6 months, but most commonly 6-9 weeks. There are tests for Hepatitis C, but they often can't distinguish between recent and previous infection. I will get an HIV antibody test in 6 months, but how soon should I be tested for Hepatitis exposure (either A or B)? This incident scared me--if my Hepatitis test is negative, I'll get the vaccine (I'm a gay man). But I want to make sure any negative result is REALLY negative before getting vaccinated.