You can adjust the visible page area using the Crop Pages tool and the Set Page Boxes dialog box. Cropping pages can help you create consistency within a PDF composed of pages of different sizes. This document provides instructions for Acrobat DC. If you're using Acrobat Reader DC, see What can I do with Adobe Reader.
How to Crop Pages in a PDF Document. Four Methods: Crop Margins Around Page Elements Using Adobe Acrobat X Crop A Single Page or Multiple Pages in Adobe Acrobat X Use the Crop Tool in Adobe Acrobat X to Crop Pages Crop PDFs Using Preview on a Macintosh.
Crop a page with the Crop tool. Note: Cropping does not reduce file size because information is merely hidden, not discarded. Choose Tools Edit PDF. The Edit PDF toolset is displayed in the secondary toolbar. In the secondary toolbar, click Crop Pages.
Drag a rectangle on the page you want to crop. If necessary, drag the corner handles of the cropping rectangle until the page is the size you want. Double-click inside the cropping rectangle. The Set Page Boxes dialog box opens, indicating the margin measurements of the cropping rectangle and the page to be cropped.
1 You can crop an object out of a PDF file using the **Crop Tool** in image editing software, but this tool selects the image you have cropped and discards the rest of the file. 2  It does not remove the cropped section and leave the remainder of the document intact.
Using Adobe Acrobat Professional. With your PDF file open, you can then: 1  Choose Tools Advanced Editing Crop Tool. 2  Drag a rectangle on the page you want to crop. 3  If necessary, drag the corner handles of the cropping rectangle until the page is the size you want.
When you have a PDF composed of pages of different sizes, you may want crop your pages to create a unified look. This article will teach you to use Adobe Acrobat X to crop pages in a PDF document and will also show you how to crop pages using Preview if you have a Mac.
Crop an Adobe PDF Page. Open your Adobe PDF document and make sure the page you're going to crop is displayed in the Document pane. Access the Advanced Editing toolbar by first clicking Tools and then clicking Advanced Editing.. Select Show Advanced Editing Toolbar..