1 Students will be notified by the Office of the Registrar prior to being administratively withdrawn from a course. 2  Administrative withdrawal will take place after the fee refund period. 3  Students who are administratively withdrawn from the course will not be eligible for a tuition refund. In addition, this Administrative Withdrawal Policy is subject to the following provisions: 1  The Administrative Withdrawal Policy must be included in the course syllabus with specific language about the policy (see recommended language below).
Administrative withdrawal will take place after the full refund period, and if you are administratively withdrawn from the course you will not be eligible for a tuition refund. If you have questions about the administrative withdrawal policy at any point during the semester, please contact me. In addition, this Administrative Withdrawal Policy is subject to the following provisions: 1  The Administrative Withdrawal Policy must be included in the course syllabus with specific language about the policy (see recommended language below).
A security clearance is a determination by the United States Government that a person or company is eligible for access to classified information. The term “eligibility for access” means the same thing as security clearance and appears in some Government record systems. The investigation routinely covers no more than the past seven years of a person’s life or a shorter period if the applicant is less than 25 years old. ANACI (Access National Agency Check with Inquiries) An ANACI is an investigation required for a Secret or Confidential clearance for new federal employees.
If an individual has an eligibility of No Determination Made, there is no eligibility, i.e. the individual should be debriefed and no access provided until an eligibility that supports access is entered by a CAF. There are some cases in which SCI eligibility is denied or revoked, but the individual still has Top Secret access. FSOs are not required to remove the collateral access until they are instructed to do so by DSS/PSMO-I, DoD CAF or DOHA.
Eligibility Administratively Withdrawn is usually posted when an individual has no affiliation with an Industry Facility. This determination does not reflect adverse information placed on the subject and/or record. There are some cases in which SCI eligibility is denied or revoked, but the individual still has Top Secret access. FSOs are not required to remove the collateral access until they are instructed to do so by DSS/PSMO-I, DoD CAF or DOHA.
Management: The relationship of a Federal Agency to a withdrawal is generally described as a Holding Agency, Benefiting Agency, or Administrative Agency. For status collection purposes, we enter the Holding Agency code in Record 2 using DE 2929. Holding Agency: All withdrawals have a (Federal) Holding Agency. It is not necessary that a Holding Agency have administrative jurisdiction over the withdrawn land. Benefiting Agency: Withdrawals may be held by one Federal agency for the benefit of another (Federal, State or Local) agency.
A withdrawal from a course or from the institution may be initiated by a student during the first twothirds of the semester or an equivalent period for courses meeting less than a full semester. (See academic calendar for specific dates). 1 Administrative withdrawals after the final date for withdrawal in a term/semester will be recorded as “FA” for any course which has a letter grade option even if the student may have elected P/NC grading. 2  An “FA” grade notation does affect a student’s grade point average as any other F grade does.
Download Presentation. Eligibility Definitions. Download Policy: Content on the Website is provided to you AS IS for your information and personal use and may not be sold / licensed / shared on other websites without getting consent from its author.
When regular access to a prescribed level of classified information is no longer required in the normal course of an individual's duties, the previously authorized access eligibility level must be administratively downgraded or withdrawn, as appropriate. 
When an individual has an eligibility of Loss of Jurisdiction, there is no eligibility, i.e. the individual should be debriefed and no access provided until an eligibility that supports access is entered by a CAF. There are some cases in which SCI eligibility is denied or revoked, but the individual still has Top Secret access. FSOs are not required to remove the collateral access until they are instructed to do so by DSS/PSMO-I, DoD CAF or DOHA.