A fixer upper is real estate requiring refurbishment, remodeling, reconstruction or redesign. The property may need either minor or extensive repairs. Be it a foundation, walls or the roof, a fixer upper often needs considerable work to make it a dwelling comfortable for living. Fixer uppers are usually offered at a price lower than the market rate. This is because the buyer will have to invest time and money to restore the property. Many people who buy fixer uppers hire a professional property inspector to guide them through the process of discerning repairs. The property inspector can educate buyers on the condition of the property, what repairs should be made and the approximate cost of the repairs.
1. fixer-upper-a house or other dwelling in need of repair (usually offered for sale at a low price). dwelling, dwelling house, habitation, home, abode, domicile-housing that someone is living in; he built a modest dwelling near the pond; they raise money to provide homes for the homeless. 1  Facebook. 
In real estate slang, a fixer-upper is a property that will require maintenance work (redecoration, reconstruction or redesign), though it usually can be lived in as it is. 
Noun. 1. fixer-upper-a house or other dwelling in need of repair (usually offered for sale at a low price). dwelling, dwelling house, habitation, home, abode, domicile-housing that someone is living in; he built a modest dwelling near the pond; they raise money to provide homes for the homeless. 1  Facebook
Fixer uppers challenge budgetary skills and fiscal restraint. Defining how much a fixer upper should cost versus a turnkey property in a similar neighborhood is a necessary preliminary in a purchase. Ask the real estate agent you work with about her estimate of the average price per square foot in the neighborhood, and compare it to the asking price of the fixer. Broken windows lead to water damage inside. Real estate specialists might assign to term fixer upper to anything from a cosmetically challenged 1970s ranch featuring flocked wallpaper and mustard shag carpeting, to a ramshackle hovel held up by cobwebs and an errant nail or two.
• FIXER-UPPER (noun). The noun FIXER-UPPER has 1 sense: 1. a house or other dwelling in need of repair (usually offered for sale at a low price). Familiarity information: FIXER-UPPER used as a noun is very rare.
A fixer-upper is a real-estate slang word for a property that will require maintenance work though it usually can be lived in as it is. They are popular with buyers who wish to raise the property's potential value to get a return on investment, a practice known as flipping, or as a starter home for buyers on a budget. fixer-upper (Noun). A house, property, car, or other object that needs to be fixed up or repaired, often purchased as an investment. fixer-upper (Noun). A person who tinkers or fixes things up.