Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. Older eggs are easier to peel than fresh eggs. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!)
Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. I understand a hard boiled egg can be left in the refrigerator for one week, but how long will shelf-life be if you were to peel the boiled egg and then refrigerate it? Is it better to leave the shell on or take it off? Answer: Once eggs are cooked, they should be used within one week.
If the egg is peeled it won't last as long—keep it no more than 3-5 days, and be sure to wrap it well in plastic wrap and/or store it in a heavy duty plastic bag or container with a lid. See our collection of Egg Recipes if you're looking for ways to use up all your hard-cooked eggs. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors.
Hard-boiled eggs, peeled or unpeeled, are still safe to eat up to one week after they were cooked. Keep them stored in the refrigerator, and you should consider writing the boiling date on each egg to know if they're still good! Kitchen Fact Source: Playing It Safe With Eggs from the Food and Drug Administration. 
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time.
Room Temperature. Try not to leave hard-boiled eggs, especially peeled ones, at room temperature for too long. Hard-boiled eggs on a buffet, peeled or unpeeled, should be kept over ice. If you are ever in doubt about an egg's safety, dispose of it. They will last about one week (seven days) in the refrigerator, either peeled or unpeeled. Hard-boiled eggs are ideally kept in their shell until ready to use.
Store in Water. Hard-boiled, peeled eggs may be stored in the fridge, in a bowl of cold water. Make sure the eggs are completely submerged and change the water often--at least daily--to discourage bacterial growth. They will last about one week (seven days) in the refrigerator, either peeled or unpeeled. Hard-boiled eggs are ideally kept in their shell until ready to use.
1 Stored dry and refrigerated, the eggs will keep for about 1 week. 2  Once peeled, they should be used immediately. 3  Keep in mind that, like their raw counterparts, hard-cooked eggs can absorb flavors and odors from foods on neighboring refrigerator shelves. 1 If you've cooked eggs with a week's worth of lunches in mind, leave them in the shell.  2 The shell is the best form of protection a hard-cooked egg has, says American Egg Board spokeswoman Linda Braun. 3 
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. With egg dyeing just around the corner, many may be wondering how long hard-boiled eggs can be kept before they spoil. Generally, hard-boiled eggs can last a week