In the kidney, the loop of Henle (or Henle's loop, nephron loop or its Latin counterpart ansa nephroni) is the portion of a nephron that leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule. The thin descending limb has low permeability to ions and urea, while being highly permeable to water. The loop has a sharp bend in the renal medulla going from descending to ascending thin limb. 1  Thin ascending limb of loop of Henle.
Confidence votes 284. The function of the ascending loop of henle is draw Sodium out of the filtrate. The ability of the ascending loop to actively transport sodium into the surrounding tissue is directly related to the amount of water that can be diffused out of the descending loop of henle. (main factor in water re-absorption). Mixed answer. The descending limb of the Nephron Loop (loop of henle) is not permiable to sodium. It is permiable to Urea that diffuses from the permiable lower end of the col … lecting tubule(CT). All a part of keeping the osmolity of the renal medulla high
Thick ascending limbs of Henle's loop have at least three major roles: (1) They reabsorb sodium chloride which dilutes the urine. 
Nomenclature Edit. Like the ascending limb, the descending limb has thick and thin portions. However, this distinction is not as important physiologically as in the ascending limb, so often the two are treated as one structure. The thick descending limb is less important than the thin descending limb, so often the terms descending limb and thin descending limb are used interchangeably. Some sources simply refer to a thin limb. In this context, the thin ascending limb of loop of Henle would be included
The ascending limb of the loop of Henle is a direct continuation from the descending limb of loop of Henle, and one of the structures in the nephron of the kidney. The ascending limb has a thin and a thick segment. The ascending limb drains urine into the distal convoluted tubule. The thin ascending limb is found in the medulla of the kidney, and the thick ascending limb can be divided into a part that is in the renal medulla and a part that is in the renal cortex. The ascending limb is much thicker than the descending limb
The cortical thick ascending limb drains urine into the distal convoluted tubule. The tissue type of the loop is simple squamous epithelium. The thick and thin terminology does not refer to the size of the lumen, but to the size of the epithelial. The loop is also sometimes called the Nephron loop. The thin descending limb has low permeability to ions and urea, while being highly permeable to water. The loop has a sharp bend in the renal medulla going from descending to ascending thin limb. 1  Thin ascending limb of loop of Henle.
The thin ascending limb is permeable to solutes and the thick ascending limb has a high capability for active salt reabsorption. The loop of Henle and the closely associated vasa recta play a critical role in the mechanism for urinary concentration or dilution. At the junction of the outer and inner medulla the epithelial cells of the ascending limb become cuboidal, the tubule diameter increases and the segment becomes the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop. At this point it is necessary to distinguish between three types of nephrons.
Page 15 of 19. Henle's loop consists of a thin descending limb, a thin ascending limb characterized by a thin flat squamus epithelial cell, and a thick ascending limb with somewhat taller squamous epithelial cells. At the junction of the outer and inner medulla the epithelial cells of the ascending limb become cuboidal, the tubule diameter increases and the segment becomes the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop. At this point it is necessary to distinguish between three types of nephrons.