Dr. Ron Daulton, Jr. Neurogenic pain is pain that is caused by the nervous system, and usually it is the nerves that are being affected. This is also commonly referred to as Neuropathic pain. The reason we are discussing this at this point in our discussion is because this is the major cause of pain for most spinal disc conditions. 
Up to 7% to 8% of the European population is affected, and in 5% of persons it may be severe. Neuropathic pain may result from disorders of the peripheral nervous system or the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord).
Neuropathic pain is a complex, chronic pain state that usually is accompanied by tissue injury. With neuropathic pain, the nerve fibers themselves may be damaged, dysfunctional, or injured. These damaged nerve fibers send incorrect signals to other pain centers. One example of neuropathic pain is called phantom limb syndrome. This rare condition occurs when an arm or a leg has been removed because of illness or injury, but the brain still gets pain messages from the nerves that originally carried impulses from the missing limb. These nerves now misfire and cause pain.
Abstract. Neuropathic pain is a common symptom associated with peripheral neuropathy and can be as or more disabling than the effects of nerve damage from the neuropathy. Though treatment of the underlying pathophysiology causing neuropathies may not be possible, treatment of neuropathic pain is
Symptom Management. Neuropathic pain, or pain caused by the injury to a nerve or nerves, is often difficult to control. Mild pain may sometimes be alleviated by over-the-counter analgesics such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). More chronic and discomforting pain may need to be addressed through the care of a physician
Neuropathic pain is pain caused by damage or disease affecting the somatosensory nervous system. Neuropathic pain may be associated with abnormal sensations called dysesthesia or pain from normally non-painful stimuli (allodynia). It may have continuous and/or episodic (paroxysmal) components. The latter resemble stabbings or electric shocks. Neuropathic pain may result from disorders of the peripheral nervous system or the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord).
Neurogenic pain is defined as pain due to dysfunction of the peripheral or central nervous system, in the absence of nociceptor (nerve terminal) stimulation by trauma or disease. Other terms used to describe some (but not all) forms of neurogenic pain include neuropathic pain, deafferentation pain, and central pain; all these terms are subsumed into the wider expression 'neurogenic pain'.
Neuropathic pain (neuralgia) is a pain that comes from problems with signals from the nerves. There are various causes. It is different to the common type of pain that is due to an injury, burn, pressure, etc. Traditional painkillers such as paracetamol, anti-inflammatories and codeine usually do not help very much. This type of pain is caused by a problem with one or more nerves themselves. The function of the nerve is affected in a way that it sends pain messages to the brain. Neuropathic pain is often described as burning, stabbing, shooting, aching, or like an electric shock.
Neuropathic pain is caused by damage to, or dysfunction of, the nervous system. The pain can be due to problems in the central nervous system (the brain or spinal cord) or the peripheral nervous system (the nerves in the rest of the body — i.e. the nerves in your face, arms, legs and torso). 