As an example of how average payment period is calculated, imagine that a certain company has made a total of $730,000 US Dollars (USD) in credit purchases in a single year. Dividing this amount by the 365 days in a year yields the average credit purchases per day. In this case, that amount comes to $2,000 USD. The average payment period is determined by dividing the accounts payable by the average credit purchases per day. In this case, it would be $60,000 USD divided by $2,000 USD, which yields a quotient of 30. Thus, the company takes an average of 30 days to pay back creditors
For example, if the receivables turnover for one year is 8, then the average collection period would be 45.63 days. If the period considered is instead for 180 days with a receivables turnover of 4.29, then the average collection period would be 41.96 days. The numerator of the average collection period formula shown at the top of the page is 365 days. For many situations, an annual review of the average collection period is considered. However, if the receivables turnover is evaluated for a different time period, then the numerator should reflect this same time period.
DEFINITION of 'Days Payable Outstanding-DPO'. A company's average payable period. Days payable outstanding tells how long it takes a company to pay its invoices from trade creditors, such as suppliers. DPO is typically looked at either quarterly or yearly. The formula to calculate DPO is written as: ending accounts payable / (cost of sales/number of days). 
The average payment period is a measurement of how long a time it takes on average for a business to pay back its creditors. Calculating this requires dividing the amount of credit purchases by the 365 days in a year, and then dividing this amount into the total accounts payable for the year. The average payment period is determined by dividing the accounts payable by the average credit purchases per day. In this case, it would be $60,000 USD divided by $2,000 USD, which yields a quotient of 30. Thus, the company takes an average of 30 days to pay back creditors
If this period will be high, it will create the risk for our liquidity position because some creditor can demand and in long period, we can forget to pay. One month or two month is best time period of our creditors. So, our average payment period should be between 30 to 60 days. We can also use this ratio in cash conversion cycle. Cash conversion cycle ratio is. inventory conversion period + average collection period-average payment period. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Average Collection Period'. For example, suppose that a widget making company, XYZ Corp, has total credit sales of $100,000 during a year (assume 365 days) and has an average amount of accounts receivables is $50,000. Its average collection period is 182.5 days. DEFINITION of 'Average Collection Period'. The approximate amount of time that it takes for a business to receive payments owed, in terms of receivables, from its customers and clients.
= 6 times. Average payment period = 360 days /6 times. 60 days. The average payment period of Metro trading company is 60 days. It means, on average, the company takes 60 days to pay its creditors. When complete information about credit purchases and opening and closing balances of accounts payable is given, the proper method to compute average payment period is to compute accounts payable turnover ratio first and then divide the number of working days in a year by accounts payable turnover ratio.
Simple Interest. The average collection period formula is the number of days in a period divided by the receivables turnover ratio. The numerator of the average collection period formula shown at the top of the page is 365 days. For many situations, an annual review of the average collection period is considered. However, if the receivables turnover is evaluated for a different time period, then the numerator should reflect this same time period.