Definition of sugar: A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in -ose. For example, note the suffix -ose in fructose, glucose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, and maltose. 
Disaccharide is one of the four chemical groupings of carbohydrates (monosaccharide, disaccharide, oligosaccharide, and polysaccharide). The most common types of disaccharides— sucrose, lactose, and maltose —have twelve carbon atoms, with the general formula C 12 H 22 O 11. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A disaccharide or biose is the carbohydrate which is formed when two monosaccharides (simple sugars) undergo a condensation reaction which involves the elimination of a small molecule, such as water, from the functional groups only.
Disaccharides are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed, a process known as dehydration reaction. For example; milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas the sugar from sugar cane and sugar beets (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose. Maltose, another notable disaccharide, is made up of two glucose molecules. The two monosaccharides are bonded via a dehydration reaction (also called a condensation reaction or dehydration synthesis) that leads to the loss of a molecule of water and formation of a glycosidic bond. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A disaccharide or biose is the carbohydrate which is formed when two monosaccharides (simple sugars) undergo a condensation reaction which involves the elimination of a small molecule, such as water, from the functional groups only.
A common disaccharide is lactose, which is found only in milk. Lactose is formed from monosaccharides β -D-galactose and β -D-glucose. The anomeric carbon of the β -D-galactose molecule reacts with the C-4 hydroxyl group of the β -D-glucose molecule to form the glycosidic bond (see Figure 1). Sucrose, or table sugar, is the most common disaccharide. Although the term sugar is commonly used to refer to sucrose, sucrose is only one of a large group of sugars. Disaccharides are carbohydrates containing two monosaccharides linked by a glycosidic bond.
Disaccharides are referred to as double sugars because they are made from a combination of two monosaccharides. Maltose is a disaccharide formed from the linkage of glucose + glucose, sucrose is formed from the linkage of glucose + fructose, and lactose is formed from the linkage of glucose + galactose. Lactose is also referred to as milk sugar because it is found in milk. 
Galactose is a monosaccharide. When combined with glucose (monosaccharide), through a condensation reaction, the result is the disaccharide lactose. The hydrolysis of lactose to glucose and galactose is catalyzed by the enzymes lactase and β-galactosidase. The latter is produced by the lac operon in Escherichia coli. Galactose (galacto- + -ose, milk sugar), sometimes abbreviated Gal, is a monosaccharide sugar that is less sweet than glucose and fructose. It is a C-4 epimer of glucose. Galactan is a polymer of the sugar galactose found in hemicellulose. Galactan can be converted to galactose by hydrolysis
Lactose. Lactose is a disaccharide sugar derived from galactose and glucose that is found in milk. Lactose makes up around 2–8% of milk (by weight), although the amount varies among species and individuals, and milk with a reduced amount of lactose also exists. It is extracted from sweet or sour whey
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. LACTOSE. Lactose is a disaccharide of milk. It is formed by one molecule of Galactose and one molecule of Glucose coupled by a Beta linkage. The formula of Lactose is as follows: 