The average cost to hire a plumber is $284. Professional plumbers must be licensed, and most are also bonded and insured. Some plumbing repairs require permits, which can add to the cost of the project. 
It is very hard to give plumbing costs estimates without all the facts that are to be considered. But if you are doing new installation and needed a figure to work from, the national average is about $4.50 plumbing cost per square foot of the size of your house. If you have the necessary skills to do this work you may save about half of these costs. Remember, t hese are national averages and the costs in your area may be lower or higher. It will give you an idea of what to expect. It is a good idea to always know what the average plumbing cost per hour is in your area. You can find more plumbing cost information on our tips & tricks page.
The average cost per hour for a plumber ranges from $45 to $150 per hour depending on the job, timing and location. Services may include drain cleaning, faucet replacement or installation, and toilet repair. Their duties break out into two categories: plumbers who handle basic repairs (often in emergency situations), and plumbers who specialize in remodeling projects and additions. According to project data from HomeAdvisor members, the average cost to hire a plumber ranges between $169 and $434.
Average Plumbing Costs. The following table summarizes the average plumbing costs for a variety of repairs in the United States. These estimates may differ depending on regions, complexity, hourly rates and costs of materials. It is highly recommended to obtain at least three plumbing quotes from local service professionals for validation. 
1 Plumbers' rates vary significantly by location. 2  In some areas plumbers charge $45 -$75 an hour; in other regions the hourly rate can be $75 -$150. 3  Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 1 Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 2  Either away, exact costs will depend on the complexity and type of work done.
After careful review of your plumbing costs estimator project where you Hire a contractor, do None of the work yourself and use Average cost materials, we estimate the cost will be between $10,500 and $12,100. We also estimate the payback (the amount your home will appreciate by doing the remodel) will be $800. For an initial budget you can use industry cost averages – like $20,000 for a kitchen remodel or $10,000 for a bathroom remodel, but no one lives in an average house in an average city! Another common method is to create an estimate using a cost per square foot method.
1 In some areas plumbers charge $45 -$75 an hour; in other regions the hourly rate can be $75 -$150. 2  Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 3  Either away, exact costs will depend on the complexity and type of work done. 1 Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 2
1 For example, it can cost $50 -$200 to have a plumber repair a toilet by replacing the tank mechanism, wax ring (underneath the toilet) or flange (under the wax ring). 2  Replacing a toilet typically costs $150-$600 for standard installation of a basic toilet. 1 Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 2  Either away, exact costs will depend on the complexity and type of work done.
Continue Reading. The cost of a plumber ranges from $160 to $430 for a typical job with the average cost per hour ranging from $45 to $150. This can include jobs like repairing faucets, toilets, sinks or bathtubs. Some plumbers may also charge a flat rate depending on the job. Plumbing Cost Guides. Rarely does somebody set out to upgrade their plumbing. The pipes transporting fresh water to your home and waste water from your home tend to do their jobs with the kind of anonymity reserved for theatrical stage hands.