Report Abuse. no i would not give her almond milk because 1- they aren't supposed to have regular cows milk until 1 year because thats when their digestive systems can handle it and 2- almond is a nut and with how severe nut allergies are, I wouldn't introduce any type of nut until the DR okay's it around 18 months. Report Abuse. I would wait until a year old to introduce any kind of milk. You should tlak to her pediatrician about this. Babies digestive tract is very sensitive at this point, and I'm not sure it would be wise. I don't know much about almond milk though, so don't quote me.
Other Mom’s prefer to give their child soy milk and soy products. Cow’s milk is the most readily available source of milk, but with a little investigation you can find other substitutes you are happy giving to your child. If you are worried about transitioning your baby to milk of any kind speak to a nutritionist. Before your child’s first birthday, the nutrients they receive from formula or breast milk is the exact kind and amount to remain healthy. 1  Wait until they are 2 years old. 2  Nuts are among the most common allergy causing foods. 3  Almond milk is not sufficient nourishment for a growing child.
So to give him almond milk means he's not getting breastmilk (which would be great for supplying the proper fats) or whole cows milk. You can allow him to taste it but do not rely on it, he needs fat until 2 years, almond milk does not supply what he needs so do no substitute it. Almond milk doesn't have the fat he needs for brain development, so make sure he is getting full fat dairy elsewhere-cheese, yogurt, etc. Almond breeze is my favorite-just give him the original kind, too much added sugar in the vanilla.
- I would not give him almond milk full time, only when he is not drinking enough fluids. He LOVES almond milk even more then juice! - He was breast fed until he was 9 months, he also drinks whole milk (maybe once a day) Apple juice once in a while, and mainly drinks Enfamil Stage 2 toddler formula. Almond milk doesn't have the fat he needs for brain development, so make sure he is getting full fat dairy elsewhere-cheese, yogurt, etc. Almond breeze is my favorite-just give him the original kind, too much added sugar in the vanilla.
I'd like to start giving my 9 months old baby a little bit of almond milk (in her oatmeal or as a little snack mixed with banana). I am still breastfeeding her. My mom drank cows milk when she got home from the hospital.Not suggesting this at all but just pointing out rules change. I recommend asking someone who already gives there child almond milk before the age of 2. If you have any inclination that your child might have a nut allergy, then I would not.
A lactose intolerance is where a person has a problem digesting lactose which is the sugar in milk. 1  An allergy to the protein in milk will have a child developing symptoms from even a small amount of milk. 2  An intolerance to the sugar in milk may mean a child can still comfortably consume small amounts. Before your child’s first birthday, the nutrients they receive from formula or breast milk is the exact kind and amount to remain healthy. 1  Wait until they are 2 years old. 2  Nuts are among the most common allergy causing foods. 3  Almond milk is not sufficient nourishment for a growing child.
He LOVES almond milk even more then juice! - He was breast fed until he was 9 months, he also drinks whole milk (maybe once a day) Apple juice once in a while, and mainly drinks... show more-He Just turned one-He is healthy-I would not give him almond milk full time, only when he is not drinking enough fluids. Almond milk doesn't have the fat he needs for brain development, so make sure he is getting full fat dairy elsewhere-cheese, yogurt, etc. Almond breeze is my favorite-just give him the original kind, too much added sugar in the vanilla.
Almond milk is easy to store and can be stored on the shelf until its opened, then it should be stored in the refrigerator. Almond Milk As A Regular Milk Substitute. If your child does not like the taste of milk, if they have a dairy allergy, or if your family is vegan, almond milk can be substituted for milk. You will need to be sure to have a diet plan which includes enough good fats, vitamins and nutrients which would otherwise come from traditional full fat milk. Before your child’s first birthday, the nutrients they receive from formula or breast milk is the exact kind and amount to remain healthy. 1  Wait until they are 2 years old. 2  Nuts are among the most common allergy causing foods. 3  Almond milk is not sufficient nourishment for a growing child.