A graphic of the Yellowstone caldera. Smith and Siegel. The recent swarm of earthquakes noted at Yellowstone National Park were most likely caused by shifts in tectonic plates, not pressures in the magma chamber beneath the park, according to geologists. Earthquake swarms are relatively common in Yellowstone. The swarm events are likely the result of slip on pre-existing faults and are called tectonic earthquakes and are not thought to be caused by underground movement of magma, the observatory staff noted.
Mantle plumes, as these jets are called, are thought to be titanic pillars of hot molten rock that penetrate overlying material like a blowtorch. As the tectonic plates that make up Earth's surface drift over the plumes, lines of volcanoes are born. The fact the subduction zone is essentially severing the Yellowstone mantle plume hints that Yellowstone will wither on the very long term, something on the scale of a million years, Kincaid said. However, this does not mean the dangers the Yellowstone supervolcano might pose are over.
Data reveal a mantle plume—a column of magma that is rising from deep within Earth’s interior through the North American Plate to create the active volcanism at Yellowstone. This video is available in both English and Spanish audio, along with corresponding closed captions. In this video excerpt from NOVA: “Deadliest Volcanoes,” learn why the Yellowstone supervolcano is located in the middle of the North American Plate instead of along a plate boundary, where most volcanoes form. Data reveal a mantle plume—a column of magma that is rising from deep within Earth’s interior through the North American Plate to create the active volcanism at Yellowstone. This video is available in both English and Spanish audio, along with corresponding closed captions. Visit the program page here.
The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera and supervolcano located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming. 
Caldera at Yellowstone Park, USGS. Caldera at Yellowstone. The caldera at Yellowstone Park is the site of a great supervolcano. It is oval shaped depression in the ground 34-miles by 45-miles. The caldera formed when pyroclastic material exploded out of the volcano's partly emptying the magma chamber causing the roof to collapse. Shield Volcanoes The Hawaiian shield volcanoes are the largest volcanoes on Earth. Super Volcanoes Super volcanoes produce enormous amounts of ash and pyroclastic material during an eruption. Yellowstone Caldera Yellowstone is a super volcano that has erupted numerous times in the past.
The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera in Yellowstone National Park and is the reason Yellowstone has all the geysers, hot springs, and fumaroles. The caldera is located in the northwest corner of Wyoming, in which the vast majority of the park is contained. After a BBC television science program (Horizon) coined the term super volcano in 2000, it has often been called the Yellowstone Super Volcano. Yellowstone National Park and the area immediately west of the Park is historically among the most seismically active areas in the Rocky Mountains.
A volcano is an opening in the earth's crust that allows molten rock from the mantle to flow out onto the surface as lava. Volcanoes also emit vast amounts of gas, primarily carbon dioxide, water vapor and sulfur dioxide. 