Medical Definition of SPECTROPHOTOMETER. : a photometer for measuring the relative intensities of the light in different parts of a spectrum. — spec·tro·pho·to·met·ric \-trə-ˌfōt-ə-ˈme-trik\ adjective. — spec·tro·pho·to·met·ri·cal·ly \-tri-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. 
A spectrophotometer is an instrument which is used to measure the intensity of electromagnetic radiation at different wavelengths. Important features of spectrophotometers are spectral band with and the range of absorption or reflectance measurement. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a spectrophotometer is an instrument used to measure the intensity of wavelengths in a spectrum of light. An example of spectrophotometer is how an ink manufacturer would figure out how much of one color is present in an ink. 
Noun. 1. spectrophotometer-a photometer for comparing two light radiations wavelength by wavelength. photometer-measuring instrument for measuring the luminous intensity of a source by comparing it (visually or photoelectrically) with a standard source.
An example of an experiment in which spectrophotometry is used is the determination of the equilibrium constant of a solution. A certain chemical reaction within a solution may occur in a forward and reverse direction where reactants form products and products break down into reactants. It is more specific than the general term electromagnetic spectroscopy in that spectrophotometry deals with visible light, near-ultraviolet, and near-infrared, but does not cover time-resolved spectroscopic techniques.
spectrophotometer. An instrument for measuring the relative intensities of the spectrum, wavelength by wavelength. Specifically it measures the spectral transmission factor (i.e. the ratio of radiant flux transmitted through a medium to that incident on it) of a medium for a given wavelength. spectrophotometer. an apparatus for determining the ability of a solution to absorb light of a specific wavelength by measuring the transmitted light.
Medical Definition of SPECTROMETER. 1. : an instrument used for measuring wavelengths of light spectra. 2. — spec·tro·met·ric \ˌspek-trə-ˈme-trik\ adjective. — spec·trom·e·try \spek-ˈtrae-ˈträ-mə\ trē. Noun see spectrometer defined for. kids 
In chemistry, spectrophotometry is the quantitative measurement of the reflection or transmission properties of a material as a function of wavelength. It is more specific than the general term electromagnetic spectroscopy in that spectrophotometry deals with visible light, near-ultraviolet, and near-infrared, but does not cover time-resolved spectroscopic techniques.
Spectrophotometer. instrument used to determine the intensity of light of a wavelength transmitted by a solution. Provides measuring the amount of material in the solution. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page.
In physics, a spectrometer is an apparatus to measure a spectrum. Generally, a spectrum is a graph that shows intensity as a function of wavelength, of frequency, of energy, of momentum, or of mass. 