3. Measure the distance from the top of the range to the bottom of the cabinets or the ceiling above the range. Install hood vents at least 18 inches above an electric range and 20 inches above a gas range. Choose a hood vent with a height that will not place it lower than recommended. 1. Measure the width of your range with a tape measure. Ideally, a hood vent is as wide or wider than your range. Hood vents are generally 30, 36 or 42 inches wide.
The minimum distance recommended between the stove top and the range hood is 18” – 20” and the maximum distance recommended is 30”. If you decide to place the range hood farther away from the stove top than 30”, it will not work as well. Note the measurement from your stove top to the bottom of the closest cabinet or to the ceiling. A bigger range hood is always better if it can fit in your space. Also note that 24” range hoods are designed to fit into a 24” space (they are not manufactured to be exactly 24” wide).
Re: Microwave/range hood distance to range top. SECTION M1901. RANGES AND OVENS. M1901.1 Clearances. Freestanding or built-in ranges shall have a vertical clearance above the cooking top of not less than 30 inches (762 mm) to unprotected combustible material. Reduced clearances are permitted in accordance with the listing and labeling of the range hoods or appliances. M1901.2 Cooking appliances. Posts: 34,403. Re: Microwave/range hood distance to range top. Having installed many of them according to the book for Sears .I recall it as 18 inches from bottom of micro hood to stove top.
We only have 23 inches(23-1/2 at most) and the specs for many range hoods require a minimum height which is more than this. For eg, Kobe hoods requires the min height from the stove top to the bottom of the hood to be 27 and the max height to be 30. Our gas range expects the min height to be 24. Is it acceptable to have +/- an inch or so if the range hood also say expects a min ht of 24?
There isn't really a standard size for a stove and refrigerator. Sizes of most stoves that you can find at your basic appliance store range from: 35 to 36 tall, 19 to … 40 wide, and 24 to 26 deep. For refrigerators: 55 to 69 tall, 24 to 36 wide, and 26 to 33 deep. What does the distance have to be between the stove top and the stove hood? 40 - 42 inches. Less than 40 inches you could bang your head on it, if you're tall. More than 42 inches it'll be less effective. Range tops are usually set at 34 - 36 inches s … o overall height to the hood is 6' 2 to 6' 6
Determining Range Hood Coverage. At a minimum, the range hood width should extend to the width of the cooktop, and cover 100% of the back burners and 50% of the front burners. Range hoods can be wider and deeper, and in some places it is code to have the width of the hood extend 6 greater than the cooking surface. 
Each hood has its own recommended installation height range, anywhere from 18 to 30 inches above the cooktop. Installing the hood at the lower end of the range increases its effectiveness, but can also limit working space for tall pots, and it may look awkward at eye level, or be low enough to bump your head. The best height for your range hood depends on more than one factor. The closer the range hood is to the cooktop, the more effectively it can remove grease and smoke from your kitchen. But if it is too close, it poses a fire hazard, since grease trapped in the filter is highly flammable
Deborah Butler, Brickwood Builders. The specifications/installation instructions for the range generally will indicate what the manufacturer thinks is the best distance from the range to the bottom of the range hood. 24 would generally be considered too low over a gas range. 