Senna is an herb. The leaves and the fruit of the plant are used to make medicine. Senna is an FDA-approved nonprescription laxative. It is used to treat constipation and also to clear the bowel before diagnostic tests such as colonoscopy. Senna is also used for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), hemorrhoids, and weight loss. 1 Constipation. 2  Taking senna by mouth is effective for short-term treatment of constipation. 3  Senna is an FDA-approved nonprescription drug for adults and children ages 2 years and older. 4  However, in children ages 3-15 years, mineral oil and a medication called lactulose might be more effective than taking senna.
Before heading to the laxative aisle at your local pharmacy to self-treat constipation, it’s important to be informed. With the many varieties and types of laxatives and therapies available, choosing the best one for your body’s needs, while avoiding those that are too aggressive, requires knowledge and understanding. 
Senna is a laxative. Some laxatives can decrease potassium in the body. Water pills can also decrease potassium in the body. Taking senna along with water pills might decrease potassium in the body too much. Taking senna along with certain birth control pills might decrease their effectiveness. Senna is a type of laxative called a stimulant laxative. Stimulant laxatives can decrease potassium levels in the body. Low potassium levels can increase the risk of side effects of digoxin (Lanoxin). Some pills used for hormone replacement therapy contain the chemical estrone
Senna can work as a laxative. In some people, senna can cause diarrhea. Diarrhea can increase the effects of warfarin and increase the risk of bleeding. If you take warfarin, do not take excessive amounts of senna. Taking senna along with certain birth control pills might decrease their effectiveness. Senna is a type of laxative called a stimulant laxative. Stimulant laxatives can decrease potassium levels in the body. Low potassium levels can increase the risk of side effects of digoxin (Lanoxin). Some pills used for hormone replacement therapy contain the chemical estrone
1 Taking senna by mouth is effective for short-term treatment of constipation. 2  Senna is an FDA-approved nonprescription drug for adults and children ages 2 years and older. 3  However, in children ages 3-15 years, mineral oil and a medication called lactulose might be more effective than taking senna. 1 Constipation. 2  Taking senna by mouth is effective for short-term treatment of constipation. 3  Senna is an FDA-approved nonprescription drug for adults and children ages 2 years and older. 4  However, in children ages 3-15 years, mineral oil and a medication called lactulose might be more effective than taking senna.
Uses. Sennosides are used to treat constipation. They may also be used to clean out the intestines before a bowel examination/surgery. Sennosides are known as stimulant laxatives. They work by keeping water in the intestines, which causes movement of the intestines. Do not increase your dose or take this drug more often than directed. Do not take this medication for more than 7 days unless directed by your doctor. Serious side effects may occur with overuse of this medication (see also Side Effects section). It may take 6 to 12 hours before this medication causes a bowel movement.
The intestines can quickly grow dependent on stimulant laxatives to trigger a “false” bowel movement, thus preventing normal intestinal contractions. This condition, known as “lazy bowel syndrome,” ultimately results in a long-term battle with chronic constipation and the loss of bowel muscle tone and strength. 