A nubuck shoe. Nubuck (pronounced /ˈnjuːbʌk/) is top-grain cattle leather that has been sanded or buffed on the grain side, or outside, to give a slight nap of short protein fibers, producing a velvet-like surface. It is resistant to wear, and may be white or coloured. Nubuck is similar to suede, but is created from the outer side of a hide, giving it more strength and thickness and a fine grain. It is generally more expensive than suede, and must be coloured or dyed heavily to cover up the sanding and stamping process. Nubuck characteristics are similar to aniline leather
Nubuck. Nubuck is a leather product that is made from cow hide. There are many types of products made from Nubuck available in the market though shoes are the most common products made from this type of leather. This leather is made from the outer side of the skin of the cattle and is considered tough and durable. Nubuck and suede are words often encountered by people when looking for leather products in the market. In fact, shoes made of suede are quite popular among people. These people become confused when they find different products looking similar to suede but referred to as Nubuck.
Nubuck is top-grain cattle leather that has been sanded or buffed on the grain side, or outside, to give a slight nap of short protein fibers, producing a velvet-like surface. It is resistant to wear, and may be white or coloured. Nubuck is similar to suede. A type of brushed leather, similar to suede. Differs from suede in that while suede is created from the flesh (inner) side of a hide, nubuck is created using the grain (outer) side, giving it added strength and durability.
Best Answer: They both are Leather just different processes or treatments; Nubuck-Leather that is buffed on the grain (hair) side of the grain to produce a velvety fine nap. Suede-The flesh side (underside) of the leather is buffed to produce a nap. Slainte(slainté to your). Health(source): s 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: nubuck (Noun). A type of brushed leather, similar to suede. Differs from suede in that while suede is created from the flesh (inner) side of a hide, nubuck is created using the grain (outer) side, giving it added strength and durability.
Top 10 facts about the world. Nubuck is a type of leather with a soft, velvety surface and is some of the most expensive leather to purchase. Unlike the less expensive suede, this type of leather is far more durable and is excellent for use on items like furniture because it will last much longer than suede. Post 3. Nubuck leather can be dyed like any other leather. Simply brush the leather lightly with a suede brush after the dye has dried. As stated elsewhere on the website, do not use shoe polish on it later as the wax in the polish will flatten the leather's nap and you'll lose it's soft feel.
Special care needs to be taken for both Suede & Nubuck. There is not much visible difference between the two. Suede leather has been sanded on the inner layer of the skin, while Nubuck is sanded on the outer or exterior skin of the animal, since the outside layer of a skin is tougher Nubuck tends to be more durable. 
How to Clean Nubuck. One Methods: Rubbing/sanding out very tough stains. Nubuck is a type of leather made from cowhide. Like suede, it is sanded to create a nap. But while suede is made from the inside of the hide, nubuck is made from the outside, which is stronger and more durable. It is very vulnerable to soiling and staining, and must be cleaned and protected with tools and products that are specifically designed to care for suede and nubuck. 4. Clean a large soiled area by coating it with a spray-on nubuck cleaning solution, then wiping the area with a nubuck cloth. After the soil is removed and the nubuck has dried, used the nubuck cloth or napping brush to lift the nap.
The difference is in the manufacturing process: Nubuck is created by a process of brushing/sanding the outside of leather to roughen the surface; Suede on the other hand, is where the inside of the leather is brushed/sanded. The result of which is that Nubuck is tougher and more resilient to stains and scuffs. 