You don't need lots of water to make concrete strong. The addition of water to a 5 inch or higher slump just makes it easier to pour. Six Bag or 4,000 PSI Mix. You must have enough cement in each cubic yard to make sure it is strong. For concrete exposed to freezing temperatures you want a minimum of six bags (564 lbs.) of cement per cubic yard or a design strength of 4,000 pounds per square inch. Air Bubbles. Special chemicals can be added to concrete as it is mixed. The cement in concrete is the glue that holds everything together. The more water you add when you mix, the weaker the concrete will be for a given amount of cement. Think of cement as sugar in iced tea. If you add just a little sugar the sweetness level is weak.
Simply put --- the greater the cement content in the mix = the stronger the concrete.To give you an example of how important this fact is -- most enineers and architects stipulate on their drawings that NO FLY ASH OR SLAG can be used in a mix for foundations or high rise structures, buildings, freeways, etc.. 
How Concrete is Made. In its simplest form, concrete is a mixture of paste and aggregates, or rocks. The paste, composed of portland cement and water, coats the surface of the fine (small) and coarse (larger) aggregates. The quality of the paste determines the character of the concrete. The strength of the paste, in turn, depends on the ratio of water to cement. The water-cement ratio is the weight of the mixing water divided by the weight of the cement.
How to Make Concrete Even Stronger. Standard concrete mixes are useful in most applications, but for some applications, you may want to increase the strength of the concrete. Here are steps to increase the strength of concrete. Adjust the mixture you are using if you are mixing your own concrete. An example would be to use more portland cement and less sand for a home made concrete mix. Large aggregate like gravel and crushed limestone do not affect the strength of concrete as much as the cement to sand ratio. 1  4 Edit step.
This results in a C20-rated concrete mix, which means the concrete will be of medium strength. Concrete is rated on a system that indicates the strength of the mix after it’s cured for approximately a month. To make the concrete stronger, add more cement or less sand. The closer you bring the ratio to an even one-to-one of sand to cement, the stronger the rating becomes. This principles works in the opposite direction as well. 
1. Understand the two factors determining the strength of concrete when used in building: 1  Compressive strength is obtained by design, using the cement to aggregate ratio as a base, then adding admixtures for increased strength. Adjust the mixture you are using if you are mixing your own concrete. An example would be to use more portland cement and less sand for a home made concrete mix. Large aggregate like gravel and crushed limestone do not affect the strength of concrete as much as the cement to sand ratio. 1  4 Edit step.
Concrete is a composite material composed of aggregate bonded together with a fluid cement which hardens over time. Most use of the term concrete refers to Portland cement concrete or to concretes made with other hydraulic cements, such as ciment fondu. However, road surfaces are also a type of concrete, asphaltic concrete, where the cement material is bitumen. 
Concrete is a type of artificial stone made by mixing dry aggregate (sand or gravel) and cement, then adding water. This makes a soft mix that can be molded easily or transported in a rotating concrete mixer. Different types of concrete can be made by varying the basic ingredients. Concrete owes its strength to the way in which water and cement combine chemically and bind together the particles of aggregate into a very dense mass. Allowing concrete to dry slowly means the concrete stays moist for longer so the chemical reaction is more effective.