Gum arabic is a complex mixture of glycoproteins and polysaccharides. It is the original source of the sugars arabinose and ribose, both of which were first discovered and isolated from it, and are named after it. Gum arabic is used primarily in the food industry as a stabilizer. It is edible and has E number E414.
Greg. SUSIE'S REPLY: Hi Greg! Gum arabic is a water soluble binder made from the sap of the acacia trees. It's most commonly used in the manufacturing of artist's quality watercolor and gouache paints as well as pastels. As a binder it helps the watercolor pigments stick to the watercolor paper. 
Acacia gum. Gum arabic, also known as acacia gum, chaar gund, char goond, or meska, is a natural gum made of the hardened sap of two species of the acacia tree; Senegalia (Acacia) senegal and Vachellia (Acacia) seyal. It is the original source of the sugars arabinose and ribose, both of which were first discovered and isolated from it, and are named after it. Gum arabic is used primarily in the food industry as a stabilizer. It is edible and has E number E414.
Gum Arabic is a natural gum produced from the sap of the acacia tree located in the regions of the African Sahel including Senegal, Sudan, Somalia, India and Pakistan. It is mainly used as a stabilising agent emulsifier, which means that it can bind together ingredients that would normally fall apart. 
The product we’re exited about at the moment is Gum Arabic. Gum Arabic for sugarcraft use. Gum arabic, also known as gum acacia, chaar gund, char goond, meska or E414, is harvested from two types of wild Acacia trees found in the African Sahel from Senegal/Sudan to Somalia. Gum Arabic glue /glaze. Mix Gum Arabic powder with warm water (10ml/2tsp of Gum Arabic with 60ml/2fl oz of water) to create an edible glue for sticking sugar pieces together. It can also be used as varnish for marzipan or sugarpaste.
Definition: Gum arabic is a binder made from acacia trees. It's most commonly used in the manufacture of artist's quality watercolour and gouache paints as well as pastels. Mature acacia trees exude the gum from incisions made in their bark. This dries into hard, translucent balls, which are collected and ground into a fine powder. The lighter the color of the gum arabic, the better the quality. To use it, gum arabic is dissolved in water, using two parts water to one part gum arabic. Adding extra gum arabic to watercolor increases the body and gloss of the paint, but you must be careful not to add too much as the paint may become brittle and may flake off.
A. Gum arabic is the binder in which the pigments are dispersed to make the watercolor paints, so its use in the course of making a painting is akin to using an oil painting medium containing linseed oil with oil paints. 
While gum arabic is now produced mostly throughout the African Sahel, it is still harvested and used in the Middle East. For example, Arab populations use the natural gum to make a chilled, sweetened, and flavored gelato-like dessert. It is the original source of the sugars arabinose and ribose, both of which were first discovered and isolated from it, and are named after it. Gum arabic is used primarily in the food industry as a stabilizer. It is edible and has E number E414.
Gum arabic, the binder used in traditional watercolors and gouache, is a natural gum derived from the acacia tree of sub-Saharan Africa. It is completely non-toxic as well as edible, and its major use is in the food and cosmetics industries. 