Share means you are sharing this photo, video, etc. with everyone you are friends with or with a custom group. Public means just that. Anyone in the world who is searching for something like that has access to that through your share, What power! Jorge · 1 year ago. for instance, if I find a YouTube video I like and want to put on my Facebook, if I put it on my profile page do I have to press share so my friends can see it also, or once its on my Facebook profile page my friends will see it and I don't have to click on share, help...
You can share stories from the top of your Timeline or your News Feed. To create a new post: 1  Pick what type of story you want to share (ex: Status, Photo/Video, Life Event). 2  Type in any details you want to add. 3  You can also: You can include a message next to your link if you like. Be sure to set privacy before you post, then click Post. While you're browsing the web, you may also see opportunities to post links back to Facebook. Clicking a Like or Recommend button on another website can create a story for you on Facebook.
Facebook is a SOCIAL network. Social means interactive. Everything you post on Facebook can possibly evoke a response from your friends. And if, after sharing something, you don't think your post is funny, or smart, or relevant, or interesting -- you can delete it. Here's what not to post on Facebook. 1.
When browsing Facebook, the Like button appears next to many items. You can even like external pages or Facebook fan pages. The Facebook Like button is a feature that allows you to show approval or connect with another person or affiliation on Facebook. When you click Like on an external page not affiliated with Facebook (when available), a synopsis of the page appears in your Facebook news feed and allows any of your friends to see it. This makes it possible to share news stories and other updates off of Facebook with your Facebook friends.
Liking Content Off of Facebook. Another way to use the Like button is on external websites that support it. When you click Like on an external page not affiliated with Facebook (when available), a synopsis of the page appears in your Facebook news feed and allows any of your friends to see it. This makes it possible to share news stories and other updates off of Facebook with your Facebook friends.
The Like button appears next to photos or content posted by Facebook friends. When you click the Like button, it notifies the friend who posted the content or any individuals tagged in the content that you like it. Using the Like button is simpler than leaving a comment, yet creates social interaction. When you click Like on an external page not affiliated with Facebook (when available), a synopsis of the page appears in your Facebook news feed and allows any of your friends to see it. This makes it possible to share news stories and other updates off of Facebook with your
Also when you comment on other people’s public posts, your comment is public as well. Posts on Facebook Pages or public groups: Facebook Pages and public groups are public spaces. Anyone who can see the Page or group can see your post or comment. Generally, when you post or comment on a Page or to a public group, a story can be published in News Feed as well as other places on or off Facebook.
You can post a new status from the top of your Timeline or your News Feed. To post a status update: 1  Type your update in the share menu on your Timeline or at the top of News Feed. You can include a message next to your link if you like. Be sure to set privacy before you post, then click Post. While you're browsing the web, you may also see opportunities to post links back to Facebook. Clicking a Like or Recommend button on another website can create a story for you on Facebook.
To share a link, enter the URL into the share menu at the top of your Timeline or homepage. You can include a message next to your link if you like. Be sure to set privacy before you post, then click Post. While you're browsing the web, you may also see opportunities to post links back to Facebook. Clicking a Like or Recommend button on another website can create a story for you on Facebook.
Best Answer: if u hit the share button on youtube to share ur favorite video once u hit it u click facebook (if that's what u want) u type in ur facebook email and pass an then it will be on ur profile and on the homepage (the page when u first log-in to facebook). Source(s): Dance! · 5 years ago. for instance, if I find a YouTube video I like and want to put on my Facebook, if I put it on my profile page do I have to press share so my friends can see it also, or once its on my Facebook profile page my friends will see it and I don't have to click on share, help...