Synonyms of sanjeevani. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word sanjeevani. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word sanjeevani and, of course, sanjeevani synonyms and on the right images related to the word sanjeevani.
Sanjeevani (or Sanjivani) is a Sanskrit word (Old-Indian language) and is translated mostly directly as the „immortal“, „the infinite life“ or as „life giving“. Om Tryambakam Yajaamahe Sugandhim Pushthi Vardhanam Urvaarukamiva Bandhanaan Mrityor Muksheeya maamritaat. The Maha Mrityunjaya Mantra is also known as the Mrita Sanjeevani Mantra and as the Maha Moksha Mantra of Shiva (Moksha=liberation). It is hailed by the sages as the heart of the Vedas and holds the highest place along with the Gayatri Mantra.
Buy on iTunes-http://goo.gl/4Sl1O8. The Gayatri Mantra is a highly revered mantra, based on a vedic Sanskrit verse from a hymn of the Rigveda. It has its origin in the Sanskrit phrase 'Gayantam Triyate iti', and is referred to as a mantra which rescues the chanter from all adverse situations that may lead to mortality. 
SANJEEVANI HEALING Conglomeration of sound, light and feeling is known as Sanjeevani Healing. In Sanjeevani Healing & Sanjeevani Vidhya, there are three main ingredients, namely sound, light & feelings. To prove that these three ingredients are necessary for orating life or not. The basic definition of life is :- Any gross body which is capable of reproduction, exhibits growth & having sensitivity and embedded is life. According to the above mentioned definition of life, four parameters are there for gross body to render it lived one.
What does Sanjeevani mean? S anjeevani (or Sanjivani) is a Sanskrit word (Old-Indian language) and is translated mostly directly as the „immortal“, „the infinite life“ or as „life giving“. The Maha Mrityunjaya Mantra is also known as the Mrita Sanjeevani Mantra and as the Maha Moksha Mantra of Shiva (Moksha=liberation). It is hailed by the sages as the heart of the Vedas and holds the highest place along with the Gayatri Mantra.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sanjeevni or Sanjeevani is a Sanskrit word. It translates to English as meaning and is translated as the immortal, life giving, or the infinite life. Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the
In Hindu mythology, Sanjeevani is a magical herb which has the power to cure any malady. It was believed that medicines prepared from this herb could revive a dead person. Herb is mentioned in the Ramayana when, Ravana 's son Indrajit hurls a powerful weapon at Lakshmana. Selaginella bryopteris, known commonly as sanjeevini and sanjivini booti (Devanagari :संजीवनी), is a lithophytic plant.
Meaning of Indian name: Sanjivani. Meaning of the name Sanjivani is 'Immortality'. Sanjivani is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Sanjivani is '9'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Sanjivani
- sanjeevani may refer to: selaginella bryopteris, a lithophytic plant commonly known as sanjeevani; in hindu mythology, a cure-all plant which can reverse. - the lives of surgical interns and resident doctors of sanjeevani. set in the backdrop of sanjeevani hospital, it deals with the pressures, drama, romance. - india. the po****r name sanjeevani which translates as 'one that infuses life' derives from the medicinal properties. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word sanjeevani and, of course, sanjeevani synonyms and on the right images related to the word