CORRECTION: Let's Get This Party Started is the number 13 track of Koяn's 1999 album named Issues. Pink's version was released at least 2 years after Koяn's. The first recording of this song was recorded by Sam … Lanin & his Orchestra for the Okeh label. It was recorded on March 20th, 1924.
I'm comin' up so you better get this party started. I'm comin' up so you better get this party started. Get this party started. Get this party started right now. Get this party started. Get this party started. Get this party started right now. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics.
Let's Get This Party Started is the number 13 track of Koяn 's 1999 album named Issues. CORRECTION: Let's Get This Party Started is the number 13 track of Koяn 's 1999 album named Issues. Pink's version was released at least 2 years after Koяn's.
Mike Helms Music presents a Live version of his song... 'Let's get this Party Started' Performed by Mike Helms, Peter Fennell, Jeff Tummond and Matt Wetersund, Recorded live at Slabtown USA. Portland, Oregon. 2006. You can check out more of Mike Helms Music at theses page links
Music video for Get The Party Started by Dame Shirley Bassey. This incredible recording can be found on the Get The Party Started album, which is out now. A new single with some fabulous dance mixes by NorthxNWest, Flip N Fill and Fugitive, as well as this music video is now also available.
P!nk. CORRECTION: Let's Get This Party Started is the number 13 track of Koяn 's 1999 album named Issues. Pink's version was released at least 2 years after Koяn's.
The song It Had To Be You was originally written and published in 1924 by musician Isham Jones and lyricist Gus Kahn. The first recording of this song was recorded by Sam … Lanin & his Orchestra for the Okeh label. It was recorded on March 20th, 1924. There are literally thousands of recordings of this song by a very broad variety of artists
I'm comin' up so you better get this party started. I'm comin' up so you better get this party started. Get this party started on a saturday night. Everybody's waitin' for me to arrive. Sendin' out the message to all of my friends. I'm comin' up so you better get this party started. Get this party started. Get this party started right now. G
Get the Party Started  is a song performed by Pink, and was the first single from her second album called Missundaztood (2001). It became an international hit and reached the top ten in many countries. The song was Pink's biggest-selling song at that time. Get the Party Started was certified gold in Australia, Austria, Germany, France Sweden and Switzerland, and in Norway it received a platinum certification. The song was nominated for a Grammy Award in 2003 in the category of  Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , which it lost to Norah Jones 's  Don't Know Why .