Nurse Anesthetist Job Description Requirements. When you are researching how to become a nurse anesthetist, you will find that there are some basic education and experience requirements. In order to become a nurse anesthetist, you will need to have a BSN degree and have the designation of registered nurse. Most programs require a minimum of one year of acute nursing experience, but some programs require as many as thre years of experience. Before you can decide if the duties of nurse anesthetist professionals match your skills and career goals, you'll need to understand what a nurse anesthetist does, where these professionals work, and how much you can expect to make.
CRNA Duties and Responsibilities. Among other duties, CRNAs administer anesthesia to patients. They can work in a variety of healthcare settings, including operating rooms, dentist’s and podiatrist’s offices, birthing centers, maternity wards and plastic surgery centers. CRNA Requirements and Qualifications. To become a CRNA, a registered nurse must first complete a nurse anesthesia program, which awards a master’s degree and typically takes two to three years to complete. Admissions criteria include a BSN degree and at least one year of acute care nursing experience.
The nurse anesthetist job description is similar to that of an anesthesiologist. However, anesthesiologists fall under the practice of medicine, while nurse anesthetists fall under the practice of nursing. How to Become a Nurse Anesthetist. Applicants need to have a Bachelor of Science in Nursing in order to enter into a nurse anesthetist program. Some individuals may have a bachelor degree in another field. Upon evaluation, schools may let them in depending on the relevance of the degree.
Nurse anesthesia is one of those specialties. A certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) is responsible for the administration of a patient's anesthetics. In the United States, anesthesia services are administered mostly by two types of providers: anesthesiologists and certified registered nurse anesthetists. 
Nurse anesthetists are required to have a Bachelor's of Science degree in nursing or other appropriate undergraduate degree and a master's degree from one of the more than 100 graduate schools of nurse anesthesia. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing.
Training to Become a CRNA. Before becoming a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a nurse must have at least one year of experience in an acute care setting, such as an emergency room or critical care unit, and complete additional training in a large hospital setting. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing.
Nurses were the first providers of anesthesia care and have continued to work in the field for more than 150 years. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing.
Clinical Responsibilities The following list of anesthesia and related services should be used to delineate the clinical responsibilities of the individual anesthetist by placing a checkmark next to the clinical services in which the anesthetist can demonstrate new or continued competency. 
Nurse anesthetists are an important part of the medical care team in an operative setting. Find out how to become a nurse anesthetist and what the duties of nurse anesthetist professionals are as outlined in a basic nurse anesthetist job description. Before you can decide if the duties of nurse anesthetist professionals match your skills and career goals, you'll need to understand what a nurse anesthetist does, where these professionals work, and how much you can expect to make.