Just-In-Time (Left Pillar). Lean Manufacturing is driven by the pull of the customer's order, where production is ideally only initiated when orders are received from customers. The concept of Just-In-Time (JIT), is fundamental to Lean Manufacturing, and will potetially help to reduce a lot of waste. Furthermore, Lean Manufacturing aims at supplying these goods and services with minimum waste, where waste in production is reduced through continuous improvements of the production processes.
Lean Manufacturing is a production philosophy that seeks to supply exactly what the customer wants, when the customer wants it. Furthermore, Lean Manufacturing aims at supplying these goods and services with minimum waste, where waste in production is reduced through continuous improvements of the production processes.
While low inventory levels are a key outcome of the Toyota Production System, an important element of the philosophy behind its system is to work intelligently and eliminate waste so that only minimal inventory is needed. The system is a major precursor of the more generic  lean manufacturing . Taiichi Ohno and Eiji Toyoda, Japanese industrial engineers, developed the system between 1948 and 1975.
Likewise, Lean Manufacturing is seeking a production design that can handle both internal and external variability, where variability in production efficiency, product quality and customer orders are sought handled and absorbed through the total design of the Lean Manufacturing system. Furthermore, Lean Manufacturing aims at supplying these goods and services with minimum waste, where waste in production is reduced through continuous improvements of the production processes.
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. After formulating the guiding principles of its lean manufacturing approach in the Toyota Production System (TPS), Toyota formalized in 2001 the basis of its lean management: the key managerial values and attitudes needed to sustain continuous improvement in the long run.
5 Lean Inventory Principles: Ending Inventory Waste, 4.5 out of 5 based on 10 ratings. Lean inventory management is a philosophy derived from the Toyota Production System of the 1940s. The car manufacturer developed the system to eliminate waste and inefficiency in their manufacturing environment. In this type of production setting, inventory is only pulled through each production center when it is needed to meet a customer’s order. Evaluate your inventory flow and identify the areas you need to improve. Adopting the lean inventory model will eliminate the following seven areas of inventory waste.
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. After formulating the guiding principles of its lean manufacturing approach in the Toyota Production System (TPS), Toyota formalized in 2001 the basis of its lean management: the key managerial values and attitudes needed to sustain continuous improvement in the long run.
So what is waste? Waste is defined as any activity that does not add value from the customer’s perspective. According to research conducted by the Lean Enterprise Research Centre (LERC), fully 60% of production activities in a typical manufacturing operation are waste – they add no value at all for the customer. 
The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste. Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. The characteristics of a lean organization and supply chain are described in Lean Thinking, by Womack and Dan Jones, founders of the Lean Enterprise Institute and the Lean Enterprise Academy (UK), respectively.
Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management. After formulating the guiding principles of its lean manufacturing approach in the Toyota Production System (TPS), Toyota formalized in 2001 the basis of its lean management: the key managerial values and attitudes needed to sustain continuous improvement in the long run.