The most common of these are the piano, organ, and various electronic keyboards, including synthesizers. Other keyboard instruments include celestas, which are struck idiophones operated by a keyboard, and carillons, which are usually housed in bell towers or belfries of churches or municipal buildings. The earliest keyboard instruments include the pipe organ, hurdy-gurdy, clavichord, and harpsichord. The organ is the oldest of these, appearing in the third century BC—though this early instrument, called hydraulis, did not use a keyboard in the modern sense.
Best Answer: The piano is both a chordophone (an instrument where strings produce their sound by means of a resonating chamber) and a PERCUSSION instrument. The strings of a piano are hit with hammers. A piano is a percussion instrument because the strings in the piano are struck by mallets inside, much like other percussion instruments like the timpani or vibraphone. Byrd1324 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 3. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
The piano (. [ˈpjaːno] ; an abbreviation of pianoforte [pjanoˈfɔrte]) is a musical instrument played using a keyboard. It is widely employed in classical and jazz music for solo and ensemble performances, accompaniment, and for composing and rehearsal. Although the piano is not portable and often expensive, its versatility and ubiquity have made it one of the world's most familiar musical instruments. An acoustic piano usually has a protective wooden case surrounding the soundboard and metal strings, and a row of 88 black and white keys (52 white, 36 black). The strings are sounded when the keys are pressed, and silenced when the keys are released.
The story of the piano begins in Padua, Italy in 1709, in the shop of a harpsichord maker named Bartolomeo di Francesco Cristofori (1655-1731). Many other stringed and keyboard instruments preceded the piano and led to the development of the instrument as we know it today. 
1 Petite Grand-This is the smallest of the horizontal pianos. 2  It ranges in size from 4 feet 5 inches to 4 feet 10 inches. 3  It is indeed small but still powerful. 4  Baby Grand-A very popular type of piano which ranges in size from 4 feet 11 inches to 5 feet 6 inches. 1 Upright-This is the tallest among the vertical pianos, with a height ranging from 50 to 60 inches and an approximate width of 58 inches. 2  This is the type of piano your great grandparents or grandparents used to play. 3  When cared for properly, it stands the test of time and maintains its rich tone.
Report Abuse. it's a percussion instrument. A piano is a percussion instrument because the strings in the piano are struck by mallets inside, much like other percussion instruments like the timpani or vibraphone. Byrd1324 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 3. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
A xylophone isn't a woodwind instrument because it has wooden bars, nor is a gong a brass instrument because it is made of brass. In this same way, a piano is NOT classified as a string instrument just because what is 'percussed' happens to be a set of tuned strings. A piano is a percussion instrument because the strings in the piano are struck by mallets inside, much like other percussion instruments like the timpani or vibraphone. Byrd1324 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 3. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
This is like the tomato question.. Technically a piano is a percussion instrument. Although the sound you hear is not the striking of the hammers directly on the strings. There is an element of resonance involved. So like I said. A xylophone isn't a woodwind instrument because it has wooden bars, nor is a gong a brass instrument because it is made of brass. Neither is a piano a string instrument just because what is 'percussed' happens to be a set of tuned strings. Source(s):
Best Answer: It is both a chordophone (an instrument where strings produce their sound by means of a resonating chamber) and a PERCUSSION instrument. A xylophone isn't a woodwind instrument because it has wooden bars, nor is a gong a brass instrument because it is made of brass. Neither is a piano a string instrument just because what is 'percussed' happens to be a set of tuned strings. Source(s):