Paint Color Samples - 1 Pint. To purchase your Benjamin Moore color samples online, simply select your color(s) below. Benjamin Moore® Color Samples allow you to try on a paint color before you commit to the time and expense of painting an entire room. paint color samples covers approximately two 4' X 4' or eight 2' x 2' areas with two coats of paint. You can test a number of different colors at a time. You can also paint smaller test swatches on several walls to see how a particular color will look throughout a room under various lighting conditions.
That will be $72.00 for your one gallon of paint.”. [This is part of Our Molding Makeover Series. ]. The Sunday we walked into a local ACE Hardware store to buy a can of Benjamin Moore molding paint, Jennifer, dressed smartly in her latest Patagonia ensemble, as always, was looking like a million bucks. Me, I must have been looking mighty dapper in my ten-year old Ralph Lauren polo shirt.
Yes. You can purchase paint from our Online Store and pick up your order at one of our nationwide stores, usually within 3 hours. Simply choose your local participating Benjamin Moore retailer for in-store pickup upon checking out. We will even email you once the order is ready to be picked up. You'll find solutions to many common paint problems in our interior and exterior painting tips sections, or in our Paint Education Briefs. You can find all of our thousands of colors in our Color Gallery, where you can browse by color family, collection, paint color name and color number.
Looking for the PERFECT stencil paint for walls, furniture, and even fabric? Look no further! Our Royal Stencil Cremes are the ultimate cream-based stencil paint for experienced and beginning stencil artisans alike. The dreamy, cream formula glides off your stencil brushes for excellent coverage and flow with less brush reloading! Stencil Creme paints dry quickly to a hard, durable surface and work on all the surfaces you want to stencil on-smooth to textured. These paints feature a velvety, gel-based formula to resist stencil run-unders. They clean up like a dream with soap and water and offer minimal buildup of paint on stencils and brushes. Stencil Cremes work GREAT over Chalk Paint™ from Annie Sloan too! Find pretty color combinations on our Stencil Ideas Blog. 
Use our handy paint store directory to find the Benjamin Moore retailer nearest you. Search by State, Territory, or view all other locations and then you can navigate to individual store pages and find their hours, services, and other information to help you find your friendly local Benjamin Moore paint store. Jump to: US Locations Canadian Locations All Other Locations.
Benjamin Moore. If you want a paint that stands up to everything life throws at it... Only this can™ If you want a paint that's strong enough to withstand the elements... Only this can™ If you want a paint that's eco-friendly... Only this can™ If you want a paint that gives you freedom of expression..
Find Paint & Expertise Like No Other. Visit an authorized Benjamin Moore Retailer to make sure you get the best paint and advice to get your job done right. If you want a paint that stands up to everything life throws at it... Only this can™ If you want a paint that's strong enough to withstand the elements... Only this can™ If you want a paint that's eco-friendly...
How can I find Benjamin Moore whites or a particular paint color collection? You can find all of our thousands of colors in our Color Gallery, where you can browse by color family, collection, paint color name and color number. You'll find solutions to many common paint problems in our interior and exterior painting tips sections, or in our Paint Education Briefs.
Once you've registered, you'll be able to save articles, photos, favorite color combinations, paint calculations, and more in your My Favorites folder. You can even make a list of supplies and print it out to take to your local Benjamin Moore retailer. You'll find solutions to many common paint problems in our interior and exterior painting tips sections, or in our Paint Education Briefs. You can find all of our thousands of colors in our Color Gallery, where you can browse by color family, collection, paint color name and color number.
Paint Stores in New York. Browse Benjamin Moore Paint stores in New York to find inspiration and support along with service and tools that give customers confidence about their product choices, color selections, and their ability to get the best results possible. 