by FreeAdvice staff. In all states, the age requirement to sign a contract is 18 years of age. A child under the age of 18 is considered a minor and is unable to sign a contract unless it is for essential items. Essential items include medicines, food, and medical services. Otherwise, the minor child must have a parent or guardian consent to the contract in order for it to be legally binding. If your minor child has signed a contract for a non-essential item without your approval, the contract is not valid. In other words, you can contact the business and have the contract destroyed.
The legal age to contract refers to the chronological age a person must be to enter into a binding agreement. In most parts of the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, a person is a legal adult when he or she is 18 years of age.
Young people are also considered incapable of understanding enough about contract obligations to be bound by what they sign. In Georgia, the legal age of majority (the age at which a person is considered to be an adult in contractual situations) is 18 years. Youths under 18 (that is, minors) may not legally enter into contracts. SITUATION 2 Jane Junior, 17, lied about her age when she contracted to buy a used car from Marty.
All other people are considered to have the legal capacity to enter into contracts. In New Mexico and most states, the legal age for entering into contracts is 18 (see NMSA ยง28-6-1). A contract between a minor and an adult may be cancelled upon request of the minor, but is binding on the adult.
A minor may, however, repudiate a contract within a reasonable time after reaching majority. In Florida, the legal age is eighteen (18) years of age. An individuals age of majority is covered under Section 743.07, and that is eighteen (18) years of age for purposes such as contracting.
In all states, a person has reached the age of majority and is a legal adult at the age of 18. A minor can also be emancipated, or declared a legal adult, by the court. In some states, people as young as 15 may be able to contract for necessities like food and shelter as well as education and car expenses.