Then place the plants in the container. When planting in a container with a wide opening, use a spoon to scoop out the potting holes. Place each plant so the top of the rootball is level with the top of the soil. It should sit in the soil in the container no lower and no higher than it did in the pot. Plants. Many plants are suitable for growing in terrariums. Low-growing, dense plants are best. Large plants can be used and kept small by pruning. Choose plants for variations in size, texture and color, as well as their adaptability.
Comments. Submit. Although many plants will put out roots in a jar of water, few will grow there permanently. Plants that can be grown in water are a real treat for amateur botanists of all ages. Aquatic growers get the rare opportunity to watch the roots branch and spread out as the plant grows. 
Closed terrariums are humid environments and the plants used in them should be suited to these conditions. Mosses are commonly used in terrariums as ground cover because they love moisture, don't need much light and don't have roots that take up space in the soil. Plants to Avoid. Succulents and semi-succulents will eventually rot in closed terrariums, because they require so little moisture and a closed terrarium remains humid. Succulents grow better in open terrariums or dish gardens.
Division of Plant Sciences. A terrarium is a tightly closed, clear glass or plastic container filled with small plants (Figure 1). It also has come to mean an open, transparent container for growing and displaying plants. Terrariums are most useful for small plants that do not adapt well to normal home atmospheres. 
Choosing terrarium plants can be difficult, because there are so many amazing ones that will look great and thrive in terrariums. The terrarium plants listed here are so easy to grow, even a complete novice or a convicted plant serial killer (like me) can have success with them. In a closed terrarium, plants almost never need water and will grow happily for years with minimal care. Make sure to buy plants that are small enough to fit into your terrarium jar, preferably without touching the side
Overview. A terrarium jar is a miniature landscape. The plants inside are chosen not just for their appearance but for the fact they share the same climate needs. Terrariums come in two varieties---the closed terrarium and the open terrarium. Plant humidity and warmth loving plants in a closed terrarium and everything else in an open version.
1 Bottle gardening lends itself well to plants which require a good deal of humidity (e.g. tropical plants) because the bottle will trap moisture. 2  Do not mix plants with different requirements, especially in terms of water. 3  Growing a thirsty plant next to a cactus will make for difficult maintenance. If you accidentally get soil on the sides of the bottle, obscuring the view, you can tie gauze or cotton to the end of a pencil and reach in to wipe off the soil. 5. Plant the garden. Choose seeds of small indoor plants.
A terrarium is a transparent glass or plastic container with soil. It has an open or closed top and is used for displaying growing plants as a miniature landscape. Many kinds of containers can be adapted for terrariums. These clear-sided containers have no drain holes and usually have a clear top. Plants. Many plants are suitable for growing in terrariums. Low-growing, dense plants are best. Large plants can be used and kept small by pruning. Choose plants for variations in size, texture and color, as well as their adaptability.
Low Light Options. Because the plants in closed terrariums are covered, they often receive less light than other houseplants. You can place your terrarium under a light to nurture plants that require a bit more brightness. The starfish plant (Cryptanthus bivittatus) can thrive with little light. Plants to Avoid. Succulents and semi-succulents will eventually rot in closed terrariums, because they require so little moisture and a closed terrarium remains humid. Succulents grow better in open terrariums or dish gardens.