A number of different systems of classification of ethnicity in the United Kingdom exist. These schemata have been the subject of debate, including about the nature of ethnicity, how or whether it can be categorised, and the relationship between ethnicity, race, and nationality. This self-defined categorisation was also used for classifying ethnicity in the 2001 UK Census. Slightly different categories were employed in Scotland and Northern Ireland, as compared with England and Wales, to reflect local differences in the requirement for information.
4. A review of Name-based Ethnicity Classification methods A literature search has been carried out to identify the most representative research papers that specifically deal with the problem of classifying lists of names of individuals into ethnic groups and provide a full evaluation of their accuracy. 5.3 Advantages of the methodology. According to the authors of the studies analysed here, name-based ethnicity classification methods present a valid alternative technique to ascribe individuals to ethnic groups through their name origins, when self-identification is not available.
Ethnicity Categories. 1  Hispanic or Latino: A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. 2  The term, Spanish origin, can be used in addition to Hispanic or Latino. 3  Not Hispanic of Latino. Standards for reporting data about race and ethnicity provide consistent and comparable data for an array of statistical and administrative programs.
Whether the official UK ethnic group classifications are useful for research on health is the subject of debate. Peter Aspinall argues that the 2001 census categories fail to adequately break down the white group and ignore ethno-religious differences between South Asian groups, amongst other issues. This self-defined categorisation was also used for classifying ethnicity in the 2001 UK Census. Slightly different categories were employed in Scotland and Northern Ireland, as compared with England and Wales, to reflect local differences in the requirement for information.
Ethnicity and People redirect here. For other uses, see Ethnicity (disambiguation) and People (disambiguation) . An ethnic group or ethnicity is a socially defined category of people who identify with each other based on common ancestral, social, cultural or national experience. Unlike most other social groups, ethnicity is primarily an inherited status. The distinction between race and ethnicity is considered highly problematic. Ethnicity is often assumed to be the cultural identity of a group, often based on language and tradition, while race is assumed to be a biological classification, based on DNA and bone structure.
There are also differences among data sets with respect to how race and ethnicity are classified. On birth records, for example, the race of the baby's mother and father are based on reports of the mother or family members. In response, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued in 1977 the Race and Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administrative Reporting contained in Statistical Policy Directive No. 15.
1 Asian: A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam. Standards for reporting data about race and ethnicity provide consistent and comparable data for an array of statistical and administrative programs.
Race and Ethnicity Classifications. Standards for reporting data about race and ethnicity provide consistent and comparable data for an array of statistical and administrative programs.
The principles listed below are those OMB may use to guide final decisions on standards for the classification of racial and ethnic data. The principles are, for the most part, the same as those published in the June 9, 1994, Federal Register notice. There are changes to Principles 2, 5, 6, and 8. In response, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued in 1977 the Race and Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administrative Reporting contained in Statistical Policy Directive No. 15.