Slow Burn. Long-duration low-to moderate-intensity aerobic training is effective for burning fat because fat is an oxidative fuel, meaning it can only be metabolized aerobically, and cannot provide anaerobic energy. Aerobic energy is produced in the mitochondria of your muscles, where fat and glucose are oxidized. Endurance training is effective in promoting the growth of mitochondria and increasing the enzymes that help to oxidize fat. While aerobic exercise is effective for burning fat, anaerobic modes of exercise can boost your metabolism and increase your total caloric burn, resulting in lower body fat.
The important thing to remember during exercise is to try and burn calories. More calories burned equals more fat lost. Exercise is best used to create a favorable metabolic environment so that your nutrition can take off the fat, and nothing does this better than high-intensity exercise. Aerobic Exercise. Aerobic exercise is exercise that is typically lower in intensity and is done for a long duration. Aerobic exercise primarily uses fat for energy. Some of these aerobic exercises are activities such as walking, light jogging, bicycling, or using the elliptical machine.
You actually burn the highest percentage of calories from fat while you sleep! Your heart rate is at its lowest at that time. So in theory, if you believe in the fat-burning zone for the best fat loss, you should instead try to sleep the fat away. You do after all burn a higher percentage of calories from fat. Aerobic Exercise. Aerobic exercise is exercise that is typically lower in intensity and is done for a long duration. Aerobic exercise primarily uses fat for energy. Some of these aerobic exercises are activities such as walking, light jogging, bicycling, or using the elliptical machine.
4. Metabolism. Popularity has it that aerobic exercise can burn more calories than anaerobic exercise. The truth is that anaerobic exercise burns more calories than aerobic exercise on a ratio of 5 to 1 or as high as 7 to 1. In fact, anaerobic exercise can burn fat 100% post workout, while aerobic exercise can only burn 0% fat and worst it can also burn your muscle for up to 25% post workout!
Aerobic Versus Anaerobic Exercise. Anaerobic workouts tend to burn more calories from carbohydrates relative to fat. Photo Credit ViktorCap/iStock/Getty Images. Aerobic and anaerobic are fancy words used to signify which energy-producing system your body is using to fuel you during a workout. Calories and Weight Loss. To lose one pound you need to burn approximately 3,500 calories. Photo Credit Ibrakovic/iStock/Getty Images. Burning fat during a workout has a nice ring to it, but in reality it doesn't matter where your calories come from.
Aerobic vs. Anaerobic. To understand the relationship between weights and calories, you need to know the difference between aerobic and anaerobic exercise. Sustained aerobic exercise, like steady jogging or cycling, is low intensity and can thus be done for a longer period of time. In other words, more intense exercises such as weight and strength training burn calories and fat for a longer time post-exercise than lower intensity aerobic exercises.
Aerobic activities can be performed much longer than anaerobic activities, so they generally burn more calories after the first few minutes of exercise. Aerobic exercises are continuous exercises such as bicycling, cross-country skiing and running that rank at the top of calories-burned charts. Aerobic Activities. Nine of the top 10 calorie-burning activities on a list of 158 activities published by the “Harvard Heart Letter” are aerobic. Running 10 mph and bicycling more than 20 mph are tied for first. They burn 1,228 calories per hour in 155-pound people.
“Aerobic” means with “with oxygen” or “with air,” while “anaerobic” means “without oxygen” or “without air.” Your body produces the energy it needs in two ways -- the aerobic system and the anaerobic system. When you begin exercising, your body gets its energy from your anaerobic system. Aerobic Activities. Nine of the top 10 calorie-burning activities on a list of 158 activities published by the “Harvard Heart Letter” are aerobic. Running 10 mph and bicycling more than 20 mph are tied for first. They burn 1,228 calories per hour in 155-pound people.
Aerobic vs Anaerobic Exercise. The whole idea behind the fat-burning zone is that if you exercise at a particular heart rate (around 60-70%), you will burn a higher percentage of calories from fat. Aerobic Exercise. Aerobic exercise is exercise that is typically lower in intensity and is done for a long duration. Aerobic exercise primarily uses fat for energy. Some of these aerobic exercises are activities such as walking, light jogging, bicycling, or using the elliptical machine.