It is one of the peacock facts that these fleshy birds can fly over short distances like various other large birds. Peacocks primarily fly to escape predators or roost for the night. Peacock fly appears to be quite peculiar. It feels like they are jumping and their wings are providing them a boost. 
The male peacock is one of the largest flying birds. Their total length can reach near 8 feet; about 3 feet for the body and about 5 feet for the tail (train). Peacocks weigh about 9-13 pounds. Females are not as colorful as the males and they have a much smaller tail. Baby peafowls are called peachicks. There are two familiar species of peafowl: Indian Peafowl (Pavo cristatus or blue peacock) and Green Peafowl (Pavo muticus or green peacock). The Indian Peafowl resides in the Indian subcontinent and is the national bird of the Republic of India.
Male peafowl is called peacock while female is called peahen. They are one of the largest flying birds. Their length (including tail) can reach 5 feet. They can weigh between 8-13 pounds. Most people use term peacock to describe both male and female birds, but peacock is actually a name that refers to male peafowl. Peafowl belong to pheasant family. These birds are native to Asia.
Introduction to Peacock. The most interesting fact about the Peacock is the colorful features of this pheasant family. They can include colors of black, green, blue, gray, red, and orange. They can be displayed in a train that travels behind the body of the bird. The markings can be very different for each Peacock too. The colorful tail of the Peacock is fanned out to be able to show dominance and for the purpose of attracting a mate. They live in groups and the male will often have a harem of several females around him. They don’t do well being around various domestic birds including turkeys.
Peacock Facts. Most people use term peacock to describe both male and female birds, but peacock is actually a name that refers to male peafowl. Peafowl belong to pheasant family. These birds are native to Asia. There are two species of peafowl: Indian Peafowl and Green Peafowl
Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues. 
PEAFOWL BASICS. Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) are beautiful birds that are native to Southeast Asia. The male peafowl is called a peacock; the female peafowl is called a peahen. In the wild, they live in deciduous tropical rainforests. Peacocks do not migrate. A group of peafowl is called a muster
Fun Peacock Facts for Kids. Check out our range of fun peacock facts for kids. Learn about the fact that peacocks are the male only of the bird called a peafowl, why the peacock has such beautiful feathers, where peacocks are native too and much more. Read on and enjoy a variety of interesting information about peacocks. Peacock is commonly used as the name for a peafowl of the pheasant family. But in fact peacock is the name for the colorfully plumaged male peafowl only. The females are called peahens, they are smaller and grey or brown in color. The name of a baby peafowl is a peachick.
Peacocks are actually peafowls. Males are called peacocks and females are called peahens. Baby peafowls are called peachicks. There are two familiar species of peafowl: Indian Peafowl (Pavo cristatus or blue peacock) and Green Peafowl (Pavo muticus or green peacock). The Indian Peafowl resides in the Indian subcontinent and is the national bird of the Republic of India.