It's understood that blood rain occurs when relatively high concentrations of red coloured dust or particles get mixed into rain, giving it a red appearance as it falls. Blood rain is not actually a meteorological or scientific term-instead it's a colloquial phrase which can be found going a fair way back in history. With that in mind, there's no set definition for the term.
For blood rain to leave a residue it needs to be a brief shower. This is because there is a higher concentration of sand in a short shower, says Eden. Heavier, more prolonged rainfall simply ends up washing away the residue.. There are very early recordings of blood rain in historical texts. It is mentioned in Homer's Iliad, thought to have been written in the 8th Century BC. The 12th Century writer Geoffrey of Monmouth, who made popular the legends of King Arthur, also referred to it and the 12th Century historian, William of Newburgh.
Blood rain. While it may sound like something you might see as the world ends, blood rain is actually a term used for a more harmless spectacle which sees red-coloured rain falling from the sky. Blood rain is not actually a meteorological or scientific term-instead it's a colloquial phrase which can be found going a fair way back in history. With that in mind, there's no set definition for the term.
Dried sediment (centre). The Kerala red rain phenomenon was a blood rain (red rain) event that occurred from 25 July to 23 September 2001, when heavy downpours of red-coloured rain fell sporadically on the southern Indian state of Kerala, staining clothes pink. Yellow, green, and black rain was also reported. 
There is also a possibility of something called blood rain in the South East, but what is it? Blood rain a term used for rain carrying sand from deserts. When the rain falls it looks a reddish colour and when it dries off it leaves a thin layer of dust which can also be red, hence the name. There are very early recordings of blood rain in historical texts. It is mentioned in Homer's Iliad, thought to have been written in the 8th Century BC. The 12th Century writer Geoffrey of Monmouth, who made popular the legends of King Arthur, also referred to it and the 12th Century historian, William of Newburgh.
For other uses, see Blood rain (disambiguation) . Blood rain or red rain is a phenomenon in which blood is perceived to fall from the sky in the form of rain. Cases have been recorded since Homer 's Iliad, composed approximately 8th century BC, and are widespread. In the same time here came a strange token, such as before never came, nor never hitherto since. From heaven here came a marvellous flood; three days it rained blood, three days and three nights. That was exceeding great harm! When the rain was gone, here came another token anon.
Blood rain is the term used for water carrying sand from the desert. It has a reddish colour when it falls and the thin layer of dust it leaves on the ground when it dries is also a red-brown. In the UK, storms in the Sahara desert are usually responsible for stirring up the dust that reaches our shores. Incidents of blood rain in Britain are usually short-lived. In other parts of the world, it can be dramatic. The blood rain that fell on parts of India for two months in 2011 was so thick that it stained clothes. A number of ancient texts make reference to blood rain, which was believed to be actual blood and considered an omen of death and destruction
Winds arriving from the south are expected to bring unseasonably warm temperatures followed by rain in some areas. Storms over the Sahara desert in Africa mix up dust and sand with rain clouds. After it rains it leaves behind a 'reddish' layer of dust which can coat houses and cars in tiny sand particles. Experts say 'blood rain' happens a few times each year in the UK but is more common in countries like Spain and the south of France, which are closer to Africa.