During a bronchoscopy, your doctor will examine your throat, larynx, trachea, and lower airways. Bronchoscopy may be done to diagnose problems with the airway, the lungs, or with the lymph nodes in the chest, or to treat problems such as an object or growth in the airway. 1 It also allows the doctor to remove small samples of tissue (biopsy). 2  Rigid bronchoscopy is usually done with general anesthesia and uses a straight, hollow metal tube. 3  It is used: 4  When there is bleeding in the airway that could block the flexible scope's view. 5  To remove large tissue samples for biops
1 A rigid bronchoscopy is not done as often as a flexible bronchoscopy. 2  Brushings or biopsies of the bronchi and lungs can be taken through a bronchoscope. 3  During a bronchoscopy, the doctor may do an ultrasound scan of the bronchial tubes, lymph nodes next to the trachea and lung tissue. 1 Remove items such as dentures because the bronchoscope may be put into the mouth. 2  A bronchoscopy can often be done in a hospital operating room or endoscopy suite on an outpatient basis. 3  The person may be drowsy and not be able to drive after the test, so they should arrange for a ride to and from the hospital.
1 A bronchoscopy can often be done in a hospital operating room or endoscopy suite on an outpatient basis. 2  The person may be drowsy and not be able to drive after the test, so they should arrange for a ride to and from the hospital. 3  Most outpatients can go home the same day. 1 Remove items such as dentures because the bronchoscope may be put into the mouth. 2  A bronchoscopy can often be done in a hospital operating room or endoscopy suite on an outpatient basis. 3  The person may be drowsy and not be able to drive after the test, so they should arrange for a ride to and from the hospital.
During a bronchoscopy, your doctor will examine your throat, larynx, trachea, and lower airways. Bronchoscopy may be done to diagnose problems with the airway, the lungs, or with the lymph nodes in the chest, or to treat problems such as an object or growth in the airway. There are two types of bronchoscopy. 1  Flexible bronchoscopy uses a long, thin, lighted tube to look at your airway. Why It Is Done. Bronchoscopy may be used to: 1  Find the cause of airway problems, such as bleeding, trouble breathing, or a long-term (chronic) cough. 2  Take tissue samples when other tests, such as a chest X-ray or CT scan, show problems with the lung or with lymph nodes in the chest.
Why It Is Done. Bronchoscopy may be used to: 1  Find the cause of airway problems, such as bleeding, trouble breathing, or a long-term (chronic) cough. 2  Take tissue samples when other tests, such as a chest X-ray or CT scan, show problems with the lung or with lymph nodes in the chest. 1 It also allows the doctor to remove small samples of tissue (biopsy). 2  Rigid bronchoscopy is usually done with general anesthesia and uses a straight, hollow metal tube. 3  It is used: 4  When there is bleeding in the airway that could block the flexible scope's view. 5  To remove large tissue samples for biopsy
Bronchoscopy can also be done with a rigid bronchoscope. This isn’t as common and is done under general anaesthetic. This means you will be asleep during the procedure. A rigid bronchoscope may be used if there is bleeding in your lungs, or to remove objects (pieces of food) blocking your airway. Flexible bronchoscopy is often used to diagnose a problem with your lungs. The procedure is done using a bronchoscope. This is a flexible tube with a camera at the end, which allows your doctor to see down your airways.
Sometimes bronchoscopy is used to treat lung problems. It may be done to insert a stent in an airway. An airway stent is a small tube that holds the airway open. It's used when a tumor or other condition blocks an airway. In children, the procedure most often is used to remove something blocking an airway. 