The Hellfire missile is the primary 100-pound (45 kg) class air-to-ground precision weapon for the armed forces of the United States and many other nations. The AGM-114L, or Longbow Hellfire, is a fire-and-forget weapon: equipped with a millimeter wave (MMW) radar seeker, it requires no further guidance after launch—even being able to lock-on to its target after launch —and can hit its target without the launcher or other friendly unit being in line of sight of the target.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hellfire (Noun). the fire of Hell. hellfire (Noun). fire produced by the Devil, or a similar supernatural creature connected to Hell. hellfire (Noun). a fire that burns with unusual heat or ferocity. Hellfire. Hellfire is a song from Disney's 1996 animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame. The song is sung by the film's main antagonist, Judge Claude Frollo, who is voiced by Tony Jay.
Answer: The term hellfire preaching does not appear in the Bible, although the concepts of the fires of hell and the necessity of preaching certainly do. Hellfire preaching means different things to different people and conjures up different images, mostly negative. 
33,153 pages on this wiki.  Hellfire  is a song from Disney's 1996 animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame. The song is sung by the film's main antagonist, Judge Claude Frollo. The song Hellfire was intended to contrast the song  Heaven's Light , which was a song that was sung by Quasimodo moments earlier, expressing his feelings of love for Esmeralda, while Frollo sings of his lust for Esmeralda. Hellfire  is a song from Disney's 1996 animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
The AGM-114 Hellfire is an air-to-surface missile (ASM) first developed for anti-armor use, but later models were developed for precision strikes against other target types, such as, in the case of a Predator drone, targeted killings, usually by the United States or other western nations. The AGM-114L, or Longbow Hellfire, is a fire-and-forget weapon: equipped with a millimeter wave (MMW) radar seeker, it requires no further guidance after launch—even being able to lock-on to its target after launch —and can hit its target without the launcher or other friendly unit being in line of sight of the target.
The development of the Hellfire Missile System began in 1974 with the U.S. Army requirement for a  tank-buster , launched from helicopters to defeat armored fighting vehicles. Production of the AGM-114A started in 1982. The Development Test and Evaluation (DT&E) launch phase of the AGM-114B took place in 1984. The AGM-114L, or Longbow Hellfire, is a fire-and-forget weapon: equipped with a millimeter wave (MMW) radar seeker, it requires no further guidance after launch—even being able to lock-on to its target after launch —and can hit its target without the launcher or other friendly unit being in line of sight of the target.
The Hellfire Peninsula is one of the surviving parts of Draenor. It was known as Tanaan Jungle before Draenor was destroyed. It is a pivotal area of Outland that has been the location of many of the most brutal battles in Warcraft history. 
Diablo: Hellfire is an expansion pack that Sierra On-Line produced for the video game Diablo. It was released in 1997 and developed by Synergistic Software, a Sierra division. Hellfire is the only authorized expansion pack released for Diablo. Blizzard Entertainment has never released a first-party expansion for Diablo. Hellfire integrates into Diablo, and because of its design, its dungeons can be avoided entirely. In order to gain access to the dungeons, the player must speak with Lester the Farmer, who is north of Tristram, near the herd of cows.
Hellfire is a featured article, which means it has been identified as one of the best articles produced by the DisneyWiki community. Hellfire  is a song from Disney's 1996 animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame.