A neuron consists of a cell body (perikaryon) and its processes, an axon and one or more dendrites. Neurons function in the initiation and conduction of impulses. They transmit impulses to other neurons or cells by releasing neurotransmitters at synapses. the basic nerve cell of the nervous system, containing a nucleus within a cell body and extending one or more processes. Neurons can be classified according to the direction in which they conduct impulses or according to the number of processes they extend.
A neuron has many of the same organelles such as mitochondria, cytoplasm and a nucleus, as other cells in the body. 1  Nucleus-contains genetic material (chromosomes) including information for cell development and synthesis of proteins necessary for cell maintenance and survival. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential.
Synonym(s): nerve cell, neurocyte, neurone. [G. neuron, a nerve]. /neu·ron/ (noor´on) nerve cell; any of the conducting cells of the nervous system, consisting of a cell body, containing the nucleus and its surrounding cytoplasm, and the axon and dendrites. the basic nerve cell of the nervous system, containing a nucleus within a cell body and extending one or more processes. Neurons can be classified according to the direction in which they conduct impulses or according to the number of processes they extend.
A neuron consists of a cell body (perikaryon) and its processes, an axon and one or more dendrites. Neurons function in the initiation and conduction of impulses. They transmit impulses to other neurons or cells by releasing neurotransmitters at synapses. The dendrites receive stimuli from other nerves or from a receptor organ, such as the skin or ear, and transmit them through the neuron to the axon. The axon conducts the impulses to the dendrite of another neuron or to an effector organ that is thereby stimulated to action.
The processes are actually extensions of the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus of the neuron. A nerve cell may have only one such slender fiber extending from its body, in which case it is classified as unipolar. A neuron having two processes is bipolar, and one with three or more processes is multipolar. the basic nerve cell of the nervous system, containing a nucleus within a cell body and extending one or more processes. Neurons can be classified according to the direction in which they conduct impulses or according to the number of processes they extend.
(Remember that 1 micron is equal to one thousandth of a millimeter!). Neurons are similar to other cells in the body because: 1  Neurons are surrounded by a cell membrane. 2  Neurons have a nucleus that contains genes. 3  Neurons contain cytoplasm, mitochondria and other organelles. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential.
Synonym(s): nerve cell, neurocyte, neurone. [G. neuron, a nerve]. /neu·ron/ (noor´on) nerve cell; any of the conducting cells of the nervous system, consisting of a cell body, containing the nucleus and its surrounding cytoplasm, and the axon and dendrites. The dendrites receive stimuli from other nerves or from a receptor organ, such as the skin or ear, and transmit them through the neuron to the axon. The axon conducts the impulses to the dendrite of another neuron or to an effector organ that is thereby stimulated to action.
Most neurons have three parts; an axon, a cell body or soma, and dendrites. All neurons have one soma and one axon, but while some neurons have many dendrites, others have none. Neurons vary in size; the smallest have a diameter of 5 microns while the largest are approximately 100 microns in width. (A micron is one one-thousandth of a millimeter). The soma of a neuron contains the cell's nucleus and cytoplasm, a jelly-like substance that surrounds the nucleus. Chromosomes, which consist of molecules of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) are found in the nucleus of the neuron. RNA (ribonucleic acid) molecules are also located within the nucleus. 
The cell body consists of the cell nucleus and cytoplasm immediately surrounding the nucleus. Three major categories of neurons are recognized: Unipolar (pseudo-unipolar) neurons are sensory neurons with cell bodies in spinal and cranial nerve ganglia. 
Nerve cells are very variable in appearance, but all neurons have a cell body, also called soma or perikarion, and processes. The cell body contains the nucleus and organelles that maintain the nerve cell. The processes extend from the nerve cell to communicate with other cells. Nervous tissue consists of nerve cells and associated supporting cells. All cells exhibit electrical properties, but nerve cells, also called neurons, are specifically designed to transmit electrical impulses from one site in the body to another, and to receive and process information.