Igneous rocks are formed when melted rock cools and solidifies. Melted rock may come in the form of magma, when it is found underneath the Earth’s surface. It can also come in the form of lava, when it is released unto the Earth’s surface during a volcanic eruption. Some examples of igneous rocks are granite, scoria, pumice, and obsidian. Pumice, for instance, is formed when lava made up of melted rock, water, and trapped gas is ejected from a volcano during a violent eruption. As the ejected material undergoes very rapid cooling and depressurization, some of the trapped gas escape, leaving holes and gas bubbles on the solidified material
Slate is a metamorphic rock. Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are exposed to conditions of very high pressure or temperature, or are exposed to large amounts of very hot water. Slate is formed when fine-grained sedimentary rock (shale) is buried and exposed to high pressure deep beneath the Earth's surface. Igneous rocks are formed from melted rock that has cooled and solidified. When rocks are buried deep within the Earth, they melt because of the high pressure and temperature; the molten rock (called magma) can then flow upward or even be erupted from a volcano onto
FIND OUT MORE. Earth’s crust is made of rock, and rock is made of natural substances called MINERALS. There are three main types of rock—sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rock. Each type is produced in different ways. The oldest rocks on Earth were formed about 3.8 billion years ago
Igneous rocks form when magma or lava cools and hardens into a rock. Magma and lava are rocks that are so hot they move like a liquid. Magma is molten rock that is underground; lava is molten rock that is above the ground – and that is the only difference between them. A common igneous rock is granite. 
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. 
There are also articles on physical rock formations, also known as strata, and the formal naming of geologic formations. The three main ways rocks are formed 1  : Sedimentary rocks are formed through the gradual accumulation of sediments: for example, sand on a beach or mud on a river bed. This article discusses how rocks are formed. There are also articles on physical rock formations, also known as strata, and the formal naming of geologic formations. The three main ways rocks are formed :
Examples of this rock type include gneiss and marble. Igneous. Igneous rocks are formed when magma (molten rock deep within the earth) cools and hardens. Sometimes the magma cools inside the earth, and other times it erupts onto the surface from volcanoes (in this case, it is called lava). Examples of this rock type include conglomerate and limestone. Metamorphic. Metamorphic rocks are formed under the surface of the earth from the metamorphosis (change) that occurs due to intense heat and pressure (squeezing).
1 Igneous Rocks: form by crystallizing melted material (magma). 2  They can form either on the surface (extrusive igneous rocks), or deep in the crust (intrusive or plutonic igneous rocks). 3  Volcanoes are places where magma erupts as lava or ash. Metamorphic rocks: 1  form by recrystallization of either igneous or sedimentary rocks. 2  This happens when the temperature, pressure or fluid environment change and a rock changes its form (e.g. limestone turns to marble). 3  The range of temperatures for metamophism is 150C up to the melting temperature.
Metamorphic rocks are actually products of rocks that have undergone changes. Thus, a metamorphic rock may have originally been an igneous, sedimentary, or even another metamorphic rock. The changes occur when the original rocks are subjected to extreme heat and pressure beneath the Earth’s surface. Some examples of igneous rocks are granite, scoria, pumice, and obsidian. Pumice, for instance, is formed when lava made up of melted rock, water, and trapped gas is ejected from a volcano during a violent eruption.