The primary volcanoes on each of the islands are known as a shield volcanoes, which are gently sloping mountains produced from a large number of generally very fluid lava flow … s. Each of the islands have different volcano types, but most are shield volcanoes. 5 people found this useful. Scientists are not sure what creates hotspots or what their exact nature is. However, most agree that a hotspot created the Hawaiian islands. The outer layer of the earth, th … e crust, is divided into plates, which move relative to each other and over the next lower layer, the mantle.
An volcanic eruption is a place where hot melted rock called magma rises from deep inside the earth and erupts as lava out of the earth's crust. The world has three main types of volcanoes: Shield, Cinder, and Composite. The volcanoes in the Hawaiian Islands are Shield type volcanoes with long gentle slopes. Here is a diagram showing the main features of a volcano. In the case of the Hawaiian Islands, when hot liquid lava comes out of the earth from beneath the bottom of the ocean floor it meets the cold water and becomes solid new earth. The volcanic deposits of layer after layer of lava flows over time eventually form a solid mountain from the bottom of the sea floor.
Hawaiian Islands. Whilst most volcanic activity happens at plate margins, there are cases of volcanoes erupting in the middle of plates. The Hawaiian Islands are formed by volcanic activity, despite the nearest plate margin being 3,200 km away. Some geologists have suggested that a ' hot spot ' in the mantle, which remains stationary as the Pacific Plate moves over it, explains the existence of the island chain.
Map of the Hawaiian Islands, a chain of volcanoes that stretches about 2,700 km in a northwesterly direction from the Island of Hawaiʻi. Each Hawaiian island is made of one or more volcanoes, which first erupted on the sea floor and only emerged above the ocean's surface after countless eruptions. The largest and most southeastern island of the chain, Hawaiʻi, consists of five volcanoes.
The Hawaiian Islands are at the southeastern end of a chain of volcanoes that began to form more than 70 million years ago. Many of these volcanoes formed islands that have subsided and eroded beneath sea level, and some of the old volcanoes probably never reached sea level. Each Hawaiian island is made of one or more volcanoes, which first erupted on the sea floor and only emerged above the ocean's surface after countless eruptions. The largest and most southeastern island of the chain, Hawaiʻi, consists of five volcanoes.
[ HCV Home ] [Formation of the Islands] [ Active Hawaiian Volcanoes ] [ General Info ]. Follow site author @kenrubin on Twitter. The Hawaiian Islands are volcanic in origin. Each island is made up of at least one primary volcano, although many islands are composites of more than one. The Big Island, for instance, is constructed of 5 major volcanoes: Kilauea, Mauna Loa, Mauna Kea, Hualalai and Kohala. Mauna Loa is the largest active volcano on Earth. Kilauea is presently one of the most productive volcanoes on Earth (in terms of how much lava it erupts each year).
The volcanic mountains creating the Hawaiian islands are among the greatest mountain ranges on earth. They rise an average of 4,572 meters (15,000 feet) to reach sea level from their base on the sea floor with the highest (Mauna Loa) climbing an additional 4,170 meters (13,680 feet) above sea level. 
The primary volcanoes on each of the islands are known as a shield volcanoes, which are gently sloping mountains produced from a large number of generally very fluid lava flow … s. Each of the islands have different volcano types, but most are shield volcanoes. 5 people found this useful. 
Note that the islands of Lanai and Kahoolawe are not shown because they would overlap with Molokai and Maui, respectively (see the map of the Islands on the Hawaiian Volcanoes page) In general, when you move along the island chain from southeast (Hawaii) to northwest, (Kure), the volcanoes become older and older. The Big Island, for instance, is constructed of 5 major volcanoes: Kilauea, Mauna Loa, Mauna Kea, Hualalai and Kohala. Mauna Loa is the largest active volcano on Earth. Kilauea is presently one of the most productive volcanoes on Earth (in terms of how much lava it erupts each year).