Latency is also known as lag and delay. It is the time it takes for a signal to get from transmitter to receiver. The definition of latency varies. Some term it as the time taken for a round trip from transmitter to receiver and back again. Latency is a particularly big issue with Voice over Internet Protocol applications (Internet telephony). Latency. Latency is the time it takes for a message to travel across a network, or over the Internet. The greater the period, the greater the latency. The factor is measured in milliseconds.
Confidence votes 32. As a metric of network performance, Ping, also known as Network Latency, is a measurement of the time that it take for a small message (or a Ping) to be sent from your computer to another computer on the internet, then returned back to you. Ping is typically measured in milliseconds. Ping is also the name of of command-line command that can be typed to initiate a ping and measure the time that it takes for the message be returned to your computer.
In this case, the time in milliseconds is the ping rate (or latency) between my home PC and the Google.com server. The program is telling me that it took an average of 30ms across four runs for my computer to communicate with Google.com. The simplest way to understand the difference between latency and bandwidth is to picture a water pipe. Bandwidth is the total amount of water that can flow through the pipe in a given period of time (typically expressed in gallons per minute or gallons per hour).
Latency, in contrast, is the amount of time it takes for the water that enters the pipe at one end to exit at the other. If your pipe is just a few feet long, water exits the bottom of the pipe almost as quickly as it flows into the top. The simplest way to understand the difference between latency and bandwidth is to picture a water pipe. Bandwidth is the total amount of water that can flow through the pipe in a given period of time (typically expressed in gallons per minute or gallons per hour).
Latency and ping are two closely related concepts that have a huge impact on how fast or slow your Internet connection feels, but are rarely mentioned in ISP ad copy. The simplest way to understand the difference between latency and bandwidth is to picture a water pipe. Bandwidth is the total amount of water that can flow through the pipe in a given period of time (typically expressed in gallons per minute or gallons per hour).
A bit longer answer is: The other term is also latency-connection speed has two parts badnwidth (amount of data you can transfer within given period of time) and latency (time for given amount of data to travel). Ping is latency of small amount of data. Ping is the amount of milliseconds it takes a packet of information to reach the server from you and back. Basically it's a measurement of connection speed, and it influences lag quite a lot.
+100. Ping is the measure of latency (lag) from your computer to the server and back to your computer. A ping is sent to a server (which contains a packet of information 32 bits long, those are a combination of 32 0's and 1's) and then the server sends that back. Ping is the amount of milliseconds it takes a packet of information to reach the server from you and back. Basically it's a measurement of connection speed, and it influences lag quite a lot.
(April 2011). Latency is a time interval between the stimulation and response, or, from a more general point of view, as a time delay between the cause and the effect of some physical change in the system being observed. Latency is physically a consequence of the limited velocity with which any physical interaction can propagate. In simulation applications, 'latency' refers to the time delay, normally measured in milliseconds (1/1,000 sec), between initial input and an output clearly discernible to the simulator trainee or simulator subject. Latency is sometimes also called transport delay.
Also, ping is not connection speed. It is rather connection latency. Sure you could get a 100bit/s connection that can have a ping of 1ms, but it won't be of much use if to transfer all the data needed for a single action takes 100kbytes. Ping is the amount of milliseconds it takes a packet of information to reach the server from you and back. Basically it's a measurement of connection speed, and it influences lag quite a lot.
Tags: ping, latency. There are a number of factors that can cause high ping (latency, rtt). To name a few, heavy internet traffic at the time, congested/overloaded routers on the way to the target machine, low quality/inadequate bandwidth are the most common causes. tracert speedguide.net (or the host/site you're trying to reach)