Developed by Kan'ami and his son Zeami, it is the oldest major theatre art still regularly performed today. Traditionally, a Noh program includes five Noh plays with comedic kyōgen plays in between, even though an abbreviated program of two Noh plays and one kyōgen piece has become common in Noh presentations today. The word Noh may be used alone or with gaku (fun, music) to form the word nōgaku. Noh is a classical tradition that is highly valued by many today. When used alone, Noh refers to the historical genre of theatre originated from sarugaku in the mid 14th century and continues to be
Noh and kyogen are two of Japan’sfourforms of classical theater, the other two being kabuki and bunraku (UNESCO IntangibleHeritage of Humanity in 2001). The fourth group is thelargest and is usually referred to as“miscellaneous noh ” (zatsu noh) becauseplays on a variety of themes are included.The fifth and final group is the demon plays(kiri-noh).
Noh is often based on tales from traditional literature with a supernatural being transformed into human form as a hero narrating a story. Noh integrates masks, costumes and various props in a dance-based performance, requiring highly trained actors and musicians. The word Noh may be used alone or with gaku (fun, music) to form the word nōgaku. Noh is a classical tradition that is highly valued by many today. When used alone, Noh refers to the historical genre of theatre originated from sarugaku in the mid 14th century and continues to be performed today.
Noh and Kyogen are two inextricably linked performing arts referred to collectively in Japanese as Nogaku. Noh is the oldest surviving theatrical art in Japan, going back six hundred years. Noh is one of the most Japanese of performing arts and has exerted a powerful influence on Bunraku, Kabuki, traditional Okinawan dance, and other later forms. Kyogen is performed on the same kind of stage as Noh and is a theatrical art with a strongly comic tone.
Yokohama Noh Theater is known for its expertise in planning and producing, and is the leading Japanese theater specific to traditional performing arts. It goes beyond producing only Japanese traditional performing arts, and produces new works through international collaborative programs. 
The dual art of noh and kyogen is known as nogaku, and was listed as an Intangible Cultural Heritage by UNESCO. Noh as we know today was popularized and formalized by a man named Zeami during the Muromachi Period (1333-1573). Stage. Noh is performed on a square stage with a roof that is supported at its four corners by pillars. All sides of the stage are open except for the back side which consists of a wall with a painted image of a pine tree. A bridge runs at an oblique angle off the stage for performers to enter the stage.
Noh Theater. Noh (\) is a form of theater involving music, dance and drama, originating in the 14th century. It was developed together with kyogen, which are comical pieces performed during interludes of the main noh performance. Stage. Noh is performed on a square stage with a roof that is supported at its four corners by pillars. All sides of the stage are open except for the back side which consists of a wall with a painted image of a pine tree. A bridge runs at an oblique angle off the stage for performers to enter the stage.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Noh theater is a stylized form of Japanese theater performed since the 14th century. The style is known for its slow and exaggerated movements and highly dramatic stories. The art of the form is detailed and guided by subtle philosophical principles. 
Noh theater, also called nogaku, is a form of musical drama. The Japanese started performing Noh in the fourteenth century. Most of the characters in these plays are concealed by masks, and men play both the male and female roles. The subject matter consists of a few historical stories. One difference between Noh and Kyogen performances is that the Kyogen performers do not wear masks and the Noh performers do. Kabuki is a form of Japanese theater that combines drama, dance, and music and is the most well-known to people around the world. Okunis performed the Kabuki plays.