How Long Does Hatching Take. Hatching can take place over several days. For chickens, run the incubator for 24 days (3 days more than normal hatch time). For ducks and turkeys run the incubator for 32 days (4 days more than normal hatch time). It is better not to help a chick/duckling/poult crack out of its shell. If you do, they almost always die (unless you follow the instructions in the next paragraphs). 
Get ready for hatching. The eggs should begin to hatch at day 28. After hatching the chicks will need to dry off at least 75% of the way in the incubator before you move them to the brooder. Start incubator several hours before adding the eggs to make sure the temperature stabilizes at 98–99.9 °F (36.7–37.7 °C) and Humidity at 30-50%. I have found that starting my incubator 24 hours before usually allows plenty of time for all the minor adjustments to be made prior to incubation of the eggs.
Also while you have the incubator opened, check the humidity inside the incubator. In foam incubators, add a teaspoon or two of water if the humidity is real low. Low being 25%. For 1202's: Open the bator every 4 days or so and add 1/4 inch of water to the pan. If you notice the humidity in the incubator is above 65% add only a tablespoon of water or two. If your incubator humidity is below 65% add about ½ of the channel full of water. Remove the eggs from the turner and lay them flat on their sides. Try to allow a little room between them.
If, after 6 days, you do not see life or development in any of the eggs, then terminate incubation. Most of the time, a power outage will delay hatching by a few days and decrease the hatchability to 40-50 percent. Humidity The relative humidity of the air within an incubator should be about 60 percent. 
1. If the incubator is not already in operation, start the incubator and allow the temperature and humidity to stabilize a day or two before setting eggs. Set the temperature at 37.5°C (99.5°F) and relative humidity at 55% (84.5°F on wet bulb thermometer). Set ventilation as recommended by the incubator manufacturer. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.
1 Call your local office, and ask them if you can raise these wild ducks from eggs, in an incubator you bought, and release them in exactly 60-90 days, which is their fledging time (how long it takes to fly) to a nearby lake in your town. 2  Notify them that the mother duck has been missing for 48 hours. Start incubator several hours before adding the eggs to make sure the temperature stabilizes at 98–99.9 °F (36.7–37.7 °C) and Humidity at 30-50%. I have found that starting my incubator 24 hours before usually allows plenty of time for all the minor adjustments to be made prior to incubation of the eggs.
If the incubator is not already in operation, start the incubator and allow the temperature and humidity to stabilize a day or two before setting eggs. Set the temperature at 37.5°C (99.5°F) and relative humidity at 55% (84.5°F on wet bulb thermometer). Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.
show more my eggs are due to hatch in 4 days. do i leave them in incubator after they hatch or do i tensfer them to a brooder straight away. This is my 2nd attempt at hatching duck eggs as i had no joy on 1st try as they died on day 24 due to temp changes suddenly. I have now got a better incubator and so far all seem... Transfer them into the brooder, with heat lamp, within 12 hours of hatching. When they are 2 weeks old, start decreasing the bulb temp gradually every day, until they are 4 weeks old. Then, they will no longer need to be incubated.