About COCAMIDOPROPYL BETAINE: Cocamidopropyl betaine is a synthetic surfactant; it has been associated with irritation and allergic contact dermatitis, reactions that could be due to the ingredient itself or to impurities present ... read more. 
Toxicity of the amphoteric surfactant, cocamidopropyl betaine, to the marine macroalga, Ulva lactuca. Cell membrane damage, estimated from measurements of ion leakage, was detected only at a concentration of 40 mg l(-1) after 48 h of exposure to CAPB but by 120 h damage was evident at all measured concentrations above 10 mg l(-1).
No. Indicates high toxicity in the given toxicological category. Indicates no available weight-of-the-evidence summary assessment. For additional information on toxicity from scientific journals or registration documents, see the Additional Resources for Toxicity  section of the chemical detail page. Link to information on toxicity to humans, including carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental toxicity, neurotoxicity, and acute toxicity. Links to world-wide registration status as well as regulatory information for the U.S. and California.
In one OECD 414 study cocamidopropyl betaine showed no teratogenic potential, even at maternal-toxic doses. Embryotoxicity was noted at the highest maternal-toxic dose in one study. The NOAEL for dams was 333 mg/kg bw (95 mg active substance/kg bw) and 990 mg/kg bw (286 mg active substance/kg bw) for the fetuses. 10 male and female rats were administered 1.92 ml cocamidopropyl betaine/kg bw (corresponding to 2000 mg/kg bw 31 % active substance) for 24 h under occlusive conditions. 10 % of the total body surface was covered. No deaths occurred during 14 days post-dose observation period.
Cocamidopropyl betaine-Identification, toxicity, use, water pollution potential, ecological toxicity and regulatory information. Note: See Working with the Information on this Page section below for important notes about this data. Link to information on toxicity to humans, including carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental toxicity, neurotoxicity, and acute toxicity. Links to world-wide registration status as well as regulatory information for the U.S. and California.
Cocamidopropyl betaine (CAPB) is an organic compound derived from coconut oil and dimethylaminopropylamine. It is a zwitterion, consisting of both a quaternary ammonium cation and a carboxylate. CAPB is available as viscous pale yellow solution that is used as a surfactant in personal care products. 
The maximum daily exposure time is therefore 10 minutes. The amount of cocamidopropyl betaine within one day is calculated to: 33.6 mg/day x 10/60 hr x 1/24 day/hr = 233 µg cocamidopropyl betaine absorbed daily within 10 minutes of use. 10 male and female rats were administered 1.92 ml cocamidopropyl betaine/kg bw (corresponding to 2000 mg/kg bw 31 % active substance) for 24 h under occlusive conditions. 10 % of the total body surface was covered. No deaths occurred during 14 days post-dose observation period.
Shampoos often contain cocamidopropyl betaine. Cocamidopropyl betaine is a chemical found in many personal care products, including shampoo, toothpaste and body wash. The chemical is derived from coconuts and is used to make products produce more foam. Because cocamidopropyl betaine originates from coconut oil, even some personal care products labeled as natural still contain it.
The degradation of the synthetic, amphoteric surfactant, cocamidopropyl betaine (CAPB) and its toxicity to the marine macroalga, Ulva lactuca, has been evaluated using several different physiological test end-points over different periods of exposure up to 120 h. Cell membrane damage, estimated from measurements of ion leakage, was detected only at a concentration of 40 mg l(-1) after 48 h of exposure to CAPB but by 120 h damage was evident at all measured concentrations above 10 mg l(-1).
What is it: Cocamidopropyl Betaine is a surfactant. (Surfactants give shampoos and detergents their cleansing and lathering properties.) It's derived from coconut oil and dimethylaminopropylamine. The biggest problem that cocamidopropyl betaine has is that its processing aids, amidoamine and 3-dimethylaminopropylamine, can remain in the product. These chemicals can cause contact dermatitis, eye irritation, and other allergic reactions.