Due to the temperature requirements of the insulation, transformers utilize cooling systems to control the temperature rise. The best method of absorbing heat from the windings, core, and structural parts in larger power transformers is to use oil (5). The heat generated by the no-load and load losses is the main source of temperature rise in the transformer. However, the losses of the windings and stray losses seen from the structural parts are the main factors of heat generation with
A 30 [degrees] C winding hot spot allowance is provided for each class. The lower temperature rise transformers are more efficient, particularly at loadings of 50% and higher. Full load losses for 115 [degrees] C transformers are about 30% less than those of 150 [degrees] C transformers. You should note that at loadings below 50% of full load, there is essentially no payback for either the 115 [degrees] C or the 80 [degrees] C transformer over the 150 [degrees] C transformer. Also, at loadings below 40%, the lower temperature rise transformers become less efficient than the
Dr. Transformer: Welcome back to Power Magnetics Inc. Institute! Temperature rise and insulation for transformers, reactors and inductors is today’s hot topic. Your burning questions as a design engineer and these answers can hopefully increase the reliability of your products in the field. ANSI standards define temperature rise as the average rise as determined by change in D.C. resistance of the windings. To that is added the ambient temp and the hot spot allowance (see drawing). The assumed ambient temperature (as again defined in the standards) is 40°C average 50°C max.
Please explain what the meaning of insulation temperature rating of a power transformer. I am confused as to what a 55 Degree C, a 55/65 Degree C, and a 65 Degree C designation really means. Also, it is my understanding that the lower the temperature rise the lower the rated full load capacity of a power transformer. RE: Power Transformer 55/65 Degree C Rating. It's 65 deg C insulation. Also, just to be clear, this is a temperature RISE above ambient, not a actual temperature. In the US, ANSI-rated transformer kVA ratings are based on a maximum average ambient temperature of 30 deg C
Category: Definition. The insulation rating is the maximum allowable winding (hot spot) temperature of a transformer operating at an ambient temperature of 40°C. Insulation systems are classified by the temperature rating. The following table summarizes the different insulation systems available. 
If the room ambient is 40 [degrees] C, then the allowable temperature rise is as follows. Average rise = 105 [degrees] C (hot spot) minus 10 [degrees] C minus 40 [degrees] C (ambient) = 55 [degrees] C. Thus the transformer must be capable of withstanding a 55 [degrees] C average temperature rise. The difference in temperature between a nonoperating transformer (cold condition) and one at full load equilibrium point (hot condition) is called temperature rise. It usually is measured in degrees Centigrade.
Obviously, the hot spot temperature is the limiting temperature for a transformer's insulation system. In other [TABULAR DATA OMITTED] words, the temperature rise must be limited by design and application so that the total temperature does not exceed the temperature rating of the insulation used. The difference in temperature between a nonoperating transformer (cold condition) and one at full load equilibrium point (hot condition) is called temperature rise. It usually is measured in degrees Centigrade.
Page 1 of 2 TEMPERATURE RISE General An isolation transformer’s main purpose is to transfer electrical energy from the primary coil to the secondary coil (input to output). In doing this, the transformer converts some of the electrical energy into heat energy. Transformers develop heat in the same manner as lightbulbs. A desirable indoor dry type transformer is convection (self) cooled and has a maximum temperature rise of 115° C with an insulation temperature of 200° C. Beware of the 80° C rise transformers. They are often a 115° C rise transformer that has approach.