Faecal calprotectin is a substance that is released into the intestines in excess when there is any inflammation there. Its presence can mean a person has an inflammatory bowel disease such as Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis. These conditions can cause very similar symptoms to irritable bowel syndrome. 
Faecal calprotectin is a biochemical measurement of calprotectin in the stool. Elevated faecal calprotectin indicates the migration of neutrophils to the intestinal mucosa, which occurs during intestinal inflammation, including inflammation caused by inflammatory bowel disease. The main diseases that cause an increased excretion of faecal calprotectin are infectious colitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and neoplasms (cancer). Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are a group of conditions that cause a pathological inflammation of the bowel wall.
Calprotectin in stool. Calprotectin is a protein belonging to the S100 family and occurring in large amounts in neutrophil granulocytes, where it accounts for 5% of total proteins and 60% of cytoplasm proteins. Smaller amounts of calprotectin has also been detected in monocytes and activated macrophages. Faecal Calprotectin assay offers a number of advantages in the detection of bowel inflammation. In IBD patients, i.e. patients affected by ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease and in the so-called indeterminate colitis, the calprotectin level is generally very high.
Anything that causes inflammation in the intestines can cause an increase in stool calprotectin. Calprotectin can be increased with the intestinal tissue damage and bleeding that is sometimes seen with use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . Calprotectin is related to another stool test, lactoferrin. The test may be ordered along with other stool tests, such as a stool culture to detect a bacterial infection, a stool white blood cell test, and/or a fecal occult blood test (FOBT) .
Calprotectin Stool. Calprotectin is a reliable noninvasive marker for differentiating gastrointestinal inflammation associated with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) from inflammation that may be associated with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). Such differentiation is very important because IBD can be life threatening
A moderate calprotectin level may indicate that there is some inflammation present or that a person's condition is worsening. A repeated calprotectin test with a result that is still moderately elevated or that has increased is likely to require further investigation and may warrant an endoscopy. The test may be ordered along with other stool tests, such as a stool culture to detect a bacterial infection, a stool white blood cell test, and/or a fecal occult blood test (FOBT) .
An increased Calprotectin concentration in stool is the direct consequence of neutrophil degranulation due to mucosal damage. Faecal Calprotectin assay offers a number of advantages in the detection of bowel inflammation. In IBD patients, i.e. patients affected by ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease and in the so-called indeterminate colitis, the calprotectin level is generally very high.
Calprotectin is a stool (fecal) test that is used to detect inflammation in the intestines. Intestinal inflammation is associated with, for example, some bacterial infections and, in people with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) , it is associated with disease activity and severity. The test may be ordered along with other stool tests, such as a stool culture to detect a bacterial infection, a stool white blood cell test, and/or a fecal occult blood test (FOBT) .
Note. Fecal Calprotectin is an indicator of the presence of neutrophils in stool and is not specific for IBD. Other intestinal ailments including GI infections and colorectal cancer can result in elevated concentrations of calprotectin. 