Mr. Liu Weiqi has been serving as Chairman of the Board in Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation since February 16, 2015. Mr. Liu used to be Chairman of the Board in Waterland Financial Holdings and another financial company. Chen Chuanfei has been Deputy General Manager of Human Resources in Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation since August 1, 2011. Chen was Deputy General Manager-Administration and Human Resources in another company. Chen holds a Master's degree from National Chengchi University, Taiwan.
RailCorp. From 1 January 2004 until 30 June 2013, RailCorp provided metropolitan passenger rail services via CityRail and long distance services via CountryLink. RailCorp also owned and maintained the metropolitan rail network and provided access to freight operators in the metropolitan area. Information about Rail Corporation New South Wales (RailCorp) and its legacy documents can be found on these pages. 
Feng Xiaorong has been Director in Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation since October 9, 2009. Feng is also Special Assistant to Chairman of the Board in another company and Director in two other companies. Feng was General Manager-Taiwan Region at Deutsche Bank. Chen Chuanfei has been Deputy General Manager of Human Resources in Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation since August 1, 2011. Chen was Deputy General Manager-Administration and Human Resources in another company. Chen holds a Master's degree from National Chengchi University, Taiwan.
Mr. Pan Wenyan has been Director in Taiwan High Speed Rail Corp since January 20, 2006. Pan is also Chairman of the Board of Gintech Energy Corporation. Mr. Pan was Chairman of the Board and General Manager in CPC Corporation, Taiwan and Chairman of the Board in another company. Chen Chuanfei has been Deputy General Manager of Human Resources in Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation since August 1, 2011. Chen was Deputy General Manager-Administration and Human Resources in another company. Chen holds a Master's degree from National Chengchi University, Taiwan.
In 2007 and 2008 RailCorp was investigated by the Independent Commission Against Corruption. In a series of seven reports released during 2008, the ICAC reported that more than $21 million in improper contracts and deals through the procurement of services in just three years. In June 2009, RailCorp terminated the contract of Vicki Coleman, its Chief Information Officer, and it was claimed that she was at the centre of claims of dishonesty and corruption. The ICAC recommended charges against 33 people; yet by April 2012, only eight people had faced the courts.
A state-run enterprise needs to be distinguished from an ordinary limited liability corporation owned by the state. For example, in Finland, state-run enterprises (liikelaitos) are governed by a separate act. A state-run enterprise is technically not always a corporation, it might also be a separate state entity, or simply a governmental agency acting as an enterprise, perhaps having its own budget.
Other functions include network access, leasing and managing the NSW Government's contract with Airport Link Company. The acting chief executive of RailCorp is Sydney Trains chief executive Howard Collins. In June 2009, RailCorp terminated the contract of Vicki Coleman, its Chief Information Officer, and it was claimed that she was at the centre of claims of dishonesty and corruption. The ICAC recommended charges against 33 people; yet by April 2012, only eight people had faced the courts.
Edward L. Moyers, Jr. (October 3, 1928 – June 5, 2006) was an American railroad executive of the 20th century. He served as president and CEO of several railroads including MidSouth Rail, Illinois Central Railroad and Southern Pacific Railroad. In 1995, Railway Age magazine named Moyers its  Railroader of the Year . Family and early life [edit]. Edward, Jr., was the son of Edward L. and Lucille (Lewis) Moyers. He was born on October 3, 1928, near Meridian, Mississippi. Moyers graduated from Louisiana Tech University with a business degree in 1955.