German Meaning: The name Derek is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Derek is: Gifted ruler. From Theodoric. American Meaning: The name Derek is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Derek is: Gifted ruler. From Theodoric. In English the meaning of the name Derek is: Gifted ruler. People ruler.Old German TheodoricFamous bearer: Derrick was a 17th century hangman at Tyhurn, whose name became synonymous with 'gallows' and now refers to a type of crane.'Gifted ruler.'
Derek is primarily used in the Dutch, English, and German languages, and its language of origin is Gothic. The name is of the meaning ruler of the people. A two-element name, it is derived from the elements 'thiuda' meaning people, race; 'reiks' rich, powerful, ruler. An old form of Derek is Diederich (Germanic). 
Origin of the name Derek: Derived from a short form of the obsolete Germanic Thiudoreiks, a compound name composed from the Old German elements thiuda (folk, people) and reiks (ruler, leader, king). The name was brought to England in the Middle Ages by Flemish cloth traders. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Meaning: The German name Derek means-A short form of Theodoric, meaning light face, which signifies ruler of the people.. One of today's most popular Derks is actor Derek Jacobi, the star of I, Claudius. Rating: 
Meaning of Derek. English name. In English, the name Derek means-Gifted ruler. People ruler. Variant of the Old German TheodoricFamous bearer: Derrick was a 17th century hangman at Tyhurn, whose name became synonymous with gallows and now refers to a type of crane.Gifted ruler. From Theodoric.. From Theodoric.. Other origins for the name Derek include-English, German, German.The name Derek is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning
Derek /de-rek/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DARE-ik. It is of English and Old German origin, and the meaning of Derek is people's ruler. From Theodoric. Many phonetic variants have come into popular usuage. Basketball player Derrick Coleman; baseball player Derek Jeter.
The name Derek is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Derek is: Gifted ruler. People ruler.Old German TheodoricFamous bearer: Derrick was a 17th century hangman at Tyhurn, whose name became synonymous with 'gallows' and now refers to a type of crane.'Gifted ruler.' From Theodoric.
Derek is a male name. It is the English language short form of Dederik, the Low German form of the name Theodoric. Theodoric is an old Germanic name with an original meaning of  people-ruler . Common variants of the name are Derrek, Derick and Derrick, more rarely also Deryck or ' Derrok' .