Diastasis recti (also known as abdominal separation) is commonly defined as a gap of roughly 2.7 cm or greater between the two sides of the rectus abdominis muscle. This condition has no associated morbidity or mortality. Measurement of the width of separation is determined by the number of fingertips that can fit within the space between the left and right rectus abdominis muscles. Separation consisting of a width of 2 fingertips (approximately 1 1/2 centimeters) or more is the determining factor for diagnosing diastasis recti.
diastasis rec´ti abdo´minis separation of the rectus muscles of the abdominal wall, sometimes occurring during pregnancy. (dī-as'tă-sis), Avoid the mispronunciation diasta'sis. diastasis. 1. dislocation or separation of two normally attached bones between which there is no true joint. Also, an abnormally large separation between associated bones, as between the ribs. 2. diastasis cordis, the rest period of the cardiac cycle, occurring just before systole.
Diastasis means separation. Recti refers to your ab muscles called the rectus abdominis.. When the ab muscles move aside like this, the uterus, bowels, and other organs have only a thin band of connective tissue in front to hold them in place. “ Diastasis recti ” means your belly sticks out because the space between your left and right belly muscles has widened. You might call it a “pooch.”. It's very common among pregnant women. About two-thirds of pregnant women have it.
DEFINITION. The word diastasis means separation. So a diastasis recti is a separation of the rectus abdominis or the outermost abdominal muscles. When the muscles separate, the connective tissue that joins them, stretches sideways. The more it stretches sideways the thinner and weaker it becomes. With the tummy tuck, even in the situation where the diastasis is successfully stitched surgically, absolutley nothing has been done to change the strength, tone or function of the muscles forming the stomach and back.
diastasis recti. A separation of the two halves of the rectus abdominis muscles in the midline at the linea alba. The diastasis may require surgical repair depending upon its severity; it is benign in pregnant women.
Diastasis of this muscle occurs principally in two populations: newborns and pregnant women. It is also known to occur in men. 1  In the newborn, the rectus abdominis is not fully developed and may not be sealed together at midline. 2  Diastasis recti is more common in premature and black newborns. Measurement of the width of separation is determined by the number of fingertips that can fit within the space between the left and right rectus abdominis muscles. Separation consisting of a width of 2 fingertips (approximately 1 1/2 centimeters) or more is the determining factor for diagnosing diastasis recti.
Noun. 1. diastasis-separation of an epiphysis from the long bone to which it is normally attached without fracture of the bone. dislocation-a displacement of a part (especially a bone) from its normal position (as in the shoulder or the vertebral column). Translations. 
diastasis. [dī·as′təsis]. Etymology: Gk, separation. the forcible separation of two parts that are normally joined, such as parts of a bone at an epiphysis, two bones that lack a synovial joint, or two muscles, as in diastasis recti abdominis. diastasis. 1. dislocation or separation of two normally attached bones between which there is no true joint. Also, an abnormally large separation between associated bones, as between the ribs. 2. diastasis cordis, the rest period of the cardiac cycle, occurring just before systole.
Diastasis Recti is a separation of the rectus abdominus muscle. It is actually a stretching of the fascial attachments surrounding the rectus sheath as the muscles part or split. It is noticeable as a bulge in the midline of the abdominals when the trunk is flexed during pregnancy. 