All-New Pro Trailer Backup Assist for 2016 Ford F-150 Makes Backing Up and Parking a Trailer Easier Than Ever. 1  Pro Trailer Backup Assist ™ for the 2016 Ford F-150 makes it easier for drivers of all skill levels to back a trailer up to launch a boat or park in a driveway. Pro Trailer Backup Assist joins a suite of driver-assist technologies already available on the all-new 2015 F-150. Among these features is Curve Control, developed exclusively by Ford engineers to help in those cases where customers may enter a turn too quickly.
Ford trailering innovations and leadership. Pro Trailer Backup Assist for the 2016 F-150 is the latest in a long line of segment-first and class-exclusive Ford truck innovations and capabilities that make trailer towing easier. Others include: Pro Trailer Backup Assist joins a suite of driver-assist technologies already available on the all-new 2015 F-150. Among these features is Curve Control, developed exclusively by Ford engineers to help in those cases where customers may enter a turn too quickly.
For the 2016 model year, Ford is adding a trailer backup assist feature to the F-150 for backing up your trailer. It is a first for the segment, said Mike Bell, a vehicle dynamics engineer, and largely consists of software and a control knob on the dashboard. 2016 Ford F-150 adds trailer backup-assist feature. The Pro Trailer Backup Assist on the 2016 Ford F-150 is tested at Elizabeth Park Marina in Trenton.
Ford trailering innovations and leadership. Pro Trailer Backup Assist for the 2016 F-150 is the latest in a long line of segment-first and class-exclusive Ford truck innovations and capabilities that make trailer towing easier. It’s called the Pro Trailer Backup Assist and it utilizes the F-150’s new electronic steering system to remove the counterintuitive steering required when reversing with a trailer. It works by a hand-operated knob mounted low on the center console.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Pro Trailer Backup Assist for the 2016 Ford F-150 makes it easier for drivers of all skill levels to back a trailer up, such as when launching a boat or parking in a driveway. Pro Trailer Backup Assist is the latest example of Ford changing the way the world moves-- delivering smart solutions that save time and improve the productivity of customers, so they can spend more time on the job or enjoying the lake.
Utilizing the backup camera, electric steering, and some other sensors, Pro Trailer Backup Assist adds a sole control knob above the trailer brake controller to interior of the truck. After a brief setup with a trailer, the system is engaged using the on/off button in the center of the control knob. 
DEARBORN, Mich., May 21, 2015 – Ford, America's truck leader, pioneers towing innovation again by introducing Pro Trailer Backup Assist™ for the 2016 Ford F-150 – a segment-first technology that makes the challenge of backing up a trailer easier than ever for both experts and infrequent towers alike. Ford is preparing to debut a technology that takes the mystery out of reversing a trailer, with the new Pro Trailer Backup Assist. Available on the entire 2016 F-150 range, the system essentially allows owners to drive their trailers by way of a dash-mounted knob.
Ford trailering innovations and leadership. Pro Trailer Backup Assist for the 2016 F-150 is the latest in a long line of segment-first and class-exclusive Ford truck innovations and capabilities that make trailer towing easier. Ford is preparing to debut a technology that takes the mystery out of reversing a trailer, with the new Pro Trailer Backup Assist. Available on the entire 2016 F-150 range, the system essentially allows owners to drive their trailers by way of a dash-mounted knob.