Some places will pay you for plasma (not whole blood). United Blood Services and the Red Cross (the most reputable companies) do NOT pay for blood donation. And the amount you are paid by the others tends to vary....20 to 50 dollars usually. Elizabeth L · 9 years ago. They don't pay for blood but some places will pay for plasma donations. You get different amounts depending on how much you are able to give, which is decided by your weight. You can get around 25$ every week...at least thats what they paid a few years ago.
Average United Blood Services hourly pay ranges from approximately $10.19 per hour for Customer Service Representative to $20.31 per hour for Medical Technologist. The average United Blood Services salary ranges from approximately $24,000 per year for Care Specialist to $120,000 per year for Director. Salary information comes from 177 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed.
NO, THEY PAY YOU FOR PLASMA, 35 TO 40 DOLLARS THE FIRST TIME AND 25 TO 30 DOLLARS EACH TIME AFTER THAT. I DO BELIEVE THAT YOU CAN GIVE EVERY 3 DAYS. They don't pay for blood but some places will pay for plasma donations. You get different amounts depending on how much you are able to give, which is decided by your weight. You can get around 25$ every week...at least thats what they paid a few years ago.
Canadian Plasma Services was told it would not be given a licence by the province to open clinics in Toronto and Hamilton that would pay people $25 to donate plasma, said Matthews. Paying people to donate plasma would threaten Canada's voluntary blood donation system, said Matthews, who noted that 30,000 Canadians were infected with HIV and hepatitis C from contaminated blood and plasma purchased from blood brokers in the 1990s.
And this United Blood Services are making difference in people's lives by bringing together the best people, inspiring individuals to donate blood, producing a safe and ample blood supply, advancing cutting-edge research and embracing continuous quality improvement. Today, the United Blood Services non-profit community blood centers provide blood, blood components and special services to patients in more than 500 hospitals in 18 states from California to the gulf Coast, from the Tip o' Texas to the Canadian border.
Blood is a liquid that circulates through the body via a pathway of blood vessels, arteries and veins, carrying nutrients, oxygen, antibodies and other necessities of life to every cell and tissue throughout the entire body. Blood is also the means by which waste and waste byproducts are removed from the cells. Of course, we don’t have little vehicles speeding through our veins, so how does blood do this? Whole blood is made up of red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets, all which are suspended in a fluid called plasma. Each of these components of our blood has a very specific and important job. Red blood cells contain hemoglobin, a type of protein that gives blood its red color, and are primarily responsible for carrying fresh oxygen throughout the body while removing spent carbon dioxide
Report Abuse. NO, THEY PAY YOU FOR PLASMA, 35 TO 40 DOLLARS THE FIRST TIME AND 25 TO 30 DOLLARS EACH TIME AFTER THAT. I DO BELIEVE THAT YOU CAN GIVE EVERY 3 DAYS. YOU HAVE TO BE DRUG AND DISEASE FREE, SO DON'T EXPECT TO FIND A PLASMA CENTER IN SAN FRANSISCO. They don't pay for blood but some places will pay for plasma donations. You get different amounts depending on how much you are able to give, which is decided by your weight. You can get around 25$ every week...at least thats what they paid a few years ago.