[ 2 syll. ko-to, kot-o ] The baby girl name Koto is pronounced as K OW-Tow- †. Koto is primarily used in the Japanese language and it is also of Japanese origin. The name's meaning is harp. The Japanese name Kotoko is a form of Koto. Koto is rarely used as a baby name for girls. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In Japan, Kotoko is a girl's name that means 'Harp Child'. Koto means 'harp' and ko means 'child'. What does name mean and what is it? a word or a combination of words by which a person, place, or thing, a body or class, or any object of thought is designated, called, or known.
1 Kotoko's last name, “Utsugi” (空木), literally means “empty tree”, and is actually the Japanese name for a genus of shrub scientifically known as Deutzia. 2  Her given name is composed of the kanji 言, meaning “word” or “say”, and 子 - “child”. 1 Her given name is composed of the kanji 言, meaning “word” or “say”, and 子 - “child”. 2  It's stated in her profile that Kotoko likes peeled chestnuts and adorbs things and dislikes un-peeled chestnuts and regular cute things.
A person would be called by the word for an animal or force of nature in orde … r to bring valued attributes to that person. Later names described something about a person and referred to what they did, what they looked like or where they came from. As a result, most names derive from a word with some meaning. However, in many cases the knowledge of that meaning is lost in everyday usage ad is merely an interesting but trivial piece of information, not expected to reflect any actual aspect of the person using the name. What does name mean and what is it? a word or a combination of words by which a person, place, or thing, a body or class, or any object of thought is designated, called, or known.
[ syll. ko-to-ko, kot-oko ] The baby girl name Kotoko is pronounced as KAHT OW Kow †. Kotoko's origin and use are both in the Japanese language. Kotoko is a form of the Japanese name Koto. Kotoko is irregularly used as a baby girl name. Baby names that sound like Kotoko include Kadea, Kadeejah, Kadeesha, Kadeija, Kadeja, Kadesha, Kadeshia, Kadesia, Kadessa, Kadiesha, Kadija (African, Arabic, English, and Swahili), Kadijah (African, Arabic, and English), Kadisha, Kadya, Kadyja, Kadysha, Kaitaka, Kathia, Kathya, and Katica (Czech, Hungarian, and Slavic).
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. 
Please use this list of Japanese baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Kotoko in Japanese origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Self-awareness test of the baby. Performing the self-awareness test of the baby is quite simple. If you put a red dot on the baby’s forehead and show him the mirror, notice what he does.
Asante Kotoko Sporting Club, also known as Asante Kotoko or Ashanti Kotoko, is a professional football club from Kumasi, Ashanti. Based at Kumasi Sports Stadium they are competing in the Ghana Premier League. Asantehene King Prempeh II, is the first life patron of Asante Kotoko greeting Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Harold Macmillan, January 1960. The foundation of Kumasi Asante Kotoko Sporting Club was laid by 13 young Ashanti men led by a young driver, Mr. Kwasi Kumah, ably supported by L.Y.Asamoah an electrician.