Report Abuse. Eggs usually survive 12-24 hours after release. However, sometimes another egg is released within 24 hours of the first egg (how you get fraternal twins), which means you could still get pregnant 48 hours after ovulation. Its possible that's what happened-the timing for the spotting looks good. Best Answer: The egg typically survives no more than 12-24 hours after ovulation. But that doesn't mean you could get pregnant from making love shortly after ovulation. You usually can't. Studies have shown that you cannot usually get pregnant from making love
If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again. Ovulation can be calculated by starting with the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) or by calculating 12-16 days from the next expected period. Most women ovulate anywhere between Day 11 – Day 21 of their cycle, counting from the first day of the LMP.
Yes | No Thank you! sperm can live up to 5 days, not 3. a human egg is only viable for 12 to 24 hours, you can get pregnant anytime from about five days prior to ovulation to even occasionally two days after, for a total of about seven days. 
If fertilization does not occur within 24 to 48 hours after ovulation, the egg disintegrates and is expelled with the uterus lining at the start of your next period, usually 12-16 days later. Ovulation is the release of a single, mature egg from a follicle that developed in the ovary. It usually occurs regularly, around day 14 of a 28-day menstrual cycle. Once released, the egg is capable of being fertilized for 12 to 48 hours before it begins to disintegrate.
After ovulation, the egg lives for about 12-24 hours. Fertilization can take place only during this time period, but the sperm needs at least 9-12 hours inside the woman's body to get ready. That means, your chances getting pregnant are minimal if you make love more than 12 hours after ovulation
During the menstrual cycle, an egg is released from one of the woman’s ovaries and travels down the fallopian tube. The egg only lives for 24 hours after ovulation, and a sperm must meet the egg within that period for pregnancy to happen. 
How does ovulation determine my fertile days? Your fertile period starts about 4-5 days before ovulation, and ends about 24-48 hours after it. This is because sperm can live in your body for approximately 4 to 5 days, and the egg can live for 24 to 48 hours after being released. You are most fertile on the day before and the day of ovulation. Ovulation is the release of a single, mature egg from a follicle that developed in the ovary. It usually occurs regularly, around day 14 of a 28-day menstrual cycle. Once released, the egg is capable of being fertilized for 12 to 48 hours before it begins to disintegrate.
The second half of the cycle is called the luteal phase and is from the day of ovulation until the next period begins. The luteal phase has a more precise timeline and usually is only 12-16 days from the day of ovulation. This ultimately means that the day of ovulation will determine how long your cycle is. Ovulation can be calculated by starting with the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) or by calculating 12-16 days from the next expected period. Most women ovulate anywhere between Day 11 – Day 21 of their cycle, counting from the first day of the LMP.
The egg is fertilized by the sperms within 24 hours. The fertilized egg travels down the tube, sits around in there for about 3 days then heads to the uterus floating around looking for a nice cushion, finds it, and implants about five days after it heads out of the tubes. 