Selena Marie Gomez was born in Grand Prairie, Texas, on July 22, 1992, to Amanda Cornett and Ricardo Gomez. Her mother, commonly known as Mandy, gave birth to Gomez at the age of 16. Gomez began her career in show business in 2001 when she performed on the popular children's program Barney & Friends, as Gianna. 
Selena Gomez (born 22.07.1992). Selena Gomez is an American actress and singer best known for her role as Alex Russo in the Disney Channel's 'Wizards of Waverly Place'. Net worth: Selena Gomez net worth was estimated at $10 million according to Networthq (2014). Childhood: Selena Gomez was born in Grand Prairie, Texas. Her parents are Amanda Teefey, a stage actress, and Ricardo Gomez but they divorced when she was 5 and she was then raised by her mother. She was named after Mexican singer Selena and she developed an interest in acting from watching her mother act
Overview (4). Selena Marie Gomez was born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Mandy Teefey, who is of part Italian descent, and Ricardo Gomez, who is of Mexican descent and originally from New Mexico. Her parents divorced in 1997. She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, pérez who died almost three years After gomez was. Born she went To Danny Jones Middle school located In. Texas her first name means moon In. Greek she is a huge fan Of Johnny depp And Lady. sovereign
Selena Gomez was born on July 22, 1992. Selena Gomez was born in 1992. Selena Gomez is an American actress and singer, famous for her role on the Disney channel show Wizards o … f Waverly Place. She was born on July 22, 1992 in Grand Prairie, Texas. + 9 others found this useful. Darrell Crusenberry.
Selena Marie Gomez was born in Grand Prairie, Texas on July 22, 1992, to Ricardo Joel Gomez and former stage actress Amanda Dawn Mandy Cornett. Gomez was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez. Her father is of Mexican descent while her mother, who was adopted, has some Italian ancestry. Born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, she was first featured on the children's series Barney & Friends in the early 2000s. In 2007, Gomez came to prominence after being cast in the Disney Channel television series Wizards of Waverly Place.
Selena Marie Gomez was born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Mandy Teefey, who is of part Italian descent, and Ricardo Gomez, who is of Mexican descent and originally from New Mexico. Her parents divorced in 1997. Giving birth to Selena at 16, her mom Mandy recalls living paycheck-to-paycheck. 
Mini Bio (1). Selena Marie Gomez was born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Mandy Teefey, who is of part Italian descent, and Ricardo Gomez, who is of Mexican descent and originally from New Mexico. Her parents divorced in 1997. She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, pérez who died almost three years After gomez was. Born she went To Danny Jones Middle school located In. Texas her first name means moon In. Greek she is a huge fan Of Johnny depp And Lady. sovereign
Selena Quintanilla was born on April 16, 1971, in Lake Jackson, Texas. She was the youngest child of Marcella Ofelia Quintanilla (nee Née) samora who Had cherokee ancestry And Abraham, Quintanilla. , jr a Former Mexican american. musician Selena Quintanilla was born on April 16, 1971, in Lake Jackson, Texas. She was the youngest child of Marcella Ofelia Quintanilla (nee Née) samora who Had cherokee ancestry And Abraham, Quintanilla. , jr a Former Mexican american. Musician selena was raised as A'jehovah S. witness