Metaphase is the third phase of mitosis, the process that separates duplicated genetic material carried in the nucleus of a parent cell into two identical daughter cells. During metaphase, the cell's chromosomes align themselves in the middle of the cell through a type of cellular tug of war.. During metaphase, the kinetochore microtubules pull the sister chromatids back and forth until they align along the equator of the cell, called the equatorial plane. There is an important checkpoint in the middle of mitosis, called the metaphase checkpoint, during which the cell ensures that it is ready to divide.
cytokinesis. Cytokinesis is the physical process of cell division, which divides the cytoplasm of a parental cell into two daughter cells. It occurs concurrently with two types of nuclear division called mitosis and meiosis, which occur in animal cells. 
Definition of EQUATOR. 1. : the great circle of the celestial sphere whose plane is perpendicular to the axis of the earth. 2. : a great circle of the earth or a celestial body that is everywhere equally distant from the two poles and divides the surface into the northern and southern hemispheres. 3. a: a circle or circular band dividing the surface of a body into two usually equal and symmetrical parts. 4.
Cell plate. Definition. noun. A disc like structure in the plane of the equator of the spindle that separates the two sets of chromosomes during cytokinesis; also involved in the formation of cell wall between the two daughter cells following cell division. Supplement. 
The Hadley cell, named after George Hadley, is a tropical atmospheric circulation which features rising motion near the equator, poleward flow 10–15 kilometers above the surface, descending motion in the subtropics, and equatorward flow near the surface. 
Definition of HADLEY CELL. : a pattern of atmospheric circulation in which warm air rises near the equator, cools as it travels poleward at high altitude, sinks as cold air, and warms as it travels equatorward; also: a similar atmospheric circulation pattern on another planet (as Mars). ADVERTISEMENT.
Answers. Best Answer: Mitosis is the process of cell division. The cell equator, or equatorial plate, is when the nucleus has broken down, and the chromosomes are lengthening, and forming a line in the middle of the cell. This happend during Metaphase. This line is called the cell equator
2. (Science: astronomy) The great circle of the celestial sphere, coincident with the plane of the earth's equator; so called because when the sun is in it, the days and nights are of equal length; hence called also the equinoctial, and on maps, globes, etc, the equinoctial line. 3. (Science: astronomy) equator of the sun or of a planet, the great circle whose plane passes through through the center of the body, and is perpendicular to its axis of revolution. Origin: L. Aequator one who equalizes: cf. F. Equateur equator.