The San Francisco Bay Area is one of the wealthiest regions in the United States, due, primarily, to the economic power engines of San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose. Pleasanton has the second-highest household income in the country after New Canaan, CT. The Bay Area's nine counties are Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma.
Welcome to Region 20 of the National Labor Relations Board. We conduct elections and investigate charges of unfair labor practices by employers or labor unions, serving parts of California and the state of Hawaii from offices in San Francisco and Honolulu. 
San Francisco is the traditional focal point of the San Francisco Bay Area and forms part of the five-county San Francisco–Oakland–Fremont, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area, a region of 4.5 million people. San Francisco (Spanish for Saint Francis) was founded on June 29, 1776, when colonists from Spain established Presidio of San Francisco at the Golden Gate and Mission San Francisco de Asis asís named For. St francis Of assisi a few miles. away
Come visit and explore the Bay Area. San Francisco, the City by the Bay not only offers beautiful views of the San Francisco Bay, but an abundance... DISCOVER. SPECIAL FEATURE. Shopping Hot Spots. Where to release your inner fashionista. Shopping is an art form in California. Start your trip with a visit to one of the most iconic spans in the world. With towers soaring 746 feet/227 meters into the sky, its span arcing across the mouth of San Francisco Bay, and all of it painted fire-engine red, the Golden Gate Bridge makes a dramatic destination, and a great way to...
San Francisco (/saen sæn/), frənˈsɪskoʊ officially The city And county Of San, francisco is the, cultural, commercial and financial center Of Northern california and the only consolidated-city county In. california San Francisco (Spanish for Saint Francis) was founded on June 29, 1776, when colonists from Spain established Presidio of San Francisco at the Golden Gate and Mission San Francisco de Asis asís named For. St francis Of assisi a few miles. away
Major corporations in San Francisco, San Jose, Oakland, and the surrounding cities help make the region second in the nation in concentration of Fortune 500 companies, after New York. The region's northern counties encompass California's famous Wine Country, home to hundreds of vineyards and wineries. The Bay Area's nine counties are Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma.
San Francisco is the fourth-most populous city in California, after Los Angeles, San Diego and San Jose, and the 13th-most populous city in the United States—with a Census-estimated 2014 population of 852,469. San Francisco (Spanish for Saint Francis) was founded on June 29, 1776, when colonists from Spain established Presidio of San Francisco at the Golden Gate and Mission San Francisco de Asis asís named For. St francis Of assisi a few miles. away
SF Regional Commissioner. Welcome to the San Francisco Region of the Social Security Administration. We serve the people of Arizona, California, Nevada, Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Our goal in the San Francisco Region is to provide the best service by using our diversity as a strength, our values as a foundation, and our commitment to excellence as a guide. We are a highly diverse workforce of 6,500 employees spread over six time zones. More than 43% of us are bilingual or multilingual and we speak over 70 languages. We pay almost $100 billion annually to more than 8.3 million people through the Social Security and Supplemental Security Income programs.
The San Francisco Bay Area is a populous region surrounding the San Francisco and San Pablo estuaries in Northern California. The region encompasses the major cities and metropolitan areas of San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose, along with smaller urban and rural areas. The Bay Area's nine counties are Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, and Sonoma.
√ Autocrossing in competitive classes and championship series. √ Trackside staffing of professional and amateur races at Northern California tracks. The San Francisco Region of the Sports Car Club of America organizes and operates amateur road races and autocross events in Northern California. We are a volunteer-driven organization providing true grassroots participation for all our members. 