Onions contain generous amounts of flavonoid quercetin that is useful for not only congestion, but many chronic diseases. Its vitamin and mineral contents are vitamin C, iron, calcium, carotene, phosphorus, thiamine, riboflavin and niacin. Onions are a powerful “medicine” that are easy to afford and keep on hand.
Gargle. A good gargle is one of the best remedies for chest congestion. It can break up the mucus that causes congestion and get rid of the inflammation that worsens congestion. 1  Stir 1 teaspoon of salt into 1 cup of warm water until it dissolves. 2  Tip your head back, pour the water in, and gargle for at least 30 seconds.
Onion is a good remedy for chest congestion. It has quercetin that helps dissolve the mucus. Plus, it prevents further buildup of mucus in the chest. Its antimicrobial properties also help prevent infection. 1  Extract the juice of 1 onion. 2  Add equal amounts of lemon juice, honey and water.
Onion poultices are time tested herbal remedies and treatments for chest congestion and other symptoms of colds and flu. A poultice is simple and easy to make. The onion poultice is a powerful home remedy you can use for your whole family.
Another trick that helps loosen chest congestion is the warm onion press. Cut an onion into thick slices, and warm slightly*. Lay the warmed slices down in the center of a tea towel or large bandanna/hankie. Cover with a plastic bag, and fold the corners up over so you have a pack.
A good gargle is one of the best remedies for chest congestion. It can break up the mucus that causes congestion and get rid of the inflammation that worsens congestion. 1  Stir 1 teaspoon of salt into 1 cup of warm water until it dissolves.
Onion poultices are time tested herbal remedies and treatments for chest congestion and other symptoms of colds and flu. A poultice is simple and easy to make. The onion poultice is a powerful home remedy you can use for your whole family. And, onions are readily available and affordable!
1 To use onions as a home remedy against chest congestion extract juice of one onion and mix equal parts lemon juice, honey and water to make a mixture. 2  Use this mixture lukewarm everyday for relief. 3  Sauteing sautéing sliced onions in olive oil and eating also cures. 
You can use fresh onion juice as one of the home remedies for chest congestion. You can take one teaspoonful of fresh onion juice every morning to clear the chest congestion. Another important home remedy for chest congestion is to take fresh onion juice along with honey mixed in equal proportion.