Method 2 of 2: Mentos and Foam Volcano. 1. Buy a 2 l (67.6oz) bottle of carbonated soda. 2. Make a cardboard tray and cut a hole in it that is equal to the size of the 2 l bottle. 1  Use very sturdy cardboard for this tray. 2  You can also use several thick sheets of cardboard for a stronger base.
The cinder cone of the volcano is formed using clay or dough. You'll need a lot less 'volcano' material if you make a general volcano shape out of paper and then just cover it with clay. You will need warm water, baking soda, liquid dishwashing detergent, and vinegar to make the lava for your volcano. Stumble. Post. Share. The baking soda and vinegar volcano is the classic chemical volcano that you see at science fairs. Watch how easy it is to make a chemical volcano that produces a memorable eruption.
You will need. 1  A volcano – Talk to an art teacher about how to make a volcano out of paper mache or plaster. 2  You can also use clay or if you’re in a hurry to make your volcano, use a mound of dirt outside. 3  A container that 35mm film comes in, and old pill bottle, a baby food jar, or similar size container. 1
1 Bury a small, wide-necked bottle (a baby food jar) or a can inside a mountain of sand. 2  Add 4 teaspoons of baking soda to the bottle. 3  Mix together 1/2 cup water, 1/4 cup dishwashing liquid, 1/4 cup vinegar, and a dash of red food coloring. 4  Pour some of the mixture inside the small bottle and wait for the eruption. 1 Discuss with students what elements are necessary for a volcano to erupt (a build-up of pressure that can't be released, magma material). 2  Bury a small, wide-necked bottle (a baby food jar) or a can inside a mountain of sand. 3
3. Form the outside of the volcano. You can make the outside from clay, playdough, dirt, soil, or tin foil. Paint it brown and black to make it look more realistic. Let it set until it is all dry. 4. Pour your hydrogen peroxide. Get a bottle of hydrogen peroxide from a beauty supply store. You will need a 6% solution (usually labeled as “20-volume”. Pour half a cup of the hydrogen peroxide into the container in your volcano. 1 Make sure to add the right amount of the ingredients, or it might end up wrong. 2  If you are a kid, Make sure to have an older person to guide you. 3  Make sure you put your volcano on a newspaper or a table so you won't get messy.
1 Add 4 teaspoons of baking soda to the bottle. 2  Mix together 1/2 cup water, 1/4 cup dishwashing liquid, 1/4 cup vinegar, and a dash of red food coloring. 3  Pour some of the mixture inside the small bottle and wait for the eruption. 4  If nothing happens right away, stir it up. 1 Discuss with students what elements are necessary for a volcano to erupt (a build-up of pressure that can't be released, magma material). 2  Bury a small, wide-necked bottle (a baby food jar) or a can inside a mountain of sand. 3 
Make the Volcano Cone. You can use a bottle or can or really any container for your volcanic eruption, but it’s easy to make the volcano shape by coating your container with clay or papier mache. Here is a simple recipe for a homemade clay volcano: 1  6 cups flour. 2  2 cups salt. 3  2 cups water. 4  4 tablespoons cooking oil. 5  2 cups water. 
We're going to show you how to make a baking soda and vinegar chemical volcano. This volcano is the classic model volcano for science projects. You form the cone of the volcano around a bottle and then mix non-toxic kitchen chemicals to cause the volcano to erupt. Stumble. Post. Share. The baking soda and vinegar volcano is the classic chemical volcano that you see at science fairs. Watch how easy it is to make a chemical volcano that produces a memorable eruption.
Place a funnel in the mouth of the volcano, so that it reaches into your plastic bottle. Add 2 tbsp. (28g) of baking soda. 8. Mix 1 tsp. (4.9ml) of dish soap, 1 oz. (29.6ml) of vinegar and several drops of red and yellow food coloring in a separate container. 9. Ready your volcano for the eruption. 2. Make a cardboard tray and cut a hole in it that is equal to the size of the 2 l bottle. 1  Use very sturdy cardboard for this tray. 2  You can also use several thick sheets of cardboard for a stronger base.