Here's what the US food pyramid says: Dry beans and peas can be counted either as vegetables (dry beans and peas subgroup), or in the meat, poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, and nuts (meat and beans) group. Generally, individuals who regularly eat meat, poultry, and fish would count dry beans and peas in the vegetable group. 1. If the total is equal to or more than the suggested intake from the meat and beans group (which ranges from 2 ounce-equivalents at 1000 calories to 7 ounce-equivalents at 2800 calories and above) then count any dry beans or peas eaten as part of the dry beans and peas subgroup in the vegetable group. OR. 2.
1 Add the celery, carrots, onion, ½ teaspoon salt, and ¼ teaspoon black pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 5 to 7 minutes. 2  Stir in the tomato paste and cook until slightly darkened, 1 minute. 3  Add the vegetable broth, green beans, chickpeas, and frozen peas. Directions. 1  Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat. 2  Add the celery, carrots, onion, ½ teaspoon salt, and ¼ teaspoon black pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 5 to 7 minutes. 3
1 Stir in the tomato paste and cook until slightly darkened, 1 minute. 2  Add the vegetable broth, green beans, chickpeas, and frozen peas. 3  Simmer until the vegetables are tender, 15 to 20 minutes. Directions. 1  Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat. 2  Add the celery, carrots, onion, ½ teaspoon salt, and ¼ teaspoon black pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 5 to 7 minutes. 3 
Choose dried beans or beans canned with less sodium. Select dried beans that are dry, firm, clean, uniform in color and not shriveled. How to Store. Store dried beans at room temperature, in a closed container to protect from moisture and pests. Store canned beans at room temperature – use before date on can. 
1 Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat. 2  Add the celery, carrots, onion, ½ teaspoon salt, and ¼ teaspoon black pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 5 to 7 minutes. 3  Stir in the tomato paste and cook until slightly darkened, 1 minute. Directions. 1 
Legumes — a class of vegetables that includes beans, peas and lentils — are among the most versatile and nutritious foods available. Legumes are typically low in fat, contain no cholesterol, and are high in folate, potassium, iron and magnesium. They also contain beneficial fats and soluble and insoluble fiber. Dried beans and legumes, with the exceptions of black-eyed peas and lentils, require soaking in room-temperature water, a step that rehydrates them for more even cooking. Before soaking, pick through the beans, discarding any discolored or shriveled ones or any foreign matter.
Beans and peas are the mature forms of legumes. They include kidney beans, pinto beans, black beans, lima beans, black-eyed peas, garbanzo beans (chickpeas), split peas and lentils. They are available in dry, canned, and frozen forms. Individuals can count beans and peas as either a vegetable or a protein food. Green peas, green lima beans, and green (string) beans are not considered to be part of the beans and peas subgroup. Green peas and green lima beans are similar to other starchy vegetables and are grouped with them.
REBECANOLA Posts: 3,285 1/27/09 3:50 P. Beans are considered vegetables. Beans like kidney or garbanzo are just dry unlike green beans or sugar snap peas or something. I shall stay the way I am because I do not give a damn. 1. If the total is equal to or more than the suggested intake from the meat and beans group (which ranges from 2 ounce-equivalents at 1000 calories to 7 ounce-equivalents at 2800 calories and above) then count any dry beans or peas eaten as part of the dry beans and peas subgroup in the vegetable group. OR. 2.
The chickpea or chick pea (Cicer arietinum) is a legume of the family Fabaceae, subfamily Faboideae. It is also known as gram, or Bengal gram, garbanzo or garbanzo bean, and sometimes known as Egyptian pea, ceci, cece or chana, or Kabuli chana (particularly in northern India). Its seeds are high in protein. It is one of the earliest cultivated legumes: 7,500-year-old remains have been found in the Middle East. Hummus is the Arabic word for chickpeas, which are often cooked and ground into a paste and mixed with tahini (sesame seed paste), the blend called hummus bi tahini, or chickpeas are roasted, spiced, and eaten as a snack, such as leblebi.