Inbound International Flights. You may carry liquids more than 3.4 oz or 100 ml in your carry-on bag if: 1  You are traveling internationally to the United States with a connecting flight. 2  They are in transparent containers. 3  You bought them at a duty-free shop where it is packed in a secure, tamper-evident bag.
The maximum dimensions for a carry-on bag are 9 inches x 14 inches x 22 inches (22 cm x 35 cm x 56 cm), including handles and wheels. The maximum dimensions for your personal item, such as a shoulder bag, backpack, laptop bag or other small item, are 9 inches x 10 inches x 17 inches (22 cm x 25 cm x 43 cm). To determine if a bag will fit onboard, bag sizers will be available in the airport lobby. Once at the gate, any item in excess of the carry-on baggage size or allowance requirements will be checked to your final destination and may be subject to applicable service charges. Carry-on items that are acceptable to transport in the cabin but are fragile or bulky will be considered cabin-seat baggage
1 The maximum size carry-on bag for most airlines is 45 linear inches (the total of the height, width, and depth of the bag). 2  Anything larger should be checked. 3  No oversize packages or luggage can be stowed onboard. Think Small…. 1  The maximum size carry-on bag for most airlines is 45 linear inches (the total of the height, width, and depth of the bag). 2  Anything larger should be checked.
Dimensions. A traveler who brings carry-on luggage onto a United flight must bring a bag that is less than 22 inches tall. The luggage also needs to be less than than 14 inches wide and 9 inches deep. Space Issues. Any luggage that you bring on a United flight must be able to fit under your seat or in an overhead bin. In some instances -- particularly if you are among the last to board a plane -- there might not be a lot of room left to store a bag in an overhead bin.
Ensure your carry-on luggage conforms to airline regulations with these tips. For example, airlines individually determine the acceptable carry-on size, so don't let a false FAA-approved luggage claim determine what you buy. 
3-1-1 for carry-ons = 3.4 ounce (100ml) bottle or less (by volume) ; 1 quart-sized, clear, plastic, zip-top bag; 1 bag per passenger placed in screening bin. One-quart bag per person limits the total liquid volume each traveler can bring. 3.4 ounce (100ml) container size is a security measure. Be prepared. Each container must be 3.4 ounces (100ml) or smaller. All liquids, gels and aerosols must be placed in a single, quart-size, zip-top, clear plastic bag. Gallon size bags or bags that are not zip-top such as fold-over sandwich bags are not allowed.
Liquids Rule. You are allowed to bring a quart-sized bag of liquids, aerosols, gels, creams and pastes in your carry-on bag and through the checkpoint. These are limited to 3.4 ounces (100 milliliters) or less per item. Placing these items in the small bag separate from your carry-on baggage facilitates the screening process. You may carry liquids more than 3.4 oz or 100 ml in your carry-on bag if: 1  You are traveling internationally to the United States with a connecting flight. 2  They are in transparent containers. 3  You bought them at a duty-free shop where it is packed in a secure, tamper-evident bag.
In order to keep the passenger compartment uncluttered and safe, the airlines place rules and size limits on the luggage that each traveler can carry on the plane. The primary rule is the size limit stating that bags carried on board must be small enough to store below your seat or in the overhead compartment. Currently the basic rule is that carry on baggage must be no taller than 22 inches, no wider than 14 inches, and no deeper than 9 inches. In many cases, you'll also have to contend with limits on weight. 