The mitochondria also orchestrate the orderly death of cells (see also Cell Death and ALS). Mitochondria play a role for removing cells when they are not needed in the growing animal, or later, in an adult, if cells are not working properly. Mitochondria are especially critical to the motor neurons that die in ALS, as these cells must meet extraordinary demands for cellular energy. Researchers report damage to the mitochondria in the cells of mice with mutated SOD1.
View full size image. Mitochondria are specialized structures unique to the cells of animals, plants and fungi. They serve as batteries, powering various functions of the cell and the organism as a whole. Though mitochondria are an integral part of the cell, evidence shows that they evolved from primitive bacteria. Mitochondria are unlike most organelles (with an exception of plant chloroplasts) in that they have their own set of DNA and genes that encode proteins. Plant mitochondria were first observed by Friedrich Meves in 1904, as mentioned by Ernster and Schatz (Journal of Cell Biology, 1981).
Mitochondrion structure. Mitochondria are the energy factories of the cells. The energy currency for the work that animals must do is the energy-rich molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The ATP is produced in the mitochondria using energy stored in food. Just as the chloroplasts in plants act as sugar factories for the supply of ordered molecules to the plant, the mitochondria in animals and plants act to produce the ordered ATP molecules as the energy supply for the processes of life. So the cell will have a lot of structures that are capable of producing a high amount of available energy. This ATP production by the mitochondria is done by the process of respiration, which in essence is the use of oxygen in a process which generates energy.
Mitochondria poses their own DNA, they reproduce and respire. Mitochondria are similar to bacteria in many ways. A good theory on the origin of mitochondria is that a bacteria survived after being engulfed by a larger cell, and formed a mutual symbiosis. Added: The mitochondria is the source of the cell's ATP; the energy currency of the cell. Food eaten is oxidized and through final process of oxidative phosphorylation ATP is synthesized and the cell can do it's work.
Mitochondria are specialized structures unique to the cells of animals, plants and fungi. They serve as batteries, powering various functions of the cell and the organism as a whole. Mitochondria are unlike most organelles (with an exception of plant chloroplasts) in that they have their own set of DNA and genes that encode proteins. Plant mitochondria were first observed by Friedrich Meves in 1904, as mentioned by Ernster and Schatz (Journal of Cell Biology, 1981).
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. A considerable variation can be seen in the structure and size of this organelle. Unless specifically stained, they are not visible.
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.
Mitochondria themselves carry out cellular respiration and create en … ergy (ATP) for eukaryotic cells-for this reason they are sometimes called the powerhouse of the cell. Mitochondria are found in all eukaryotic cells to turn any kind of food into energy, whether that organism created it or not. Added: The mitochondria is the source of the cell's ATP; the energy currency of the cell. Food eaten is oxidized and through final process of oxidative phosphorylation ATP is synthesized and the cell can do it's work.
Mitochondria Mitochondria are rod-shaped organelles that can be considered the power generators of the cell, converting oxygen and nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the chemical energy currency of the cell that powers the cell's metabolic activities. 
Mitochondria cannot be made from scratch because they need both mitochondrial and nuclear gene products. These organelles replicate by dividing in two, using a process similar to the simple, asexual form of cell division employed by bacteria. Video microscopy shows that mitochondria are incredibly dynamic. They are constantly dividing, fusing, and changing shape. Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.