If you want all the taste without the work, frozen artichoke hearts are quite good and a heck of a lot easier to work with. Once the artichokes are in the jar and covered with their pickling liquid, tuck the jar into the fridge and let it mellow for at least a day. 
Find recipes for stuffed artichokes, artichoke dip, artichoke lasagna, and more, complete with steaming tips and how-to videos. Good and good for you: Easy, healthy, tasty recipes delivered to your inbox. 
Benefits of Artichoke Leaf Extract for the Heart Thanks to Cholesterol-Lowering Effects. One of the most researched medicinal properties of artichoke leaf extract is its ability to fight high cholesterol levels, one of the key pre-cursors to coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis (fatty deposits in blood vessels). Just like the leaves, the heart and inner leaves of the globe artichoke contain cynarin, the compound that is believed to be largely responsible for the positive effects of artichoke leaf supplements on cholesterol levels.
Add the prepared leeks, artichokes, garlic, potato, lettuce, parsley, and mint leaves. Add some salt for seasoning and 1/2 cup of water, stirring constantly until all the vegetables have softened-about 5 minutes. Add the fresh peas and remaining water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for about 20 minutes. 
The potential health benefits of artichoke hearts range from detoxifying and liver-cleansing effects to cholesterol-lowering properties. These juicy flower buds are also a real superfood when it comes to antioxidant activity. Just like the leaves, the heart and inner leaves of the globe artichoke contain cynarin, the compound that is believed to be largely responsible for the positive effects of artichoke leaf supplements on cholesterol levels.
The Nutrition of Artichokes. Artichokes are one of the most attractive vegetables. The artichoke is a large thistle that belongs to the sunflower family. The green vegetable has several thick pointed leaves attached to a central heart. It resembles a large flower bud on top of a slender stalk. The soft petal bases and heart of the vegetable are the edible portions.
Artichoke leaf supplements may be all the rage these days, but cooked artichoke hearts – the soft edible flower buds of the Globe Artichoke – deserve their own spotlight. Just like the leaves, the heart and inner leaves of the globe artichoke contain cynarin, the compound that is believed to be largely responsible for the positive effects of artichoke leaf supplements on cholesterol levels.
In addition to all these important minerals, artichokes are a good source of fiber (12% of the RDV), vitamin C (10% of the RDV), and folate (10% of the RDV). Artichokes are low in calories and sodium, have no fat and no cholesterol. All this means that artichokes, as a part of a low-fat, high-fiber diet, can help reduce the risk of certain types of heart disease, cancers and birth defects. If you want more information, you can follow the link below. It will bring up approximately 500,000 articles on artichoke nutrition.
Artichoke hearts are also an excellent source of fiber, with 100 grams (3.5 oz) of cooked artichoke accounting for a whopping 34% of the daily value for fiber. Just like the leaves, the heart and inner leaves of the globe artichoke contain cynarin, the compound that is believed to be largely responsible for the positive effects of artichoke leaf supplements on cholesterol levels.
Artichokes provide the important minerals magnesium, chromium, manganese, potassium, phosphorus, iron and calcium. For example, that 25 calorie artichoke provides 6% of the Recommended Daily Value of phosphorus, 10% of magnesium, 8% of manganese, 10% of chromium, 5% of potassium, 4% of iron and 2% of calcium and iron. All this means that artichokes, as a part of a low-fat, high-fiber diet, can help reduce the risk of certain types of heart disease, cancers and birth defects. If you want more information, you can follow the link below. It will bring up approximately 500,000 articles on artichoke nutrition.