Popliteus tendonitis or injury is inflammation or injury to the small muscle at the back of the knee called the popliteus. The role of the popliteus muscle is to internally rotate the tibia or shin bone. Symptoms include pain at the back of the knee joint with tenderness when pressing in. Pain may be reproduced when the knee is bent against resistance whilst the lower leg or tibia bone is rotated outwards. Referred pain is where an injury or problem elsewhere causes pain at the back of the knee. This can be from the lower back or lumbar spine and pain is referred down into the knee through the sciatic nerve.
Popliteus Injury. The Popliteus is a small muscle located at the back of the knee joint. An injury or strain to the muscle or tendon can cause pain at the back of the knee. Symptoms of a popliteus injury include pain at the back of the knee joint. There will be tenderness when pressing in at the back of the knee. Pain will be reproduced when the knee is bent against resistance whilst the lower leg or tibia bone is rotated outwards. Athletes with this injury commonly have tight hamstrings.
One of the more common causes of pain in the back of the knee joint, specifically, is a popliteal synovial cyst, which is also known as a baker’s cyst. This fluid-filled cyst at the back of the leg often forms in response to arthritis or other cartilage damage. A tear to the cartilage-like meniscus can also result in pain in the back of the knee, depending upon what sort of tear occurs. Pain and swelling behind the knee is common with a meniscus tear; the severity of the pain and whether the stability of the knee is compromised depends upon the extent of the tear.
Pain Behind Knee. Moderate to severe pain behind knee joint is a leading cause of disability in middle-aged to elderly population since knee is the primary weight bearing joint of the body that is responsible for locomotion. In certain conditions (when the cause of pain behind knee is an organic, infectious, cystic or inflammatory lesion), surgical manipulation is needed. The choice of procedure is dependent upon the extent of bone involvement and residual bone damage.
The knee is made up of bone, cartilage, ligaments and fluid. A traumatic impact on the knee or too much joint strain can cause ligament injury. This type of injury is very common and can happen to anyone. A sudden impact on the knee, participation in sports or even an accident can cause a torn or pulled ligament, which will result in pain behind knee. 
An accident or fall with the knee extended is a common cause of pain behind the knee. Occasionally hyperextension from a sports injury (or aggressive activity) can tear the muscle. Chronic overuse. Excessive running such as in a marathon can lead to pain behind the knee. 
Find an Orthopedic Specialist Near You. However, behind knee pain may be a symptom of deep vein thrombosis (blood clot in the leg), which is a serious and life-threatening condition. The blood clot can break loose and cause a pulmonary embolism in the lung, a heart attack, or even stroke. If you experience pain behind the knee and calf with painful swelling and bruises, seek immediate emergency medical care. If your symptoms persist or cause you concern, contact a medical professional.
Behind knee pain is discomfort or soreness behind the knee joint. It may occur with or without movement and can be severe enough to limit movement. People may describe behind knee pain as discomfort, inflammation, increased warmth or burning, soreness, stiffness, or pain. If you experience pain behind the knee and calf with painful swelling and bruises, seek immediate emergency medical care. If your symptoms persist or cause you concern, contact a medical professional.
Pain behind the knee aka posterior knee pain can be due to a number of problems. Sometimes is develops gradually over time indicating and underlying knee condition and other times it develops suddenly due to an injury. Some people complain of a general achy back of knee pain, others find their leg movements may be restricted by swelling or there may be a sharp pain at the back of the knee. Here we will look at the most common causes of pain behind the knee.