Roman Forum. The Roman Forum (Forum Romanum) was the central area of the city around which ancient Rome developed. Here was where commerce, business, prostitution, cult and the administration of justice took place. Space where religious activities were conducted and the communal hearth of the city. 
– Prosper of Aquitaine. The Roman forum is located in between the Palatine hill and Capitoline hill in the center of Rome. It is one of the most popular and most visited sights of Rome and it is also sometimes known by its original name “Forum Romanum”. The important and the oldest structures of the ancient Rome city are located inside the forum which also includes royal residence “The Regia” and a complex “Vestal Virgins”. The Roman forum was covered with grass but the Romans drained the area to make it as the center of social and political activity.
It is the main area where the ancient roman civilization was developed. The Roman forum was the political and economic centre of Rome during republic. Citizens of Rome sometimes refer the location as “Forum Magnum “or sometimes just “Forum”. The important and the oldest structures of the ancient Rome city are located inside the forum which also includes royal residence “The Regia” and a complex “Vestal Virgins”. The Roman forum was covered with grass but the Romans drained the area to make it as the center of social and political activity.
The Roman Forum is situated in the area between Piazza Venezia and the Colosseum is one of the most important archaeological sites in the world. 
The Roman Forum is located in a valley that is between the Palatine hill and the Capitoline hill. It originally was a marsh, but the Romans drained the area and turned it into a center of political and social activity. The Forum was the marketplace of Rome and also the business district and civic center. 
Roman Forum location. The Roman Forum is located between the Palatine Hill and the Capitoline Hill in Rome, Italy. The cemetery is situated in the area between Piazza Venezia and the Colosseum. For the exact location of the Roman Forum, check out the location map to the right. 
Area and Archaeology of the Forum Romanum. The Roman Forum (Forum Romanum) began as a market place, but became the economic, political, and religious hub, town square, and center of all Rome. Ridges connecting the Capitoline Hill with the Quirinal, and the Palatine with the Esquiline, enclosed the Forum Romanum.
Hotel Forum Rome is conveniently located on Via dei Fori Imperiali, the thoroughfare that leads processions starting from the Colosseum all the way through the Ancient Rome up to the contemporary Piazza Venezia and the Vittoriano, one of the symbols of the stunning italian capital. Located in the very heart of the eternal city the Hotel Forum Rome is pleased to welcome you in one of the finest 4 star of the historical centre, overlooking the Imperial Forums and the Colosseum, masterpieces of the most magnificent archaeological site of the whole planet.