* Vietnam can belong to either or both formal regions. This is because the northern portion of what is now Vietnam participated in the civilization shared by what is now China, Japan, and Korea; the southern areas of Vietnam were more closely linked with the civilization shared by South Asia/India and its neighbors.
What is a region? is a reasonable question. Regions are to geographers what eras, ages, and periods are to historians. Such terms are concepts that allow us to organize and identify periods of time and areas of space/place that share certain characteristics. This is because the northern portion of what is now Vietnam participated in the civilization shared by what is now China, Japan, and Korea; the southern areas of Vietnam were more closely linked with the civilization shared by South Asia/India and its neighbors.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Katz2. Confidence votes 31.2K. A functional region is a type of region that is characterized by its function such as a drainage basin, city-region, or a metropolitan area. Answer 1   A Functional region is a place that relies on the core city for the  most part.    They still do need support from the outer smaller cities but get  mo … st of their help from the bigger most thriving cities.    Answer 2   A type of region characterized by its function
Often, the Vietnamese government groups the various provinces into eight regions: Northwest, Northeast, Red River Delta, North Central Coast, South Central Coast, Central Highlands, Southeast, and Mekong River Delta. These regions are not always used, and alternative classifications are possible. South Central Coast (Nam Trung Bộ) contains seven coastal provinces and a municipality Da Nang in the southern half of Vietnam's central part. Vietnam is wider at this point than in the North Central Coast region, and so the inland areas are separate provinces.
Thailand is generally divided into 4 main regions: 1. The North-sometimes called Lanna 2. The NorthEast or Issan 3. Central Thailand of Glang Muang 4. The South or Bak Thai Each region has it's own dialect, though Pasa Glang Muang is considered to be 'correct' Thai and is taught in the schools & used on most TV shows. In addition there are some differences in culture and cuisine. In addition to the 4 traditional regions, there are 76 formal provinces.
Formal region description _______ Functional Region description____ Perceptual region... show more I have to do a paper on Muscat, Oman and im having a bit of trouble understanding what it means when it says, choose at least one description to describe the region in which your city belongs. Formal region description _______. Functional Region description____. Perceptual region description_____. I Guess my question is what do formal functional and perceptual mean, P.S. this is my first question, it would be nice to know if i did anything wrong with asking. thanks.
Individual countries comprise formal regions, as do areas of common religion or climate, or areas in which rice or fishing dominate. Each such formal region is defined by a set of criteria that is reasonably common or homogeneous across an area. This is because the northern portion of what is now Vietnam participated in the civilization shared by what is now China, Japan, and Korea; the southern areas of Vietnam were more closely linked with the civilization shared by South Asia/India and its neighbors.
In lesson 1 you learned about three types of regions; in this lesson we will take a closer look at each. Functional region: A region that is made up of different places that are linked and function as a unit. You are probably familiar with many functional regions. Functional regions are often organized around a central point. A shopping center surrounded by neighborhoods is one example of a functional region. Another example is a large city that is connected to the suburbs by a mass transit system. In some ways, the United States and its associated territories work as a functional unit. 
Thailand is a Kingdom in Southeast Asia. It is bordered in west and northwest by Myanmar (Burma), in south west by the Andaman Sea, in east and north east by Lao PDR, in south east by Cambodia, in south by the Gulf of Thailand (an inlet of the South China Sea), and by Malaysia. In south the country occupies a part of the Malay Peninsula.