MTP & IP in 00 flex-ext Stabilize metatarsal to prevent inversion or eversion of foot. Dorsal aspect of MTP Dorsal midline of metatarsal Dorsal midline of proximal phalanx Proximal interphalangeal joint Flexion Supine or sitting, ankle & foot in 00 of dorsiflexion, plantar flexion, inversion, eversion. MTP in 00 flex, ext, abd & add. Stabilize metatarsal & proximal phalanx to prevent dorsiflexion or plantar flexion of ankle &
Do not hold MTP of other toes in extension Dorsal aspect of MTP Dorsal midline of metatarsal Dorsal midline of proximal phalanx Metatarsophalangeal joint Extension Supine or sitting, ankle & foot in 00 of dorsiflexion, plantar flexion, inversion, eversion. MTP in 00 abd & add.
To assess extension the examiner should move the toe cephalad (toward the patient's head). To assess flexion the examiner should move the toe caudally (away from the patient's head). Normal passive range of motion of the first metatarsal joint is 70° of extension and 45° of felxion. Hallux rigidus describes a first metatarsophalangeal joint with restricted range of motion. Range of motion restriction is usually a result of osteophyte accumilation in an arthritic joint.
The first metatarsophalangeal joint allows for extension and flexion of the great toe. Extension and flexion of the great toe can be assessed with the patient seated or in the supine position. In either position, the great toe should lie in line with the longitudinal axis of the foot.
Movement of the big toe joint occurs typically in an up and down plane only. The upward motion is dorsiflexion and the downward motion is plantar flexion. The normal upward movement is approximately 70 degrees and the downward movement is about 25 degrees. You need at least 60 degrees of upward movement of the big toe joint to prevent limping.
3b) When dorsiflexion of the toe is attempted in a foot with functional hallux limitus, there will be a distinct lack of plantar flexion of the first metatarsal head into the left thumb and a perceived ‘jamming’ of first MTP joint motion.