noun. ( 1 physiology) the neural pathway over which impulses travel to produce a reflex action, consisting of at least one afferent (receptor) and one efferent (effector) neuron. Trends. ( 2
reflex arc the circuit traveled by impulses producing a reflex action: receptor organ, afferent nerve, nerve center, efferent nerve, effector organ in a muscle; see also reflex. simple neurologic unit of a sensory neuron that carries a stimulus impulse to the spinal cord, where it connects with a motor neuron that carries the reflex impulse back to an appropriate muscle or gland.
noun. The nerve pathway involved in a reflex action, including at its simplest a sensory nerve and a motor nerve with a synapse between. Example sentences. 1  The changes in the blood vessel and local hemodynamics could be mediated via a reflex arc, consisting of somatic afferent and autonomic efferent components.2  These relaxations are vagally mediated, but the reflex arc that produces them can be affected by stimulation of other receptors.
reflex arc. Definitions: 1. the route followed by nerve impulses in the production of a reflex act, from the peripheral receptor organ through the afferent nerve to the central nervous system synapse and then through the efferent nerve to the effector organ. 2. a neural pathway that involes both the peripheral and central nervous systems.
reflex arc. ( 1 physiology) the neural pathway over which impulses travel to produce a reflex action, consisting of at least one afferent (receptor) and one efferent (effector) neuron. Trends. ( 2
Definitions. ( 1 physiology) the neural pathway over which impulses travel to produce a reflex action, consisting of at least one afferent (receptor) and one efferent (effector) neuron. Trends. ( 2
1. (Physiology) physiol the neural pathway over which impulses travel to produce a reflex action, consisting of at least one afferent (receptor) and one efferent (effector) neuron.n.. (Physiology) physiol the neural pathway over which impulses travel to produce a reflex action, consisting of at least one afferent (receptor) and one efferent (effector) neuron. n.
binauricular arc the arc across the top of the head from one auricular point to the other. reflex arc the circuit traveled by impulses producing a reflex action: receptor organ, afferent nerve, nerve center, efferent nerve, effector organ in a muscle; see also reflex. Three-neuron reflex arc. Etymology: L, reflectere, to bend back, arcus, bow. a simple neurologic unit of a sensory neuron that carries a stimulus impulse to the spinal cord, where it connects with a motor neuron that carries the reflex impulse back to an appropriate muscle or gland.
Medical Definition of REFLEX ARC. : the complete nervous path that is involved in a reflex.eflex arc. noun
Definition of REFLEX ARC. : the complete nervous path involved in a reflex. See reflex arc defined for kids.ADVERTISEMENT.eflex arc. noun. : the complete nervous path that is