The po … rterhouse steak differs from the T-bone in that it contains a larger portion of the tenderloin. short loin Of the major wholesale cuts of beef, this is the most tender. It lies in the middle of the back between the sirloin and the rib, and the muscles in this section do little that could toughen them.
1 The cut comes from the back, between the cow's ribs. 2  A Porterhouse is a very large T-bone. 3  Sirloin and short loin steak comes from below the cow's ribs -- what would be just under the waist, if the cow were to stand up. 4  Depending on the cut, it contains no bones, or parts of the hip or backbones.
The fat content and tenderness of a cut depend on which part of the cow's body it comes from. Here are some of the most popular cuts: 1  A T-bone steak is named for the T-shaped bone -- a cross-section of a vertebra -- that runs through it.
Geography. The rib-eye steak comes from the rib area of a cow, located just behind the shoulder or chuck section. The area behind the ribs is known as the short loin, which is where T-bone and porterhouse steaks come from.
1 Simple Grilled Ribeye Steak Recipe If you want a cut of beef that has great flavor, ribeye steak is your best choice. 2  The marbling found on the rib eye gives it great, rich flavor and juiciness.
The sirloin itself comes from the loin part of the animal, which is split into Short Loin and Sirloin, which is the part right before the round or leg (not the shank, which en … compasses the front legs) on a beef carcass.
1 The marbling found on the rib eye gives it great, rich flavor and juiciness. 2  It is also a g…. 3  The Most Flavorful Cuts of Steak Many believe that the tastiest cuts of beef are steaks. 4  Steaks come in a variety of shapes, sizes and tastes.
1 Sirloin and short loin steak comes from below the cow's ribs -- what would be just under the waist, if the cow were to stand up. 2  Depending on the cut, it contains no bones, or parts of the hip or backbones.
Strip steak comes from the short loin section of a cow. Other cuts that come from this section include top loin, New York strip, shell steak, tenderloin and filet mignon … .