At this time, Medicare does not cover the cost of virtual colonoscopy. If you have questions about your costs, including deductibles or co-pays, it is best to speak with your insurance company.
A colonoscopy is a screening test for colon cancer. It is recommended that people of average risk get a colonoscopy or other type of screening every 10 years starting at age 50. People at high risk should begin screening earlier, and sometimes more often, according to the American Cancer Society.
Although many private insurance plans cover the costs for colonoscopy as a screening test, patients may be charged for some services. You may have to pay part of the costs of anesthesia, bowel prep kit, pathology costs, and a facility fee (where the procedure is performed).
1 Screening barium enema: When this test is used instead of a flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy, Medicare covers it once every 48 months if you're 50 or over and once every 24 months if you're at high risk for colorectal cancer.
1 A colonoscopy often is covered by health insurance if the patient has symptoms that warrant it or if the patient meets age and risk criteria. 2  According to the 2012 Colorectal Cancer Legislation Report Card, 31 states have laws mandating colonoscopy coverage.
Check with your insurance plan. Covers every 10 years as a screening test if you are not at high risk for colorectal cancer, but not within four years of having a screening flexible sigmoidoscopy. Covers every two years if you are at high risk. There is no minimum age for colonoscopy.
Many plans cover this test every four to five years beginning at age 50. Covers every four years if you are 50 or older. You pay nothing for this test if the doctor accepts assignment. If you’re not at high risk, Medicare covers this test 10 years after a previous screening colonoscopy.
Check with your insurance plan. Your doctor may order this test as a substitute for flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. It is covered every four years if you are not at high risk or every two years if you are at high risk for colorectal cancer. You pay 20% of the Medicare-approved amount for the doctor’s services.