Ilex vomitoria, commonly known as yaupon or yaupon holly, is a species of holly that is native to southeastern North America. The word yaupon was derived from its Catawban name, yopun, yopún which is a diminutive form of the word, yop meaning. tree Yaupon holly is an evergreen shrub or small tree reaching 5–9 meters tall, with smooth, light gray bark and slender, hairy shoots. The leaves are alternate, ovate to elliptical with a rounded apex and crenate or coarsely serrated margin, 1-4.5 cm long and 1–2 cm broad, glossy dark green above, slightly paler below.
Yaupon (Ilex vomitoria). Yaupon is a small evergreen holly tree native to the coastal plain of the southeastern US, especially common in maritime forests. Yaupon is also widely naturalized in the Piedmont, particularly in the Durham area, and usually occurs at the edges of woods. Durham, NC 4/14/2011. John Lawson's account of Yaupon in Carolina. Below is a passage from John Lawson's book A New Voyage to Carolina; Containing the Exact Description and Natural History of that Country: Together with the Present State therof (1709).
A yaupon holly shrub (Ilex vomitoria) is one of those plants gardeners dream of because it tolerates almost anything. It transplants without shock and thrives in soil that is wet or dry and alkaline or acidic. Info on Yaupon Holly. Like most hollies, yaupon is dioecious. This means that only the female plants produce berries, and there must be a male plant nearby to fertilize the flowers. One male yaupon holly produces enough pollen to fertilize several female plants.
General: Holly Family (Aquifoliaceae). Yaupon is a native, perennial, evergreen shrub or a small tree (8 m tall). The leathery leaf blades (1 to 2.5 cm long) are alternate, elliptical or oval with shallow teeth at the margins. The upper surface is a lustrous green with a lighter green lower surface. The leaves contain caffeine. The Yaupon (Vomitoria) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a slow growth rate. At maturity, the typical Yaupon (Vomitoria) will reach up to 25 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 20 feet.
The Yaupon (Vomitoria) is generally described as a perennial tree or shrub. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer. The Yaupon (Vomitoria) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a slow growth rate. At maturity, the typical Yaupon (Vomitoria) will reach up to 25 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 20 feet.
Yaupon (noun). a shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from Virginia to Florida. The smooth elliptical leaves are used as a substitute for tea, and were formerly used in preparing the black drink of the Indians of North Carolina. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: yaupon (Noun). The yaupon holly, Ilex vomitoria, an evergreen holly shrub with white flowers and red or yellow berries, found in the southeastern United States. Origin: From yąpą, from yą (wood, tree) + pą (leaf).
Definition of YAUPON. : a holly (Ilex vomitoria) of the southeastern United States that has smooth elliptical leaves with emetic and purgative properties. ADVERTISEMENT. Catawba yą́pą, from yą- tree + pą leaf.
Ilex vomitoria is a common landscape plant in the Southeastern United States. The most common cultivars are slow-growing shrubs popular for their dense, evergreen foliage and their adaptability to pruning into hedges of various shapes. Yaupon holly is an evergreen shrub or small tree reaching 5–9 meters tall, with smooth, light gray bark and slender, hairy shoots. The leaves are alternate, ovate to elliptical with a rounded apex and crenate or coarsely serrated margin, 1-4.5 cm long and 1–2 cm broad, glossy dark green above, slightly paler below.
The word yaupon was derived from its Catawban name, yopun, yopún which is a diminutive form of the word, yop meaning. Tree another common, name, cassina was borrowed from The timucua (language despite, this it usually refers To ilex). cassine Yaupon holly is an evergreen shrub or small tree reaching 5–9 meters tall, with smooth, light gray bark and slender, hairy shoots. The leaves are alternate, ovate to elliptical with a rounded apex and crenate or coarsely serrated margin, 1-4.5 cm long and 1–2 cm broad, glossy dark green above, slightly paler below.