PGS for gender selection must be used in conjunction with IVF. According to the American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM), the average price of an (IVF) cycle in the United States is $12,400, and this may or may not include the fertility drugs that accompany the cycle. The least expensive high-tech method of gender selection, Ericsson Method plus IUI, can range in price from $600 to $1,200 per attempt. However, this method is not very accurate, according to fertility experts
Gender selection, or sex selection, is a fertility procedure used to choose the gender of a baby prior to conception. When gender selection is used to prevent a genetic disease, the process is called medical gender selection.. In the so-called sex-linked diseases, genetic diseases are inherited via the mother, and only male offspring are affected.
The cost of gender selection is basically the cost of an assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedure, such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intrauterine insemination (IUI), plus the cost of the gender selection method — Ericsson Method or preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) . The least expensive high-tech method of gender selection, Ericsson Method plus IUI, can range in price from $600 to $1,200 per attempt. However, this method is not very accurate, according to fertility experts
Success rates for this type of procedure are 97-99.9% accurate in couples seeking either a boy or girl. Prices for this technique range from $14,000-$25,000 per cycle. Availability: Not available to couples simply seeking one gender or the other. While there is an overwhelming amount of information on the Internet about gender selection options, please be careful as much of this information is filled with scams, old wives tales and unproven techniques. There are only 2 proven techniques that may affect the gender of your children.
If you want to be certain your next child will be the gender you are hoping for then no other method comes close to PGD (Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis). While traditional sperm-screening techniques have a success rates of 60-70%, only PGD offers virtually 100% accuracy. Courtesy ABC News | Full Article. 
The cost of IVF averages between $8,000 and $12,000 depending on fertility drugs and other factors involved in the cycle. The cost of PGD (to determine which embryos are boy and girl) is usually around $4,000 additional. So, the total is betweeen $12,000-$16,000. You may have insurance coverage for the IVF depending on which state you live in, but the cost of PGD is not covered by insurance. If you are willing to travel to the US for treatment, the cost of IVF averages around $12,000 and the cost of PGD is an additional $5,000. Please send us an email carecoordinator@fertilityauthority.com if you are looking to connect with a fertility doctor who specializes in PGD.
In vitro fertilization (IVF) is necessary in order to use PGD; IVF also includes the use of fertility drugs. The cost of an IVF cycle typically averages $8,158. The medications for an IVF cycle cost an additional $3,000 - $5,000 on average. The PGD procedure alone runs an average of $3,550. In addition, the cost of embryo cryopreservation averages between $700 and $900, while the storage of the embryos costs $600 to $1,000 annually. IVF with PGD for gender selection is not covered by insurance. But various financing options may be available. For instance, unsecured loans can cover the costs of fertility treatment and fertility drugs. Low-cost treatment plans and guaranteed refunds are available for some IVF cycles
The gender-selection procedure is also expensive, running upwards up $20,000 out-of-pocket, the combined cost of PGD and IVF. And most of Steinberg's patients don't even need IVF to get pregnant, he said. But for some couples, the cost and criticism are no match for the guarantee of having a boy or a girl. 
Adding PGS/PGD to a cycle of IVF typically adds an average of $3,550 to the procedure. PGS/PGD for gender selection is typically not covered by insurance. The least expensive high-tech method of gender selection, Ericsson Method plus IUI, can range in price from $600 to $1,200 per attempt. However, this method is not very accurate, according to fertility experts