Diabetes treatment facts. 1  Controlling blood sugar (glucose) levels is the major goal of diabetes treatment, in order to prevent complications of the disease. 2  Type 1 diabetes is managed with insulin as well as dietary changes and exercise. 1 First with weight reduction, a diabetic diet, and exercise. 2  Oral medications are prescribed when these measures fail to control the elevated blood sugars of type 2 diabetes. 3  If oral medications become ineffective treatment with insulin is initiated.
Diabetes treatment varies for each individual. Successful treatment makes all the difference to long-term health, and achieving balanced diabetes treatment can be the key to living with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Your diabetes treatment and management strategy should be agreed between you and your health care team. The aim of diabetes treatment is to keep, within reason, blood glucose levels as near to normal as possible.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is treated: 1  First with weight reduction, a diabetic diet, and exercise. 2  Oral medications are prescribed when these measures fail to control the elevated blood sugars of type 2 diabetes. 3  If oral medications become ineffective treatment with insulin is initiated. 1 First with weight reduction, a diabetic diet, and exercise. 2  Oral medications are prescribed when these measures fail to control the elevated blood sugars of type 2 diabetes. 3  If oral medications become ineffective treatment with insulin is initiated.
There's no cure for diabetes, so treatment aims to keep your blood glucose levels as normal as possible and to control your symptoms, to prevent health problems developing later in life. If you have type 2 diabetes, your GP or diabetes care team will need to take a reading of your blood glucose level about every two to six months. This will show how stable your glucose levels have been in the recent past and how well your treatment plan is working.
Type 1 diabetes requires treatment to keep blood sugar levels within a target range. Treatment includes: 1  Taking several insulin injections every day or using an insulin pump. 2  Monitoring blood sugar levels several times a day. 3  Eating a healthy diet that spreads carbohydrate throughout the day. 4  Regular physical activity or exercise. 5  Exercise helps the body to use insulin more efficiently.
Treatment. The goal of diabetes management is to keep blood glucose levels as close to normal as safely possible. Since diabetes may greatly increase risk for heart disease and peripheral artery disease, measures to control blood pressure and cholesterol levels are an essential part of diabetes treatment as well. People with diabetes must take responsibility for their day-to-day care.
The major goal in treating type 1 and type 2 diabetes is to control blood sugar (glucose) levels within the normal range, with minimal excursions to low or high levels. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is treated with: 1  insulin, 2  exercise, and a. 3  diabetic diet. 1 First with weight reduction, a diabetic diet, and exercise. 2  Oral medications are prescribed when these measures fail to control the elevated blood sugars of type 2 diabetes. 3  If oral medications become ineffective treatment with insulin is initiated.
Diabetes treatments. As well as making lifestyle changes, people with diabetes often need additional treatments such as medication to control their diabetes, blood pressure and blood fats. This section helps to explain more about some of the more common treatments for people with diabetes. 
Diabetes Treatments. Finding the right diabetes treatment for you can be difficult. This section is packed with research, information and reviews on the most common diabetes treatments, including oral medications, insulin, alternative treatments, diabetes diet plans and more. 