1 At birth-Don't allow baby to go more than 5 hours for the first four weeks. 2  9 weeks-If breastfeeding, baby can go 9-10 hours. 3  If bottle-feeding, baby can 11 hours without a feed. Tweet. If you ask people how long to let a newborn go without a feed at night you are bound to get lots of different answers, especially if you are breastfeeding. You'll hear anything between 1.5 hours to as long as she'll give you! Even pediatricians will give. very different answers
In a situation, where you do not have an access to water (and food), it is important to know, how long can you survive. Most people would likely die within 3 -4 days without drinking or eating anything, and rarely one would survive over a week. But: 1  A 97 year old woman survived 8 days without drinking or eating anything under the rubble of her home after earthquake occurred in Iran in January 2004 (1). 
Report Abuse. Well, on average an adult can go about 2-3 weeks without food, sometimes up to 70+ days, though because of the way our bodies are, we can only go about 3-5 days without water. So logically thinking, a baby could maybe go 5-8 days without food, but possibly only 2-3 days without water. Kazz · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
When my son was 3 months old, he started sleeping through the night at stretches of 8-12 hours at a time. He would not wake up to feed anymore, and I asked my ped about it because he was eating every 2-3 hours when awake. My ped said that was fine, he was making up for the long stretch at night by eating frequently during his waking hours. 1. My 3-month-old son has started sleeping through the night, with a vengeance. He sleeps for hours. And when he finally wakes up and I expect him to be starving, he's often still ready to happily play for a bit-say 1/2 hour to 45 min.
Share. My doctor told me that i need to be breastfeeding my baby every two hours during the day and then at night not letting him go more then five hours without eating. My problem is that I can't always get him to wake up during the day to eat and unless he wakes up at night I don't wake up to feed him! 
Report Abuse. Not Long..... Baby birds need to be fed every 20-30 minutes for 12 hours of the day. You need to get some dog food or cat food and soak it in water to the consistency of oatmeal. In a pinch you can use canned food but dry is better in the long run. Baby birds do not eat during the night. They will be fine without food until the morning. Feeding them the wrong food, or feeding them the wrong way can kill them faster than not feeding them at all. Uninjured babies belong with their parents. There are usually two parents who tend to the chicks.
any salamander can go weeks without food but not by its own choice. but it can. but should more likely be feed every day or every 3 days if your salamander has a good metabol … ism. 25 people found this useful. Share to: about 1 week actually, but most people say 2 weeks, but that is a long time if you think about it. New answer; People who deliberatley stop eating can go for about 2 weeks, an … d it tends to be skinny people who do this. You can go a long time without food but not even 2 days or so without water....