Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An endocrinologist treats diseases of the glands, which include, pancreas, thyroid, adrenals, ovaries, testes and hormonal disorders, including, obesity, infertility, conditions resulting from insufficient or too much hormones. They also treat certain cancers of the glands. Endocrinologists are doctors that treat disorders of the human endocrine system, which includes the endocrine glands like the hypothalamus, pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, pa … ncreas, adrenal glands, testicles, and ovaries, all of which excrete hormones.
Endocrinologists treat people who suffer from hormonal imbalances, typically from glands in the endocrine system. The overall goal of treatment is to restore the normal balance of hormones found in a patient's body.
Endocrinologists have the training to diagnose and treat hormone imbalances and problems by helping to restore the normal balance of hormones in the body. The common diseases and disorders of the endocrine system that endocrinologists deal with include diabetes mellitus and thyroid disorders.
An endocrinologist is a specially trained doctor who can diagnose and treat diseases that affect your glands, hormones and your endocrine system. The pancreas is part of the endocrine system, and insulin is one of the central hormones the body needs to function properly. Endocrinologists often treat people with diabetes, thyroid disease, metabolic disorders and more. Like other physicians and medical doctors, an endocrinologist is required to finish four years in medical school and complete a three or four year residency.
Endocrinologists are specially trained physicians who diagnose diseases related to the glands. The diseases they are trained to treat often affect other parts of the body beyond glands. While primary care doctors know a lot about the human body, for diseases and conditions directly related to glands they will usually send a patient to an endocrinologist.
Endocrinology is a specialty of medicine; some would say a sub-specialty of internal medicine, which deals with the diagnosis and treatment of diseases related to hormones. Endocrinology covers such human functions as the coordination of metabolism, respiration, reproduction, sensory perception, and movement. 
Understanding what an endocrinologist does begins with understanding what the endocrine system is. The endocrine system is a series of glands that produce and secrete hormones that the body uses for a wide range of functions. These control many different bodily functions, including: 1  Respiration. 2  Metabolism.
Endocrinology is the study of medicine that relates to the endocrine system, which is the system that controls hormones. An endocrinologist will deal with diseases that are caused by problems with hormones.
Some of the more common conditions treated by endocrinologists include: 1  Menopause. 2  Diabetes. 3  Metabolic disorders. 4  Lack of growth. 5  Osteoporosis. 6  Thyroid diseases. 7  Cancers of the endocrine glands. 8  Over-or under-production of hormones.