fabian. avp.exe is NOT a part of any virus software. because of the trouble I had in getting rid of it I give it a bit of concern. Eh o fantastico kaspersky anti-virus Luciano. its typically a virus or malware if you dont own the kasperky software and it is a virus hidden under this name. Kaspersky is my most trusted Anti-Virus, and it is NOT a virus. Is a process related to kaspersky. kaspersky is an antivirus software that also has firewall and other web security features. AVP is the main process and it can't be force closed through Task Manager nor Process explorer.
The Association of Volleyball Professionals, or AVP, is the United States' premier beach volleyball tour. The 2015 season will consist of tour stops in eight cities across the United States. After the merger of the AVP and the WPVA/BVA, the top women's teams include Holly McPeak / Nancy Reno (1990s) and then McPeak with Elaine Youngs (1990s), Misty May / Kerri Walsh, and Elaine Youngs / Nicole Branagh (2000s), along with Rachel Wacholder-Scott and Jennifer Kessy / April Ross.
The AVP gene provides instructions for making a hormone called vasopressin or antidiuretic hormone (ADH). ADH starts out as a larger molecule called a preprohormone, which is cut (cleaved) and modified to produce the active hormone and several related proteins. The official name of this gene is “arginine vasopressin.”. AVP is the gene's official symbol. The AVP gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
In the case that your AVP file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit AVP file extensions. If your PC opens the AVP file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. Answer: AVP files are Video Files primarily associated with Avid Project. AVP files are also associated with ArcView Pallet File (ESRI), AntiVir Scanner Parameters (Avira GmbH) and FileViewPro. Additional types of files may also be using the AVP file extension.
Focus, determination, and competitive spirit have no gender. Established in 1983, the AVP (Association of Volleyball Professionals) produces, markets and distributes volleyball events worldwide, including the popular AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour. 
Description: Avp.exe is not essential for Windows and will often cause problems. Avp.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Program Files. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 139,367 bytes (25% of all occurrences), 200,768 bytes and 61 more variants. It is not a Windows system file. 1 If avp.exe is located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder, the security rating is 82% dangerous. 2  The file size is 590,336 bytes (55% of all occurrences), 17,408 bytes, 1,583,104 bytes or 22,016 bytes. 3  There is no description of the program.
Starting with a bit of history Alternatives to Violence Project (AVP) began in 1975 as a collaboration between inmates in Green Haven Prison and Quakers interested in working with youth gangs and teens at risk. An Annual Meeting of AVP/CA is held at the annual Fall Facilitator Gathering, first held in 2004. AVP USA brought its national gathering to California at the Headlands Institute on Memorial Day weekend, May 27-30, 2005 when AVP/California was established as a separate entity.
Non-system processes like avp.exe originate from software you installed on your system. Since most applications store data in your system's registry, it is likely that over time your registry suffers fragmentation and accumulates invalid entries which can affect your PC's performance. evp.exe process belongs to Kaspersky Anti-virus which is a security product which detects, quarantines and removes threats, viruses or spyware.
1 If avp.exe is located in the C:\Windows folder, the security rating is 64% dangerous. 2  The file size is 21,504 bytes (25% of all occurrences), 20,992 bytes and 8 more variants. 3  It is not a Windows system file. 4  The program is not visible. 1 If avp.exe is located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder, the security rating is 82% dangerous. 2  The file size is 590,336 bytes (55% of all occurrences), 17,408 bytes, 1,583,104 bytes or 22,016 bytes. 3  There is no description of the program.
AVP. AVP is the sole stockholder of AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour, Inc., which is the sole men’s and women’s United States professional beach volleyball tour. AVP conducts professional beach volleyball activities in the United States, with more than 200 of the top professional players under exclusive contracts.