BACKGROUND: Most hemodialysis patients worldwide are treated with bicarbonate dialysis using sodium bicarbonate as the base. Few studies have assessed outcomes of patients treated with different dialysate bicarbonate levels, and the optimal concentration remains uncertain. STUDY DESIGN: The Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS) is an international prospective cohort study. Association of dialysate bicarbonate concentration with mortality in the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS). Tentori F(1), Karaboyas A, Robinson BM, Morgenstern H, Zhang J, Sen A, Ikizler TA, Rayner H, Fissell RB, Vanholder R, Tomo T, Port FK. Author information:
Bicarbonate is an ingredient in “dialysate” – a fluid mixture that helps the hemodialysis equipment clean the blood and balance acidity. Hemodialysis frequently leaves patients with a very low blood pH, and bicarbonate in dialysis is often used to correct this problem. In addition, bicarbonate is often prescribed by physicians as a drug supplement for dialysis patients. When the kidneys no longer work, dialysis can take over some of their workload by filtering toxins and removing excess fluids from the body. However, problems with the dialysis process can occur. Sometimes minerals and other components of the blood can become unbalanced during dialysis.
What is Bicarbonate? Bicarbonate levels used in dialysis solutions are set slightly higher than normal blood levels to encourage diffusion of bicarbonate into the blood and to act as a pH buffer to neutralize the metabolic acidosis that is often present in these patients. Normal concentration of bicarbonate in the body is in the range of 20 to 29 mEq/L 1. For dialysis patients, the target serum bicarbonate is around 22 mEq/L, at the beginning of dialysis (pre-dialysis level) 2. 3 1 Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Ausiello D, eds. Cecil Medicine. 23rd ed.
Dialysate. &nbsp &nbsp Dialysate is one of the two fluids used in dialysis. The other fluid being blood. The term dialysate is borrowed from physical chemistry and refers to fluids and solutes which have crossed a membrane. &nbsp &nbsp As previously mentioned, the make up of dialysate or the dialysis 'bath', is: sodium chloride, sodim bicarbonate or sodium acetate, calcium chloride, potassium chloride, and magnesium chloride.
Bicarbonate is a buffer-it adjusts acidity. Bicarbonate is in the blood naturally. The body uses it to control it's acidity. Bicarbonate is used in dialysis to maintain the proper acid balance in the body.
The dialysis machine mixes and monitors the dialysate. Dialysate is the fluid that helps remove the unwanted waste products from your blood. It also helps get your electrolytes and minerals to their proper levels in your body. The machine also monitors the flow of your blood while it is outside of your body. You may hear an alarm go off from time to time. The machine mixes the dialysate, which is made up of an acidified solution, bicarbonate and purified water. The acidified solution contains electrolytes and minerals. You may hear it referred to as “acid.” The other solution is bicarbonate or bicarb, which is like baking soda.
The dialysate solution is used in combination with the hemodialysis machine and dialyzer to remove wastes from the blood. Dialysate acid concentrate can contain acetic acid, acetate or citrate, and that these substances can be converted in the body to bicarbonate, potentially contributing to metabolic alkalosis. 