Warm Temperatures. Bacteria thrive in warm temperatures, especially those close to body temperature. The human body, therefore, provides an ideal environment for many types of bacteria to grow. Certain strains of bacteria, however, can grow at lower or higher temperatures. Since ideal temperature is crucial for the growth of any given species of bacteria, food must be handled appropriately to avoid food poisoning. In most cases -- but not all -- refrigeration or freezing of food is sufficient to prevent disease-causing bacteria, such as staphylococcus, from growing
Microbes that grow at optimal temperatures in the range 20 o C to 40 o C, are called mesophilic. Important members of this group are those that live in and on warm blooded creatures, such as humans. Pathogenic bacteria and included here, as are symbiotic bacteria that live in the human body without harming it. Upper and Lower Values, and Temperature Range Some species of microorganism can grow at temperatures as low as -10 o C, and others at temperatures as high as 100 o C-or higher. These upper and lower values are a function of cell metabolism.
1 These microorganisms grow at higher temperatures such as 110°F - 150°F. 2  Temperature is the most widely used method of controlling bacterial growth. 3  Bacteria grow slowly at temperatures below 45°F and thermal destruction occurs at temperatures above 140°F. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2  Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow.
The temperature range in which food-borne bacteria can grow is known as the danger zone. Food safety agencies, such as the United States' Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), define the danger zone as roughly 4–5 to 60 °C (39–41 to 140 °F). 
1 Thermophilic bacteria. 2  These microorganisms grow at higher temperatures such as 110°F - 150°F. 3  Temperature is the most widely used method of controlling bacterial growth. 4  Bacteria grow slowly at temperatures below 45°F and thermal destruction occurs at temperatures above 140°F. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2  Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow.
The temperature range in which most bacteria grow is between 40 degrees F (5 degrees C) and 140 degrees F (60 degrees C). Raw and cooked foods should not be kept in this danger zone any longer than absolutely necessary. Undercooking or improper processing of home-canned foods can cause very serious food poisoning. Staphylococcal food poisoning occurs most often in foods that require hand preparation, such as potato salad, ham salad and sandwich spreads. Sometimes these types of foods are left at room temperature for long periods of time, allowing the bacteria to grow and produce toxin.
1 Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow. 2  Psychrotrophic bacteria are those that are capable of growing at 32°F - 45°F but their optimum is from 68°F to 86°F. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2 
1 Most pathogenic bacteria grow at these temperatures. 2  Thermophilic bacteria. 3  These microorganisms grow at higher temperatures such as 110°F - 150°F. 4  Temperature is the most widely used method of controlling bacterial growth. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2  Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow.
Psychrophiles. Bacteria that grow at temperatures in the range of -5 o C to 30 o C, with optimum temperatures between 10 o C and 20 o C, are called psychrophiles. These microbes have enzymes that catalyze best when the conditions are cold, and have cell membranes that remain fluid at these lower temperatures. Upper and Lower Values, and Temperature Range Some species of microorganism can grow at temperatures as low as -10 o C, and others at temperatures as high as 100 o C-or higher. These upper and lower values are a function of cell metabolism.