1 Puree: Use a food processor to puree the fresh basil leaves with olive oil. 2  Use 1 tablespoon of olive oil per 1 cup of basil. 3  Freeze: Freeze the pureed basil in an ice cube tray, then store in a large resealable plastic bag or freezer-safe container. Puree and freeze fresh basil in these 3 easy steps: 1  Prep: Remove the basil leaves from the stem, then wash and dry completely. 2  Puree: Use a food processor to puree the fresh basil leaves with olive oil. 3
Make sure they're clean and dry. 3. Layer the basil leaves into the crock. Sprinkle a light layer of salt over each layer of basil leaves. Continue this way until all the leaves have been added. 1  About every 10 or so layers, press down gently to slightly firm but not crush the layers of leaves. 1. Let at least one basil plant go to flower in your garden or in a container that is situated outdoors. Allow the bees and other pollinators to do their thing. 1  You'll know the seeds are ripe when a gentle shake of a flowering head in your hand releases tiny black specks.
Loosely layer leaves in a storage bag, and freeze. Basil Puree. Pureé clip the leaves from the stems and; rinse spread them on a counter to-air dry for 30. Minutes place the leaves in a blender or food, processor process for a few seconds to coarsely chop the. Leaves add enough water to form a slush and process. again Clip the leaves from the stems and rinse. Then, spread them on a counter to air-dry for 30 minutes. Loosely layer leaves in a storage bag, and freeze. Basil Puree. Pureé clip the leaves from the stems and; rinse spread them on a counter to-air dry for 30. minutes
Freeze basil whole leaves in these 3 easy steps 1  : Blanch: Remove the basil leaves from the stem and blanch them in boiling water for 2 seconds. 2  Ice bath: Transfer the leaves to an ice bath. 3  Dry & freeze: Dry completely and store in a freezer-safe container, separating the layers with wax or parchment paper. Puree and freeze fresh basil in these 3 easy steps: 1  Prep: Remove the basil leaves from the stem, then wash and dry completely. 2  Puree: Use a food processor to puree the fresh basil leaves with olive oil. 3  Use 1 tablespoon of olive oil per 1 cup of basil.
by Fern on. in General. Basil is probably one of the easiest herbs to grow in a container, and gives you a lot of bang for your buck. In fact, you may have too much bang for your buck (so much basil you can’t use it all at once). 
4. Freeze the basil using a milk carton. This method is the easiest of all the freezing methods. 1  Simply pack the leaves into a cleaned out milk carton with the top cut down. 2  Seal the top closed. 3  Use quart (950ml) sized cartons and then put the sealed carton inside a Ziploc baggy to make it air-tight. 1. Let at least one basil plant go to flower in your garden or in a container that is situated outdoors. Allow the bees and other pollinators to do their thing. 1  You'll know the seeds are ripe when a gentle shake of a flowering head in your hand releases tiny black specks.
1 Dry: Set your oven to the lowest temperature. 2  Place the basil leaves on a parchment-lined baking sheet, then place it on the upper rack of the oven. 3  Bake for 2-4 hours, until the leaves are crumbly. 4  Crumble & store: Remove the basil from the oven and cool. 5  Crumble the basil leaves and store in airtight containers. Puree and freeze fresh basil in these 3 easy steps: 1  Prep: Remove the basil leaves from the stem, then wash and dry completely. 2  Puree: Use a food processor to puree the fresh basil leaves with olive oil. 3  Use 1 tablespoon of olive oil per 1 cup of basil.
Oven dry basil in these 3 easy steps: 1  Prep: Remove the basil leaves from the stem, then wash and dry completely. 2  Dry: Set your oven to the lowest temperature. 3  Place the basil leaves on a parchment-lined baking sheet, then place it on the upper rack of the oven. 4  Bake for 2-4 hours, until the leaves are crumbly. Puree and freeze fresh basil in these 3 easy steps: 1  Prep: Remove the basil leaves from the stem, then wash and dry completely. 2  Puree: Use a food processor to puree the fresh basil leaves with olive oil. 3  Use 1 tablespoon of olive oil per 1 cup of basil.
Clean and dry the basil: 1  First, remove all leaves from the stems. 2  Rinse the leaves thoroughly, taking care not to bruise them. 3  Finally, remove excess water from the leaves by using a salad spinner or laying them out on towels to dry. 1. Let at least one basil plant go to flower in your garden or in a container that is situated outdoors. Allow the bees and other pollinators to do their thing. 1  You'll know the seeds are ripe when a gentle shake of a flowering head in your hand releases tiny black specks.