In the 1300's cow's milk began to replace sheep's milk in Wensleydale cheese, with a little sheep's milk added to enhance the flavor. In modern times most Wensleydale cheese is made from pasteurized cows milk with no sheep's milk added.riginally Wensleydale was a blue cheese, made from sheep's milk. (Roquefort cheese is a blue cheese made from sheep's milk as well.) Today, most Wensleydale cheese is made from cow's milk and is not blue.
Wensleydale's principal settlements are Hawes and Leyburn; Aysgarth, Bainbridge, and Middleham are well-known villages. The shortest river in England, the River Bain, links Semerwater to the River Ure, at Bainbridge, the home to an Ancient Roman fort (part of the Roman road is walkable, up Wether Fell).istory [edit]. Wensleydale was the home of one of Yorkshire 's most famous clans, the Metcalfes, after they emigrated from Dentdale. The Metcalfe Society hold records dating back to Metcalfes living in the area during the 14th century. They were one of the most prominent families in Yorkshire for over five centuries.
Wensleydale. Wensleydale is an historic fresh, mild cheese that has been made in Wensleydale, North Yorkshire since 1150 by Cistercian monks. These monks continued to make the cheese until the dissolution of their monasteries in 1540. Yorkshire Wensleydale cheese produced by Wensleydale Creamery is available in truckles / cylinders or block shaped in varying shapes and sizes up to 25kg.
Yorkshire Wensleydale cheese has been awarded European Protected Geographical Indication (PGI) status and is the only Wensleydale cheese to be handcrafted right here in Wensleydale. Discover more at our Wensleydale Creamery Visitor Centre.ur Visitor Centre, Creamery & Museum. Set in the heart of the beautiful Yorkshire Dales is the Wensleydale Creamery Visitor Centre, where our cheese comes to life and the whole family will experience a day out unlike any other.
Wensleydale is a fresh, mild cheese from Yorkshire, England. It has been made since the 11th century when a group of Cistercian monks from the Roquefort area of France migrated to the Yorkshire area following the Norman Conquest of England. Originally Wensleydale was a blue cheese, made from sheep's milk. (Roquefort cheese is a blue cheese made from sheep's milk as well.) Today, most Wensleydale cheese is made from cow's milk and is not blue.
Wensleydale is a style of cheese originally produced in Wensleydale, North Yorkshire, England, but now mostly made in large commercial creameries throughout the UK. Good Wensleydale has a supple, crumbly, moist texture and resembles a young Caerphilly. The flavour suggests wild honey balanced with fresh acidity.
History [edit]. Wensleydale was the home of one of Yorkshire 's most famous clans, the Metcalfes, after they emigrated from Dentdale. The Metcalfe Society hold records dating back to Metcalfes living in the area during the 14th century. They were one of the most prominent families in Yorkshire for over five centuries.
Wensleydale is an historic fresh, mild cheese made in Wensleydale, North Yorkshire since 1150 by Cistercian monks. These monks continued to make the cheese until the dissolution of their monasteries in 1540. Traditionally, sheep's milk was used, but over the time cow's milk was also used. Wensleydale Creamery in the town of Hawes is seeking to protect the name Yorkshire Wensleydale Cheese under PDO designation. But there are other producers of Wenslydale cheese in parts of the UK, mainly in Shropshire and Cheshire.
A Real Yorkshire Wensleydale is creamy-white in colour has a supple, crumbly, moist and flaky texture. It appears similar to a young Caerphilly. The flavour is mild, clean, and slightly sweet with hints of wild honey savor and fresh acidity.orkshire Wensleydale cheese produced by Wensleydale Creamery is available in truckles / cylinders or block shaped in varying shapes and sizes up to 25kg.