The liver is normally found in the upper right portion of a person’s abdominal cavity, situated underneath the diaphragm and right of the kidney, on topmost portion of the stomach. It is known to have two sources of blood supply, one for oxygenated blood and the other one, nutrient rich blood. The liver is the second largest and the heaviest organ in the human body. It weighs at about 3 pounds or between 1200 to 1800 grams in a normal, healthy adult and if of a reddish brownish color.
Location of liver. Liver is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, just beneath the right side of the diaphragm and under the right lower rib cage. Concerning human liver anatomy, it has two major lobes, a larger right lobe and a smaller left lobe that are further subdivided into eight functional segments. 
The liver. The liver is your largest internal organ. About the size of a football, it's located mainly in the upper right portion of your abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and above your stomach, but a small portion extends into the upper left quadrant. 
Liver. The liver is the largest organ in the body. It appears as a reddish-brown, cone-shaped organ, which is located at the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm and above the stomach, intestines, and right kidney. It weighs approximately 3 pounds. [1]
Liver is located below the diaphragm in the right upper quadrant. It’s about the size of a football, and weighs 3-4 pounds. It plays a significant role in the metabolism within the human body. Function disruption of this organ surely causes several health problems. 
The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. 
The liver is located on the upper side of your right abdomen below your diaphragm and enclosed by your rib cage. At the back of your liver is where the gallbladder is located and closer to the spleen, stomach, intestines and kidneys. You can actually feel your liver by laying your fingers under your right rib cage. The liver processes everything you ingest into your body, from foods to medicines, even lotions and deodorants
Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes. 
An average adult liver weighs about three pounds. Located in the upper-right portion of the abdominal cavity under the diaphragm and to the right of the stomach, the liver consists of four lobes. It receives about 1.5 quarts of blood every minute via the hepatic artery and portal vein. 