Just got a call from Kyle from this number and asked where he was from and he said Panthera Finance-a debt collector.....attempting to collect money for a debt that's not even mine and they can't provide proof to me that it is. They continually call usually around 730pm - 8pm when I am putting my children to bed.
Premium finance is an easy way to pay for your insurance in manageable monthly instalments instead of a single lump sum. When paying for your insurance policy up front is unaffordable, you can spread the cost by taking out a credit agreement with a premium finance provider.
State Mercantile is one of Australia’s premier debt purchasing and debt collection companies. State Mercantile ' s dedicated management team and highly trained collection team ensure that customers are dealt with fairly and with integrity.
If you’re applying for credit, or are planning to in the future, it’s important to understand what’s on your credit report, plus your credit rating known as a VedaScore. Your VedaScore is what lenders, store finance providers, phone and utility providers will see when they do a credit check on you. Get your credit report and rating now. Your VedaScore is a number between 0-1200 which takes into consideration your credit history, good and bad, at a point in time.
I then recieved a phone call for this Panthera Finance around June/July this year (from a mobile number; very strange for a collection agency I thought) telling me CBA had sold the debt to them. I explained their was no debt and not paying but by all means send me the documentation.
ABOUT FREE CREDIT REPORTS. There are certain circumstances under which you can get a copy of your credit report for free. 1  You can request a copy where a credit application was declined. 2  You must apply within 90 days of the date you were declined.
Contact Us. Phone (local call): 1300 722 974. Phone (international call): +61 7 3535 9000. Fax: +61 7 3252 4211. Email: manager@pantherafinance.com.au. Web: Fill out form below. Post: Panthera Finance. PO BOX 388, TOOWONG DC QLD 4066.
Panthera Finance is one of Australia’s premier debt purchasing and debt collection companies. Panthera Finance ' s dedicated management team and highly trained collection team ensure that customers are dealt with fairly and with integrity.