The nucleus contains the chromosomes of the cell. Each chromosome consists of a single molecule of DNA complexed with an equal mass of proteins. Collectively, the DNA of the nucleus with its associated proteins is called chromatin. Most of the protein consists of multiple copies of 5 kinds of histones. These are basic proteins, bristling with positively charged arginine and lysine residues.
The beads are called nucleosomes. Each nucleosome is composed of DNA wrapped around eight proteins called histones. The nucleosomes are then wrapped into a 30 nm spiral called a solenoid, where additional histone proteins support the chromatin structure.
Histones are a family of basic proteins that associate with DNA in the nucleus and help condense it into chromatin. Nuclear DNA does not appear in free linear strands; it is highly condensed and wrapped around histones in order to fit inside of the nucleus and take part in the formation of chromosomes.
Types of histones. Each octamer has two pairs of different histone proteins: H2A, H2B, H3 and H4. They are arranged as a pair of H2A-H2B dimers, and an (H3)2(H4)2 tetramer. There is an additional type of histone, the linker histone H1, which is present in condensed DNA.
Chromatin is a complex of DNA and proteins that forms chromosomes within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Nuclear DNA does not appear in free linear strands; it is highly condensed and wrapped around nuclear proteins in order to fit inside the nucleus. Chromatin exists in two forms.
histone / histones. Under the microscope in its extended form, chromatin looks like beads on a string. The beads are called nucleosomes. Each nucleosome is made of DNA wrapped around eight histone proteins that function like a spool and are called a histone octamer.
The H1 or “linker” histones are a family of very lysine-rich proteins that associate with the stretch of DNA that enters and exits the nucleosome. In the absence of histone H1, the nucleosome comprises ∼146 bp of DNA that wraps 1.75 turns around the outer surface of the histone octamer (1 – 3).