Even though iron is widely available in food, many people still don’t get the amount they need on a daily basis. Iron's main purpose is to carry oxygen in the hemoglobin of red blood cells throughout your body so cells can produce energy. Iron also helps remove carbon dioxide. Print Email. 
Iron is a mineral that is naturally present in many foods, added to some food products, and available as a dietary supplement. Iron is an essential component of hemoglobin, an erythrocyte protein that transfers oxygen from the lungs to the tissues [ 1 ]. As a component of myoglobin, a protein that provides oxygen to muscles, iron supports metabolism [ 2 ]. The richest sources of heme iron in the diet include lean meat and seafood [ 11 ]. Dietary sources of nonheme iron include nuts, beans, vegetables, and fortified grain products. In the United States, about half of dietary iron comes from bread, cereal, and other grain products [ 2, 3, 5 ].
Iron is a chemical element with symbol Fe (from Latin: ferrum) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. It is by mass the most common element on Earth, forming much of Earth's outer and inner core. It is the fourth most common element in the Earth's crust. Iron is pervasive, but particularly rich sources of dietary iron include red meat, lentils, beans, poultry, fish, leaf vegetables, watercress, tofu, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, blackstrap molasses, fortified bread, and fortified breakfast cereals.
Overview. Iron-deficiency anemia is a common type of anemia. The term anemia usually refers to a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen and remove carbon dioxide (a waste product) from your body. Anemia also can occur if your red blood cells don't contain enough hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin). Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. Iron-deficiency anemia usually develops over time if your body doesn't have enough iron to build healthy red blood cells. Without enough iron, your body starts using the iron it has stored. Soon, the stored iron gets used up. After the stored iron is gone, your body makes fewer red blood cells
Guide. An iron test checks the amount of iron in the blood to see how well iron is metabolized in the body. Iron (Fe) is a mineral needed for hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. Iron is also needed for energy, good muscle and organ function. About 70% of the body's iron is bound to hemoglobin in red blood cells.
Iron (Fe) is the second most common metal on Earth, and the most widely-used metal. It is element 26, a transition metal in Group 8. Its symbol is Fe, from the Latin word for iron, ferrum. Its atomic number is 26 and its mass number is 55.85. It is used a lot because it is very strong and cheap. 
Iron-deficiency anemia is a common, easily treated condition that occurs if you don't have enough iron in your body. Low iron levels usually are due to blood loss, poor diet, or an inability to absorb enough iron from food. Anemia also can occur if your red blood cells don't contain enough hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin). Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. Iron-deficiency anemia usually develops over time if your body doesn't have enough iron to build healthy red blood cells. Without enough iron, your body starts using the iron it has stored. Soon, the stored iron gets used up. After the stored iron is gone, your body makes fewer red blood cells
Iron is an essential mineral, with several important roles in the body. For example, it helps to make red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body. A lack of iron can lead to iron deficiency anaemia. Good sources of iron include: 1  liver. 2  meat. 3  beans. 4  nuts. 