These diverse compounds that make up the lipid family are so grouped because they are insoluble in water. They are however soluble in other organic solvents such as ether, acetone, and other lipids. Major lipid groups include fats, phospholipids, steroids, and waxes. Fats are composed of three fatty acids and glycerol. These so called triglycerides can be solid or liquid at room temperature. Those that are solid are classified as fats, while those that are liquid are known as oils.
Lipids are naturally occurring organic compounds, commonly known as oils and fats. Lipids occur through out the living world in microorganisms, higher plants and animals and also in all cell types. Lipids contribute to cell structure, provide stored fuel and also take part in many biological processes. Lipids perform several biological functions: Lipids are storage compounds, triglycerides serve as reserve energy of the body. Lipids are important component of cell membranes structure in eukaryotic cells. Lipids regulate membrane permeability
Explanation : Lipids are hydrophobic molecules that have low solubility in water and high solubility in nonpolar organic solvents. The following choices all describe lipid molecules, with the exception of glycine. Glycine is an amino acid and contains a carboxyl group (like fatty acid lipids), but also a amine group.
Membrane lipids are a group of compounds (structurally similar to fats and oils) which form the double-layered surface of all cells (lipid bilayer). The three major classes of membrane lipids are phospholipids, glycolipids, and cholesterol. 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Lipids are a diverse group of fat-soluble biological molecules. Here is a look at different types of lipids and where they are found. 1  Triacylglycerols or Triglycerides. 2  The largest class of lipids goes by different names: triacylglycerols, triglycerides, glycerolipids, or fats
Lipids: Fats. Fats are composed of three fatty acids and glycerol. These so called triglycerides can be solid or liquid at room temperature. Those that are solid are classified as fats, while those that are liquid are known as oils. Fatty acids consist of a long chain of carbons with a carboxyl group at one end
Lipids are uniquely biological molecules, and they are synthesized and used by organisms in a variety of important ways. Unlike proteins, polysaccharides, and nucleic acids, lipids are much smaller, water-insoluble molecules. They are synthesized in association with a cellular organelle called the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. In a word, they are, as their etymology suggests, fats. Several types of fats are made from fatty acid