1 There is no set rule about paragraph length. 2  They can be long or short. . ., though do note that both the shortest and the longest are rare and you should take care in their use. 3  What works best is usually a mixture of longer and and shorter paragraphs within the middle range. 1 Paragraph Length in Essays.  2 There is no set rule about paragraph length. 3  They can be long or short. . ., though do note that both the shortest and the longest are rare and you should take care in their use. 4
As long as you need it to be. A paragraph is just a series of sentences about one topic, so as long as you have given enough information about that topic, then you have used the correct number of sentences. There is no magic formula that states X words = 1 paragraph or X sentences = 1 paragraph.. I think a paragraph is 4 sentences long. There is really no set number of sentences in a given paragraph. The minimum should be 3 if one wnats to incorporate a topic sentence, … a body sentence and a conclusion. 4 people found this useful.
In high school, for example, whenever you have a paragraph assignment, 5-6 sentences (as someone suggested) would not be enough. Your paragraph assignment would have to be at least a page long. It's similar for 1000-word-essays in which you're forced to write exactly 4, 5 or 6 paragraphs. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: To learn how long a paragraph CAN be; read Penelope, the last chapter of Ulysses by James Joyce. One sentence in particular in that chapter spans 4,391 words and was, at the time, the longest single sentence in English language history. In short: rules are there to help you
Some paragraphs may be short while others are longer. (Generally, a paragraph should be at least four sentences.) Either way, it is important that the length of a paragraph in an essay matches the length of the essay. 1 Anytime a paragraphs looks or “feels” too long – while there is no definitive rule for paragraph use, if any single paragraph is a page or longer, there is probably a place where it can and should be broken.
A paragraph should consist of six to seven sentences. No, it should be no longer than three sentences long. Actually, it should include a topic sentence, several supporting sentences, and possibly a concluding sentence. Sigh
Paragraph Length. There is no set length for a paragraph. It is possible, however, to have your paragraphs too long or too short. There are some guiding principles that will help you to get your paragraphs right.
admin Paragraphs, Writing. Paragraphs, and the sentences that shape them, are perhaps the most important way to give writing direction. Every paragraph needs to have a main point, idea, or focus. This applies to both fiction and non-fiction alike. While fiction will traditionally use paragraphs to direct the reader, develop characters and themes, and move the story along, non-fiction writing uses paragraphs in the same manner.
there is no absolute rule very short or long paragraphs can work when used by an experienced writer however as a guideline paragraphs should usually be no less that 2 or 3 sentences long and there should be 2 or 3 paragraphs per page of a4 the length of a paragraph depends on the idea being treated but if a paragraph is shorter than 2 or 3 sentences check to see if it is not really part of the previous or next paragraph if your paragraph is longer than half a page check to see if the idea would be better explained in two or mor
In 5th Grade, You should be learning about paragraphs and have done a couple Essays. When I do an essay, it usually is about 10 to 12 sentences long, but I'm a 7th Grader. I … would recommend about 4 to 8 sentences to count as a full paragraph. I think a paragraph is 4 sentences long. There is really no set number of sentences in a given paragraph. The minimum should be 3 if one wnats to incorporate a topic sentence, … a body sentence and a conclusion. 4 people found this useful.