An aneurysm is the result of a weakness in the wall of a blood vessel. High blood pressure and smoking are some factors that may cause weakness in the wall of an artery, leading to aneurysms. Some brain aneurysms seem to occur in families, and there may be a genetic cause. An aneurysm is a small bubble that forms on the wall of an artery, a blood vessel that carries blood to the brain. The aneurysm has a thin wall, compared to the thicker wall of a normal brain artery.
A cerebral aneurysm is a weak or thin spot on a blood vessel in the brain that balloons out and fills with blood. An aneurysm can press on a nerve or surrounding tissue, and also leak or burst, which lets blood spill into surrounding tissues (called a hemorrhage). 
1 An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel or cardiac chamber swells. 2  An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body, though they often occur on the wall of the aorta. 3  The two main types of aneurysms are aortic aneurysms and cerebral aneurysms. 4  Aneurysms are most common in men and people over 65 years of age. An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel (artery) or cardiac chamber swells, - either the blood vessel is damaged, or there is a weakness in the wall of the blood vessel. As blood pressure builds up it balloons out at its weakest point.
An aneurysm is an abnormal, weak spot on a blood vessel that causes an outward bulging or ballooning of the arterial wall. These weak spots can involve all walls of the blood vessel (fusiform aneurysm), form a sac from one wall (saccular) or separate the vessel walls (dissecting). 
When a brain aneurysm ruptures, the result is called a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Depending on the severity of the hemorrhage, brain damage or death may result. 1 High blood pressure. 2  The risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage is greater in people who have a history of high blood pressure. 3  Smoking. 4  In addition to being a cause of high blood pressure, the use of cigarettes may greatly increase the chances of a brain aneurysm rupturing.
A brain (cerebral) aneurysm is a bulging, weak area in the wall of an artery that supplies blood to the brain. In most cases, a brain aneurysm causes no symptoms and goes unnoticed. In rare cases, the brain aneurysm ruptures, releasing blood into the skull and causing a stroke. 1 High blood pressure. 2  The risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage is greater in people who have a history of high blood pressure. 3  Smoking. 4  In addition to being a cause of high blood pressure, the use of cigarettes may greatly increase the chances of a brain aneurysm rupturing.
A brain aneurysm (AN-yoo-riz-um) is a bulge or ballooning in a blood vessel in the brain. It often looks like a berry hanging on a stem. A brain aneurysm can leak or rupture, causing bleeding into the brain (hemorrhagic stroke). Most often a ruptured brain aneurysm occurs in the space between the brain and the thin tissues covering the brain.
A cerebral aneurysm (also known as an intracranial or intracerebral aneurysm) is a weak or thin spot on a blood vessel in the brain that balloons out and fills with blood. The bulging aneurysm can put pressure on a nerve or surrounding brain tissue. 
More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel or cardiac chamber swells. 2  An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body, though they often occur on the wall of the aorta. 3  The two main types of aneurysms are aortic aneurysms and cerebral aneurysms. An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel (artery) or cardiac chamber swells, - either the blood vessel is damaged, or there is a weakness in the wall of the blood vessel. As blood pressure builds up it balloons out at its weakest point.
Cerebral Aneurysms. An aneurysm is a small bubble that forms on the wall of an artery, a blood vessel that carries blood to the brain. The aneurysm has a thin wall, compared to the thicker wall of a normal brain artery. This thin walled bubble is prone to rupturing