Unlike type A flu viruses, type B flu is found only in humans. Type B flu may cause a less severe reaction than type A flu virus, but occasionally, type B flu can still be extremely harmful. Influenza type B viruses are not classified by subtype and do not cause pandemics.
Although initially symptoms of influenza may mimic those of a cold, influenza is more debilitating with symptoms of fatigue, fever, and respiratory congestion. Colds can be caused by over 100 different virus types, but only influenza viruses (and subtypes) A, B, and C cause the flu.
1 Stomach symptoms. 2  Many strains of influenza B will cause irritation in the stomach. 3  Because this is so common, this particular type of flue is often referred to as a stomach flu though the virus does not specifically affect the stomach. 4  Stomach symptoms include nausea, loss of appetite or vomiting.
The flu is caused by influenza virus types A, B, and C. Both type A and type B flu viruses are responsible for the seasonal outbreaks of flu. Type A flu viruses are found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and horses. Influenza B viruses circulate widely only among humans.
Causes of the flu. The flu is caused by influenza virus types A, B, and C. Both type A and type B flu viruses are responsible for the seasonal outbreaks of flu. Type A flu viruses are found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and horses. Influenza B viruses circulate widely only among humans.
There are three types of flu viruses: A, B, and C. Type A and B cause the annual influenza epidemics that have up to 20% of the population sniffling, aching, coughing, and running high fevers. Type C also causes flu; however, type C flu symptoms are much less severe.
Influenza B is a type of flu virus that can cause respiratory, fever and stomach symptoms. Influenza or the flu refers to a respiratory infection that can be caused by a variety of types of viruses. The virus will move through the air and become inhaled through the mouth or nose.