Last name origin & meaning: Japanese: literally ‘green tree’. This surname is mostly found in central Japan and the Ryūkyū Islands. One family, descended from the Takeda branch of the Minamoto clan, takes its name from Aoki-mura in Kai (now Yamanashi prefecture). Others have Fujiwara connections.
Ishida-Meaning of Ishida. 1  The meaning of Ishida is stone rice field . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Ishida is 石田. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 4  Ishida is a Japanese last name. 1 The most common Kanji used in the name Ishida is 石田. 2  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used.
ICHIHARA Japanese. This surname combines 一 (ichi, itsu, hito-, hito.tsu) meaning one or 市 (shi, ichi) meaning city, market, town with 原 (gen, hara) meaning field, meadow, original, plain, prairie, primitive, tundra, wilderness.... [more]. ICHIKAWA Japanese. From 市 (ichi) meaning city, and 川 (kawa) meaning river. Meaning field of bush clovers, from 萩 (hagi) meaning bush clover, and 原 (hara) meaning field or meadow. HAKURYū Japanese (Rare). This surname combines 白 (haku, byaku, shira-, shiro, shiro.i) meaning white with 竜 (ryuu, ryou, rou, ise, tatsu) meaning dragon, imperial or 柳 (ryuu, yanagi) meaning willow....
1 The meaning of Ishida is stone rice field . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Ishida is 石田. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 4  Ishida is a Japanese last name. 1 The most common Kanji used in the name Ishida is 石田. 2  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used.
from the 1891 Scotland Census Data. Ishida census records. Click on a place to view Ishida immigration records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Ishida immigration records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Ishida birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
= Japanese Names =. The first thing that needs to be remembered about Japanese names is that the surname comes first. The first Ashikaga shogun, Shôgun, takauji was Thus Ashikaga, takauji Not Takauji, ashikaga despite the order sometimes given his name in Many western. books These are names the Japanese can relate to; they have a meaning in our lingua franca, English. Even names like Anthony, Charles, and Edmund have meanings; it is just that they are lost on most people who dont know the original languages of the names and their original forms. Such is not the case in Japan.
Ishida (石田 stone ricefield) is a Japanese surname and the former name of a town in Japan. The name is also sometimes romanized as Isida. It may refer to the following: 1 Ishida, a place name on the border of the cities of Isehara, Kanagawa and Atsugi, Kanagawa. 2  Ishida, Nagasaki, former town merged with its neighbors to form the city of Iki in 2004. 3  Ishida Station (disambiguation) , several stations.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Ishida families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Ishida birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.