VOCABULARY. A note on spelling: All terms used for Indian musical instruments and musical concepts are common transliterations of the original terms. Subsequently, there are numerous possible methods of rendering the same term in English and inevitable discrepancies in spelling. The music of the Indian subcontinent is usually divided into two major traditions of classical music: Hindustani music of Northern India and Karnatak music of Southern India, although many regions of India also have their own musical traditions that are independent of these.
However, there are many musicians in India today who still play the rabab and it is quite popular in several music genres. Sahnai (Shenai). The sahnai is a double reed instrument of North India and Nepal. In South India, a double reed instrument called the nagasvaram is used. The music of the Indian subcontinent is usually divided into two major traditions of classical music: Hindustani music of Northern India and Karnatak music of Southern India, although many regions of India also have their own musical traditions that are independent of these.
List of musical instruments. The following is a list of musical instruments, categorized by section. This includes the variations of categories, but not the categories themselves. Example: There are eight types of flutes in the Western concert flute category, which are all metal. Therefore, there are eight instruments listed in that category but the Western concert flute is not considered a musical instrument and is not listed in the count of instruments. 
There are many Indian musical instruments. The most famous are the classical instruments of North India. Sitar, veena, and sarod are some of the stringed instruments f … rom India. Tabla, and ghatam, are the most popular percussion instruments in India. Bansuri is the Indian flute. Suona is the Indian oboe
Among the followers and connoisseurs of Hindustani classical music Sarod is one of the most important musical instruments. Sarod is a popular Indian classical musical instrument which is similar to the Western lute in structure. Shehnai the wind instrument is believed to have been introduced in India by the Muslims. Shehnai is the predominant double-reed wind instrument used in North Indian music. STRING INSTRUMENTS. Sarangi. Sarangi has a hollow body and made of teak wood adorned with ivory inlays.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They listen to many types of music in India, but I'm guessing that you are referring to Bhangra. Bhangra (Punjabi: ਭੰਗੜਾ, بھنگڑا, bhaṅgṛā) is a lively form of music and dance that originated in the Punjab region of India and Pakistan. Bollywood is one big genre that covers all kinds of musical styles, from pop and dance to film scores. If you go on www.shoutcast.com and type Hindi and Punjabi and Bollywood you will get lots of Indian radio stations. There is also a large amount of music from India on emusic.com.
Some instruments are used primarily in north Indian music (Hindustani sangeet) , some are used in the south Indian music (Carnatic sangeet) , while others are found in folk music. Instrumental music is usually similar to vocal music but sometimes there are distinctive instrumental styles. 
North Indian classical music ensembles have only a handful of players. Most instruments are played while seated on the floor. There are usually the same three elements: 1  soloist-either a singer or an instrumentalist playing the melody. 2  percussion-usually tabla. 3  drone-usually a tanpura, harmonium or electronic box. 
TANPURA. Known as the mother of all instruments, the tanpura is used to accompany most Indian classical music; it provides the drone that you often hear in the background. There are different sizes, the number of strings is commonly 4 or 5, and they can be tuned to various notes, depending upon the songs. 