The peak harvesting season in California runs from April through June, when up to 10 million pint baskets of strawberries are shipped daily. The largest producing state, California harvests 83% of the strawberries grown in the U.S. on approximately 24,500 acres. And with about 5,000 commercial acres, Florida is the second largest producing state. Ideal temperature for strawberry plants should not exceed higher than 78 degrees or lower than 55 degrees. Ripening Dates for Fruits and Vegetables in California. Please note that actual dates may vary by as much as two or three weeks due to weather conditions, geographical location of the farm, and other factors.
Production Facts. 1  California ranks first in the U.S. in the production of peaches. 2  California produces 65 percent of the total U.S. crop. 3  845,256 tons of peaches valued in excess of $317 million were produced during the 1994-95 crop year on 69,566 acres. 4  Production cost (1994-95) averaged $3,000/acre. 
Florida peach season is also very short, only going from about mid April to the end of May. Florida peaches are making a comeback. According to the Packer, in the 1980s, severe freezes froze production. 10 times more land is dedicated to peaches in the last 7 years. The Idaho peaches I had in 2012 where among the best tasting of the entire year! Kudos to the potato state! From Clingstone to Freestone. One another to know about peach season is that the first peaches of the season are clingstone peaches. This means the flesh sticks to stone or the pit inside the peach.
Peaches are one of those fruits, and they are best when they fully ripen on the tree. If you can’t get them directly off the tree shop at your local farmers market, definitely. As they say, Dare to eat a peach…. It is almost the season for California’s famous O’Henry peaches, but I don’t bake. I like to eat them in my hand, juice running down my arm and all over my mouth!! So it is also almost the season for beautiful Cal Reds
What's in Season. The following charts give the months of the year when various California fruits and vegetables are usually in season. These are approximate harvest dates because weather and other factors can affect availability. Every market does not carry every kind of produce in season, but may carry other produce items such as dried fruit (see photo at right). Scroll below to see all the fruits and vegetables that may be available month by month.
My years seem to be driven by fruit seasons here in California and summer is peach season (well melons and strawberries too). But back to California peaches. I used to have a friend down near Modesto, kind of hot and dusty but great peach country. And Smith Ranch was among the best. It is almost the season for California’s famous O’Henry peaches, but I don’t bake. I like to eat them in my hand, juice running down my arm and all over my mouth!!
Most fresh California peaches and nectarines grow in the San Joaquin Valley, just south of Fresno, CA. There are over 200 varieties of peaches and 175 varieties of nectarines sold commercially from California. The sizing system used for California peaches is derived from the original method of place packing tree fruit into layers deep in a wooden lug. Today this type of container is referred to as a two-layer, tray-packed or panta-pak box.
The California peach season lasts about a month longer than the Georgia season. They are still harvesting late varieties on Labor Day weekend. California also leads the way when it comes to growing the most peaches. The Idaho peaches I had in 2012 where among the best tasting of the entire year! Kudos to the potato state! From Clingstone to Freestone. One another to know about peach season is that the first peaches of the season are clingstone peaches. This means the flesh sticks to stone or the pit inside the peach.
L ike most fruits, peaches originated in China and arrived in the United States via the Middle East and Europe. Tender, juicy, and aromatic, peaches are thought of as a southern fruit, but California and New Jersey grow huge crops as well. In fact, any temperate area with a long enough growing season will produce peaches, and peaches grown in your area and picked fully ripe are usually your top choice. The sizing system used for California peaches is derived from the original method of place packing tree fruit into layers deep in a wooden lug. Today this type of container is referred to as a two-layer, tray-packed or panta-pak box.
Growing California peaches, plums and nectarines is a year-round effort. Discover what happens at each stage of the season to bring California peaches, plums and nectarines from the tree to the table. Each of California’s 600 varieties of peaches, plums and nectarines has its own specific harvest time, and will often undergo at least three pickings over the course of ten days to make sure the fruit is harvested at just the right time.