Tip – Most cat diseases are not contagious to dogs or humans. Feline Diseases There are a few zoonotic diseases, such as rabies, that can be passed between species, but most feline diseases are species-specific and are only contagious to other cats.
The disease is caused by a virus that is contagious and able to be passed from one cat to another. The contagious nature of the disease makes testing for FIV important. Identifying cats that test positive for feline AIDS allows cat owners to take precautions to help these cats lead longer, healthier lives. Panleukopenia is a viral disease of cats, and is often called feline distemper. It is highly contagious and can be fatal, especially in young cats. It is one of the diseases for which cats are routinely vaccinated (the P in combination FVRCP vaccines). More ».
Panleukopenia (Distemper) in Cats. Panleukopenia is a viral disease of cats, and is often called feline distemper. It is highly contagious and can be fatal, especially in young cats. It is one of the diseases for which cats are routinely vaccinated (the P in combination FVRCP vaccines). More ».
About contagion and contagiousness: Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Cat scratch disease is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Contagiousness has nothing to do with genetics or inheriting diseases from parents. Transmission of Cat scratch disease from Person to Person. Cat scratch disease is considered infectious but is not transmitted from person to person. Generally, a disease like this is caused by an infectious agent and not spread between people.
This disease is also a bacterial infection, and is the most common disease spread from cats to their owner. If you are scratched or bitten by a cat, you should watch for symptoms such as: 1  Swollen Lymph Nodes (near scratch or bite). 2  Fever. Salmonella in Cats. This is a bacterial infection that is spread through contact with feces or contaminated food. Symptoms include vomiting, diarrhea and fever. Most cases do not require treatment, but some people experience severe diarrhea and infection that could spread to other organs.
Feline leukemia virus is one of the most serious contagious cat diseases. There is no treatment and, while contagious from cat to cat, this disease can be spread from a mother cat to her kittens in the womb and during nursing. Most serious cat diseases are species-specific and aren't contagious to humans. The most serious contagious cat diseases are transmitted from a mother cat to her kittens or from one cat to another cat. There are a few diseases that are contagious between cats and other animals, such as humans and dogs. Those that are contagious to other species are generally easily treated
Cat Diseases. Feline Panleukopenia (FVRCP): This is also called feline distemper and is one of the most common viruses of cats. It is a highly contagious disease. The highest incidence occurs in kittens 3-5 months of age. Symptoms include: fever, vomiting, diarrhea, dehydration, and death. Your cat does not necessarily need to be in contact with other cats to get this disease. Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis (FVRCP): This is a highly contagious upper respiratory disease of cats. The most common method of transmission is through fomites such as hands, clothing, feeding dishes, and litter pans. Symptoms include fever, depression, sneezing, coughing, ocular and nasal discharges, and in-appetence
Zoonotic diseases, those spread from cats to humans, are fairly uncommon and generally occur in people who have weak immune systems such as the elderly, babies, or those with diseases already. Here are some of the most common cat diseases that are contagious to humans. Salmonella in Cats. This is a bacterial infection that is spread through contact with feces or contaminated food. Symptoms include vomiting, diarrhea and fever. Most cases do not require treatment, but some people experience severe diarrhea and infection that could spread to other organs.
10. Panleukopenia is a viral disease of cats, and is often called feline distemper. It is highly contagious and can be fatal, especially in young cats. It is one of the diseases for which cats are routinely vaccinated (the P in combination FVRCP vaccines). More ».