There is widespread disagreement over the turning point of the American Civil War. The idea of a turning point is an event after which most observers would agree that the eventual outcome was inevitable. In most cases, contemporary observers may lack confidence in predicting a turning point. In the Civil War, many of the turning points cited by historians would not have been recognized as such at the time.
America’s bloodiest clash, the sectional conflct of the Civil War (1861-65) pitted the Union against the Confederate States of America and resulted in the death of more than 620,000, with millions more injured. 1  Facebook. American Civil War. America’s bloodiest clash, the sectional conflct of the Civil War (1861-65) pitted the Union against the Confederate States of America and resulted in the death of more than 620,000, with millions more injured. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 3  Google.
The Civil War. The American Civil War was a conflict between the United States of America, represented by the Union, and The Confederate States of America, represented by the Confederacy fought between 1861 and 1865. 
While the Battle of Gettysburg is the most widely cited (often in combination with the Siege of Vicksburg, which concluded a day later), there are several other arguable turning points in the American Civil War. Possibilities are presented here in chronological order. In most cases, contemporary observers may lack confidence in predicting a turning point. In the Civil War, many of the turning points cited by historians would not have been recognized as such at the time.
February 9, 1861 - The Confederate States of America is formed with Jefferson Davis, a West Point graduate and former U.S. Army officer, as president. March 4, 1861 - Abraham Lincoln is sworn in as 16 th President of the United States of America. Fort Sumter Attacked. April 12, 1861 - At 4:30 a.m. Map of Allegiances of the States - 1861. April 19, 1861 - President Lincoln issues a Proclamation of Blockade against Southern ports. For the duration of the war the blockade limits the ability of the rural South to stay well supplied in its war against the industrialized North.
The North's greatest victory during the Civil War, would be the surrender of the South, through its commander Robert E. Lee.   The two commanders met at Appomattox Court … House, on April 9, 1865. Grant allowed the Confederate soldiers to return home, surrendering only their arms and artillery. 
The Civil War, also known as “The War Between the States,” was fought between the United States of America and the Confederate States of America, a collection of eleven southern states that left the Union in 1860 and 1861 and formed their own country in order to protect the institution of slavery. Fact #5: The Civil War began when Southern troops bombarded Fort Sumter, South Carolina. When the southern states seceded from the Union, there were still a few forts on southern soil that were manned by United States soldiers.
And the freedom it promised depended upon Union military victory. The proclamation, however, allowed the arming of approximately 180,000 blacks for the Union army. Antietam, consequently, was the initial major turning point in the Civil War. See also Civil War Turning Point: A List of Major and Pivotal Turning Points and Subsequent Turning Points below. 
1861 February 9, 1861 - The Confederate States of America is formed with Jefferson Davis, a West Point graduate and former U.S. Army officer, as president. March 4, 1861 - Abraham Lincoln is sworn in as 16th President of the United States of America. Map of Allegiances of the States - 1861. April 19, 1861 - President Lincoln issues a Proclamation of Blockade against Southern ports. For the duration of the war the blockade limits the ability of the rural South to stay well supplied in its war against the industrialized North.