The climate of Tasmania (Australia). Tasmania is the small island off the south eastern coast of Australia. It has a moderate sea climate. It has a cool temperate climate with four distinct seasons. Tasmania is a very green island. It has a large number of national parks and beautiful forests
Australia is so large that its climate varies. The greater part of the continent is desert or semi-arid. Only the south-east and south-west corners have a temperate climate and moderately fertile soil. The northern part has a tropical climate, varied between tropical rainforests, grasslands, and part desert. Australia's climate is governed by the hot, sinking air of the subtropical high pressure belt. This moves north and south with the seasons, so that the rainfall pattern over Australia is highly seasonal. Australia's rainfall is the lowest of the seven continents (besides Antarctica). 
Hobart has a mild, temperate, maritime climate with four distinct seasons. The warmest months, January and February, are also the driest. It's often cool and cloudy in Hobart, but this doesn't prevent a lot of outdoor activity. Its latitude equates with that of Rome and Salt Lake City in the northern hemisphere. It's also within a degree of Beijing, Sapporo, New York and Barcelona. However, its climate is not like any of them. It's much more like its southern counterparts: Wellington, New Zealand and Porto Madryn, Argentina.
Tasmania and Hobart experience four distinct seasons. Its climate is described as mild temperate maritime. The warmest months are December, January, February and March with average temperatures of around 21°C. With an annual average of 626 millimetres of rainfall, Hobart is Australia's second-driest capital city. Rainfall is spread fairly evenly throughout the year, although the winter months are the wettest.
Tasmania and Hobart experience four distinct seasons. Its climate is described as mild temperate maritime. The warmest months are December, January, February and March with average temperatures of around 21°C. With an annual average of 626 millimetres of rainfall, Hobart is Australia's second-driest capital city. The climate of Alice Springs in Australia's Red Centre is one of extremes. Unlike the Top End of the Northern Territory which has a tropical climate, the Red Centre has a semi-arid climate. In summer (December-February), average temperatures range between 20°C and 35°C.
Hobart Weather and Climate. Hobart is situated at latitude 42°50'S and longitude 147°20'E. Its latitude equates with that of Rome and Salt Lake City in the northern hemisphere. It's also within a degree of Beijing, Sapporo, New York and Barcelona. However, its climate is not like any of them. It's much more like its southern counterparts: Wellington, New Zealand and Porto Madryn, Argentina.
Tasmania has a cool temperate climate with four distinct seasons. Summer lasts from December to February when the average maximum sea temperature is 21 °C (70 °F). On land, maximum temperatures average 20 °C (68 °F) to 24 °C (75 °F) along the coast and in the lowlands, such as around Launceston. With this type of topography, Launceston's weather patterns can change in a short period of time. The warmest months are in January and February with an average air temperature range of 12.2 °C (54 °F) up to 26.4 °C (80 °F). Throughout the year there is an average of 8.3 days a year over 30 °C (86 °F).
Rainfall in Tasmania follows a complicated pattern rather analogous to that found on large continents at the same latitude in the northern hemisphere. On the western side rainfall increases from around 1,458 millimetres (57.4 in) at Strahan on the coast up to 2,690 millimetres (106 in) at Cradle Valley in the highlands. With this type of topography, Launceston's weather patterns can change in a short period of time. The warmest months are in January and February with an average air temperature range of 12.2 °C (54 °F) up to 26.4 °C (80 °F). Throughout the year there is an average of 8.3 days a year over 30 °C (86 °F).
Climate and Weather. Tasmania has four distinct seasons with the warmest months being December to March. The average maximum daily summer temperatures are between 17 and 23 degrees Celsius and winter daily temperatures sit between 3 and 11 degrees Celsius. Rainfall varies dramatically across the island. Hobart, with an average of 626 millimetres is Australia's second-driest capital city (after Adelaide), while on the west coast an annual average of 2,400 mm ensures the rainforest thrives. 
more interesting sites The climate of Tasmania (Australia) Tasmania is the small island off the south eastern coast of Australia. It has a moderate sea climate. It has a cool temperate climate with four distinct seasons. Tasmania is a very green island.