A small blood sample, mouth swab, or urine sample is used to test people for HIV. It can take as long as 3 to 6 months after the infection for the virus to show up in your blood. You can be tested at a doctor’s office, hospital, community health center, or other health clinic. Some places have mobile testing vans. However, thousands of older people get HIV every year. Many older people may not know they have HIV. Older people are less likely than younger people to get tested. Signs of HIV/AIDS can be mistaken for the aches and pains of normal aging. Older adults might be coping with other diseases common to aging that can mask the signs of HIV/AIDS
These antigen/antibody combination tests can find HIV as soon as 3 weeks after exposure to the virus, but they are only available for testing blood, not oral fluid. The rapid test is an immunoassay used for screening, and it produces quick results, in 30 minutes or less. If the test comes back negative, and you haven’t had an exposure for 3 months, you can be confident you’re not infected with HIV. If your test comes back positive, you will need to get a follow-up test, which the testing site will arrange.
Deciding when to get tested therefore depends on when you may have been exposed and which test is used. You can ask your health care provider about the window period for the HIV test you are taking. If you are using a home test, you can get that information from the materials included in the packaging of the test. If the test comes back negative, and you haven’t had an exposure for 3 months, you can be confident you’re not infected with HIV. If your test comes back positive, you will need to get a follow-up test, which the testing site will arrange.
Anyone, at any age, can get HIV/AIDS. People usually get HIV from unprotected sex with someone who has HIV/AIDS, through contact with HIV-infected blood, or by sharing needles with an infected person. You may be at risk if: 1  You had sex without a latex or polyurethane condom. However, thousands of older people get HIV every year. Many older people may not know they have HIV. Older people are less likely than younger people to get tested. Signs of HIV/AIDS can be mistaken for the aches and pains of normal aging. Older adults might be coping with other diseases common to aging that can mask the signs of HIV/AIDS
The time period from infection with HIV until the body produces enough HIV antibodies to be detected by an HIV antibody test is called the window period. Most people develop HIV antibodies within 3 months after they are infected with HIV. But the window period can vary depending on the HIV test used. In general, anyone who has a negative result on an HIV antibody test within 3 months of a possible exposure to HIV should have the test repeated in 3 months. The HIV antigen/antibody test can detect both HIV antigen (a part of the virus) and HIV antibodies in blood.
A few people will have a longer window period, so if you get a negative antibody test result in the first 3 months after possible exposure, you should get a repeat test after 3 months. Ninety-seven percent of people will develop antibodies in the first 3 months after they are infected. If the test comes back negative, and you haven’t had an exposure for 3 months, you can be confident you’re not infected with HIV. If your test comes back positive, you will need to get a follow-up test, which the testing site will arrange.
Some people who test positive for HIV were not aware of their risk. That’s why CDC recommends that providers in all health care settings make HIV testing a routine part of medical care for patients aged 13 to 64, unless the patient declines (opts out). If the test comes back negative, and you haven’t had an exposure for 3 months, you can be confident you’re not infected with HIV. If your test comes back positive, you will need to get a follow-up test, which the testing site will arrange.
Hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children starting at age 1 year, travelers to certain countries, and others at risk. CDC recommends that health care providers test everyone for HIV between the ages of 13 and 64 at least once as part of routine health care. Talk to a healthcare provider about getting tested. Read these STD Fact Sheets to find out. People born from 1945 through 1965 are 5x more likely to have Hepatitis C. While anyone can get Hepatitis C, more than 75% of people with Hepatitis C were born during these years. That’s why CDC recommends that anyone born from 1945 through 1965 get tested for