Florida is one of only a handful of states, including California, Michigan and Nevada, that have passed legislation addressing self-driving cars. Florida’s law is meant to make it easy for carmakers to test the technology there. 
The bill would open roads for driverless car testing by companies like Toyota and Google to help usher in a new, safe and efficient era of self-driving cars. Currently three states have passed laws allowing for driverless cars — Nevada, Florida and California. 
Google's self driving Prius 02:14. Google has already been testing the cars on the road in Nevada, which passed a law last year authorizing driverless vehicles. Both Nevada and California require the cars to have a human behind the wheel who can take control of the vehicle at any time. California is the latest state to allow testing of Google's self-driving cars on the roads, though only with a human passenger along as a safety measure.
Five states and the District of Columbia (Nevada, Florida, Michigan, Virginia,California) have already passed legislation allowing the operation of autonomous cars on their highways. 
In this period Google has led the way in trying to convince the public that the idea of driverless cars is not such an alien one. In April 2012, Florida became the second U.S state to allow testing of driverless cars on public roads. California, passed legislation permitting the testing of driverless cars in 2012, as did Washington D.C. The latest US state to promote the project was Michigan, which passed legislation in December of last year.
As of 2013, four U.S. states have passed laws permitting autonomous cars: Nevada, Florida, California, and Michigan. In 2015 those four states together with Washington, D.C. will by joined by Virginia in allowing the testing of fully autonomous cars on public roads. Carmakers...are keen to draw a distinction between [autonomous cars and self-driving cars] and with good reasons of self-interest. Autonomous cars will look like the vehicles we drive today, [taking] over from the driver under certain circumstances....
However, California follows Nevada and Florida in legalizing driverless cars: Nevada passed a law in June 2011 allowing autonomous vehicles to operate within the state. The law became effective in March, and in May, a Google self-driving car was the first to receive a license to operate under the law. He said that Google's cars have driven 300,000 miles on roads so far and that, while human intervention for safety reasons has been necessary periodically during testing, the last 50,000 miles of driving have passed without requiring any test engineer to take the wheel.
PALO ALTO, Calif.— Drivers here already gawk at Google's self-driving car zipping around the freeways. In California, Nevada, Florida and the District of Columbia, the future of transportation is now: All four jurisdictions are setting ground rules for self-driving cars on the roads. The trend is spreading. In this year's legislative sessions, nine more states debated driverless car bills. The state legislation, while important to create the framework for safe driverless cars on public roads, was never intended to be the end point for the technology, said Florida Republican Sen. Jeff Brandes, who sponsored Florida's driverless car legislation.
In April 2012, Florida became the second state to allow the testing of autonomous cars on public roads, and California became the third when Governor Jerry Brown signed the bill into law at Google HQ in Mountain View. In December 2013, Michigan became the fourth state to allow testing of driverless cars on public roads. In July 2014, the city of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho adopted a robotics ordinance that includes provisions to allow for self-driving cars. The team developing the system consisted of 15 engineers working for Google, including Chris Urmson, Mike Montemerlo, and Anthony Levandowski who had worked on the DARPA Grand and Urban Challenges. Legislation has been passed in four U.S. states and Washington, D.C. allowing driverless cars. The state of Nevada passed a law on June 29, 2011, permitting the operation of autonomous cars in Nevada, after Google had been lobbying in that state for robotic car law