PRINCIPLE: Nitrazine paper is brought into contact with the lacrimal fluid of the eye. The Nitrazine paper changes color based on pH of the fluid. Normal eye pH is basic. REAGENTS: Nitrazine paper. 
The TearLab Osmolarity Test Card, in conjunction with the TearLab Osmolarity System, provides a quick and simple method for determining tear osmolarity using nanoliter (nL) volumes of tear fluid collected directly from the eyelid margin. The Test Card is held by the Osmolarity Test Pen, for safe collection. 
having the same tonicity or osmotic pressure as blood. lacrimal fluid. aqueous fluid secreted by the lacrimal glands; called also tears. fluid line. in radiographs, the interface between fluid and gas, as in the gastrointestinal tract, will show as a straight line. It is composed of three layers: (1) The deepest and densest is the mucin layer (or mucous layer) which derives from the conjunctival goblet cells, as well as some secretion from the lacrimal gland. (2) The watery lacrimal fluid is the middle layer, called the lacrimal (or aqueous layer).
The field covering the anterior surface of the cornea which consists of lacrimal fluid and of the secretion of the meibomian and conjunctival glands. It is composed of three layers: (1) The deepest and densest is the mucin layer (or mucous layer) which derives from the conjunctival goblet cells, as well as some secretion from the lacrimal gland. (2) The watery lacrimal fluid is the middle layer, called the lacrimal (or aqueous layer).
The clear watery fluid secreted by the lacrimal gland which, together with the secretions from the meibomian glands, the goblet cells, the gland of Zeis, as well as the accessory lacrimal glands of Krause and Wolfring, helps to maintain the conjunctiva and cornea moist and healthy. It is composed of three layers: (1) The deepest and densest is the mucin layer (or mucous layer) which derives from the conjunctival goblet cells, as well as some secretion from the lacrimal gland. (2) The watery lacrimal fluid is the middle layer, called the lacrimal (or aqueous layer).
Tears normally drain from the eye through small tubes called tear ducts, which stretch from the eye into the nose. If a tear duct becomes blocked or fails to open, tears cannot drain from the eye properly. The duct may fill with fluid and become swollen, inflamed, and sometimes infected. 
Tears are made primarily by the lacrimal gland, which is anatomically located under the outer one-third of the upper eyelid. With each blink, the eyelid spreads tears over the surface of the eye and pumps excess tears towards ducts in both the upper and lower eyelids. 
It is a symptom rather than a specific disease and is associated with a variety of conditions. Normally, a thin film of tears is produced to lubricate the eyes and the excess fluid drains into the lacrimal or tear ducts, which are located in the medial canthus or corner of the eye next to the nose. The tear ducts drain tears into the back of the nose and the throat
The lacrimal glands are paired almond-shaped glands, one for each eye, that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film. They are situated in the upper, outer portion of each orbit, in the lacrimal fossa of the orbit formed by the frontal bone. Inflammation of the lacrimal glands is called dacryoadenitis. The lacrimal gland produces tears which then flow into canals that lead to the lacrimal sac. From this sac, the tears drain through the lacrimal duct into the nose. Anatomists divide the gland into two sections. The smaller palpebral portion lies close to the eye, along the inner surface of the eyelid; if the upper eyelid is everted, the palpebral portion can be seen.