The best way to negotiate the marked-up acquisition fee is to negotiate it from the cap-cost of the lease (the price of the car). If the dealer has marked up the fee by $300, then the customer should negotiate an additional $300 from the price. In conclusion, if a bank acquisition fee is a component of your lease you will not be able to line-item veto this charge. But knowing how much the car dealer is making may help you reduce the overall price of your next car.
You may be able to save thousands on a new car purchase by having your financing already taken care of before going to the dealer, bypassing a hidden bank fee some auto salesmen are unscrupulously tacking on. Banks and lenders charge dealerships this acquisition fee to approve a loan and do business with the dealer. The hidden acquisition fee is more likely to be buried in the car price for people with little or poor credit. Regardless of your credit score, though, it's still a good idea to arrange financing before walking into the dealership, the Consumerist advises. Photo by ArtBrom.
For additional information about car lease acquisition fees and other leasing charges and sales taxes, see Lease Fees and Taxes. The term, acquisition fee, as it relates to car leasing, refers to an administrative fee that is included in all leases. It is sometimes called a “bank fee” or “assignment fee.” The fee is sometimes not disclosed in a lease contract. An acquisition fee is charged by lease companies, not dealers. In many leases, the fee is simply added to capitalized cost, which is the amount being financed in the lease. It appears in a lease contract as “gross capitalized cost” which includes the cost of the vehicle with the acquisition fee added, but often not itemized. In this respect, it is a “hidden” fee.
A smarter course of action, if you can afford it, is to ask your lender or dealer to separate the car acquisition fee from the lease agreement entirely and pay for it upfront vehicle so you can avoid paying even more in leasing costs over the course of the contract. You are being charged essentially for the work your lender has to put into setting up your lease agreement. Dealerships usually do not make any money off of this fee so a car acquisition fee is usually a non-negotiable part of the price that you will be paying when you sign the lease. Yep, a car acquisition fee may seem as inevitable as death and taxes but there are ways to not get taken to the cleaners with this charge
These fees usually start at $350 and can be as high as $1,000 for some luxury vehicles. If a car dealer is setting up the lease for you, you need to make sure they're not marking up the acquisition fee. Some leasing companies allow dealers to mark up the fee a few hundred dollars and let them keep the difference. The way to combat this is to comparison shop your lease with several different car dealers. One of those things is the lease acquisition fee (also referred to as the Lease Inception fee or Origination Fee). This is a fee charged by the leasing company to cover their initial administrative costs-or so they say. It's really just an additional profit source
The car acquisition fee can be hidden in the leasing contract as part of the gross capitalized cost which includes the entire amount of money you owe during the term of the lease and remember that there are interest charges associated with that amount even in a lease. You are being charged essentially for the work your lender has to put into setting up your lease agreement. Dealerships usually do not make any money off of this fee so a car acquisition fee is usually a non-negotiable part of the price that you will be paying when you sign the lease. Yep, a car acquisition fee may seem as inevitable as death and taxes but there are ways to not get taken to the cleaners with this charg
Edit Answer (for another 12 minutes). The acquisition fee is nothing more than a fee the lease company charges upfront or includes in the financed cost supposedly for expenses incurred in creating and assigning the lease over to a bank that will actually finance it. In reality it is just another profit source for the leasor. An acquisition fee is charged by lease companies, not dealers. Dealers typically do not make a profit on this fee, although some lease companies may kick back part of the fee to dealers as a reward for sending them business.
A car acquisition fee is a charge that is only a concern to customers who lease rather than buy their new or used cars. You are being charged essentially for the work your lender has to put into setting up your lease agreement. Dealerships usually do not make any money off of this fee so a car acquisition fee is usually a non-negotiable part of the price that you will be paying when you sign the lease. Yep, a car acquisition fee may seem as inevitable as death and taxes but there are ways to not get taken to the cleaners with this charge