However, dissociative identity disorder is a severe form of dissociation, a mental process which produces a lack of connection in a person's thoughts, memories, feelings, actions, or sense of identity. 
In this article. Dissociative amnesia is one of a group of conditions called dissociative disorders. Dissociative disorders are mental illnesses that involve disruptions or breakdowns of memory, consciousness, awareness, identity, and/or perception. When one or more of these functions is disrupted, symptoms can result.
stand-alone instrument that is specific to the dissociative subtype. The inclusion of the dissociative subtype of PTSD in the. DSM-5 has both clinical and research applications. Symptoms of dissociation are important clinical phenomena that may become a target of treatment or may interfere with PTSD treatment. The dissociative subtype holds many potential benefits for research. purposes. PTSD is a heterogeneous disorder such that any two individuals with the diagnosis may present with different (even nonoverlapping) combinations of PTSD symptoms and patterns of comorbidity.
Dissociative disorders are characterized by an involuntary escape from reality characterized by a disconnection between thoughts, identity, consciousness and memory. People from all age groups and racial, ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds can experience a dissociative disorder. However, the symptoms a person experiences will depend on the type of dissociative disorder that a person has. Treatment for dissociative disorders often involves psychotherapy and medication. Though finding an effective treatment plan can be difficult, many people are able to live healthy and productive lives.
The symptoms of dissociative disorders depend on the type of disorder that has been diagnosed. There are three types of dissociative disorders defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM): 1  Dissociative Amnesia. However, the symptoms a person experiences will depend on the type of dissociative disorder that a person has. Treatment for dissociative disorders often involves psychotherapy and medication. Though finding an effective treatment plan can be difficult, many people are able to live healthy and productive lives.
Dissociative disorders (DD) are conditions that involve disruptions or breakdowns of memory, awareness, identity, or perception. People with dissociative disorders use dissociation, a defense mechanism, pathologically and involuntarily. 
1 The role of dissociation in civilian posttraumatic stress disorder: Evidence for a dissociative subtype by latent class and confirmatory factor analysis. 2  Depression and Anxiety, 29, 689-700. 3  doi: 10.1002/da.21944. 4  Wolf, E. J., Lunney, C. A., Miller, M. W., Resick, P. A., Friedman, M. J., & Schnurr, P. P. (2012). 1 Emotion modulation in PTSD: Clinical and neurobiological evidence for a dissociative subtype. 2  American Journal of Psychiatry, 167, 640-647. 3  doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2009.09081168. 4  Cloitre, M., Petkova, E., Wang, J., & Lu Lassell, F. (2012).
The addition of a dissociative subtype to the PTSD diagnosis is expected to further advance research examining the etiology, epidemiology, neurobiology, and treatment response of this subtype and facilitate the search for biomarkers of PTSD. 1 Emotion modulation in PTSD: Clinical and neurobiological evidence for a dissociative subtype. 2  American Journal of Psychiatry, 167, 640-647. 3  doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2009.09081168. 4  Cloitre, M., Petkova, E., Wang, J., & Lu Lassell, F. (2012).
There are five main types of post-traumatic stress disorder: normal stress response, acute stress disorder, uncomplicated PTSD, comorbid PTSD and complex PTSD. Normal Stress Response. Uncomplicated PTSD involves persistent reexperiencing of the traumatic event, avoidance of stimuli associated with the trauma, emotional numbing, and symptoms of increased arousal. It may respond to group, psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, pharmacological, or combination approaches.
These include the Dissociative Experiences Scale, the Multiscale Dissociation Inventory, the Traumatic Dissociation Scale, and the Stanford Acute Stress Reaction Questionnaire. Additional interviews and scales specific to the dissociative subtype are currently under development. 1 Emotion modulation in PTSD: Clinical and neurobiological evidence for a dissociative subtype. 2  American Journal of Psychiatry, 167, 640-647. 3  doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2009.09081168. 4  Cloitre, M., Petkova, E., Wang, J., & Lu Lassell, F. (2012).