Urine Transparency. Freshly voided urine is clear and transparent. Cloudy urine may be caused by crystals, deposits, white cells, red cells, epithelial cells or fat globules. Further evaluation with centrifugation, microscopic examination, heating or with ether generally determines the cause of the turbidity. 
Cloudy or murky urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection, which may also have an offensive smell. Murky urine may also be caused by the presence of bacteria, mucus, white blood cells or red blood cells, epithelial cells, fat, or phosphates. 
A bladder infection (a more specific type of urinary tract infection), also known as Cystitis, may cause cloudy urine. Cystitis is an inflammation of the bladder. The bladder infection may also be accompanied by painful urination, difficulty in urination and frequent urination. Kidney stones may cause cloudy urine. They can cause pus in the urine, which gives your pee that milky or cloudy look. If you have kidney stones, the pain of the stones may lead you to see a doctor more quickly than the cloudy urine. Food can cause a change in the consistency and color of your urine, although they are not the usual cause of cloudy urine. Blood in urine-When the blood is microscopic, it may not show bright red or dark red but rather it may appear as
Cloudy Urine. Cloudy urine is the turbidity of the urine with a cloudy appearance, that shows a brown, red, white, yellow or dark urine. Usually, it is normal or caused by urine infection, mixed with crystals, blood, bacteria, mucus, pus, free fat globules, epithelial cells or white blood cells in urine. Drinking water too little (dehydration) is also a cause. That often occurs at night when sleeping and may lead to cloudy urine in the morning. As a result, urine may be turbidity, and the color is deepened.
Some possible cloudy urine causes are: Food can cause a change in the consistency and color of your urine, although they are not the usual cause of cloudy urine. Blood in urine-When the blood is microscopic, it may not show bright red or dark red but rather it may appear as cloudy urine.
1. Dehydration. Dehydration is one of the most common causes of cloudy urine symptoms. When your body does not have adequate amounts of water, your urine may become dark and cloudy. 2. Urinary Tract Infections. UTIs are common causes of urine cloudiness, and these infections may require medical attention to cure. 
Drinking lots of milk is also one of the harmless causes to affect some people with cloudy urine. Drinking water too little (dehydration) is also a cause. That often occurs at night when sleeping and may lead to cloudy urine in the morning. As a result, urine may be turbidity, and the color is deepened. Most of the urine salts precipitation with innocuous causes. After prolonged standing, strenuous exercises, urine cooling or in the cold, it often occurs as a result of precipitation of salts
Cloudy urine caused by urinary tract infections UTIs The most common medical cause of cloudy urine is an infection or inflammation of the urinary tract. The best example of this is the common urinary tract infection (UTI) caused by bacteria. 
Normal urine is clear and has a straw-yellow color. When the urine does not have its characteristic clear appearance, it is often referred to as cloudy, turbid, or foamy urine. Cloudy or foamy urine may occur occasionally due to mild dehydration; when it occurs in the absence of symptoms and goes away rapidly, it is usually of little consequence. Certain conditions can cause excess protein or crystalline substances in the urine, causing it to persistently appear cloudy or foamy. Infections anywhere in the urinary tract can cause blood and pus to appear in the urine, giving it a cloudy appearance. Additionally, many of the numerous causes of blood in the urine can yield a cloudy or murky appearance to the urine due to the presence of blood
Cloudy urine can be caused by a variety of conditions, including vaginal discharge, sexually transmitted diseases, dehydration, certain autoimmune disorders, as well as infection, inflammation, or other conditions of the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra). Healthy urine is clear and light yellow in color. Urine may appear cloudy for a variety of reasons, some of which are not harmful, such as foaming of the urine that occurs temporarily when urinating rapidly.