Deep vein thrombosis (throm-BO-sis), or DVT, is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body. Blood clots occur when blood thickens and clumps together. Most deep vein blood clots occur in the lower leg or thigh. They also can occur in other parts of the body. A blood clot in a deep vein can break off and travel through the bloodstream. The loose clot is called an embolus (EM-bo-lus).
The most common cause of a blood clot developing in a vein is immobility. A complication can occur in some cases where part of the blood clot breaks off and travels to the lung (pulmonary embolus). This is usually prevented if you are given anticoagulation treatment. A DVT is a blood clot that forms in a deep leg vein. Veins are blood vessels that take blood towards the heart. Deep leg veins are the larger veins that go through the muscles of the calf and thighs.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a medical condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a deep vein. These clots usually develop in the lower leg, thigh, or pelvis, but they can also occur in the arm. DVT does not cause heart attack or stroke. There are two main types of blood clots. How a clot affects the body depends on the type and location of the clot: 1  A blood clot in a deep vein of the leg, pelvis, and sometimes arm, is called deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 2  A blood clot in an artery, usually in the heart or brain, is called arterial thrombosis
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a blood clot (thrombus) in a deep vein, usually in the legs. Clots can form in superficial veins and in deep veins. Blood clots with inflammation in superficial veins (called superficial thrombophlebitis or phlebitis) rarely cause serious problems. But clots in deep veins (deep vein thrombosis) require immediate medical care. Blood clots most often form in the calf and thigh veins, and less often in the arm veins or pelvic veins. This topic focuses on blood clots in the deep veins of the legs, but diagnosis and treatment of DVT in other parts of the body are similar.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) occurs when an abnormal blood clot forms in alarge vein. These clots usually develop in the lower leg, thigh, or pelvis, butcan also occur in other large veins in the body. 
Deep Vein Thrombosis. Deep vein thrombosis (throm-BO-sis), or DVT, is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body. Blood clots occur when blood thickens and clumps together. Most deep vein blood clots occur in the lower leg or thigh. They also can occur in other parts of the body. Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT). The formation of a blood clot in a deep vein of the leg or lower pelvis. Symptoms may include pain, swelling, warmth, and redness in the affected area. Also called DVT.
An abnormal clot that forms in a vein may restrict the return of blood to the heart and can result in pain and swelling as the blood gathers behind the clot. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a type of clot that forms in a major vein of the leg or, less commonly, in the arms, pelvis, or other large veins in the body. 
Blood clot in leg vein. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) occurs when a blood clot (thrombus) forms in one or more of the deep veins in your body, usually in your legs. Deep vein thrombosis can cause leg pain or swelling, but may occur without any symptoms. 