Egypt as you probably know is a desert which means there is very little grass. Because of that there was no food for the cows. Since there were very few cows the beef was very expensive in Egypt. The Egyptian s favorite food was beef but they didn t eat it a lot because of it s price.
The typical Egyptian foods are rice, Pita bread (aysh) and fava beans. Special dishes include roasted Ground lamb like kebab, vegetable casserole, and stuffed, grilled pigeon. Desserts like Ahwa and Baklava are local favorites.
By Islam El Shazly. The Egyptian cuisine is not very fancy; it is not as elaborate as French or Italian cuisine and not as heavy as some of the food in the Arabian Gulf, it also doesn’t rely on a massive amount of spices.
Apart from its endowments of magnificent ancient monuments, there are different types of food in Egypt. The food found in Egypt is a combination of different food types that came into Egypt throughout its existence. There aren’t anywhere in the world where you will be able to have a taste of different types of food cultures in the same place. The following is a list of the different types of food in Egypt today.
Around the Egyptian coast you will find more fish in the meals. The Egyptian Bread Aish also forms part of most of the meals. Did you know that Aish is the Egyptian word for bread and also means life. Also, if you find there is no cutlery, it is common to use your bread to spoon the food.
This is one of the types of food in Egypt that are not of Egyptian origen. They were introduced into the region through the Mediterranean during the ancient times. Today, Taro is one of the most popular types of food in Egypt. Other popular types of food in Egypt include Halawa, Gibna Domiati, Dukkah, and Konafah.
Dukkah. Dukkah is an Egyptian food commonly used as a dip and eaten along with Egyptian flatbread or raw vegetables, such as tomatoes or cucumber, as an hors d’oeuvre or side dish. It consists of a mixture of herbs, nuts and spices such as mint, salt, sesame, coriander and cumin.
Amir Atiatalla. Not a lot of people know that Egypt is not only famous for its ancient monuments, culture and revolution, but it is also famous for its great food. Egyptian food is a mixture of all the different civilizations that came to Egypt in the history of its existence.