During cataract surgery, a patient's cloudy natural cataract lens is removed and replaced with a synthetic lens to restore the lens's transparency. Following surgical removal of the natural lens, an artificial intraocular lens implant is inserted (eye surgeons say that the lens is implanted). 1 Manual small incision cataract surgery (MSICS): This technique is an evolution of ECCE (see below) where the entire lens is expressed out of the eye through a self-sealing scleral tunnel wound. 2  An appropriately constructed scleral tunnel is watertight and does not require suturing.
The key performance figures of femtosecond lasers are the following: 1  the pulse duration (which is in some cases tunable in a certain range). 2  the pulse repetition rate (which is in most cases fixed, or tunable only within a small range). 3  the average output power and pulse energy. 1 Some femtosecond lasers offer a stable linear polarization of the output, whereas others emit with an undefined polarization state. 2  The noise properties can differ strongly between different types and models of femtosecond lasers.
The use of the Femtosecond Laser in assisting with phacoemulsification for Cataract Surgery represents what may be a new technological approach yielding even more predictable and refined results in what is already a remarkably safe and effective Cataract operation. From a surgical perspective, Cataract Surgeons believe that incorporating the Femtosecond Laser into Cataract Surgery will be useful for: 1  Creating perfect incisions in terms of size and architecture, which is important in order to have the incision seal properly without the use of stitches and to prevent infection.
The femtosecond laser technology that brought new levels of safety, accuracy and predictability to LASIK surgery is also advancing cataract surgery. In our office, we call the procedure Refractive Laser-Assisted Cataract Surgery (ReLACS), but it also is known generally as laser cataract surgery. In traditional cataract surgery, the surgeon creates an opening in the capsule with a small needle and then uses that same needle or a forceps to tear the capsule in a circular fashion. In laser cataract surgery, the anterior capsulotomy is performed with a femtosecond laser. Studies have shown that capsulotomies performed with a laser have greater accuracy and reproducibilit
In laser cataract surgery, an advanced femtosecond laser replaces or assists use of a hand-held surgical tool for the following steps in cataract surgery: 1  The corneal incision. In traditional cataract surgery, the surgeon creates an opening in the capsule with a small needle and then uses that same needle or a forceps to tear the capsule in a circular fashion. In laser cataract surgery, the anterior capsulotomy is performed with a femtosecond laser. Studies have shown that capsulotomies performed with a laser have greater accuracy and reproducibility
(This definition follows U.S. usage in which a billion is a thousand million and a trillion is a 1 followed by 12 zeros.). A femtosecond is one millionth of a nanosecond or 10 -15 of a second and is a measurement sometimes used in laser technology. 
Cataract surgery is the removal of the natural lens of the eye (also called crystalline lens) that has developed an opacification, which is referred to as a cataract. 1 Manual small incision cataract surgery (MSICS): This technique is an evolution of ECCE (see below) where the entire lens is expressed out of the eye through a self-sealing scleral tunnel wound. 2  An appropriately constructed scleral tunnel is watertight and does not require suturing.
Categories: lasers, light pulses. How to cite the article; suggest additional literature. A femtosecond laser is a laser which emits optical pulses with a duration well below 1 ps (→ ultrashort pulses), i.e., in the domain of femtoseconds (1 fs = 10 −15 s). 1 Some femtosecond lasers offer a stable linear polarization of the output, whereas others emit with an undefined polarization state. 2  The noise properties can differ strongly between different types and models of femtosecond lasers.