A different saturated fat. Chocolate contains cocoa butter, which is high in saturated fat, yet one-third of chocolate's fat comes from stearic acid. Although it's a saturated fat, stearic acid does not raise LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol) as do most other saturated fats. Over 300 naturally occurring chemicals are found in chocolate. In a study conducted by Andrew Waterhouse, chocolate was found to have potent antioxidants called phenols. These antioxidants are the same types found in red wine.
Other more commonly known nutrients and substances are found in chocolate. Chocolate is a rich source of magnesium and phosphorus. Also, contrary to popular belief, chocolate contains only a limited amount of caffeine. An average chocolate contains about 10 mg of caffeine, while one cup of coffee contains 100 mg. Over 300 naturally occurring chemicals are found in chocolate. In a study conducted by Andrew Waterhouse, chocolate was found to have potent antioxidants called phenols. These antioxidants are the same types found in red wine.
Dark chocolate consumption increases HDL cholesterol concentration and chocolate fatty acids may inhibit lipid peroxidation in healthy humans. Mursu J(1), Voutilainen S, Nurmi T, Rissanen TH, Virtanen JK, Kaikkonen J, Nyyssoenen Nyyssönen, K SALONEN. Jt author: information 
Chocolate is a solid mixture. In its basic form it is composed of cacao powder, cocoa butter, and some type of sweetener such as sugar; however, modern chocolate includes milk solids, any added flavors, modifiers, and preservatives. Cacao is the plant matter which lends the unique tast and bitterness to chocolate. In its basic form it is composed of cacao powder, cocoa butter, and some type of sweetener such as sugar; however, modern chocolate includes milk solids, any added flavors, modifiers, and preservatives
You may be surprised to learn that chocolate isn’t as bad for you as once believed. The fat in chocolate comes from cocoa butter and is made up of equal amounts of oleic acid (a heart-healthy monounsaturated fat also found in olive oil), stearic and palmitic acids. Stearic and palmitic acids are forms of saturated fat. You may know that saturated fats are linked to increases in LDL cholesterol and the risk of heart disease. But, research shows that stearic acid appears to have a neutral effect on cholesterol, neither raising nor lowering it.
Much of the chocolate consumed today is in the form of sweet chocolate, a combination of cocoa solids, cocoa butter or other fat, and sugar. Milk chocolate is sweet chocolate that additionally contains milk powder or condensed milk. White chocolate contains cocoa butter, sugar, and milk, but no cocoa solids. Chocolate is also used in cold and hot beverages such as chocolate milk and hot chocolate. Although cocoa originated in the Americas, today Western Africa produces almost two-thirds of the world's cocoa, with Cote côte'D ivoire growing almost half of. it
Dark chocolate contains no milk (or significantly less milk) than other forms of chocolate such as white chocolate of milk chocolate. The key is to eat dark chocolate in moderation and also to choose dark chocolate with a high cacao content, as this provides the most nutrition. This article discusses five components of the nutrition of dark chocolate. Flavinoids. Flavinoids are an essential component of the nutrition of dark chocolate. Sugar. Sugar is often used in dark chocolate, though the amount is considerably less than that found in milk or white chocolate. Dark chocolate varies in the amount of sugar, from 3.5 grams to 13 grams. Look at the ingredients of dark chocolate for a brand that lists sugar as one of the last ingredients
1 Polyunsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found mostly in plant-based foods and oils. 3  Evidence shows that eating foods rich in polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease. 4  PUFAs may also help decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes. 5  Omega-3 fatty acids. There are numerous types of fat. Your body makes its own fat from taking in excess calories. Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body.