Grease (Movie). 158 pages on this wiki. Grease is a 1978 American musical film directed by Randal Kleiser and produced by Paramount Pictures.[2] It is based on Warren Casey's and Jim Jacobs's 1971 musical of the same name about two lovers in a 1950s high school. The film stars John Travolta, Olivia Newton-John, Stockard Channing, and Jeff Conaway. Box office. Commercially, Grease is box office success. In its opening weekend, the film grossed $8,941,717 in 862 theaters in the United States and Canada, ranking #2 (behind Jaws 2) at the box office.[14] Grease has grossed $188,755,690 domestically and $206,200,000 internationally, totaling $394,955,690 worldwide.
Fox spokesperson Shana C. Waterman said of the program: From Broadway to film, and across generations, Grease is one of the most beloved musical stories ever told – and we can't wait to bring it to our air in a spectacular live event. 
For this project, Stigwood was interested in Gibb's pen, but not his voice, since The Bee Gees sound ingrained with Saturday Night Fever and he wanted Grease to have its own identity. Frankie Valli, who could sing in a similar high vocal range to Gibb, was asked to record it. This was the second US #1 hit from the Grease soundtrack, following  You're The One That I Want , which was released ahead of the movie and hit the top spot on June 10, 1978, six days before the film hit theaters.
Grease  is a song written by Barry Gibb and performed by Frankie Valli. Grease is the title song for the musical motion picture Grease, which was based on the stage play of the same name. It was featured twice on the film's soundtrack, as the first track and reprised as the final track. The film director Randal Kleiser did not like Grease and the new song  You’re The One That I Want  because they did not fit the '50s style musically or lyrically. It became a #1 single in the United States in 1978 and also reached #40 on the R&B charts in the same year.
When he arrived on the Los Angeles lot to direct Grease 38 years ago there were fewer buildings, the studio's main theater hadn't yet been erected, and a large fire that would destroy a sidewalk set wouldn't come for another six years. But now. bustle.com | By Anna Klassen. Singer-songwriter Carly Rae Jepsen, who scored two Grammy noms and a global smash with Call Me Maybe in 2012, has joined Fox's musical as iconic ...deadline.com|By Erik Pedersen. 'Grease: Live' Taps Carly Rae Jepsen As Frenchy; Four Others Join Fox Musical. Grease: Live has found its beauty school dropout.
This was featured in the movie of the same name starring John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John. Valli was not in the movie, but another Frankie was: Frankie Avalon played the Teen Angel and sang Beauty School Dropout.. Valli would get a turn in acting: he appeared in seven episodes of the HBO series The Sopranos, which was about a quirky mafia family. This was the second US #1 hit from the Grease soundtrack, following  You're The One That I Want , which was released ahead of the movie and hit the top spot on June 10, 1978, six days before the film hit theaters.
Grease. Grease is a 1978 American musical film directed by Randal Kleiser and produced by Paramount Pictures. It is based on Warren Casey's and Jim Jacobs's 1971 musical of the same name about two lovers in a 1950s high school. The film stars John Travolta, Olivia Newton-John, Stockard Channing, and Jeff Conaway. Jeff Conaway once played Danny Zuko on Broadway. The original Broadway production of Grease opened at the Eden Theater on February 14, 1972 and ran for 3388 performances breaking the previous record set by Fiddler on the Roof. This production was also nominated for a 1972 Tony Award for Best Musical.