Here's what to do if you've got squirrels in your attic. Find the point of entry. Thoroughly inspect the inside of the attic to find the opening(s). If there is no way into the attic, inspect the exterior eaves, vents, and roof. Find out if it's a mother squirrel with young. John Griffin/The HSUS. Squirrels living in attics are a concern because they may gnaw on boards and electrical wires. Usually, the most serious problems come from nesting adult females. They often build their nests near openings, such as an unscreened vent or loose or rotten trim boards.
1 Once squirrels take up residence in your attic, they stake it off as their territory. 2  In large attics, one end is will become nesting area and the opposite end the latrine. 3  That unmistakable odor of urine that is imbedded in your attic marks their territory. Squirrels are very territorial. 1  Once squirrels take up residence in your attic, they stake it off as their territory. 2  In large attics, one end is will become nesting area and the opposite end the latrine.
1 With any squirrel problem, you should first do the things that help your situation. 2  First, remove any bird feeders, secure the garbage cans, and cut the tree limbs back around the house so squirrels do not have easy access to the roof. 3  Then, you need to make the attic unattractive to them. Squirrels are very territorial. 1  Once squirrels take up residence in your attic, they stake it off as their territory. 2  In large attics, one end is will become nesting area and the opposite end the latrine. 3  That unmistakable odor of urine that is imbedded in your attic marks their territory
Although several species of squirrel can live in attics, including flying squirrels, red squirrels, and more, this article deals with the most common, the Eastern Gray Squirrel. Most commonly, the squirrel living in your attic is a female with a litter of baby squirrels. They also leave behind a strong squirrel pheromone scent. If you've had squirrels in your attic, even if you get rid of them, new squirrels will smell that squirrel smell and try to live in your house in the future. In order to permanently solve any squirrel problem, you've got to make sure that your house is 100% squirrel-proofed
Cleanup As mentioned, when squirrels live in an attic, they poop and pee a lot. They can leave large amounts of droppings and urine in an attic. It's not just unsightly or bad-smelling-it could potentially pose a health risk. Most droppings grow mold over time, and most droppings contain salmonella. They also leave behind a strong squirrel pheromone scent. If you've had squirrels in your attic, even if you get rid of them, new squirrels will smell that squirrel smell and try to live in your house in the future. In order to permanently solve any squirrel problem, you've got to make sure that your house is 100% squirrel-proofed
Squirrels can jump up to 10 feet from a tree branch to your home. Squirrels living in your attic are more than a nuisance; they can also create a fire hazard when they chew through the wiring in your house. Trim your trees so that the branches end at least 10 feet from your house. Most squirrels can't jump farther than 10 feet, so that should help keep squirrels off your roof and away from the wires in your attic in the future.
1 Attics are warm, dry, friendly places where a family of squirrels can settle down and build a nest, store food, and use the bathroom in relative safety and comfort from the dangers of the natural world. 2  But their most important reason for being there is to have babies. Squirrels are very territorial. 1  Once squirrels take up residence in your attic, they stake it off as their territory. 2  In large attics, one end is will become nesting area and the opposite end the latrine. 3  That unmistakable odor of urine that is imbedded in your attic marks their territory