Chlorophyll is good for your body from the inside out, literally. This includes body and fecal odors. When tested in a nursing home with 62 patients, one study reported improvements in the odors emanating from the test subjects. In addition to odor reduction, it also alleviated constipation and gas.
A number of chlorophyll researches have been focused on finding out the potential chlorophyll health benefits in humans. True enough, chlorophyll has been seen to provide health benefits to those who take them. It has anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and wound-healing properties.
1 These are only a few of the multitude benefits that chlorophyll can do to the body. 2  It has antimutagenic and anti-carcinogenic properties so that it may be helpful in protecting your body against toxins and in reducing drug side effects.
Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in plants. Plants use chlorophyll and light to make food. People use chlorophyll as medicine. Common sources of chlorophyll used for medicine include alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and silkworm droppings. Chlorophyll is used for bad breath and reducing colostomy odor.
Chlorophyll is a green pigment present in plants which facilitates the absorption of light from the sun. Chlorophyll has the ability to convert this light energy into usable form which is utilized for various processes such as photosynthesis by virtue of which the green plants prepare their own food.
Spirulina: is a blue green algae that is bursting with chlorophyll. It is also 60% protein, high in many other vitamins and minerals, as well as an array of antioxidants. Chlorella: is also a blue-green algae which has a very powerful detoxifying effect for the body.
Chlorophyll is what absorbs energy from the sun to facilitate photosynthesis in plants. Chlorophyll to plants is like blood to humans. It is important in many plant metabolic functions such as growth and respiration.
Best Answer: Chlorophyll does nothing to the body other than supply a source of nutrients. C55H72O5N4Mg is it's rough formula, so you can see that chlorophyll is a source of carbon, hydrogen, and less so of oxygen, nitrogen and magnesium.
1 Along with other vitamins such as A, C and E, chlorophyll has been seen to help neutralize free radicals that do damage to healthy cells. 2  Chlorophyll is also an effective deodorizer to reduce bad breath, urine, fecal waste, and body odor.