Otosclerosis is a disease of the middle ear bones and sometimes the inner ear. Otosclerosis is a common cause of hearing impairment and is rarely hereditary. 
Less frequently, otosclerosis may cause a sensorineural hearing loss (damaged sensory cells and/or nerve fibers of the inner ear), as well as a conductive hearing loss. The abnormal bone fixates the stapes in the oval window and interferes with sound passing waves to the inner ear. Otosclerosis usually causes a conductive hearing loss, a hearing loss caused by a problem in the outer or middle ear.
' Otosclerosis is caused by an abnormal growth of bone in the ears, which causes hearing loss. In most cases, a surgical operation will restore the hearing. Otosclerosis has to do with the three small bones in the middle ear, more specifically the stapes. An otosclerosis diagnosis should be made by a specialist, but some signs can be detected by the suffering person or their relatives. Strong background noise can add to the confusion of people with nerve deafness, but in the case of otosclerosis, this confusion does not often occur.
The cause of otosclerosis is unknown. However, there is some evidence that it may be passed down through families. People who have otosclerosis have an abnormal sponge-like bone growing in the middle ear. This growth prevents the ear bones from vibrating in response to sound waves. Such vibrations are needed in order for you to hear. Otosclerosis is the most common cause of middle ear hearing loss in young adults. 
The cause of otosclerosis is not fully understood, although research has shown that otosclerosis tends to run in families and may be hereditary, or passed down from parent to child. People who have a family history of otosclerosis are more likely to develop the disorder. The abnormal bone fixates the stapes in the oval window and interferes with sound passing waves to the inner ear. Otosclerosis usually causes a conductive hearing loss, a hearing loss caused by a problem in the outer or middle ear.
The gene that predisposes to otosclerosis may be similar to the gene that causes osteogenesis imperfecta -- a generalized bone disease (McKenna et al, 2002), that is generally transmitted in an autosomal dominant fashion. Figure 1. Cross section of ear. Otosclerosis involves the small bones of the middle ear, the malleus (2), the incus (3) and the stapes (4), as well as the bone that surrounds the inner ear, which is called the otic capsule.
To research the causes of Otosclerosis, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Otosclerosis: 1  Conductive deafness. 2  Sensorineral deafness. 3  Vander Hoeve syndrome. 4  Otitis media. 5  Glue ear. 6  Upper respiratory tract infection. 7  Paracetamol. 8  Chronic otitis media. 
Measles virus infection may activate the gene responsible for otosclerosis. Otosclerosis, however, is not responsible for all cases of stapes ankylosis. A heterogeneous group of disorders, including other bone degenerative disorders, appears to cause stapes fixation and conductive hearing loss.
Because many of the symptoms typical of otosclerosis can be caused by other medical conditions, it is important to be examined by an otolaryngologist (ear, nose and throat doctor) to eliminate these other causes. After an examination, the otolaryngologist may order a hearing test. 
In addition to hearing loss, some people with otosclerosis may experience dizziness, balance problems, or tinnitus. Tinnitus is a sensation of ringing, roaring, buzzing, or hissing in the ears or head that accompanies many forms of hearing loss. The abnormal bone fixates the stapes in the oval window and interferes with sound passing waves to the inner ear. Otosclerosis usually causes a conductive hearing loss, a hearing loss caused by a problem in the outer or middle ear.