If you logged in, you could do the following: 1  Add this character to your favorites list. 2  Add a love heart to this character. 3  Add a hate heart to this character. 4  Upload additional images. 5  Edit this character's details. 6  Tag this character. 7  Add How Well Known info. 1 Add this character to your favorites list. 2  Add a love heart to this character. 3  Add a hate heart to this character. 4  Upload additional images. 5  Edit this character's details. 6  Tag this character. 7  Add How Well Known info. 8  Add or update this character's profile.
She is a the resident of room 202. She is a world famous artist who transferred into Suiko as a second-year to learn how to draw manga. Although her artworks are widely admired by the world in spite of her young age, she knows nothing other than drawing, and has an extreme lack of common sense and living ability. In the third novel, Mashiro starts to grow feelings for Sorata, and she even claims that she cannot live without him. In eighth novel, Sorata confesses his feelings for her. In the ninth novel, they are officially a couple. It is heavily implied in the last volume of the novel that Mashiro and Sorata had a child.
7 pages on this wiki. Mashiro Shiina (椎名 ましろ Shiina Mashiro) is the female protagonist of the anime show The Pet Girl of Sakurasou (Sakurasou no Pet na Kanojo). She is the resident of room 202. She is a world famous artist who transferred into Suiko as a second-year to learn how to draw manga. 
85 pages on this wiki. Mashiro Shiina (椎名 ましろ, Shiina Mashiro) is the main female protagonist of the story and resides in Room 202 of the Sakura Dormitory. She is the most quiet person. Mashiro is a world famous artist who transferred into Suiko as a second-year to learn how to draw manga. 1 Misaki nicknamed Mashiro ''Mashiron'', being fond of putting ''n'' at the end of names. 2  Mashiro is Misaki's equal in terms of drawing, with the only difference that Misaki draws anime frames, while Mashiro deals with manga.
Sorata Kanda (神田 空太, Kanda Sorata) is the male protagonist of the story. He is a second-year student of Suiko University of Arts, who lives in room 101 of the Sakurasou Dormitory. He was kicked out of the standard school dorm after he refused to abandon a white cat he picked up. He is chosen by Chihiro to take care of Mashiro 's daily life and although he initially resists, he eventually grows accustomed, even somewhat fond of the job. Sorata used to play soccer in elementary and junior high, but he quit because he lost his passion for it.
The Pet Girl of Sakurasou (さくら荘のペットな彼女, Sakura-sō no Petto na Kanojo, lit. The Pet Girl of Sakura Dormitory) is a Japanese light novel series written by Hajime Kamoshida, with illustrations by Kēji Mizoguchi. ASCII Media Works published 13 volumes between January 2010 and March 2014. As many of the Sakura Dormitory residents have outstanding grades and art skills, he often feels plain and normal among them. Chihiro, the dorm supervisor, chooses him to take care of Mashiro, the pet girl referenced in the title, and he is, understandably, reluctant to do so but ends up getting used to it.
Before Sorata started taking care of Mashiro, Rita was Mashiro's handler, When Rita came to Japan, and after being shut out by Mashiro, it was Sorata who came to her rescue and let her stay in his room. When Rita left for England, she was given Sorata's email address. He is chosen by Chihiro to take care of Mashiro 's daily life and although he initially resists, he eventually grows accustomed, even somewhat fond of the job. Sorata used to play soccer in elementary and junior high, but he quit because he lost his passion for it.