Chianti Wine. Chianti, situated in Tuscany in central Italy, is home to probably the best-known and most iconic of all Italian wines. Although a wine of ancient origin, Chianti has been recognized by its geographical area only since the Middle Ages. 
Chianti Wine: One of Italy's Most Famous Wines. Chianti wine is one of the most appreciated wines around the world. Produced in the the Chianti region in Tuscany that extends between Florence and Siena, there are many types of Chianti wine-read more to discover them all! Chianti is not just a beautiful and famous region of Tuscany, but also a great wine. Wine tasting is a must, just know that there are many wines produced in Chianti, each one with its own taste and flavor: Classico, Chianti Rufina, Chianti Colli Fiorentini and more. Here are our recommendations on where to go!
Places of interest in Chianti, Italy. Chianti is one of the most attractive territories of Tuscany, Italy. The panorama of holme oak, pine and chestnut forests, olive groves, vineyards and cypresses, its steep hills and the red-tiled roofs of the farm houses make it instantly recognisable.
Chianti is the name of a wine-we always say the best wine in Tuscany-and also the name of the area of Tuscany, Italy, where this Chianti wine is produced. Chianti provides probably the best base for visits to these famous Tuscan cities, as well as for exploring the towns, villages, castles and gardens of Tuscany. Beautiful vacation accommodation, often furnished in Tuscan country style, is available in the towns and countryside of Chianti, Italy.
Stretching between Florence and Siena in the heart of Tuscany, the Chianti wine region is the romanticized Italy of daydreams: terra-cotta-roofed towns, wine-soaked dinners and vineyards stitching sun-dappled hillsides. But hidden amid Chianti’s winding roads and rolling hills are some surprisingly modern attractions. 
The Chianti Classico region in turn is defined by the towns between Florence and Siena: Greve, Panzano, Castellina, Gaiole and Radda. Almost all the famous Chianti estates are located near one of these towns, although Rufina is to the East of Florence. It is not an administrative region and includes parts of the Tuscan provinces of Florence, Siena, Arezzo and Pisa. The Chianti DOCG appellation is divided into seven subregions (Classico, Colli Aretini, Colli Fiorentini, Colline Pisane, Colli Senesi, Montalbano and Rufina), of which Classico is the most famous.
Baron Bettino Ricasoli (later Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Italy) created the Chianti recipe of 70% Sangiovese, 15% Canaiolo and 15% Malvasia bianca in the middle of the nineteenth century. Chianti Superiore is an Italian DOCG wine produced in the provinces of Arezzo, Florence, Pisa, Pistoia, Prato and Siena, in Tuscany. Superiore is a specification for wines produced with a stricter rule of production than other Chianti wines.
Chianti is a region in central Tuscany where the famed Chianti and Chianti Classico wines are produced. Wine tasting in Italy is a little different than tasting wine in the US. Below are tips on planning an independent wine tour of Chianti. One of the largest in the Chianti Classico area is Le Cantine di Greve in Chianti, where you can do a tasting of (degustazione) wine, cheese, salame, grappa, and olive oil. There's also a wine museum. There are over 140 wines to taste, so pace yourself. There are smaller Enotece in villages all over Italy.
Chianti, a red blend from Tuscany, is the most recognized wine outside of Italy. It is as essential to Italian cuisine as extra virgin olive oil. There are few pleasures as distinct as a tart, spicy, herbaceous Chianti wine next to a plate of sliced prosciutto or pasta al pomodoro. 
Chianti. Chianti is an area of Tuscany, Italy made famous by the red wine of the same name. It has much to offer for a visitor interested in wine, food and natural beauty. Many of the wineries are open for a tour and a tasting, and some offer accommodation services as well. It is not an administrative region and includes parts of the Tuscan provinces of Florence, Siena, Arezzo and Pisa. The Chianti DOCG appellation is divided into seven subregions (Classico, Colli Aretini, Colli Fiorentini, Colline Pisane, Colli Senesi, Montalbano and Rufina), of which Classico is the most famous.