Major foodborne illnesses and causes. Foodborne illnesses are usually infectious or toxic in nature and caused by bacteria, viruses, parasites or chemical substances entering the body through contaminated food or water.
1 What some people call the “stomach flu” may actually be a foodborne illness caused by a pathogen (i.e., virus, bacteria, or parasite) in contaminated food or drink. 2  The incubation period (the time between exposure to the pathogen and onset of symptoms) can range from several hours to 1 week.
Foodborne illness is caused by consuming contaminated foods or beverages. Many different disease-causing microbes or pathogens can contaminate foods, so there are many different types of foodborne illnesses. Most foodborne diseases are infections caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites.
Foodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food, as well as chemical or natural toxins such as poisonous mushrooms.
1 Other symptoms might include abdominal cramps, nausea, fever, joint/back aches, and fatigue. 2  What some people call the “stomach flu” may actually be a foodborne illness caused by a pathogen (i.e., virus, bacteria, or parasite) in contaminated food or drink.
Bad bacteria in the digestive system can lead to food poisoning and illness. Food borne diseases are caused by not just the bad bacteria but also by protozoa, viruses, toxins from natural sources, and several pathogenic agents. Pathogenic bacteria are capable of harming the body by causing diseases.
Many different disease-causing microbes, or pathogens, can contaminate foods, so there are many different foodborne infections. In addition, poisonous chemicals, or other harmful substances can cause foodborne diseases if they are present in food. 1  More than 250 different foodborne diseases have been described. 2  Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne.
1 Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne. 2  Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms.