Ichthus (ikh-thoos) or ichthys is the Greek word simply meaning fish. The Greek spelling for ichthus is -- These are the first letters of the Greek words Iesous (Iota), Christos (Chi), Theou (Theta), Uios (Upsilon), and Sotor (Sigma). The English translation is IXOYE. 
But it incorporates additional means as well. The fish symbol is a pictorial representation of the Greek word Ichthys, which was itself used as an acronym for Iesous Christos, Theou Yios, Soter, meaning Jesus Christ, God's Son, Savior. This was a secret symbol used by early Christians to help them identify one another without exposing themselves to their enemies.
Explanation of the Ichthys Symbol and Acronym. by Dr. Robert D. Luginbill. The fish, Greek ichthys (ἰχθύς) , is a symbol for Christ which has been in use since the days of the early church. In Greek, it is an acronym for Jesus Christ, the Son of God, our Savior: The origin of this acronym is something else again. It is not in the Bible
Purestock/Purestock/Getty Images. Familiar on car bumpers and jewelry, the simple fish icon known as an “Ichthus” has endured for centuries as a symbol of Christian faith. Its name, the Greek word for fish, suggests an acrostic. 
Ichthus In Hellenistic Greek, the word Ichthus (aka Ichthys or Ikhthus) means fish. It is composed of two intersecting arcs. One end of both arcs extends beyond the meeting point, creating the profile of a fish. The fish is a very significant symbol for Christians. 
Symbol Meaning. The Greek word for ‘fish’ is ‘ichthus’ (transliterated from the Greek). The early Christians formed an acrostic from these letters as follows: I= Iesous (Jesus); CH=Christos (Christ); TH=Theous (God); U= UIOS (Son); SOTER (Savior).
The Meaning of ICHTHUS/ichthus as an adopted Christian symbol. In ancient Greco-Roman times, ICHTHUS was the Greek word for “fish.” In the early church sometime near the end of the first century, the word was made into an acronym or a word formed from the first letter of several words. As such, ichthus compiles to “Jesus Christ, God’s son, Savior,” based on this configuration: 1  Iota (i) is the first letter of Iesous (Greek for Jesus). 2  Chi (kh) is the first letter of Khristos (Greek for Christ). 3  Theta (th) is the first letter of Theou (Greek for God, or “God’s)
The ichthys or ichthus (/ˈɪkθəs/), from the Greek ikhthýs (ἰχθύς,  fish ), is a symbol consisting of two intersecting arcs, the ends of the right side extending beyond the meeting point so as to resemble the profile of a fish. Greeks, Romans, and many other pagans used the fish symbol before Christians. In pagan beliefs, Ichthys was the offspring of the ancient Sea goddess Atargatis, and was known in various mythic systems as Tirgata, Aphrodite, Pelagia, or Delphine.
: a representation of a fish used in ancient times as a pagan fertility talisman or amulet or as a Christian symbol for the Greek word ichthys interpreted as an acrostic in which the Greek letters are the initials of the words I ēsous Ch ristos th eou hy ios s ōtēr meaning Jesus Christ Son of God Savior. 