The second leg of the voyage was from San Francisco to Puget Sound and back. On May 23, 1908 the 16-battleships of the Great White Fleet steamed into the Puget Sound where they separated to visit six Washington state ports: Bellingham, Bremerton, Port Angeles, Port Townsend, Seattle and Tacoma. The fleet arrived in Seattle on May 23 and departed May 27, 1908. Two months before the fleet sailed, Roosevelt ordered the Navy Department to contract 38 ships to supply the fleet with the 125,000 tons of coal it would need to steam from Hampton Roads, Virginia to San Francisco.
The First Fleet is the name given to the 11 ships which left Great Britain on 13 May 1787 to found a penal colony that became the first European settlement in Australia. 
The Nigerian navy is visiting Australia for the first time-travelling more than 24,000 kilometres from north west Africa. NNS Thunder and her crew are here to take part in the centenary of Australia's first naval fleet review next month. The centenary marks the first time Australians saw their new naval fleet when the ships powered into Sydney Harbour on October 4, 1913. 
The British Australia Station passed to the Commonwealth Naval Forces in 1911 and the Australian Squadron was disbanded. On 10 July 1911, King George V granted the title of  Royal Australian Navy  to the Commonwealth Naval Forces, and RAN ships could carry the prefix His Majesty's Australian Ship (HMAS). Before the Federation of Australia in 1901, five of the six self-governing colonies in Australia operated a navy, the exception being Western Australia which did not have a naval force. The colonial navies were supported by the ships of the Royal Navy's Australian Station which was established in 1859.
In the twilight of United States President Theodore Roosevelt's administration, Roosevelt dispatched sixteen U.S. Navy battleships of the Atlantic Fleet on a worldwide voyage of circumnavigation from 16 December 1907 to 22 February 1909. Two months before the fleet sailed, Roosevelt ordered the Navy Department to contract 38 ships to supply the fleet with the 125,000 tons of coal it would need to steam from Hampton Roads, Virginia to San Francisco.
The history of the Royal Australian Navy traces the development of the Royal Australian Navy (RAN) from the colonisation of Australia by the British in 1788. Until 1859, vessels of the Royal Navy made frequent trips to the new colonies. Before the Federation of Australia in 1901, five of the six self-governing colonies in Australia operated a navy, the exception being Western Australia which did not have a naval force. The colonial navies were supported by the ships of the Royal Navy's Australian Station which was established in 1859.
Ships of the Royal Australian Navy also assisted the Royal Navy in the blockade of the German High Seas Fleet. In February 1915, HMAS Australia joined the British Grand Fleet, and was made flagship of the 2nd Battle Cruiser Squadron. Before the Federation of Australia in 1901, five of the six self-governing colonies in Australia operated a navy, the exception being Western Australia which did not have a naval force. The colonial navies were supported by the ships of the Royal Navy's Australian Station which was established in 1859.
He is the 35th Navy officer to command the Pacific Fleet since it was established in February 1941 with headquarters at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Past commanders of the Pacific Fleet include such naval giants as Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz and Admiral Raymond Spruance. Facts. The world’s largest fleet command, the U.S. Pacific Fleet encompasses 100 million square miles, nearly half the Earth’s surface, from Antarctica to the Arctic circle and from the West Coast of the United States into the Indian Ocean.
Naval Station Rota (Spain). Operated jointly by the United States and Spain, Naval Station Rota serves as the gateway to the Mediterranean for America’s Navy. Just west of the Strait of Gibraltar, Rota is a major supply depot and support facility for the U.S. Sixth Fleet, which is based in Naples, Italy. China. Japan. Spain. They may seem far away now, but your adventures in America's Navy could be taking you there. The Navy is truly America's most globally deployed force with more than 100 bases and ports of call.
The Anzac class is the current main fleet unit of the Royal Australian Navy; the class has eight vessels. The lead vessel of the class, HMAS Anzac, was commissioned in 1996 and the final vessel, HMAS Perth, was commissioned on 26 August 2006. Before the Federation of Australia in 1901, five of the six self-governing colonies in Australia operated a navy, the exception being Western Australia which did not have a naval force. The colonial navies were supported by the ships of the Royal Navy's Australian Station which was established in 1859.