Blossom drop is one of the most obvious effects of cold weather on tomato plants. When overnight temperatures consistently drop below 50 degrees F, or daytime temperatures do not reach 70 to 75 degrees F for several days, tomato blossoms fall off the plant. 
Overview. Don't rush the season is the saying about tomatoes and cold weather.Tomatoes do not like damp, cool soil.They are injured at 41 degrees F. The ideal temperature range for tomatoes during the growing season is 65 to 70 degrees F. However, tomatoes will give acceptable results when the temperature ranges from 50 degrees F at night to 85 degrees F during the day
Most tomatoes are warm season plants and should only be planted after the danger of frost has passed. Tomato temperature tolerance for extreme heat or cold snaps is of extreme importance to the development of blossoms and subsequent fruit set. These tomatoes set fruit not only in cooler temps, but also reach maturity in the shortest number of days; around 52-70 days. One of the most popular is called Early Girl, but there are many different cold hardy varieties to choose from. Some examples of hybrid tomatoes for cool climates are: 1  Celebrity. 2  Golden Nugg
Ripening Temperature. Fruit ripens best between 68 and 77 degrees. At 55 degrees tomatoes will take one to two weeks longer to ripen than at 65 degrees. They will not ripen when the nighttime temperature is below 50 and the daytime temperature below 60 for 14 days or more. The temperature should be 50 to 70 degrees. Storing the tomatoes at 50 degrees and bringing them out to ripen at 70 degrees will allow you to control the number of ripe tomatoes on hand.
Kinds of frost protection for tomato plants 1  ... Frost can occur when temperatures are as high as 40ºF. Moisture, rather than temperature, is the determining factor. 2  Low-lying areas, where cold air settles, are more susceptible to frost. 3  Tomatoes cannot withstand frost. 1 Frost can occur when temperatures are as high as 40ºF. Moisture, rather than temperature, is the determining factor. 2  Low-lying areas, where cold air settles, are more susceptible to frost. 3  If your tomato patch is in a low area, pay special attention as temperature dip into the 40s.
Phosphorus deficit is also a problem with cold weather on young tomato plants. Tomatoes need phosphorus for healthy development. Phosphorus deficiency is caused by planting tomatoes in the ground when it's still cold. Do not plant tomatoes before the soil is warmed up to 65 degrees. Don't rush the season is the saying about tomatoes and cold weather.Tomatoes do not like damp, cool soil.They are injured at 41 degrees F. The ideal temperature range for tomatoes during the growing season is 65 to 70 degrees F. However, tomatoes will give acceptable results when the temperature ranges from 50 degrees F at night to 85 degrees F during the day