Hello-can anybody give me an idea of the cost for a full respray-and also recommendations of companies in the Surrey / Hants / Berks area who could do the work? I've seen a Chimaera that I like for a v. good price-but the down side is the bodywork.......... Mine is currently in having a full respray, was reversed in to by some numpty and so while his insureres are paying for some I thought I'd cough up for the rest. Earlier this year I got some quotes from indies and main dealers and they ranged from £2500 cash-in-hand to about £4000 for what I call a proper job.
Respraying a car on a budget. There are always ways to keep car body respray prices down if a customer is on a budget. Masking up trims, leaving the bumpers on, things like that will all reduce the final car respray cost. It is up to you the customer at the end of the day, it’s your car and you know what it is you want. There are also car resprays where the car is stripped to a shell of all trims including paint and then prepped and painted to a top class showroom finish, polished to perfection, flawless. These are two ends of a very large spectrum of car respray quality, respraying a car can mean so many different things!
2,074. It's a pity most dealers are more interested in the state of the paint than the actual condition of the car. I had my car evaluated last week as I was think of trading it in for a new Golf 7. The reputable VW dealer only looked at the outside and made remarks about small stone chips, old polish etc etc. Originally Posted by MightyQuin It will cost more than the value of the car. Most likely. Also if there is any rust on the car they'll have to patch that up which will cost even more. Not worth it imo unless you're specifically doing as a hobby to restore the car.
If you want a car respray price just give us a call, our prices start at £750 for small cars. Please remember car body respray prices vary from garage to garage, so does quality… greatly! There are also car resprays where the car is stripped to a shell of all trims including paint and then prepped and painted to a top class showroom finish, polished to perfection, flawless. These are two ends of a very large spectrum of car respray quality, respraying a car can mean so many different things!
Does the cost come from materials or is the majority labour? How long would a blow over take in man hours? robdcfc said: I charge around £1500 to do that kind of respray, problem is you cant put a proper guarantee on it as the previous paint is obviosly not attached to the car correctly. Basically, I NEED to respray the bootlid as it had paintwork quite early in its life and the lacquer is failing. I also identified small patches of corrosion on the panel beneath the bootlid, and a nasty stone chip which is bubbling slightly on the bottom part of one door.
This Site Might Help You. RE: how much would it cost to respray my car a different colour? I have an 8 year old commodore wagon which is white, it has a few scratches and nicks on the paintwork but no dints or rust, I want it painted light metallic purple. Any ideas on about how much this would cost? All the door inner's will need to be prepped and painted along with any other areas of the car that are painted white. Have a good look at your car and see how much of it is painted white and you'll see what I mean. Anywhere you see white paint will need to be painted in the new color. The major cost of repainting a car is in the preparation of the job.
A fantastic way of changing the appearance of your car is to respray it. The scratches, scrapes and paint degradation quickly build up and the only way to restore a car's appearance is to do a bare metal respray. Please note that you will not usually get a perfect professional finish from a spray can. Preparation is 65% of the job, painting is 25% and flatting/polishing is 10%. Ensure that the area you paint in is completely dust free. It also helps if you are respraying your car on a warm day or have access to a low bake oven.