D,L-Panthenol, aka Pro-Vitamin B5, is a stable lit racemic mixture of D-Panthenol and L-Panthenol. The human body readily absorbs DL-Panthenol through the skin and it rapidly converts D-Panthenol to Pantothenic Acid (Vitamin B5), a natural constituent of healthy hair and a substance present in all living cells. Only D-Panthenol is converted to Vitamin B5 and not the
EWG Risk Score: 2. What is it: Panthenol, aka Provitamin B5 is is the alcohol analog of pantothenic acid (vitamin B 5). This means that it's the metabolic precursor for Vitamin B5; it's inactive until the body metabolizes it. Panthenol is synthesized from a number of sources including honey, molasses, and rice. 
Overview. Panthenol is a common ingredient used in skin care products, including cosmetics, hair sprays, shampoos and conditioners. This natural ingredient can be found in plants and is a form of vitamin B5, also referred to as pantothenic acid. According to the Food and Drug Administration, panthenol is a safe for use. In addition, the safety of panthenol and pantothenic acid has been evaluated by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel, and deemed safe for use in cosmetics and personal care products.
Scientific Facts: Panthenol and Pantothenic Acid (vitamin B5) have the same biological activity and Panthenol can be converted (by oxidation) to vitamin B5 in the skin. Pantothenic Acid is found in all living cells and tissues and is essential for normal metabolism and hormone production. 
read more. About PANTHENOL: Panthenol is a form of vitamin B5, used as a moisturizer and lubricating compound. This ingredient is listed in the PETA's Caring Consumer guide as a substance that can be of either animal or plant origin. This ingredient may be derived from animals. Other HIGH concerns: Multiple, additive exposure sources; Other LOW concerns: Data gaps. About PANTHENOL: Panthenol is a form of vitamin B5, used as a moisturizer and lubricating compound. This ingredient is listed in the PETA's Caring Consumer guide as a substance that can be of either animal or plant or ... read more
Panthenol is a highly viscous transparent liquid at room temperature, but salts of pantothenic acid (for example sodium pantothenate) are powders (typically white). It is soluble in water, alcohol and propylene glycol, soluble in ether and chloroform, and slightly soluble in glycerin. In cosmetics and personal-care products, panthenol is a humectant, emollient, and moisturizer. It binds to the hair shaft readily; so, it is a common component of commercial shampoos and hair conditioners (in concentrations of 0.1-1.0%).
Panthenol (pantothenol) is the alcohol analog of pantothenic acid (vitamin B 5), and is thus a provitamin of B 5. In organisms it is quickly oxidized to pantothenate. In cosmetics and personal-care products, panthenol is a humectant, emollient, and moisturizer. It binds to the hair shaft readily; so, it is a common component of commercial shampoos and hair conditioners (in concentrations of 0.1-1.0%).