This article is about distributed applications. For middleware in general, see Middleware. Middleware in the context of distributed applications is software that provides services beyond those provided by the operating system to enable the various components of a distributed system to communicate and manage data. Middleware often enables interoperability between applications that run on different operating systems, by supplying services so the application can exchange data in a standards-based way.
Middleware is the software that connects software components or enterprise applications. Middleware is the software layer that lies between the operating system and the applications on each side of a distributed computer network (Figure 1-1). Typically, it supports complex, distributed business software applications. Middleware is the infrastructure which facilitates creation of business applications, and provides core services like concurrency, transactions, threading, messaging, and the SCA framework for service-oriented architecture (SOA) applications.
Oracle Fusion Middleware is the digital business platform for the enterprise and the cloud. It enables enterprises to create and run agile, intelligent business applications while maximizing IT efficiency through full utilization of modern hardware and software architectures. 
Middleware is a general term for software that serves to glue together separate, often complex and already existing, programs. Some software components that are frequently connected with middleware include enterprise applications and Web services. The systematic tying together of disparate applications, often through the use of middleware, is known as enterprise application integration (EAI). At a basic level, middleware provides services required to connect applications together such as concurrency, transaction management, threading and messaging.
Middleware provider MulseSoft says middleware software is a layer between two systems that makes it easy for the two to communicate and is considered the glue that holds together applications, making seamless connectivity possible without requiring the two applications to communicate directly. One popular example is the middleware that is used to connect a database system with a web server. This allows a user to request data from a database using forms displayed on a Web browser, according to Webopedia, while also allowing for the Web server to return Web pages based on the user's request.
Middleware is computer software that connects software components or applications. The software consists of a set of services that allows multiple processes running on one or more machines to interact. Wikipedia has a quite good explanation: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middleware. It starts with. Middleware is computer software that connects software components or applications. The software consists of a set of services that allows multiple processes running on one or more machines to interact. What is Middleware gives a few examples.
In an ad campaign for its E-commerce product line, IBM referred to Middleware as “the sweet, nougaty center of infrastructure.” Internet2 's Middleware site calls it the glue between the network and applications. In general, it is software that users rarely see as it usually does not have a user interface. 
Middleware is considered by many to be a rather vague term in that it is specially designed software that can link two separate applications together. Since this can be used in such a wide variety of ways, it is better understood by discussing some specific examples in how it can be used. One popular example is the middleware that is used to connect a database system with a web server. This allows a user to request data from a database using forms displayed on a Web browser, according to Webopedia, while also allowing for the Web server to return Web pages based on the user's request.
Middleware is the software that connects software components or enterprise applications. Middleware is the software layer that lies between the operating system and the applications on each side of a distributed computer network. Typically, it supports complex, distributed business software applications. In this more specific sense middleware can be described as the dash in client-server, or the-to-in peer-to-peer. ObjectWeb defines middleware as: The software layer that lies between the operating system and applications on each side of a distributed computing system in a network..