For some medicines, having food or liquids in your stomach can result in poorer absorption of the drug or an upset stomach. It generally takes 4 to 5 hours for the stomach to empty after a full meal and a bit less after a snack or liquid, though it varies depending on how much and what kind of food you ate. When the instructions say to take medicine on an empty stomach, how long do I have to wait after eating for my stomach to empty? Can I still drink while waiting? —W.H., Colorado Springs, Colo
In the stomach, food tends to hang around for a little longer and this depends on a variety of factors including the amount of food you have consumed, how much fat it contains, and also the acidity of the stomach. However, all food should have left the stomach within 2 to 4 hours. This will usually take 5 to 6 hours. The food then enters the colon for further digestion and water reabsorption before defecation. The time from it’s entering the colon to defecation is about 12 to 24 hours. Thus, the time for food to travel from one end to the other probably ranges from about 20 to 30 hours.
High fat foods take the longest time to empty from the stomach. On the other hand, carbohydrate rich foods tend to empty much faster. High protein foods empties slower than carbohydrates and a little bit much faster than fatty foods. You might want to read on the following conditions that affect the stomach. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Food can be 3-4 hours in the stomach, then about 3 more hours as it moves through the intestine. It can stay in the the large intestine for up to 36 hours. So, depending on the type of food and the speed at which it moves, it can take about 40 hours or more. This will usually take 5 to 6 hours. The food then enters the colon for further digestion and water reabsorption before defecation. The time from it’s entering the colon to defecation is about 12 to 24 hours. Thus, the time for food to travel from one end to the other probably ranges from about 20 to 30 hours.
A Dr. William Salt, MD, Gastroenterology, answered. The stomach empties different foods at different rates. For example, fat takes longer to leave the stomach than other foods, sometimes remaining in the stomach for up to six hours. Liquids empty quickly, often leaving the stomach within 20 to 30 minutes. Usually, most of a regular-sized meal empties from the stomach within two hours. 
Food can be 3-4 hours in the stomach, then about 3 more hours as it moves through the intestine. It can stay in the the large intestine for up to 36 hours. This will usually take 5 to 6 hours. The food then enters the colon for further digestion and water reabsorption before defecation. The time from it’s entering the colon to defecation is about 12 to 24 hours. Thus, the time for food to travel from one end to the other probably ranges from about 20 to 30 hours.
It usually takes about 4 to 6 hours for a full stomach to digest the food. However, this varies from person to person, and if vomitting occurs, much less time. It takes … from 12 to 24 hours for the food to completely leave the digestive/excremetory systems. 7 people found this useful. Studious Student. I have had antibiotics that had to be taken on an empty stomach, and the pharmacist told me to take them one hour before or 2-3 hours after a meal.
A. Taking medicines on an empty stomach means that you should take your pills 2 hours before you eat or 2 hours after you eat. Two examples: Eat first and take the pills 2 hours later. If you eat breakfast at 8:00 in the morning, wait for 2 hours or until 10:00 in the morning before you take your pills. 
492 Followers. A. Stomach-emptying time varies from person to person, but generally, two hours is a reasonable average. When you are ill, food can stagnant in the stomach for longer periods of time, or even quickly move on to the small intestines. When you are having surgery, they will want you NPO (nothing by mouth) for about 8-12 hours, just to be sure.