Sponges are a diverse group of sometimes common types, with about 5000 species known across the world. Sponges are primarily marine, but around 150 species live in fresh water. Other characteristics of sponges include a system of pores (also called ostia) and canals, through which water passes. Water movement is driven by the beating of flagellae, which are located on specialized cells called choanocytes (collar cells).
Characteristics: Demospongiae skeletons are composed of spongin fibers or siliceous spicules, in contrast to the calcareous sponges. The common sponges come in a wide range of colors and shapes, with few common features. 
Sponges occupy both freshwater and marine environments, from shallow to abysmal depths, and are common in coral reef, mangroves, and seagrass ecosystems. In some places (e.g., Lake Baikal, Russia) sponges dominate benthic communities and along the pacific cost of North America they form modern sponge reefs. Second, the syncytial tissue in glass sponges appears to be a derived trait within this group because the development of glass sponges starts with a cellular embryo (Leys, Cheung, and Boury-Esnault 2006).
Many people know organisms only by the common names, or vernacular names. Unlike scientific names, common names are almost always different for speakers of different languages. They may also vary regionally within a language. This tab shows all the common names provided to EOL for this organism from a variety of providers, including EOL curators. Currently we can only set one preferred common name per language on a given EOL page, but all the names should be searchable.
Developed by ETI BioInformatics. A phylum of simple multicellular animals, with a simple body enclosing a single central cavity or penetrated by numerous interconnected cavities. Water is drawn into the internal cavities through pores, food particles are taken out and the water flows out through a large pore (osculum). 
Common Name: SpongesThe Latin name comes from the number of spores on the organism's body The sponge body can differ throughout the different species but all are asymetrical and often vase like in shape. They typically grow on rocks, dead coral, or anywhere else they can attach. 
The sponges, a phylum of the animal kingdom which includes about 5000 described species. The body plan of sponges is unique among animals. Currents of water are drawn through small pores, or ostia, in the sponge body and leave by way of larger openings called oscula. Porifera. (invertebrate zoology). The sponges, a phylum of the animal kingdom characterized by the presence of canal systems and chambers through which water is drawn in and released; tissues and organs are absent.
Sponges (phylum Porifera) are an exclusively aquatic and, with a few exceptions (Vacelet and Boury-Esnault 1995), a filter-feeding group of animals. The group consists of approximately 15,000 extant species in three distinct groups (Hooper and van Soest 2002): Second, the syncytial tissue in glass sponges appears to be a derived trait within this group because the development of glass sponges starts with a cellular embryo (Leys, Cheung, and Boury-Esnault 2006).
(pōrĭf`ərə) [Lat.,=pore bearer], animal phylum consisting of the organisms commonly called sponges sponge,common name for members of the aquatic animal phylum Porifera, and for the dried, processed skeletons of certain species used to hold water. Porifera. (invertebrate zoology). The sponges, a phylum of the animal kingdom characterized by the presence of canal systems and chambers through which water is drawn in and released; tissues and organs are absent.
Sponges are animals of the phylum Porifera (/pɒˈrɪfərə/ ; meaning pore bearer). They are multicellular organisms that have bodies full of pores and channels allowing water to circulate through them, consisting of jelly-like mesohyl sandwiched between two thin layers of cells. Many sponges have internal skeletons of spongin and/or spicules of calcium carbonate or silicon dioxide. All sponges are sessile aquatic animals. Although there are freshwater species, the great majority are marine (salt water) species, ranging from tidal zones to depths exceeding 8,800 m (5.5 mi).