Advice on hold/hand luggage please! Just me again, with yet ANOTHER question LOL. This time it is about luggage. There are 4 of us (2 adults 2 children) when we booked the holiday with Thomas Cook we were told it was 15kg per person for hold luggage and 5kg per person for hand luggage. He rep said we could add the 15kg's together and have 2x 30kg suitcases.
With regard to hand luggage, you can take one bag each max 5kg per person and the bag must not be above a certain size. Your handbag will be counted as your hand luggage bag. The official rules for Thomas Cook Airlines are..... I have checked the paper work and it says we are flying Thomas Cook Airlines All passengers receive a complementary hand baggage allowance of 5kgs when travelling on a Thomas Cook Airline flights. This time it is about luggage. There are 4 of us (2 adults 2 children) when we booked the holiday with Thomas Cook we were told it was 15kg per person for hold luggage and 5kg per person for hand luggage. He rep said we could add the 15kg's together and have 2x 30kg suitcases.
If you want to take a wedding dress on board, the normal weight and size rules apply, EXCEPT if you have booked a Thomas Cook wedding package and are flying with Thomas Cook Airlines. In this case, the hand baggage allowance provided is 11kg per person for the wedding couple only. The maximum is 6kg. The exception is flight-only bookings to the US in the Premium Cabin, where the limit is 10kg. Children can take on Trunki cases up to 6kg.
How to Pack for a Holiday with Just Hand Luggage. by Sadie Geoghegan Posted: 17th September 2014. There are many advantages to going on holiday without checking any luggage into the hold. Tuck underwear and swimwear into the corners of your bag and put rolled up socks inside of a pair of shoes to save even more space. Be Ruthless with Clothing. Whatever clothes you get out ready to pack for your holiday, get rid of at least a third of them – you just won’t need them.
Customers travelling on a flight only booking to America on Thomas Cook Airlines in the Premium Cabin, will have a hand baggage allowance of 10kgs available from 1st May 2015. Childs Trunki Cases are accepted as hand baggage as long as this is associated to a child travelling. This cannot exceed 6kgs in weight. You can take one piece of hand baggage up to 55cm x 40cm x 20cm in size and children can take Trunki’s. In addition to the above, customers can choose 1 item from the list below, to be carried as an extra piece of hand baggage.
Use the Right Bag. These days, most people tend to take hard-sided, wheeled cases for their hand luggage, but these can sometimes be quite heavy and also fairly restrictive if there’s no give for fitting more in or fitting them into the overhead cabin on the plane. Tuck underwear and swimwear into the corners of your bag and put rolled up socks inside of a pair of shoes to save even more space. Be Ruthless with Clothing. Whatever clothes you get out ready to pack for your holiday, get rid of at least a third of them – you just won’t need them.
Taking just hand luggage also saves you time when both departing and arriving at airports: If you check in online, it means that you can avoid the check-in queues and head straight to security and once you land at the other end, there’ll be no need to wait for your cases to appear on the baggage carousel. Tuck underwear and swimwear into the corners of your bag and put rolled up socks inside of a pair of shoes to save even more space. Be Ruthless with Clothing. Whatever clothes you get out ready to pack for your holiday, get rid of at least a third of them – you just won’t need them.
Hand Baggage. All our customers flying with Thomas Cook Airlines will receive a complementary hand baggage allowance of 6kgs. You can take one piece of hand baggage up to 55cm x 40cm x 20cm in size and children can take Trunki’s. In addition to the above, customers can choose 1 item from the list below, to be carried as an extra piece of hand baggage. Hand baggage cannot be combined together with other passengers or with any hold baggage
Hi Phil. Not sure I entirely understand as you could take one hand luggage and pay for one hold. I think you can take two but you will have to pay a lot in excess baggage fees. Probably best to contact Thomas Cook first to see what your options are. 1 1 item of cabin baggage. 2  Weight allowance of up to 5kg. 3  Size limit cannot exceed the dimensions of 55cm by 40cm by 20cm. 4  Child`s Trunki cases are allowed as long as they are within the 5kg weight limit.
You will only be able to take 100ml bottles of liquid, sealed in a clear plastic bag in your hand luggage, so you can either take travel-size bottles or buy things such as toiletries and sun cream once you get to your resort. It is often cheaper to do this anyway. Suggested Packing List for a Week in the Sun. Tuck underwear and swimwear into the corners of your bag and put rolled up socks inside of a pair of shoes to save even more space. Be Ruthless with Clothing. Whatever clothes you get out ready to pack for your holiday, get rid of at least a third of them – you just won’t need them.