Specific prostaglandins are named with a letter (which indicates the type of ring structure) followed by a number (which indicates the number of double bonds in the hydrocarbon structure). For example, prostaglandin E1 is abbreviated PGE1 or PGE 1, and prostaglandin I2 is abbreviated PGI2 or PGI 2. Prostaglandins have been found in almost every tissue in humans and other animals. They are derived enzymatically from fatty acids. Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Prostaglandin D2 (or PGD2) is a prostaglandin that binds to the receptor PTGDR (DP 1), as well as CRTH2 (DP 2). It is a major prostaglandin produced by mast cells – recruits Th2 cells, eosinophils, and basophils. In mammalian organs, large amounts of PGD 2 are found only in the brain and in mast cells. It is critical to development of allergic diseases such as asthma
The relationship between prostaglandins and histamine in the ovulatory process as determined with the in vitro perfused rabbit ovary.   The process of follicle rupture ha … s been described as an inflammatory reaction in which prostaglandins (PGs) and/or histamine may be involved. Hormones and prostaglandins are similar because they deliver messages throughout the body. Prostaglandins act the same way hormones do, but only act in the specific area inten … ded. They are synthesized from fatty acids.
A given prostaglandin may have different and even opposite effects in different tissues. The ability of the same prostaglandin to stimulate a reaction in one tissue and inhibit the same reaction in another tissue is determined by the type of receptor to which the prostaglandin binds. Prostaglandins have been found in almost every tissue in humans and other animals. They are derived enzymatically from fatty acids. Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring.
1. Renal prostaglandins act primarily as local hormones, having their effects at, or near to, sites of synthesis. PGE2 is a major determinant of renal vascular reactivity; it opposes the vasoconstrictor and natriuretic actions of pressor hormones and brakes the release of noradrenaline from adrenergic nerves. 2. Basal efflux of renal prostaglandins is positively correlated with blood flow to the inner cortex and medulla. Those stimuli which increase renal medullary blood flow do so primarily by activating prostaglandin synthetase. 3. Kinins increase prostaglandin synthesis which action modifies the renal effects of kinins.
A prostaglandin is any member of a group of lipid compounds that are derived enzymatically from fatty acids and have important functions in the animal body. Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring. They are mediators and have a variety of strong physiological effects, such as regulating the contraction and relaxation of smooth muscle tissue.
In the rat, however, renal prostaglandins augment pressor stimuli. 2. Basal efflux of renal prostaglandins is positively correlated with blood flow to the inner cortex and medulla. Those stimuli which increase renal medullary blood flow do so primarily by activating prostaglandin synthetase. 3. Kinins increase prostaglandin synthesis which action modifies the renal effects of kinins.
The prostaglandins (PG) are a group of physiologically active lipid compounds having diverse hormone-like effects in animals. Prostaglandins have been found in almost every tissue in humans and other animals. They are derived enzymatically from fatty acids. Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring. They are a subclass of eicosanoids and form the prostanoid class of fatty acid derivative
Prostaglandin: One of a number of hormone-like substances that participate in a wide range of body functions such as the contraction and relaxation of smooth muscle, the dilation and constriction of blood vessels, control of blood pressure, and modulation of inflammation. 
Prostaglandin D 2; prostaglandin E 2; prostaglandin F 2; prostaglandin I 2 (which is also known as prostacyclin); a closely related lipid called thromboxane. Unlike most hormones, the prostaglandins are not secreted from a gland to be carried in the bloodstream and work on specific areas around the body. Alternative names for prostaglandins Prostaglandin D2; prostaglandin E2; prostaglandin F2; prostaglandin I