Thrombus aspiration is applicable in a large majority of patients with myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation, and it results in better reperfusion and clinical outcomes than conventional PCI, irrespective of clinical and angiographic characteristics at baseline. A total of 1071 patients were randomly assigned to the thrombus-aspiration group or the conventional-PCI group before undergoing coronary angiography. Aspiration was considered to be successful if there was histopathological evidence of atherothrombotic material.
Thrombus aspiration during primary percutaneous coronary intervention. Svilaas T(1), Vlaar PJ, van der Horst IC, Diercks GF, de Smet BJ, van den Heuvel AF, Anthonio RL, Jessurun GA, Tan ES, Suurmeijer AJ, Zijlstra F. Author information: 
Manual thrombus aspiration or rheolytic thrombectomy results in only incomplete removal of thrombus in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Rheolytic thrombectomy as compared with manual aspiration was more effective in thrombus removal and in achieving myocardial reperfusion. Large residual thrombus was more frequently revealed in the manual aspiration thrombectomy arm (patients with number of quadrants above the median value 60% in the manual aspiration thrombectomy arm and 37% in the RT arm, P =0.039). All markers of reperfusion were better in the RT arm.
Along with the clinical benefits of thrombus aspiration, retrieval of atherothrombotic material provides us with new possibilities to study the pathophysiology of thrombus formation, and thrombus characteristics may become of value in predicting outcome. Thrombus aspiration now enables the histopathological analysis of platelets, erythrocytes, inflammatory cells, and plaque components in living patients. Characterization of these components may contribute to the current understanding of the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction.
Not to be confused with Embolism. A thrombus, or colloquially a blood clot, is the final product of the blood coagulation step in hemostasis. There are two components to a thrombus: aggregated platelets that form a platelet plug, and a mesh of cross-linked fibrin protein. 
The clinical effect of routine intracoronary thrombus aspiration before primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is uncertain. We aimed to evaluate whether thrombus aspiration reduces mortality. Coronary-artery thrombus aspiration, a simple, rapidly performed, and relatively inexpensive adjunct to PCI, may improve blood flow and resolution of ST-segment elevation, 5-9 although this is not a universal finding.
We performed a randomized trial assessing whether manual aspiration was superior to conventional treatment during primary PCI. A total of 1071 patients were randomly assigned to the thrombus-aspiration group or the conventional-PCI group before undergoing coronary angiography. Aspiration was considered to be successful if there was histopathological evidence of atherothrombotic material.
In conclusion, thrombus aspiration is emerging as an integral component of the interventional approach of acute myocardial infarction, enabling new insights into thrombus composition. It holds great therapeutic as well as diagnostic promise and leads us into a new era of mechanistic and pathophysiological studies. Thrombus aspiration now enables the histopathological analysis of platelets, erythrocytes, inflammatory cells, and plaque components in living patients. Characterization of these components may contribute to the current understanding of the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction.
In fact, prior research supported this line of thinking. TAPAS (Thrombus Aspiration during Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Acute Myocardial Infarction Study), published in NEJM in 2008, demonstrated benefits in STEMI patients who were randomized to thrombus aspiration prior to stenting. Tags: myocardial infarction, STEMI, TASTE trial, Thrombus Aspiration during ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction. Posted in Insights | Permalink | 3 Comments. This entry was posted on Wednesday, October 23rd, 2013 at 5:00 pm and is filed under Insights.
Figure 2B Figure 2C). In the thrombus-aspiration group, 119 of 486 patients (24.5%) did not have pathologic Q waves on the ECG, as compared with 79 of 496 patients (15.9%) in the conventional-PCI group (risk ratio, 1.54; 95% CI, 1.19 to 1.99; P=0.001). A total of 1071 patients were randomly assigned to the thrombus-aspiration group or the conventional-PCI group before undergoing coronary angiography. Aspiration was considered to be successful if there was histopathological evidence of atherothrombotic material.