Derived from the Latin laurus (laurel, an evergreen shrub or tree whose leaves were woven into wreaths by the ancient Greeks to crown victors in various contests). Originally a Latin name, Laura came into use in England in the 19th century, and is now popularly bestowed throughout the English-speaking world. 
Meaning of Laura. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Laura means-Crowned with laurels.. Other origins for the name Laura include-Spanish, Latin-American, English.The name Laura is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-Crowned with laurels
Origin and usage [edit]. The name Laura is the feminized form of laurus, Latin for  bay laurel plant, which in the Greco-Roman era was used as a symbol of victory, honor or fame. The name Daphne, derived from Ancient Greek, carries the same meaning. Look up Laura in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Laura is a female given name in Latin, Western Europe and North America whose meaning ( Bay Laurel ) translates to victor, and an early hypocorism from Laurel and Lauren.
It is derived from the word laurus with the meaning 'laurel, bay'. An original form of the name is Laurentia (Latin). The name was borne by the 9th century Saint Laura of Cordoba, who was martyred in Muslim Spain. 
Laura. Gender: Female. Usage: Laura, of Latin origin, is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a girl (female) name. 
Feminine form of the Late Latin name Laurus, which meant laurel. This meaning was favourable, since in ancient Rome the leaves of laurel trees were used to create victors' garlands. The name was borne by the 9th-century Spanish martyr Saint Laura, who was a nun thrown into a vat of molten lead by the Moors. 
Laura. Laura /lau-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LAW-rah, LOR-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Laura is the bay, or laurel plant. In classical times, a crown was made from the leaves of the bay laurel for heroes or victors as a symbol of honor and victory. The poet Petrarch addressed his sonnets to a Laura. Also made famous as the name of the heroine of the 1940s film Laura. Laura was also a character on Little House on the Prarie from Little House Books. See also Liora.
English Meaning: The name Laura is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Laura is: The laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. Old name with many variants. Latin Meaning: The name Laura is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Laura is: Laurel tree or sweet bay tree (symbols of honour and victory). The sonnets of 14th-century Italian poet Petrarch were addressed a lady named Laura, whose identity is still a mystery. Famous Bearer: Fashion designer Laura Ashley