Both regulate expression of key lipogenic genes, such as fatty-acid synthase, acetyl-CoA carboxylase and ATP-citrate lyase (Fig. 1) (5). Insulin stimulates SREBP1c expression in the liver, and this is pronounced in hyperinsulinemic states such as Type 2 diabetes. Many elongase and desaturase enzymes are coordinately regulated with other DNL enzymes (2). Thus, depending on the complement of enzymes in a specific tissue, the pattern of fatty acids produced by DNL may vary, and distinct fatty acids have very different biological properties.
1 Glucose-1-phosphate is converted into UDP-glucose by the action of the enzyme UDP-glucose phosphorylase. 2  Pyrophosphate is formed, which is later hydrolysed by pyrophosphatase into two phosphate molecules. 1 Glucose is converted into glucose-6-phosphate by the action of glucokinase or hexokinase. 2  Glucose-6-phosphate is converted into glucose-1-phosphate by the action of phosphoglucomutase, passing through the obligatory intermediate glucose-1,6-bisphosphate
Lipogenesis encompasses both the process of fatty acid synthesis and triglyceride synthesis (where fatty acids are esterified with glycerol to form fats). Insulin stimulates lipogenesis primarily by activating two enzymatic pathways. Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), converts pyruvate into acetyl-CoA. Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), converts acetyl-CoA produced by PDH into malonyl-CoA.
Lipogenesis: the pathway of fatty acid synthesis. The key regulating enzyme of lipogenesis is acetyl-CoA carboxylase, which catalyzes the synthesis of malonyl-CoA from acetyl-CoA and CO 2. The activity of acetyl-CoA carboxylase depends on its phosphorylation status and its interaction with the antioncogen BRAC 1. In its inactive form acetyl-CoA carboxylase is phosphorylated in serine, whereas the active form is not phosphorylated. The phosporylation of acetyl CoA carboxylase is catalyzed by an AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK). High AMP levels induce the phosphorylation and inactivation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase
It is suggested that intracellular glucose-6-phosphate could play an important role in the effect of insulin on lipogenic enzyme gene expression in white adipose tissue. Other hormones and substrates could also play a role in the surge of lipogenesis after weaning. Regulation of lipogenic enzyme gene expression by nutrients and hormones. Girard J(1), Perdereau D, Foufelle F, Prip-Buus C, Ferre Ferré. P author: (information)1 centre De recherches sur'L Endocrinologie moleculaire moléculaire Et, Le.Developpement.Développement.C., N-R, S. meudon bellevue france
Metabolic importance of glucose Glucose is the single most important source of energy for almost all tissues being utilised for both glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Most tissues can also utilise fatty acids via the b-oxidation pathway. 
Lipogenesis is the process by which acetyl-CoA is converted to fatty acids. The former is an intermediate stage in metabolism of simple sugars, such as glucose, a source of energy of living organisms. Through lipogenesis and subsequent triglyceride synthesis, the energy can be efficiently stored in the form of fats. Insulin stimulates lipogenesis primarily by activating two enzymatic pathways. Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), converts pyruvate into acetyl-CoA. Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), converts acetyl-CoA produced by PDH into malonyl-CoA.
1 Once a chain of eight glucose monomers is formed, glycogen synthase binds to the growing glycogen chain and adds UDP-glucose to the 4-hydroxyl group of the glucosyl residue on the non-reducing end of the glycogen chain, forming more α(1→4) bonds in the process. 1 Glucose is converted into glucose-6-phosphate by the action of glucokinase or hexokinase. 2  Glucose-6-phosphate is converted into glucose-1-phosphate by the action of phosphoglucomutase, passing through the obligatory intermediate glucose-1,6-bisphosphate