The Royal Dutch East Indies Army (KNIL) and the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army Air Force (ML-KNIL) were established in 1830 and 1915 respectively. Naval forces of the Royal Netherlands Navy were based in Surabaya, but were never part of the KNIL. Since the VOC era, the highest Dutch authority in the colony resided with the 'Office of the Governor-General'. During the Dutch East Indies era the Governor-General functioned as chief executive president of colonial government and served as commander-in-chief of the colonial (KNIL) army.
The resulting delineation of borders between British Malaya and the Dutch East Indies remains today between Malaysia and Indonesia, respectively. The capital of the Dutch East Indies was Batavia, now known as Jakarta, still capital of the republic. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_East_... Best Answer: The Dutch East India Company (VOC) had been set up in the early seventeenth century to maximize Dutch trade interests in the Malay archipelago. By 1700, a colonial pattern was well established; the (VOC) had grown to become a state-within-a-state and the dominant power in the archipelago
The bankrupt Dutch East India Company was liquidated on 1 January 1800, and its territorial possessions were nationalised as the Dutch East Indies. Anglo-Dutch rivalry in Southeast Asia continued to fester over the port of Singapore, which had been ceded to the British East India Company in 1819 by the sultan of Johore. 
The restored portions of the Dutch Empire, notably the Dutch East Indies and Suriname, remained under Dutch control until the decline of European imperialism following World War II. Since the 1950s, the Netherlands has been organized as constituent countries composing the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Dutch Empire. The Dutch Empire (Dutch: Nederlands-koloniale Rijk) comprised the overseas territories controlled by the Dutch Republic and, later, the modern Netherlands from the 17th century to the mid-1950s. The Dutch followed Portugal and Spain in establishing an overseas colonial empire.
The name Dutch Indies is recorded in the Dutch East India Company 's documents of the early 1620s. Scholars writing in English use the terms Indie, Indië, indies The Dutch East, indies The Netherlands, indies and Colonial indonesia. interchangeably Since the VOC era, the highest Dutch authority in the colony resided with the 'Office of the Governor-General'. During the Dutch East Indies era the Governor-General functioned as chief executive president of colonial government and served as commander-in-chief of the colonial (KNIL) army.
European colonization of Timor began in the 16th century. Although the Portuguese claimed the island of Timor in 1520, the Dutch (in the form of the Dutch East India Company) settled West Timor in 1640, forcing the Portuguese out to East Timor. The subsequent collapse of the company meant that in 1799, the area returned to official Dutch rule. Finally, in 1914, the border between East and West Timor was finalized by a treaty between Portugal and the Netherlands that was originally signed in 1859 and modified in 1893. West Timor had the status of residentie within the Dutch East Indies
Subsequently the Dutch conquered those trading ports of the East Indies: Malacca in 1641; Achem (Aceh) the native kingdom in Sumatra, 1667; Macassar, 1669; finally Bantam itself, 1682.And with the help of ports in India; the Dutch had started its influence on the spice trade by trading with pepper. Best Answer: The Dutch East India Company (VOC) had been set up in the early seventeenth century to maximize Dutch trade interests in the Malay archipelago. By 1700, a colonial pattern was well established; the (VOC) had grown to become a state-within-a-state and the dominant power in the archipelago
Their biggest colonial possession was Indonesia (aka the Dutch East Indies) followed by a couple of smaller territories including Suriname in South America (Dutch Guyana) and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles in the Caribbean. EARLY HISTORY During feudal times the territory that would become Holland was just a collection of independent, self-governing provinces. In the 15th Century Holy Roman Emperor Charles V (or Kaiser Karelas he is known in Dutch) conquered the provinces and then gave them to his son, the King of Spain.