The Dominican Republic is the second largest island in the  Caribbean, after Cuba. It has an extension of 42,000 kilometers,  endless miles of beautiful beaches (white and … golden sand) and a  one of the most varied ecosystems. Its capital is Santo Domingo,  located in the South Coast. Confidence votes 12.4K. The Dominican Republic is located on the eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola. Hispaniola is an island in the West Indies. The West Indies is a string of islands between North America and South America
The maximum width, north to south, is 265 km from Cape Isabela to Cape Beata. The capital, Santo Domingo, is located on the south coast. The Dominican Republic's shores are washed by the Atlantic Ocean to the north and the Caribbean Sea to the south. The Mona Passage, a channel about 130 km wide, separates the country (and Hispaniola) from Puerto Rico. The Dominican Republic (Spanish: Republica República) dominicana is a country in The West indies that occupies the eastern-five eighths Of. Hispaniola it has an area 48,670 48670, km² including offshore. islands
Both by area and population the Dominican Republic is the second-largest Caribbean nation (after Cuba), with 48,445 square kilometres (18,705 sq mi) and nearly 10 million people, one million of whom live in the capital city Santo Domingo. A geographically diverse nation, the Dominican Republic is home to the region's tallest mountain peak, Pico Duarte, as well as the Caribbean's largest lake and lowest elevation, Lake Enriquillo. The island has an average temperature of 26 °C (78.8 °F) and great climatic and biological diversity.
Geography. The Dominican Republic in the West Indies occupies the eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola, which it shares with Haiti. Its area equals that of Vermont and New Hampshire combined. Duarte Peak, at 10,417 ft (3,175 m), is the highest point in the West Indies
The country denominated Dominican Republic is located in the Island of Santo Domingo, according to her constitution. 
The Dominican Republic is located on the Island of Hispaniola, which it shares with it's much smaller neighbor to the east-Haiti. The country has an area of 48,442 square kilometers, or about 18,000 square miles ~ which take up about 2/3 of the island. 
Dominican Republic is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of North America. Countries near Dominican Republic include Haiti, Turks and Caicos Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands and British Virgin Islands. 