In many cases, national street gangs originated in major cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, Miami and New York, and they later migrated to other American cities such as Atlanta, Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, Memphis, Nashville, New Orleans, Milwaukee, Orlando, Houston, and Detroit. The earliest American street gangs emerged at the end of the American Revolutionary War in the early 1780s. However, these early street gangs had questionable legitimacy, and more serious gangs did not form until the early 1800s.
The Irish, Jewish, and Italian gangs all came around the mid 1800’s, Black and Mexican gangs started in the US in the 1940’s with the great migration from rural life to urban and from Mexico to the “Barrios” or Los Angeles. Gang names were usually taken by the area that the gang reside in, which could be the street number or street name. Also, many gangs used their own ethnic ID to name their gang, for example; “The downtown Paddies (Irish).” Some gang names came from a organization that the gang might be involve with.
T he word gang comes from gonge, a term originally meaning a journey, but later referring to a gonge of sailors in the fifteenth century. Gangs of outlaws or wild young men came into common usage by Shakespeare's time. The Father of Gang Research, Frederic Thrasher, gave the word its industrial-era meaning in the 1920s and made “gang” into a term which meant kids of the street. But US gangs had other predecessors than unsupervised street urchins.
Bloods graffiti might also include the word Piru which refers to the fact that the first known Bloods gang was formed by individuals from Piru Street in Compton, California. The Bloods gang are also not to be confused with the United Blood Nation. The Bloods are a primarily, though not exclusively, African American street gang founded in Los Angeles, California. The gang is widely known for its rivalry with the Crips. They are identified by the red color worn by their members and by particular gang symbols, including distinctive hand signs
Gangs in the United States include several types of groups, including national street gangs, local street gangs, prison gangs, motorcycle gangs, and ethnic and organized crime gangs. Approximately 1.4 million people were part of gangs as of 2011, and more than 33,000 gangs were active in the United States. The earliest American street gangs emerged at the end of the American Revolutionary War in the early 1780s. However, these early street gangs had questionable legitimacy, and more serious gangs did not form until the early 1800s.
The Crips are a primarily African-American gang. They were founded in Los Angeles, California in 1969 mainly by Raymond Washington and Stanley Williams. What was once a single alliance between two autonomous gangs is now a loosely connected network of individual sets, often engaged in open warfare with one another. 
How did Gangs Originate.  Once found principally in large cities, violent street gangs now affect public safety, community image, and quality of life in communities of all sizes in urban, suburban, and rural areas. No region of the United States is untouched by gangs. Gang names were usually taken by the area that the gang reside in, which could be the street number or street name. Also, many gangs used their own ethnic ID to name their gang, for example; “The downtown Paddies (Irish).” Some gang names came from a organization that the gang might be involve with.