For more information about the danger of essential oils to cats, go to The Lavender Cat. The ASPCA web site also lists common house plants and household items that are toxic or dangerous to your cats and dogs. And don't worry, the sleeping cat in the photo above is safe. Fresh lavender is not toxic to felines, only the essential oils derived from the plants are. 
The articles you posted are good in that they utilize the research and articles that I also shared with the public. A cat’s physiology has not changed regarding processing of essential oil compounds and there is proof of toxicity by essential oils, nothing has changed and I still stand by my findings; no eo’s on cats. The scientific origin of essential oils concerns with cats. Dr. Becker’s article doesn’t go into the fact that cats are known to be lacking in an important liver detoxification enzyme called glucuronosyltransferase.
I use oils on myself, my dog, and my husband topically all day long. I also use oils aromatically in a diffuser with my cat only a couple feet away and we live in a 36 foot RV. Many essential oils are safe for cats topically, extremely diluted, and you want to do your research on that. But aromatically for a cat is fine because the oils are very diluted. I find that the oils even help to calm my cat when we start the engine on the RV to begin moving to the next place on our trip.
Hydrosols (by-products of essential oil distillation) are safer to use on cats. This is because the monoterpene alcohols have an affinity for water and are safe for cats. Phenols and ketones do not appear in hydrosols. There are no known case histories of hydrosols or monoterpene alcohols causing toxicity in cats. 
Always use the rule ‘when in doubt …don’t. ' When using essential oils within a barn or kennel type facility it is best to store aromatherapy products in aroma-safe containers and in a locked cabinet. Keep away from animals and children. Be mindful of your fellow barn/stable/kennel mates and their animal friends. 
Re: Cats and Diffusing Oils. Hi Cryan, A word of advice on using essential oils around cats from the book: Holistic Aromatherapy for Animals --- A Comprehensive Guide to the Use of Essential Oils & Hydrosols with Animals by Kristen Leigh Bell (First published in 2002 by Findhorn Press). If you diffuse essential oils, don't keep your cat enclosed in the room with diffuser. Open a window and provide ventilation. If you apply oils to your dogs, keep the cats away for at least an hour. (The same goes for you).
It is important to keep in mind that many oils that are fine for dogs and horses, are not good for cats (such as Citrus and Pine), rabbits or birds. Based on the expert information I’ve read, I don’t recommend the amateur use of most essential oils for cats, rabbits or birds. 
Hydrosols, a distilled by-product of essential oils, are considered by most to be safe for cats. If you are a big fan of aromatherapy for yourself or your animals, hydrosols may be an alternative to consider, and some household products are now using hydrosols in place of essential oils. 
TheLavenderCat-Purrrty Comments-The Lavender Cat-Essential Oil Safety For Cats. Sue,Your creation of this website for the love of the feline critters is heart warming.I have a question concerning essential oils used for aromatherapy with diffusers. Your warnings appear to be focused on topical and ingestible uses. TheLavenderCat-Aromatherapy & Cats-The Lavender Cat-Essential Oil Safety For Cats. vegetable oil base, apply several drops to each ear daily for 2 to 4 weeks.PRECAUTIONS: Discontinue use if redness, swelling, heat or pain result from application of this product.
Resolved Question: Question. I just got an essential oil diffuser for my house and got a starter pack of a bunch of essential oils. But I was reading someplaces online that cats' livers do not process some essential oils and it builds up as toxins in their systems. 