Canada is unusual among developed countries in the importance of the primary sector, with the logging and oil industries being two of Canada's most important. Canada also has a sizable manufacturing sector, based in Central Canada, with the automobile industry and aircraft industry being especially important. With a long coastline, Canada has the 8th largest commercial fishing and seafood industry in the world. Canada has an important high tech industry, and a burgeoning film, television, and entertainment industry creating content for local and international consumption (see Media in Canada). Tourism is of ever increasing importance, with the vast majority of international visitors coming from the United States.
The three major types of industries in the country are  manufacturing, services, and natural resources.   Canada is one of the largest economies in the world.    The services sector contributes to 67.9% of the GDP of the country. There are actually 5 main industries in Canada in the 1800s, they were: fishing, forestry, fur trade, farming, and manufacturing. In the first half of the 1800s, fishing, fore … stry, and the fur trade were more important. By the second half of the century, fishing, farming, and manufacturing became more important
The three major types of industries in the country are manufacturing, services, and natural resources. The largest manufacturing sector in the country is the automotive industry. Canada is one of the largest exporters of automobile equipment and goods due to its position within NAFTA. Leading equipment manufacturers and global automakers operate in Canada, among which General Motors, Toyota, and Ford. Southwestern Ontario and Toronto are the home to the largest machinery and equipment manufacturing cluster in Canada. A number of companies that operate in different sub-sectors are located in Southern Ontario.
1 These industries have played an important part in the country’s history and development. 2  Today, the economy of many areas of the country still depends on developing natural resources, and a large percentage of Canada’s exports are natural resources commodities. Canada’s Economy Includes Three Main Types of Industries: 1  Service industries provide thousands of different jobs in areas like transportation, education, health care, construction, banking, communications, retail services, tourism and government. 2  More than 75% of working Canadians now have jobs in service industr
Canada is one of the wealthiest nations, and its economy is the 10th largest in the world. The country is a member of the Group of Eight, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, Asia Pacific Economic Development, and other organizations. Its economy is dominated by the tertiary or service sector, while the oil and logging industries are among Canada s most important. 
1 Manufacturing industries make products to sell in Canada and around the world. 2  Manufactured products include paper, high technology equipment, aerospace technology, automobiles, machinery, food, clothing and many other goods. Canada’s Economy Includes Three Main Types of Industries: 1  Service industries provide thousands of different jobs in areas like transportation, education, health care, construction, banking, communications, retail services, tourism and government. 2  More than 75% of working Canadians now have jobs in service industrie
There are three main types of industries in Canada: natural resources, manufacturing and services.   Natural resource industries: forestry, fishing, agriculture, mining … and energy. There are actually 5 main industries in Canada in the 1800s, they were: fishing, forestry, fur trade, farming, and manufacturing. In the first half of the 1800s, fishing, fore … stry, and the fur trade were more important. By the second half of the century, fishing, farming, and manufacturing became more important
According to Industry Canada the following four types of industries exist: natural resources, manufacturing, services and technology. There are actually 5 main industries in Canada in the 1800s, they were: fishing, forestry, fur trade, farming, and manufacturing. In the first half of the 1800s, fishing, fore … stry, and the fur trade were more important. By the second half of the century, fishing, farming, and manufacturing became more important