Common causes of abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or conditions that can lead to arrhythmias include: 1  Heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects). 2  Coronary artery disease. 3  High blood pressure. 4  Diabetes. 5  Smoking. 6  Excessive use of alcohol or caffeine. 7  Drug abuse. 8  Stress.
Medical researchers aren't sure exactly how stress increases the risk of heart disease. Stress itself might be a risk factor, or it could be that high levels of stress make other risk factors (such as high cholesterol or high blood pressure) worse.
Are stress and heart disease related? Does stress increase the risk of heart disease? Stress is a normal part of life. But if left unmanaged, stress can lead to emotional, psychological, and even physical problems, including heart disease, high blood pressure, chest pains, or irregular heart beats.
Causes of heart disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is usually caused by a build-up of fatty deposits on the walls of the arteries around the heart (coronary arteries). The fatty deposits, called atheroma, are made up of cholesterol and other waste substances.
If stress itself is a risk factor for heart disease, it could be because chronic stress exposes your body to unhealthy, persistently elevated levels of stress hormones like adrenaline and cortisol. Studies also link stress to changes in the way blood clots, which increases the risk of heart attack.
1 Heart disease refers to several different types of heart conditions. 2  Coronary artery disease is a type of heart disease that occurs when a substance called plaque builds up in the arteries that supply blood to the heart. 3  Plaque is made up of cholesterol deposits, which can accumulate in your arteries.
Research suggests that coronary heart disease (CHD) begins with damage to the lining and inner layers of the coronary (heart) arteries. Several factors contribute to this damage. They include: 1  Smoking, including secondhand smoke. 2  High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood. 3  High blood pressure.
Your lifestyle choices can increase your risk for heart disease and heart attack. To reduce your risk, your doctor may recommend changes to your lifestyle. The good news is that healthy behaviors can lower your risk for heart disease.