The Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub.L. 88–352, 78 Stat. 241, enacted July 2, 1964) is a landmark piece of civil rights legislation in the United States that outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. After the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed, the Supreme Court upheld the law's application to the private sector, on the grounds that Congress has the power to regulate commerce between the States.
With the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the federal government offered its immense power to the struggle to realize a more just and inclusive American society that had begun a century earlier with Reconstruction. But passage of the act was not the end of the story. The act did not fulfill all of the goals of civil rights activists. It would take further grassroots mobilization, judicial precedent, and legislative action to guarantee civil rights for African Americans. In response to a new wave of protest, the U.S. Congress soon followed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Since the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, disenfranchised Americans have used it to challenge discrimination and harassment based upon race, national origin, religion, gender, and more. See timeline for this period.
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The civil rights movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality. The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination; equal opportunity in employment, education, and housing; the right to vote; and equal access to public facilities. 
The Civil Rights Act of 1957 was introduced in Eisenhower’s presidency and was the act that kick-started thecivil rights legislative programme that was to include the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act. Eisenhower had not been known for his support of the civil rights movement. 
Despite its lack of influence during its time, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 had considerable impact on later civil rights legislation in the United States. It paved the way for future legislation that was not limited to African American civil rights. After the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed, the Supreme Court upheld the law's application to the private sector, on the grounds that Congress has the power to regulate commerce between the States.
Introduction. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, which ended segregation in public places and banned employment discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin, is considered one of the crowning legislative achievements of the civil rights movement. Under the Civil Rights Act, segregation on the grounds of race, religion or national origin was banned at all places of public accommodation, including courthouses, parks, restaurants, theaters, sports arenas and hotels.
Jimmy Rogers : I think the Civil Rights movement had an impact on the whole United States population. I feel that the Civil Rights movement not only benefited Black people and other minorities, but it also benefited white people. I think it gave a lot of white people a chance to really open up their eyes and see what was going on. Heather Tobis Booth : The civil rights movement had an impact on the whole world, the US culture, law and consciousness, and the people who were involved in it. It exposed the institutional nature of racism and it showed that if people organize they can change history.
President Lyndon B. Johnson cajoled and collaborated with Congress 50 years ago until the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed and signed into law. President Barack Obama and three former presidents -- Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush -- are gathering in Austin this week to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights Act.
Impact of the Civil Rights Laws. U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil RightsJanuary 1999 INTRODUCTION In the last three decades, Congress has enacted a number of civil rights statutes prohibiting discrimination in educational programs and activities receiving federal financial assistance. 
The civil rights movement championed the advancement of social equity for African Americans and other ethnic minorities in the United States. Prior to the initial 1957 Civil Rights Act, Plessy v. Ferguson, which established the precedent of “separate but equal”, was the law of the land. Psychological science was a major component of the civil rights movement. Fifty years after the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, we take a moment to reflect on the impact of psychology in the development of this momentous legislation.