Acne 2 - a comparative study of tea-tree oil versus benzoyl peroxide in the treatment of acne found that 5% tea-tree oil and 5% benzoyl peroxide had a significant effect in ameliorating the patients' acne. Tea-tree oil and tea oil are completely different products. Tea oil is the sweet seasoning and cooking oil from pressed Camellia sinensis (beverage tea plant), or the tea oil plant Camellia oleifera.
Acne Treatment. A common use of Tea Tree Oil is as a natural Acne treatment. An effective remedy is to dab a cotton swab into tea tree oil and then gently apply the oil onto affected areas before goin to sleep. In the morning, rinse off the oil and wash your face as usual. Many people have also found that Tea Tree Oil can be used as a very effective treatment for Genital Warts. An effective remedy is to dip a cotton swab into the tea tree oil and gently apply it to the wart. Repeat this once a day for 10 days
9. For dandruff and dry scalp. 10. In the form of aromatherapy, tea tree oil is used to treat colds, persistent coughs, acne, toothaches, and sunburn. For Cleaning. 11. To create an all-purpose cleaner, combine 2 teaspoons of tea tree oil in 2 cups of water in a spray bottle. 12
Tea tree oil, also known as Melaleuca alternifolia is, is an essential oil that has been around for quite a while but not until the past decade has its healing benefits been catching on like wildfire. The oil is extracted from a plant native to Australia and cannot be found naturally occurring elsewhere. Tea tree oil is a “jack of all trades” as far as remedies go. The easiest way to grasp the benefits is to think: skin issues + tea tree oil = healing (in most cases). Tea tree oil is known for its topical antiseptic and anti-fungal treatment or infection-reducing benefits.
Tea tree oil is thought to have antiseptic properties and has been used to prevent and treat infections. Other traditional uses of tea tree oil include treatment of fungal infections (including fungal infections of the nails and athlete's foot), dental health, parasites, skin allergic reactions, and vaginal infections. In addition, there is evidence supporting tea tree oil use for acne; however, further research is needed. 
Tea Tree Oil (also known as Melaleuca) is a natural antibacterial disinfectant that was commonly used as a general antiseptic by the aborigine tribes for thousands of years. More recently, the scientific community has confirmed that Tea Tree Oil has tremendous medicinal benefits. Many people have also found that Tea Tree Oil can be used as a very effective treatment for Genital Warts. An effective remedy is to dip a cotton swab into the tea tree oil and gently apply it to the wart. Repeat this once a day for 10 day
1 Can be used as an all-purpose cleaner: Fill a spray bottle with 1-2 tsp. of tea tree oil and the rest of the bottle with water. 2  Treats acne. 3  Helps to prevent lice naturally; just add a few drops to your shampoo. 4  A few drops in your pets’ crates or beds keep the fleas away. Tea tree oil is a “jack of all trades” as far as remedies go. The easiest way to grasp the benefits is to think: skin issues + tea tree oil = healing (in most cases). Tea tree oil is known for its topical antiseptic and anti-fungal treatment or infection-reducing benefits.
The name tea tree is used for several plants, mostly from Australia and New Zealand, from the family Myrtaceae, related to the myrtle. The use of the name probably originated from Captain Cook 's description of one of these shrubs, that he used to make an infusion, to drink in place of tea. This article is about essential oil isolated form the leaves of the tea tree, Melaleuca alternifolia. For the sweet seasoning oil pressed from Camellia seeds, C. sinensis or C. oleifera, see tea seed oil.
Tea-tree oil, also known as melaleuca oil, is a yellowish colored essential oil that is made from the leaves of the plant Melaleuca alternifolia (native to Australia). Tea-tree oil and tea oil are completely different products. Tea oil is the sweet seasoning and cooking oil from pressed Camellia sinensis (beverage tea plant), or the tea oil plant Camellia oleifera.