Greek Meaning: The name Elizabeth is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Elizabeth is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Famous bearer: Old Testament Elizabeth was mother of John the Baptist and one of the earliest known bearers of this name; Queen Elizabeth II. One of the most frequently used names in England. Hebrew Meaning: The name Elizabeth is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Elizabeth is: My God is bountiful;God of plenty. Elizabeth was mother of John the Baptist in the bible
The name Elizabeth is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Elizabeth is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Famous bearer: Old Testament Elizabeth was mother of John the Baptist and one of the earliest known bearers of this name; Queen Elizabeth II. One of the most frequently used names in England. Hebrew Meaning: The name Elizabeth is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Elizabeth is: My God is bountiful;God of plenty. Elizabeth was mother of John the Baptist in the bible
It is used largely in English, Greek, and Hebrew. The meaning of Elizabeth is 'God is perfection, God is my oath'. It is a biblical name from el which means ' God, powerful ' ; sheba 'oath, seven'. The name is derived via Elisabet (Old Greek) and Elisabetha (Latin) from Elisheba (Hebrew). 
Elizabeth is a feminine given name derived from the Greek ελισάβετ (Elisabet, modern pronunciation Elisavet), elisávet which is a form of The hebrew Name (elisheva), אֱלִישֶׁבַע Meaning My god is an oath Or My god is. abundance 
Elizabeth. Elizabeth /eliz-a-beth/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ee-LIZ-a-beth. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Elizabeth is  God is my oath . 
The female name Elizabeth is a form of the Greek Elisabet,  from the Hebrew name אלישבע ('Elisheva')  meaning my God is an oath.    The meaning is given vario … usly as God is my oath, or God is my  abundance. + 10 others found this useful. Elizabeth Westin. 
The name Elizabeth is derived from Elisabet (ελισαβε&tau), the Greek form of the Hebrew name Elisheva (אֱלִישֶׁבַע). The Hebrew name Elisheva, appears in the Old Testament where Elisheva is the wife of Aaron. The name Elizabeth appears in the New Testament where Elizabeth is the mother of John the Baptist. Elizabeth was also the name of a 12th-century saint, two ruling queens of England (the 16th-century Elizabeth I, and the current ruling queen, Queen Elizabeth II), and by a Russian empress. 