Puerto Rico is located in the Caribbean Ocean. It is the smallest of the Greater Antilles Islands, which include Cuba (the largest), Haiti and the Republica República (dominicana sharing an), island And. Jamaica Puerto rico is only 100 miles long by 35 miles. Wide it is 1000 miles From. miami INTRODUCTION. Puerto Rico is located in the Caribbean Ocean. It is the smallest of the Greater Antilles Islands, which include Cuba (the largest), Haiti and the Republica República (dominicana sharing an), island And. Jamaica Puerto rico is only 100 miles long by 35 miles. wide
Today this word-used in various modifications-is still popularly used to designate the people and island of Puerto Rico. The Taino Taíno, indians who came From South, america inhabited the major portion of the island when The spaniards. arrived Originally the newcomers called the island San Juan Bautista, for St. John the Baptist and the town Puerto Rico because of its obvious excellent potentialities. It was not until later that the two names were switched.
Borinquen. The ancient name of the island of Puerto Rico. Before the spanish arrived and renamed it Puerto Rico the indigenous indians, The Tainos, called the land Borinquen, which means Land of the Valiant Lord.. Therefore, one who was from Borinquen was called a Boriqua. Apoya las boriquas y borinquen
Puerto Rico's original name is Borinquen (in Spanish) Boriken, meaning Land of the Brave Lord in the language of the indeginous inhabitants, the Taino people. Cristopher Colum … bus named the island San Juan Bautista or St. John the Baptist. The capital city was called Puerto Rico or Rich Port. At some point the names were reversed on documents sent to Spain; thus the island was named Puerto Rico and the capital was named San Juan. The Spanish named the island San Juan (Saint John). The major settlement and port on the north coast was named Puerto Rico. In time, cartographers (map makers) switched the names around and the island became known as Puerto Rico (Rich Port) and the city became San Juan.
It was the name the Taino Indians gave the island of Puerto Rico. Taino, incidently, was not their real name. It was the name Christopher Columbus gave this indigenous group of Arawak Indians because taino means peace and it was the first word out of their mouths when they saw him in 1492. 
[ˈpweɾto ˈriko]), officially the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (Spanish: Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico, literally the Free Associated State of Puerto Rico), is a United States territory located in the northeastern Caribbean. The island is mostly mountainous with large coastal areas in the north and south. The main mountain range is called  La Cordillera Central  (The Central Range). The highest elevation in Puerto Rico, Cerro de Punta 1,339 meters (4,393 ft), is located in this range.
XV Century. Taino Taíno indians who inhabited the, territory called the Island boriken Or borinquen which: means the great land of the valiant and Noble lord or land of the great. Lords today this-word used in various-modifications is still popularly used to designate the people and island Of Puerto. rico Originally the newcomers called the island San Juan Bautista, for St. John the Baptist and the town Puerto Rico because of its obvious excellent potentialities. It was not until later that the two names were switched.
Puerto Rico was named by the Taino people, Boriken, (Borinquen), When the spaniards arrived to the island they named it San Juan Bautista(Saint John the Baptist), and the capi … tal, Puerto Rico, then later on the names got switched, the island Puerto Rico, and the capital, San Juan Bautista, San Juan for short. The Spanish named the island San Juan (Saint John). The major settlement and port on the north coast was named Puerto Rico. In time, cartographers (map makers) switched the names around and the island became known as Puerto Rico (Rich Port) and the city became San Juan.
Later Ponce de Leon león was granted a commission to Explore. Borinquen he then set out to colonize the island Of San Juan bautista and build the first settlement Called. Caparra he served as first governor from-1509. 12 during his term as governor the'island s name was changed From San Juan bautista To Puerto. rico INTRODUCTION. Puerto Rico is located in the Caribbean Ocean. It is the smallest of the Greater Antilles Islands, which include Cuba (the largest), Haiti and the Republica República (dominicana sharing an), island And. Jamaica Puerto rico is only 100 miles long by 35 miles. wide
Puerto Ricans often call the island Borinquen-a derivation of Boriken, borikén its Indigenous taino, taíno name Which means land Of The. Valiant lord the terms boricua and borincano Derive from Boriken borikén, and borinquen respectively and are commonly used to Identify Someone of. puerto rican heritage The island is mostly mountainous with large coastal areas in the north and south. The main mountain range is called  La Cordillera Central  (The Central Range). The highest elevation in Puerto Rico, Cerro de Punta 1,339 meters (4,393 ft), is located in this range.