2. Use scissors to clip loops and create frayed ends. Trim a larger pom-pom into an oval for the body. Trim a smaller pom-pom to create a head. 3. Cut ears out of felt. Fold and glue the bottom of each ear to give it dimension, and hold into place with a hemostat until dry. 4. Glue ears into the head with felt glue. 5. Glue bead eyes into place. 6.
Now it’s time to glue the two pom poms together. Think about how your bunny is going to look and then find the spot you want to glue. Pull the yarn away exposing the center of the pom pom. Repeat with the other pom pom. Glue together with hot glue. This is how the bunny should look now: Now it’s time to glue on the ears, eyes, nose and cheeks. For the ears you will want to pull the yarn apart and stick the ears as close to the center as possible. This keeps the ears stable and it looks more natural.
Use scissors to clip loops and create frayed ends. Trim a larger pom-pom into an oval for the body. Trim a smaller pom-pom to create a head. Cut ears out of felt. Fold and glue the bottom of each ear to give it dimension, and hold into place with a hemostat until dry. Glue ears into the head with felt glue. Glue bead eyes into place
How to Make a pom-pom bunny. Jennifer Murphy shares her technique for making pom-pom bunnies. Materials needed are yarn, waxed thread scissors, feltfelt glue (such as Beacon's), hemostat, tiny black beads, pink embroidery floss, needle, heavy thread, chenille stem, paper cupcake liners. 1 How to Make an easy no-sew pom pom headband. 2  How to Make a pom-pom spider with your kids. 3  How to Craft a pom-pom chicken with your kids. 4  How to Crochet an easy pom pom flower.
1 Cut out the fleece ears – for my 3.5” pom pom body, I cut ears that are 10” long. 2  Follow the shape shown in the image above – the narrowed center will wrap and tie around the center of your pom pom. 3  Make your pom poms. 4  There’s several ways to go about it. 5  You can use the wind-yarn-around-your-fingers technique. 1 Keep the center ties on the smaller pom extra long. 2  Fluff and trim those pom poms – I prefer them round, but you can make the large pom pom (the body) more oval if you’d like. 3  Thread the ties from the small pom onto a tapestry needle, sew it through the center knotted area of the larger pom and tie off.
1 Fluff and trim those pom poms – I prefer them round, but you can make the large pom pom (the body) more oval if you’d like. 2  Thread the ties from the small pom onto a tapestry needle, sew it through the center knotted area of the larger pom and tie off. 3  Thread the eye color yarn onto your tapestry needle. 1 Keep the center ties on the smaller pom extra long. 2  Fluff and trim those pom poms – I prefer them round, but you can make the large pom pom (the body) more oval if you’d like. 3
how to make your chubster pom pom bunny. 1  Cut out the fleece ears – for my 3.5” pom pom body, I cut ears that are 10” long. 2  Follow the shape shown in the image above – the narrowed center will wrap and tie around the center of your pom pom. 3  Make your pom poms. 4  There’s several ways to go about it. 1 Keep the center ties on the smaller pom extra long. 2  Fluff and trim those pom poms – I prefer them round, but you can make the large pom pom (the body) more oval if you’d like. 3  Thread the ties from the small pom onto a tapestry needle, sew it through the center knotted area of the larger pom and tie off.
{If this is your first pom pom craft with me, head on over to the tutorial page to learn how to make pom poms .} I did a 4-finger and 3-finger pom pom for these guys. Cut out two outer ear shapes and one inner ear shape for each bunny. Glue those two pieces together as shown. This is how the bunny should look now: Now it’s time to glue on the ears, eyes, nose and cheeks. For the ears you will want to pull the yarn apart and stick the ears as close to the center as possible. This keeps the ears stable and it looks more natural.
– Two pom poms, one large for the body, one smaller for the head. – Googly eyes. – Pink Hama bead/Perla bead or similar, a small pink or red button will do. – Contrasting fabric for the ears. Make the two pom poms, either in the traditional cardboard doughnuts, or using a fork, or a pom pom maker. We used a hot glue gun to adhere the two pom poms together. You could stitch them together too…. Glue the eyes and attach the ‘whiskers’ and little pink nose with a strong glue. 