Arkaroo Rock is a large rock shelter below the south-eastern rim of Wilpena Pound. Rock paintings and drawings, done in charcoal and ochre, are found in the shelter. The paintings are of reptiles and humans and also abstract designs. Wilpena Pound is a large rock basin in the Flinders Ranges National Park. St. Mary's Peak (1170 m.) is the highest peak in the Pound walls. Rawnsley Bluff is another prominent landmark.
Wilpena Pound: Wilpena Pound is the centerpiece of the Flinders Ranges National Park and the mountains are nothing like we've seen before. It's a range of mountains 17kms long and 8kms across that form a huge natural amphitheater. 
The area is part of the Adelaide Geosyncline. Despite early amateur theories that it was some kind of ancient volcano, the actual Pound is sedimentary rock in the form of a large syncline, with the fold axis running NNW-SSE through Edeowie Gorge at the northern end and Rawnsley's Bluff at the southern. The name of the Pound, Wilpena, is reported to be Aboriginal, meaning place of bent fingers; this might either be a reference to the mountains resembling the shape of a gently cupped hand, or the freezing cold of the ranges in winter.
The highest peak in the Pound, also the highest of the Flinders Ranges, is St Mary Peak (1171m), on the north-eastern side. To the south of the Gap on the eastern side, the highest peak is Point Bonney (1133m). The name of the Pound, Wilpena, is reported to be Aboriginal, meaning place of bent fingers; this might either be a reference to the mountains resembling the shape of a gently cupped hand, or the freezing cold of the ranges in winter.
Wilpena Pound is one of the most popular sites in the Flinders Ranges for international tourists to visit the outback because of the large development that has occurred at the Wilpena Pound Resort on the eastern side of Wilpena Pound and Rawnsley Park Station on the western side. The name of the Pound, Wilpena, is reported to be Aboriginal, meaning place of bent fingers; this might either be a reference to the mountains resembling the shape of a gently cupped hand, or the freezing cold of the ranges in winter.
Arkaroo rock is at the base of the Wilpena Pound in the southern part of the Flinders Ranges National Park in about 43 km north of Hawker or in about 15 km south of Wilpena. Turn off the main Wilpena road onto the unsealed road marked with Arakroo Rock sign. An easy walking track leads to the small cave with ancient aboriginal paintings. Allow 1 - 2 hours to complete the scenic walking track to the site that depicts the formation of Wilpena Pound.
In the lookout for the more ancient pockets on Earth, it seems nothing comes close to beating the wonders of Wilpena Pound, a primeval 80-kilometer wide amphitheater of mountains located 429 km north of Adelaide, South Australia, and in the heart of the Flinders Ranges National Park. 
Its most characteristic landmark is Wilpena Pound, a large, sickle-shaped, natural amphitheatre that covers 80 km 2 (31 sq mi), and contains the range's highest peak, St Mary Peak (1,171 m (3,842 ft)) that adjoins the Flinders Ranges National Park. The area gets around 250 mm (9.8 in) of rain annually, with the highest rainfall at Wilpena Pound, at 350 mm (14 in). Frost is common on winter mornings and temperatures have dropped as low as −8 °C (18 °F). Snow has even been recorded in the Wilpena Pound and at Blinman.
Rock climbing is a notable tourist attraction for Wilpena Pound, with the Moonarie being a hotspot for rock climbers. The Moonarie is a quartzite cliff of about 120m located on the upper rim of Wilpena Pound. The name of the Pound, Wilpena, is reported to be Aboriginal, meaning place of bent fingers; this might either be a reference to the mountains resembling the shape of a gently cupped hand, or the freezing cold of the ranges in winter.
The most notable of these is probably the yellow-footed rock wallaby which can be found in rocky gorges within the Park. Wilpena Pound Resort is located in the Flinders Ranges South Australia (429 kilometres north of Adelaide). It is accessible by sealed roads from the South. Regular air services operate to Port Augusta (160km away). Other small private airstrips are also available by arrangement only. Many Outback adventurers come to Wilpena Pound Resort via Birdsville in Queensland or via Cameron's Corner at the junction of the borders of Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales.