Anyone who has tried to get ahead by peeling or chopping potatoes in advance of cooking knows what happens—brown city. When you slice into a spud, you expose its natural phenols to oxygen, a chemical reaction that results in an almost immediate pinkish hue. 
You can actually peel and cut potatoes the day before using them. That will definitely save you a lot of time and you can focus on other tasks you may have to do. I will give you some tips to keep the potatoes fresh until they are ready to use. Remember to wash the potatoes completely. 
If you want to do as much ahead of time as possible you have a couple of choices. You can definitely peel the sweet potatoes the day before and store them under water, but I wouldn't recommend slicing them. If they are sliced thinly enough for gratin they're going to absorb a lot of water which will ruin the flavour. You can make the cream etc. mix up the day before though
ci_lantro. Rather than peel sweet potatoes, I bake them the day before. They're super easy to peel after they cool. I go ahead and slice them & top w/ butter & brown sugar and hold them overnight in the refrigerator. Reheat the next day & add marshmallows & return to the oven for a few minutes. DH insists on candied SP. 
Speaking as someone who's had to prep ahead two garbage barrels of sweet potatoes for a giant gumbo event: If you're just peeling them a few hours ahead, then just hold them whereever. Unlike russet potatoes, sweet potatoes (especially garnet yams) do not turn brown or lose texture on exposure to air. If you're going to be holding them for a couple days, then drop them in cold water and refrigerate it.
yes you can and to make them not turn brown or anything thing (like sliced apples) ex. just put them in water and add some sort of an acid like lemon juice; that will stop them from browning. I agree with answer #1. A little lemon juice, orange juice, or anything acidic will keep apples, etc, from turning brown. 
Before you peel and cube your sweet potatoes, you will need several different cooking utensils as well as numerous, whole sweet potatoes. To start, get a large knife that is sharpened, allowing for smooth and clean cuts of the potatoes. You also need a cutting board, a large bowl and a peeler. Cubing. Once you have peeled your potatoes, you can cube them using a sharp knife. Place the sweet potato on the cutting board, holding one side of the potato with your free hand to keep the potato stable. Make several parallel cuts along the potato, cutting the potato lengthwise
⇒ For extra flavor in your mashed potatoes, you can boil potatoes in chicken broth. Also, to prepare low-fat mashed potatoes you can substitute chicken broth in place of cream and butter. ⇒ The method for peeling sweet potatoes before time is similar to normal potatoes. Advertisement. Whenever you are planning to make a potato preparation in large quantity, then a little planning can help you to organize things better. Peeling and boiling potatoes well ahead of time, will save a lot of energy and time the next day. Also, it will help you manage your kitchen time and space more efficiently