If you have high blood pressure you are just at higher risk, especially for stress related attacks. BP can even go down before/during a heart attack. Stress causes alot of attacks, but not all of them. Blockages, failure, and other things can cause heart attack without high BP.. Yes, a heart attack is caused by a disruption in the supply of blood to the heart regardless of blood pressure at the time of event. What is relevant is that high blood pressure over time leads to a loss of arterial elasticity which can indeed make a heart attack more likely. Jack D · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Blood pressure and heart attack are separate entity to discuss about it. The blood pressure measurement is the most important test for identifying people who are at high risk of developing heart attack. So let us discuss about causes of hypertension or high blood pressure. 
To know if you have high or low blood pressure, you need to know what a healthy blood pressure level is. Optimal blood pressure is less than 120/80 mm Hg (systolic pressure is 120 AND diastolic pressure is less than 80). Within certain limits, the lower your blood pressure reading is, the better. 1 Among the heart conditions that can lead to low blood pressure are an abnormally low heart rate (bradycardia), problems with heart valves, heart attack and heart failure.
Report Abuse. Yes you can have a heart attack even if your blood pressure is normal or even better. Even marathon runners, whose blood pressure would be in the excellent range, have died of heart attacks. And your blood pressure can go down if the heart isn't working right due to a heart attack. Yes, a heart attack is caused by a disruption in the supply of blood to the heart regardless of blood pressure at the time of event. What is relevant is that high blood pressure over time leads to a loss of arterial elasticity which can indeed make a heart attack more likely. Jack D · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
More than a million Americans have heart attacks each year. A heart attack, or myocardial infarction (MI), is permanent damage to the heart muscle. Myo means muscle, cardial refers to the heart, and infarction means death of tissue due to lack of blood supply. While it is unusual, a heart attack can also be caused by a spasm of a coronary artery. During a coronary spasm, the coronary arteries restrict or spasm on and off, reducing blood supply to the heart muscle (ischemia).
May 7, 2009 -- In patients with cardiovascular disease, very low blood pressure may actually boost their risk of stroke and heart attack, according to a new -- and controversial -- report. For the general population, a blood pressure of 140/90 or above is considered high; blood pressure between 120/80 and 139/89 is considered prehypertension, according to the National Institutes of Health.
High blood pressure, or hypertension, is a blood pressure reading of 140/90 or higher. Years of high blood pressure can damage artery walls, causing them to become stiff and narrow. This includes the arteries carrying blood to the heart. As a result, your heart cannot get the blood it needs to work well. This can cause a heart attack. A blood pressure reading of 120/80 to 139/89 is considered prehypertension. This means that you don't have high blood pressure now but are likely to develop it in the future.
High blood pressure, or hypertension, is a blood pressure reading of 140/90 or higher. Years of high blood pressure can damage artery walls, causing them to become stiff and narrow. This includes the arteries carrying blood to the heart. As a result, your heart cannot get the blood it needs to work well. 