1 Turn the oven on to 425. 2  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 3  For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 4  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 5  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 1 For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 2  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 3  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 4  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour.
Put the plate in the microwave and select a cooking time. Cooking times will vary depending on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. Most medium to large potatoes will take between 8-12 minutes to cook at full power. 1  Try putting the potato in for 5 minutes to begin with, then take it out and turn it over so that both sides cook evenly. 2  Place it back in the microwave for another 3-5 minutes, depending on how soft it is already. 1
Report Abuse. How to Cook a Sweet Potato in the Microwave Step1 Scrub sweet potato with a vegetable brush and water. Step2 Use a fork or small knife to poke holes in the sweet potato. Step3 Place the sweet potato in the microwave and use the baked potato setting. 
1 If you prefer crispy skinned sweet potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then unwrap your sweep potato and transfer it to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400 °F (204 °C) for 20 minutes. 1 Try putting the potato in for 5 minutes to begin with, then take it out and turn it over so that both sides cook evenly. 2  Place it back in the microwave for another 3-5 minutes, depending on how soft it is already.
Confidence votes 3.2K. To bake a sweet potato in a microwave is simple to do but the timing depends on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. For average measures on both these, try about 8 minutes on high. Let it sit for about 10 minutes afterwards, as it will continue to cook
1 If you are cooking multiple potatoes at once, you will need to increase the cooking time by about two-thirds. 2  For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes. 1 Try putting the potato in for 5 minutes to begin with, then take it out and turn it over so that both sides cook evenly. 2  Place it back in the microwave for another 3-5 minutes, depending on how soft it is already.
1 Don't preheat the oven. 2  Prick your sweet potatoes each 2-3 time with a fork, then place them directly on the oven rack in the middle of the oven, above the foil. 3  Turn the oven on to 425. 4  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 1 For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 2  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 3  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 4  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour.
1 Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 2  For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 3  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 4  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 1 For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 2  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 3  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 4  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour.
Quick boil by adding 1-inch thick slices to a skillet with 2 inches of boiling water; cook for about 12 minutes. Steam 1-inch slices over simmering water. Microwave whole sweet potatoes for 5 to 8 minutes rotating halfway through. Microwave whole sweet potato for 4 minutes, then bake at 450° for 5 to 10 minutes. Cut sweet potato in half lengthwise and grill 20 to 25 minutes until tender and crisp. 