WWOOF aims to provide volunteers with first-hand experience in organic and ecologically sound growing methods, to help the organic movement; and to let volunteers experience life in a rural setting or a different country. WWOOF is a worldwide movement linking volunteers with organic farmers and growers to promote cultural and educational experiences based on trust and non-monetary exchange, thereby helping to building a sustainable global community.
Welcome to WWOOF. WWOOF is an exchange-In return for volunteer help, WWOOF hosts offer food, accommodation and opportunities to learn about organic lifestyles. WWOOF organisations link people who want to volunteer on organic farms or smallholdings with people who are looking for volunteer help. Many countries have national WWOOF groups. 
-- About WWOOFers: WWOOFers help Host with what they do at their place, usually for up to 6 hours a day for up to 6 days a week. -- Going WWOOFing: WWOOFing is about travel and adventure, making new friends, helping and receiving help, and learning in the process. Don't mistake WWOOF for work.
WWOOF Ireland is a voluntary, educational exchange based on trust. By becoming members, volunteers from all over the world can arrange placements with host farms in Ireland (including Northern Ireland) to learn about organic growing and sustainable lifestyles. WWOOF Ireland is a member of Volunteer Ireland. WWOOF hosts may be on large or small farms, small holdings or houses with large gardens. Hosts may be certified organic growers or following organic principals. In exchange for food and accommodation WWOOFers help hosts with their daily tasks.
WWOOF organisations connect people who want to live and learn on organic. farms and smallholdings with people who are looking for volunteer help. WWOOF hosts offer food, accommodation and opportunities to learn about organic. lifestyles. Volunteers give hands on help in return. 
WWOOF is a means to make friends, and to share and exchange with them. Hosts give WWOOFers meals, accommodation and social engagement, in return for which WWOOFers help Hosts with what they do at their place. It's simple. You give what you have, and you receive what you don't have. WWOOFers help Host with what they do at their place, usually for up to 6 hours a day for up to 6 days a week. -- Going WWOOFing: WWOOFing is about travel and adventure, making new friends, helping and receiving help, and learning in the process.
How it works. WWOOF enables people to live and volunteer on a variety of organic properties. Volunteers (WWOOFers) help on the land and home for 4-6 hours a day and hosts provide the food and accommodation. Volunteers. Usually you live with your host and are expected to join in and cooperate with the day to day activities. In most countries the exchange is based on 4-6 hours help-fair exchange for a full day’s
WWOOF volunteers ('WWOOFers') generally do not receive financial payment. The host provides food, accommodation, and opportunities to learn, in exchange for assistance with farming or gardening activities. The duration of the visit can range from a few days to years. WWOOF is a worldwide movement linking volunteers with organic farmers and growers to promote cultural and educational experiences based on trust and non-monetary exchange, thereby helping to building a sustainable global community.
The WWOOF Book or WWOOF App is included in your membership and provides contact details for over 2,600 hosts throughout Australia. Around 270 of these are Certified Organic and approximately 2,000 are traditional farms using organic practices. WWOOFing gives you the opportunity to work on Australian Organic Farms, exchanging 4 - 6 hours work per day for your meals and accommodation, usually in the family home.
Volunteers. Usually you live with your host and are expected to join in and cooperate with the day to day activities. In most countries the exchange is based on 4-6 hours help-fair exchange for a full day’s food and accommodation.