How long you will be able to receive UIF depends on the length of time that you have contributed to the fund. You are eligible to receive 1 day worth of benefits for every 6 days that you worked and contributed UIF over the past 4 years. The maximum number of days you can claim is 238 days. 3 How To Claim UIF Before you start the UIF application process, make sure that you actually qualify to claim UIF. In order to qualify for UIF, you must have been paying UIF contributions – you can confirm this by looking on your pay slip for any deductions that are marked for UIF.
1 Depending on how long you have been working and contributing to the UIF, you can claim for 121 consecutive days (4 months) maternity leave. 2  The department looks at the last 4 years of your employment history to calculate the credit days you have available. 1 The UIF pays 38% ‐ 58 % of your gross salary, to a maximum ceiling salary of R14 872.00. 2  If you earn above R14 872.00, the UIF will calculate the maternity benefit on the last mentioned salary. 3  The UIF takes in consideration your last 6 month’s average salary.
You are entitled to 1 month of UIF for every 6 months of contributing to the fund. 1  Depending on your credits, 121 days = 4 months. 2  The law entitles you to four consecutive months of maternity leave and it prohibits you to return to work within 6 weeks after the birth of your baby. 1 The UIF pays 38% ‐ 58 % of your gross salary, to a maximum ceiling salary of R14 872.00. 2  If you earn above R14 872.00, the UIF will calculate the maternity benefit on the last mentioned salary. 3  The UIF takes in consideration your last 6 month’s average salary.
You cannot claim if you have voluntarily resigned from your job. You can claim illness benefits if you are off work due to illness for two weeks. Benefits are paid from the date on which you stopped working. Maternity benefits can be claimed if you are pregnant and take maternity leave. If you miscarry in the third trimester or the baby is stillborn, you can claim for 6 weeks. You can claim adoption benefits if you legally adopt a child younger than two years old and you leave work to look after that child.
By law you are not allowed back to work within 6 weeks after the birth of your baby. You can claim 121 consecutive days (four months) maternity leave from the Department of Labour. This depends on how long you have been working. They use the last 4 years to work out how many credit days you have available. In short, for every 6 months that you have worked, you receive 1 month's benefits, up to a maximum of 4 months. My employer is paying me my first month maternity leave in full.
1 If you earn above R14 872.00, the UIF will calculate the maternity benefit on the last mentioned salary. 2  The UIF takes in consideration your last 6 month’s average salary. 3  You can claim as long as you have contributed to the fund within the last 6 months. 1 The UIF pays 38% ‐ 58 % of your gross salary, to a maximum ceiling salary of R14 872.00. 2  If you earn above R14 872.00, the UIF will calculate the maternity benefit on the last mentioned salary. 3  The UIF takes in consideration your last 6 month’s average salary.
If you have been contributing to the Fund for four years or more, then you can claim for up to 238 days. If you have been contributing for a shorter period, then you can claim 1 day for every 6 days that you worked while you were contributing to the Fund. If you take maternity leave, you can only claim up to 121 days. How does the maternity benefit work? Maternity benefits can be claimed if you are pregnant and take maternity leave. You can take maternity leave at any time from four weeks before the expected date of birth and you may not work for a period of six weeks after the birth.
Yes you can. The moment that your employers do not pay you 100% of your salary you can claim the rest from the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF). Example: Your employer is paying you 75% p.m. while you are on maternity leave. They use the last 4 years to work out how many credit days you have available. In short, for every 6 months that you have worked, you receive 1 month's benefits, up to a maximum of 4 months. My employer is paying me my first month maternity leave in full.
1 The law entitles you to four consecutive months of maternity leave and it prohibits you to return to work within 6 weeks after the birth of your baby. 2  Depending on how long you have been working and contributing to the UIF, you can claim for 121 consecutive days (4 months) maternity leave. 1 The UIF pays 38% ‐ 58 % of your gross salary, to a maximum ceiling salary of R14 872.00. 2  If you earn above R14 872.00, the UIF will calculate the maternity benefit on the last mentioned salary. 3  The UIF takes in consideration your last 6 month’s average salary.