Ovarian germ cell tumor is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the germ (egg) cells of the ovary. Germ cell tumors begin in the reproductive cells (egg or sperm) of the body. Ovarian germ cell tumors usually occur in teenage girls or young women and most often affect just one ovary. The metastatic tumor is the same type of tumor as the primary tumor. For example, if an ovarian germ cell tumor spreads to the liver, the tumor cells in the liver are actually cancerous ovarian germ cells. The disease is metastatic ovarian germ cell tumor, not liver cancer.
Tumors may be cancerous or noncancerous. Most germ cell tumors that are cancerous occur as cancer of the testicles in males (testicular cancer) or cancer of the ovaries in females (ovarian cancer). Some germ cell tumors occur in other areas of the body, such as the abdomen, brain and chest, though it's not clear why. Germ cell tumors that occur in places other than the testicles and ovaries (extragonadal germ cell tumors) are very rare.
Germ cell tumors are malignant (cancerous) or nonmalignant (benign, noncancerous) tumors that are comprised mostly of germ cells. Germ cells are the cells that develop in the embryo (fetus, or unborn baby) and become the cells that make up the reproductive system in males and females. 
Germ cell tumors are malignant (cancerous) or nonmalignant (benign, noncancerous) tumors that are comprised mostly of germ cells. Germ cells are the cells that develop in the embryo (fetus, or unborn baby) and become the cells that make up the reproductive system in males and females. Germ cell tumors are rare. Germ cell tumors account for about 2 to 4 percent of all cancers in children and adolescents younger than age 20. Germ cell tumors can spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body. The most common sites for metastasis are the lungs, liver, lymph nodes, and central nervous system. Rarely, germ cell tumors can spread to the bone, bone marrow, and other organ
1 Ovarian germ cell tumor is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the germ (egg) cells of the ovary. 2  Signs of ovarian germ cell tumor are swelling of the abdomen or vaginal bleeding after menopause. The metastatic tumor is the same type of tumor as the primary tumor. For example, if an ovarian germ cell tumor spreads to the liver, the tumor cells in the liver are actually cancerous ovarian germ cells. The disease is metastatic ovarian germ cell tumor, not liver cancer.
Germ Cell Cancer is a malignant neoplasm that originates from germ cells. With this, the neoplasm can metastasize and affect other areas of the body. Germ cells are cells that develop in the embryo which later becomes eggs and sperm in the ovaries and testes respectively. Symptoms. Symptoms of germ cell cancer can be different for ovarian cancer and testicular cancer, the two most common types of germ cell cancer. The signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer is important for early detection and prevention of progression of the disease.
A germ cell tumor (GCT) is a neoplasm derived from germ cells. Germ cell tumors can be cancerous or non-cancerous tumors. Germ cells normally occur inside the gonads (ovary and testis). Germ cell tumors that originate outside the gonads may be birth defects resulting from errors during development of the embryo. Most patients with germ cell cancer will need to be treated with combination chemotherapy for at least 3 cycles.. The chemotherapy regimen most commonly used in germ cell tumors is called PEB (or BEP), and consists of bleomycin, etoposide, a platinum-based antineoplastic (cisplatin).
In women, 30% of ovarian tumors originate from germ cells. Younger women, commonly patients under the age of 21, are more common. 60% of these ovarian tumors are germ cell in origin and a third of it is found to be malignant. Symptoms. Symptoms of germ cell cancer can be different for ovarian cancer and testicular cancer, the two most common types of germ cell cancer. The signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer is important for early detection and prevention of progression of the disease.
Germ cell cancer. Germ cells are the cells in the body that develop into sperm and eggs. They are mainly found in the ovary or testicle. But they can sometimes be left behind in other parts of the body from when you developed in the womb. Germ cell tumours can develop from these cells. They most often develop in the ovary or testicle, as that is where most germ cells are. But they can develop anywhere there are germ cells. The most common germ cell tumours are teratomas or seminomas of the testicle in men.