Major and minor themes are two types of themes that appear in literary works. A major theme is an idea that a writer repeats in his work, making it the most significant idea in a literary work. A minor theme, on the other hand, refers to an idea that appears in a work briefly and gives way to another minor theme. Examples of theme in Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice” are matrimony, love, friendship, and affection. The whole narrative revolves around the major theme of matrimony.
The definition of a theme is a topic, a recurring idea or a short melody. 1  An example of theme is a lecture about environmental protection. 2  series. 3  An example of theme is someone using the same color to decorate throughout their home.
Examples and Observations (definition #1):  1 Simply put, a story's theme is its idea or point (formulated as a generalization).
Examples of THEME. 1  The quest for power is the underlying theme of the film. 2  A constant theme in his novels is religion. 3  The playwright skillfully brings together various themes. 4  The album focuses on themes of love and loss. 5  Adventures are popular themes in children's books.
Theme is defined as a main idea or an underlying meaning of a literary work that may be stated directly or indirectly.
This lesson will define universal theme and give you examples you can refer to in order to identify universal themes in other pieces of literature. At the end, you'll be able to test your understanding through a quiz.
Subject is a topic which acts as a foundation for a literary work while a theme is an opinion expressed on the subject. For example, a writer may choose a subject of war for his story and the theme of a story may be writer’s personal opinion that war is a curse for humanity. Usually, it is up to the readers to explore a theme of a literary work by analyzing characters, plot and other literary devices.
Definition of Theme. As a literary device, theme is the central topic or idea explored in a text. Usually the theme of a work of literature can be stated in one word, such as “love” or “solitude.” A work of literature can, and often does, have more than one theme.