Typical Energy Sources. Between meals, your body taps into carbohydrates and fat stores for energy. Hormones tell your body when to release triglycerides for use as fuel. However, circulating blood glucose, when available, is a ready source of energy both during rest and physical activity. Fuel for Exercise. Your body typically uses protein for fuel as a last resort. During exercise, as during rest, a combination of fat and carbohydrates generally provide the necessary fuel. The intensity and duration of your exercise sessions affect the percentage of energy used from carbohydrates and fat.
Carbohydrates also play a structural role, and some carbs -- namely fiber -- are important for bowel health. As a group, however, carbs' primary function is to provide your body with the quickest form of energy. Although your body can burn carbs and proteins for energy, carbs are easier to use. Also, protein's key structural role and multiple other functions make it an important nutrient to spare.
We need this amount of carbohydrate because: 1  Carbohydrates are the body s main source of fuel. 2  Carbohydrates are easily used by the body for energy. 3  All of the tissues and cells in our body can use glucose for energy. 4  Carbohydrates are needed for the central nervous system, the kidneys, the brain, the muscles (including the heart) to function 5  ... C 
You fuel your workout with carbohydrates, fats and protein, but carbohydrates are the body's preferred energy source. The body automatically seeks out carbs first as they are easiest to burn. In the absence of carbs, the body burns fat and then protein. Your muscles continue to use carbohydrates, stored in the muscles and liver as glycogen, for energy during cardiovascular exercise. Once you've burned your glycogen stores and tapped into the fat, your muscles will be compelled to use protein as energy, which will eventually lead to a loss of muscle tissue.
However, your body burns both fat and carbohydrates throughout the day, during activity and rest. If carbohydrate stores are depleted, the demand for energy to fuel everyday activities and exercise forces your body to use other fuel sources. Fuel for Exercise. Your body typically uses protein for fuel as a last resort. During exercise, as during rest, a combination of fat and carbohydrates generally provide the necessary fuel. The intensity and duration of your exercise sessions affect the percentage of energy used from carbohydrates and fat.
Carbohydrates are the body's main fuel source. Carbohydrates are the body's main fuel source. The brain and nervous system require a constant supply of glucose from carbohydrates in order to function optimally. Muscles also use and store glucose to provide the main fuel during physical activity. 
The body can burn carbs and protein for the same yield of 4 calories per gram. Nutrients are chemicals that your body requires for growth, development, metabolism and proper function. Carbohydrates, fats and proteins belong to the macronutrient category because your body needs them in large quantities. Carbohydrates directly supply glucose, your body's preferred fuel source. While proteins have other primary roles, they can also supply energy whenever carbohydrates are not available. Although your body can burn carbs and proteins for energy, carbs are easier to use. Also, protein's key structural role and multiple other functions make it an important nutrient to spare.
When you consume carbohydrates, your body breaks them down into a single sugar called glucose, which enters the bloodstream and travels to muscles and organs that use the glucose for energy. Fuel for Exercise. Your body typically uses protein for fuel as a last resort. During exercise, as during rest, a combination of fat and carbohydrates generally provide the necessary fuel. The intensity and duration of your exercise sessions affect the percentage of energy used from carbohydrates and fat.
Carbohydrates Carbohydrates are the main source of fuel that powers your body. Eating the right amount of carbohydrates can increase your energy level and improve you performance. Your muscles need carbohydrates to fuel your activity. 