Consequently, TCC tuition and fees remain below the state median among community colleges. Below you can find our current tuition per credit hour, or you can use our Net Price Calculator to estimate the cost of your attendance. Costs are calculated per credit hour. 
Annual Total Cost. The total list price for in-state Texas residents to go to Tarrant County College is $10,246 for the 2014/2015 academic year. Out-of-state students who don't possess Texas residence can expect a one year cost of $13,102. Students residing at home with parents providing food and housing can expect a total cost of $3,592. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Tarrant County College District are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.
Assessed on out-of-state students to help offset debt service on bonds issued for capital construction. There is no maximum per credit hour charge for this fee. 1  Auxiliary Capital Fee: $19 per credit hour up to a maximum of 15 credit hours per semester. Fees are payable with tuition and are charged on a per-credit basis.
Tuition is $220 per credit hour and many students qualify for some form of financial assistance. Sources of assistance include the Pell Grant, Stafford Loans, the Florida Minority Teacher Scholarship, awards offered under the Florida Bright Futures Program, and the Florida Resident Access Grant (FRAG). Some forms of financial aid are available only to students taking a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester. In addition to federal and state financial aid programs, Flagler College-Tallahassee currently offers the following tuition assistance programs.
The tuition and fee rates below are effective for the Spring 2016 semester. Tuition is subject to change by action of the State Board for Community Colleges. Fees are payable with tuition and are charged on a per-credit basis.
Tarrant County College District tuition is $2,064 per year for in-state residents. This is 37% cheaper than the national average public two year tuition of $3,263. The cost is $3,733 and 64% cheaper than the average Texas tuition of $5,797 for 2 year colleges. Tuition ranks 17th in Texas amongst 2 year colleges for affordability and is the 72nd most expensive 2 year college in the state. If attending from out-of-state, the tuition is $4,920 which represents a 138% premium. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Tarrant County College District are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.
Funds expenses related to campus parking including, but not limited to, parking lot improvements, signage, parking lot repairs, lot security and overall improvements. 1  Student Activity Fee: $2.55 per credit hour up to a maximum of 15 credit hours per semester. Fees are payable with tuition and are charged on a per-credit basis.
Undergraduate Tuition. Tidewater Community College tuition is $3,084 per year for in-state residents. This is 5% cheaper than the national average public two year tuition of $3,263. The cost is $5,284 and 63% cheaper than the average Virginia tuition of $8,368 for 2 year colleges. Tuition ranks 6th in Virginia amongst 2 year colleges for affordability and is the 36th most expensive 2 year college in the state. If attending from out-of-state, the tuition is $7,322 which represents a 137% premium. Some schools offer the ability to take single classes by paying on a per credit hour basis. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Tidewater Community College are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.
The tuition cost is based on a standard course load of 15 credits. International students must take a minimum of 12 credits (US $2,931.90 for the 2015-2016 school year) per quarter. Fees information. TCC medical insurance is US $366 per quarter. All TCC international students are required to purchase the TCC insurance. For more information, see our Medical Insurance information page. 1  Facility Fee - $.50 per credit to 15 credits, maximum rate $7.50. 2  Technology Fee - $1.75 per credit to 10 credits, maximum rate $17.50. At TCC you can earn the first 2 years of your bachelor's degree without paying the high prices of a 4-year university. The cost to attend TCC is less than half the cost at a public university, and less than one-third the cost of a private
Annual Total Cost. The total list price for in-state Virginia residents to go to Tidewater Community College is $14,040 for the 2014/2015 academic year. Out-of-state students who don't possess Virginia residence can expect a one year cost of $18,278. Some schools offer the ability to take single classes by paying on a per credit hour basis. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Tidewater Community College are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.