Parkinson's disease in most people is idiopathic (having no specific known cause). However, a small proportion of cases can be attributed to known genetic factors. Other factors have been associated with the risk of developing PD, but no causal relationships have been proven. 
My husband (age 44) has been diagnosed with early onset Parkinsons for four years. He has managed his Parkinsons well with a combination of sinnemet, amantadine and ropinerole and has recently changed to Siphrol. In the past six months he has had three grand mal seizures. He is currently in hospital after a seizure last week and the Neurologists are now saying that he had epilepsy in addition to his Parkinsons. I have done a lot of searching online and can't see many cases of Parkinsons patients also having epilepsy. Has anyone out there been diagnosed with both.
Parkinson's Disease. Parkinson's disease is a chronic, progressive disease that develops when the cells that produce dopamine are dead or severely damaged. Dopamine acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain and helps control behavior, cognition, motor activity and several other actions. When these cells do not function properly, the brain often loses control of some bodily actions. Parkinson's disease often begins as a tremor in the hand that slowly spreads throughout the body, causing slowed voluntary motion, rigid muscles, stooped posture, loss of involuntary movements and speech changes. These symptoms usually occur gradually and can go undetected for months or year
In Parkinson's disease, certain nerve cells (neurons) in the brain gradually break down or die. Many of the symptoms are due to a loss of neurons that produce a chemical messenger in your brain called dopamine. When dopamine levels decrease, it causes abnormal brain activity, leading to signs of Parkinson's disease. The cause of Parkinson's disease is unknown, but several factors appear to play a role, including: Your genes. Researchers have identified specific genetic mutations that can cause Parkinson's disease, but these are uncommon except in rare cases with many family members affected by Parkinson's diseas
Back to Top. My dad has had parkinson's for about 17 years now. For about 2 years now he has been having episodic seizure-like events and we are trying to figure out if it is part of the disease process, a medication side-effect, or perhaps a separate disease like epilepsy. He is currently in hospital after a seizure last week and the Neurologists are now saying that he had epilepsy in addition to his Parkinsons. I have done a lot of searching online and can't see many cases of Parkinsons patients also having epilepsy. Has anyone out there been diagnosed with both.
While it is not clear what events cause the abnormal nerve function linked to Parkinson's disease, there are certain conditions and medications that can cause Parkinson's disease-like symptoms. These include: 1  Certain medications. 
Parkinson's Disease Symptoms. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a disorder of the brain that causes a variety of movement problems. Symptoms of Parkinson's disease vary widely, affecting each individual in different ways. And because Parkinson's disease is a progressive disease, symptoms may worsen as time goes on. 
Parkinson's, Epilepsy Linked with Depression. Patients with chronic brain diseases such as Parkinson's disease and epilepsy have an unusually high rate of depression, too -- suggesting links between the conditions, doctors said on Wednesday. According to the Victoria Epilepsy and Parkinson's Center: Parkinson's and epilepsy are unrelated conditions.. Yes, they are both neurodegenerative disorders and yes, they can be treated sometimes with the same drugs, and yes, they share the commonality of depression, but no, I don't think they're literally linked..
There is no cure for Parkinson's disease, but symptoms can usually be controlled through medication or physical therapy. Deep brain stimulation surgery may also be performed if the disease does not respond to conservative treatments. When these cells do not function properly, the brain often loses control of some bodily actions. Parkinson's disease often begins as a tremor in the hand that slowly spreads throughout the body, causing slowed voluntary motion, rigid muscles, stooped posture, loss of involuntary movements and speech changes. These symptoms usually occur gradually and can go undetected for months or year