Genetic Differences. Given the vast physical differences between humans and animals, it is interesting to note just how similar their DNA is. DNA is actually a code comprised of 4 nucleotides or types of molecules known as adenine, cytosine, guanine and thymine. Makeup. Since human and animal DNA are virtually the same, the differences in species are accounted for by the order in which the code is assembled. In each and every single creature, the order of the previously mentioned nucleotides adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine are switched around.
Chimpanzees, our closest living animal cousins share 98% of our human genes, meaning that for 98% of our genes, there is a similar gene in the chimpanzee genome. Even mammals that look quite different from us share a large percentage of our genes; small and furry mice share 92% our genes. 
For example, the human chromosomes are very similar to the chromosomes of the great apes. The difference lies in human chromosome number 2. Instead of a single chromosome 2 the great apes have two smaller ones which contain the equal gene sequences. Therefore the original number of chromosomes in this group of species was 48 (as it is still present in the great apes today) instead of 46 (as it is present in the human). Normally the chromosomes of closely related species are more similar to each other than the chromosomes of more distantly related species.
The organisms that share the most are the ones most closely related to us, such as chimpanzees and monkeys. However, the total number of chromosomes differs in each case. Humans have 46 chromosomes, and even though the DNA is radically different, that is actually the same number as a rose bush. No animals share the same DNA as humans...because that would make them human. However, some have extremely similar DNA (like 98%). Animals included in this list are pigs, rats, dogs, chimpanzees....Most mammals have strikingly similar DNAs. ic1212 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
What is, if it is possible to calculate, the level or percentage of similarities between the DNA of onions and the DNA of humans? If they are completely different, then, apart from the gorillas or chimpanzees with which other species is the human DNA more or less compatible? Thanks for the information. 
Human evolutionary genetics studies how one human genome differs from another human genome, the evolutionary past that gave rise to it, and its current effects. 1 For most DNA sequences, humans and chimpanzees appear to be most closely related, but some point to a human-gorilla or chimpanzee-gorilla clade. 2  The human genome has been sequenced, as well as the chimpanzee genome. 3  Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes, while chimpanzees, gorillas, and orangutans have 24.
The strong similarities between humans and the African great apes led Charles Darwin in 1871 to predict that Africa was the likely place where the human lineage branched off from other animals – that is, the place where the common ancestor of chimpanzees, humans, and gorillas once lived. DNA is thus especially important in the study of evolution. The amount of difference in DNA is a test of the difference between one species and another – and thus how closely or distantly related they are.
Due to billions of years of evolution, humans share genes with all living organisms. The percentage of genes or DNA that organisms share records their similarities. We share more genes with organisms that are more closely related to us. Humans belong to the biological group known as Primates, and are classified with the great apes, one of the major groups of the primate evolutionary tree. Besides similarities in anatomy and behavior, our close biological kinship with other primate species is indicated by DNA evidence. DNA is thus especially important in the study of evolution. The amount of difference in DNA is a test of the difference between one species and another – and thus how closely or distantly related they are.
Report Abuse. No animals share the same DNA as humans...because that would make them human. However, some have extremely similar DNA (like 98%). Animals included in this list are pigs, rats, dogs, chimpanzees....Most mammals have strikingly similar DNAs. ic1212 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.