Tradition has it that the origins of … Kung Fu come from India. It is now a part of Japan. It was an independent country at one time, a tributary of China. Karate originated in the Ryukyu Islands (now known as Okinawa in Japan).
The art comes to the world from Japan, but it's origin is in Okinawa. Okinawa was a tribute state of China and therefore the people traded goods. Martial arts made their way from China into Okinawa and developed with some differences in the different regions-Shuri and Naha.
There are many stories about where karate Originated from. One story is that Funakoshi (the father of Modern Karate) learned Karate in Okinawa and was asked to deminstrate his ability in Japan and that evryone liked the deminstration so Funakoshi taught Karate to the Japanese.
A key factor is the country of origin. Karate originated in Okinawa and Japan, while Tae Kwon Do was formed in Korea. Both countries began practicing their various forms of martial art early in their history.
Most scholars and researchers agree that the origin of Karate-do, as we Know it today, came from Kerala in South India through a Martial Art form called KALARYPYATT.It was taken to China by a Buddhist Monk known as BHOOI DHARIVIA during 50QAD.
It was an independent country at one time, a tributary of China. Karate originated in the Ryukyu Islands (now known as Okinawa in Japan). Okinawa at that time was a trade hub for countries like Korea, China, Philippines and Japan. In addition to trading the goods, there was also an exchange of traditions of these countries.
Karate Do is commonly known as karate. It is a good means of self defense, but it is also great for getting exercise, toning/losing weight, and just having fun. Karate originated on the Islands of Okinawa, but many masters moved to mainland Japan in the 20th century.
A: Shotokan is a Japanese form, or style, of karate. This karate style originated in Okinawa and was developed by a schoolteacher named Gichin Funakoshi. From a very early age Gichin Funakoshi studied a collective of martial arts, this collective was commonly known as Okinawa-te.