The welt – On better-constructed shoes, the welt is a strip of leather which runs along the perimeter of the outsole. Its primary function is for attaching the upper to the outsole. The last – A three-dimensional model of a foot, the last is what gives a shoe its shape. Of the two primary welting methods, blake is the simplest and most common. It also is a byproduct of the industrial revolution because the stitching is done on the inside of the shoe – making it impossible to do by hand. For a blake welt, the upper is wrapped around the insole and attached between it and
Full Definition of WELT. 1. : a strip between a shoe sole and upper through which they are stitched or stapled together. 2. : a doubled edge, strip, insert, or seam (as on a garment) for ornament or reinforcement. 3. a: a ridge or lump raised on the body (as by a blow or allergic reaction) b: a heavy blow. 
But just like many other signals, it can be abused. First, even most Goodyear-welted shoes are indirectly glued, for the welt is attached to a rib of canvas that is glued to the sole. Second, stitching the lower sole to the welt is a matter of minutes for a skilled maker, so it doesn't add much costs. They have their benefits just as Goodyear welted shoes do, though I find Goodyear welted have the most advantages. Some of the really expensive Italian shoes even use adhesive construction, which is no better than the cheap shoes that are glued together.
A Goodyear welt is stitched to the upper and a strip of canvas (known as gemming) which is cemented to the insole of a shoe as an attach-point for the sole. The upper part of the shoe is shaped over the last and fastened on by sewing a leather, linen or synthetic strip (also known as the welt) to the inner and upper sole. As well as using a welt, a thread is used to hold the material firmly together. The welt forms a cavity which is then filled with a cork material.
1. A strip, as of leather or other material, stitched into a shoe between the sole and the upper. 2. A tape or covered cord sewn into a seam as reinforcement or trimming. 3. a. A ridge or bump on the skin caused by a lash or blow or sometimes by an allergic reaction. I welted the little devil with the slack end of the rope for it, but it was done, and I could not undo it again. Sign of the Four by Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan View in context. DEY knows how to work a nigger to death, en dey knows how to whale 'em too--whale 'em till dey backs is welted like a washboard.
1. A strip, as of leather or other material, stitched into a shoe between the sole and the upper. 2. A tape or covered cord sewn into a seam as reinforcement or trimming. 3. a. A ridge or bump on the skin caused by a lash or blow or sometimes by an allergic reaction. welt-a raised mark on the skin (as produced by the blow of a whip); characteristic of many allergic reactions. wale, weal, wheal. harm, hurt, injury, trauma-any physical damage to the body caused by violence or accident or fracture etc.
A diagram of a shoe with welted construction. A Goodyear welt is a strip of leather, rubber, or plastic that runs along the perimeter of a shoe outsole. The machinery used for the process was invented in 1869 by Charles Goodyear, Jr., the son of Charles Goodyear. Goodyear construction is time-consuming but is considered the best method of shoe construction. The upper part of the shoe is shaped over the last and fastened on by sewing a leather, linen or synthetic strip (also known as the welt) to the inner and upper sole. As well as using a welt, a thread is used to hold the material firmly together. The welt forms a cavity which is then filled with a cork material.
: a shoe or boot constructed with a welt that is united to the upper lining and insole lip without stitching inside the shoe and then attached to the outsole. 