output-to create or manufacture a specific amount; the computer is outputting the data from the job I'm running. pulse, pulsate-produce or modulate (as electromagnetic waves) in the form of short bursts or pulses or cause an apparatus to produce pulses; pulse waves; a transmitter pulsed by an electronic tube. 2. create-bring into existence; The company was created 25 years ago; He created a new movement in painting. reinvent-bring back into existence; The candidate reinvented the concept of national health care so that he would get elected.
Use create in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. To create is to make something. 1  An example of to create is to use paper and glitter to decorate a greeting card. 2  An example of to create is to change a business plan to allow for more jobs
Synonyms and Antonyms of CREATE. Synonyms beget, breed, bring, bring about, bring on, catalyze, cause, create, do, draw on, effectuate, engender, generate, induce, invoke, make, occasion, produce, prompt, result (in), spawn, translate (into), work, yield.
According to Frankl, we can also create meaning by experiencing something like goodness, beauty, nature or culture. For example, for those who love nature, being close and connected to it would fill their lives with meaning. This could also tie-in with the work of protecting or working with nature. Before we can create meaning in our lives, we have to be aware of our responsibility to our selves and to others. We alone are responsible for our lives; our physical, metal and emotional wellbeing. It is therefore up to us to create and to define a purpose or a combination of purposes that we find meaningful
2. to evolve from one's imagination, as a work of art or an invention. 3. to perform (a role) in the first production of a play or motion picture. 4. to make by investing with new rank; designate: to create a peer. 5. to arrange or bring about, as by intention or design: to create confusion. 6. to do something creative. 2. create-bring into existence; The company was created 25 years ago; He created a new movement in painting. reinvent-bring back into existence; The candidate reinvented the concept of national health care so that he would get elected.
Definition. To build, assemble, or produce an object or idea. The act of creating is usually tied to being innovative with existing materials. For example, a person may create a new product by combining existing products that a company sells.
create verb [T]. › to make something exist: create problems/​responsibilitiescreate jobs/opportunities, etc. The new ​development will create hundreds of ​jobs in the ​area.create money/wealth We'll ​help you create ​wealth using tried-and-tested ​investment ​strategies. The Cambridge English Dictionary is constantly being updated and expanded to reflect the interests of our users. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary.
Word Root of CREATE. The Latin word creāre, meaning “ to produce ” or “ to cause, ” gives us the root cre. Words from the Latin creāre have something to do with producing or causing. To cre ate something is to produce it. Anyone cre ative is able to produce new and original things. 1 The President has announced a plan to create new jobs. 2  the scientists who created the world's first atomic bomb. 3  The machine creates a lot of noise. 4  It can be hard to create a balance between work and family.
Tweet. : to make or produce (something) : to cause (something new) to exist. : to cause (a particular situation) to exist. : to produce (something new, such as a work of art) by using your talents and imagination. cre·at·ed cre·at·ing. 1 The President has announced a plan to create new jobs. 2  the scientists who created the world's first atomic bomb. 3  The machine creates a lot of noise. 4  It can be hard to create a balance between work and family.