1 A simple home well water testing kit typically costs $10-$30, but can be $50-$150 for a larger kit (with up to 50 test strips/supplies). 2  These kits may test for just one contaminant (like bacteria, nitrites or arsenic) or many. The water should also be tested any time the well is repaired or if there's a change in the water's taste, color or appearance. Typical costs: 1  A simple home well water testing kit typically costs $10-$30, but can be $50-$150 for a larger kit (with up to 50 test strips/supplies).
This package is recommended if you want to check the general potability of your water source, plus you are having problems with elevated iron levels, musty odors, or sulfur odors. The cost for the testing is $ 35.00 per bacterial screen or all three tests for a total cost of $ 80.00. The specialized bacterial testing package may include iron reducing bacteria, slime bacteria, and sulfur reducing bacteria. Well-Check is our well water testing package that includes microbiological testing (Total Coliform & E-Coli) and the analysis of 19 heavy metals & minerals, 6 inorganic chemicals, and physical factors. This package helps homeowners to determine what is in their well water and if a treatment system is needed.
To avoid any conflict of interest we recommend that home inspectors and water testing companies follow (as some do) a simple fee policy: a flat fee, for example, $75.00 is charged plus whatever lab fees apply for whatever water tests you select. Inspectors are required to avoid conflicts of interest with those of their clients. Here are some typical water test lab fees for the minimum test (bacteria presence/absence) and more comprehensive tests which look for groups of common water contaminants: 1  Bacteriological sampling: (Total Coliform and E-Coli): $25-$30. 2  FHA-Short Series: Coliform, lead, nitrate, nitrite: $75-$100
The presence of nitrate in well water also depends on the geology of the land around your well. A nitrate test is recommended for all wells. If the nitrate level in your water is higher than the EPA standards, you should look for other sources of water or ways to treat your water. 
A water testing laboratory can test your well water. The laboratory will supply the sampling bottles and can help you sample your own well. A list of drinking water laboratories certified by the State of California is available and is searchable by county: 1  DDW Certified Laboratory List. However, sampling your well and having an accredited laboratory test your well water is more accurate and reliable. If you still have questions regarding how to sample your well, please call Diane Barclay at (916) 341-5585 (GAMA Unit Chief).
1 Having a lab test well water samples can cost a nominal fee at government or university labs, or $50-$500 or more for private labs, depending on the lab and the number and type of compounds tested. 2  Water testing by a lab should include a written analysis of the results and clear recommendations. The water should also be tested any time the well is repaired or if there's a change in the water's taste, color or appearance. Typical costs: 1  A simple home well water testing kit typically costs $10-$30, but can be $50-$150 for a larger kit (with up to 50 test strips/supplies).
If you depend on private well water, you'll need to have it tested to determine contaminants. The EPA recommends testing annually for coliform bacteria, nitrates, total dissolved solids, and PH levels. Contact the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791 to find a certified laboratory to conduct the tests. A thorough test of the water in your home and well system to detect the presence of contaminants, such as lead, E.coli bacteria and other toxins that can pose a health hazard.
Backed by over 59 years in the laboratory testing business and 225 years of combined testing experience, these test kits are designed to be an easy, fast, accurate, sensitive, and affordable way to monitor the purity of your drinking water. 