With this tool, they have been able to identify and treat a shoulder injury called a glenoid labrum tear. Anatomy. The shoulder joint has three bones: the shoulder blade (scapula), the collarbone (clavicle), and the upper arm bone (humerus). The head of the upper arm bone (humeral head) rests in a shallow socket in the shoulder blade called the glenoid. 
The “ball” is the head of the humerus and the “socket” is theglenoid part of the shoulder blade (scapula).The anatomy of the shoulder is unique – it has a relatively shallow socket which results in amazing flexibility and range of motion to the shoulder joint which is unparalleled elsewhere in the body. 
The shoulder joint also known as the glenohumeral joint, is the major joint of the shoulder, but can more broadly include the acromioclavicular joint. In human anatomy, the shoulder joint comprises the part of the body where the humerus attaches to the scapula, the head sitting in the glenoid cavity. The shoulder is the group of structures in the region of the joint. There are two kinds of cartilage in the joint.
The human shoulder is made up of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone) as well as associated muscles, ligaments and tendons. The articulations between the bones of the shoulder make up the shoulder joints. In human anatomy, the shoulder joint comprises the part of the body where the humerus attaches to the scapula, the head sitting in the glenoid cavity. The shoulder is the group of structures in the region of the joint. There are two kinds of cartilage in
The shoulder is not a single joint, but a complex arrangement of bones, ligaments, muscles, and tendons that is better called the shoulder girdle. The primary function of the shoulder girdle is to give strength and range of motion to the arm. The shoulder girdle includes three bones—the scapula, clavicle and humerus. If you think of the shoulder in layers, the deepest layer is bone, then ligaments of the joint capsule, and the tendons and muscles are on top. Nerves and blood vessels supply the muscles and bones of the shoulder.
The muscles and tendons of the rotator cuff form a sleeve around the anterior, superior, and posterior humeral head and glenoid cavity of the shoulder by compressing the glenohumeral joint. In addition to stabilization, the rotator cuff provides the shoulder with tremendous mobility. Shoulder anatomy, lateral view. The shoulder complex is composed of many different tissue types, and it is the connective tissue that provides the supportive framework for the shoulder's many functions. The different types of connective tissues in the shoulder are bone, articular cartilage, ligaments, joint capsules, and bursa (see Gross Anatomy).
The most flexible joint in the entire human body, our shoulder joint is formed by the union of the humerus, the scapula (or shoulder blade), and the clavicle (or collarbone). Commonly thought of as a single joint, the shoulder is actually made up of two separate joints-the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints. 
The rotator cuff is a group of tendons and muscles in the shoulder, connecting the upper arm (humerus) to the shoulder blade (scapula). The rotator cuff tendons provide stability to the shoulder; the muscles allow the shoulder to rotate. The muscles in the rotator cuff include: 1  Teres minor. 2  Infraspinatus. 3  Supraspinatus. 