NIAHO stands for National Integrated Accreditation for Healthcare Organizations (standards). Suggest new definition. This definition appears very rarely and is found in the following Acronym Finder categories: 1  Organizations, NGOs, schools, universities, etc. 
Hospital Accreditation. ACHC and DNV GL Healthcare have partnered together to provide a more relevant single source accreditation solution for hospitals and health systems with ancillary services. This unique accreditation solution offers the most relevant standards for hospital and community-based healthcare providers. DNV GL Healthcare is a leading accreditor of US hospitals and health systems.
The National Integrated Accreditation for Healthcare Organizations (NIAHO℠) is a program offered by DNV Healthcare Inc. (DNVHC) and is the first integrated accreditation program for hospitals in the United States. compliance or Certification must be obtained no later than during the NIAHO SM Accreditation Survey done at Year Three. Failure to obtain this ISO compliance or Certification in this timeframe will result in Accreditation Jeopardy Status for the Accredited Organization.
NIAHO. DNV has been granted approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for deeming authority for DNV’s NIAHO sm (the National Integrated Accreditation for Healthcare Organizations) hospital accreditation program to determine hospitals compliance with the Medicare Conditions of Participation. MAI’s consultants will assist your healthcare organization determine your readiness and necessary actions for both NIAHO sm Accreditation and ISO 9001:2000 Certification.
This will be the first new programme granted approval to deem hospitals in over 40 years. The foundation of DNV’s NIAHO sm accreditation is the ISO 9001:2000 standard. Hospitals seeking deeming by DNV are required to be conforming to the ISO 9001:2000 standard within two years after their initial survey. MAI’s consultants will assist your healthcare organization determine your readiness and necessary actions for both NIAHO sm Accreditation and ISO 9001:2000 Certification.
A Medicare deemed status survey will consist of a survey for compliance with the NIAHO℠ accreditation standards. compliance with or Certification to the ISO 9001 Quality Management System within two years of initial NIAHO℠. accreditation. Compliance to ISO 9001 requirements must be done through DNVHC. compliance or Certification must be obtained no later than during the NIAHO SM Accreditation Survey done at Year Three. Failure to obtain this ISO compliance or Certification in this timeframe will result in Accreditation Jeopardy Status for the Accredited Organization.
DNV GL-Healthcare accreditation management team. Any discretionary change to the NIAHO. ®. standards must be approved by the DNV GL-Healthcare Standards and Appeals Board (SAB). The. SAB is comprised of representatives active in medicine, nursing and hospital management. No. All accreditation decisions are made by DNV GL-Healthcare in the U.S. If a hospital is dissatisfied with an accreditation decision, it may appeal to the Standards and Appeals Board (SAB). The SAB is an independent body c hartered but the DNV GL-Healthcare board of directors to hear accreditation appeals.
It is possible for hospitals to attain initial NIAHO® accreditation without being fully compliant with ISO 9001 standards at the time of survey. In fact, hospitals have three years in which to achieve compliance. Understanding DNV as an accreditation option. In 2008, Det Norske Veritas Healthcare, Inc. received notification that it had been approved by the CMS to deem hospitals in compliance with the CMS Conditions of Participation for hospitals.