After completion of a dental hygiene program, dental hygienists can choose to pursue additional training in such areas as education, business administration, basic sciences, marketing and public health. Education/Training & Admission Requirements. Dental hygienists receive their education through academic programs at community colleges, technical colleges, dental schools or universities. The majority of community college programs take at least two years to complete, with graduates receiving associate degrees
The training required to become a dental hygienist typically includes a certificate or an associate's degree program in dental hygiene. Licensed dental hygienists may also obtain advanced education in order to broaden their careers in the field. While an undergraduate degree is all that's necessary for a clinical career in dental hygiene, some dental hygienists pursue advanced education in the field. Advanced degree programs are generally reserved for students who plan to pursue academic and research careers or practice in school or public health programs.
Get the education you need: Find schools for Dental Hygienists near you! Dental hygienists typically need an associate’s degree in dental hygiene. Bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene are also available, but are less common. A bachelor's or master's degree is usually required for research, teaching, or clinical practice in public or school health programs. 
Receipt of this degree allows a hygienist to take licensure examinations (national and state or regional), become licensed and to work in a dental office. University-based dental hygiene programs may offer baccalaureate and master's degrees, which generally require at least two years of further schooling. Education/Training & Admission Requirements. Dental hygienists receive their education through academic programs at community colleges, technical colleges, dental schools or universities. The majority of community college programs take at least two years to complete, with graduates receiving associate degrees
Dental hygienists should consider completing an associate or bachelor’s degree program in dental hygiene or a closely related field from an accredited school. It’s important to make sure your school and its dental hygiene program is accredited by The Commission on Dental Accreditation. Dental Hygienist Schools. If you want to learn more about how to become a dental hygienist, it pays to start looking at leading dental hygiene schools. There are many programs all over the country and there’s sure to be one near you. Our search tool below will help make the search a little easier for you.
Education and Qualifications. To become a dental hygienist, you'll need either a 2- or 4-year degree in dental hygiene. Most programs are two years long and lead to an associate's degree. They are offered through community colleges and technical colleges. Your coursework will include classes such as the following: 1  Anatomy and Physiology.
Step 1: Get an Undergraduate Degree. Dental hygienists usually hold an associate's degree, such as an Associate of Applied Science, in dental hygiene. Two-year degree programs are available at community colleges, vocational institutes, or dental schools. While associate's degrees are enough for most dental hygienist positions, some hygienists earn higher degrees as a way to advance their careers. Bachelor's and master's degrees in dental hygiene may qualify hygienists for careers beyond the dental office, such as in teaching and research.
Education. Dental hygienists typically need an associate’s degree in dental hygiene. Bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene are also available, but are less common. A bachelor's or master's degree is usually required for research, teaching, or clinical practice in public or school health programs. 