Lottie is a very popular first name for women (#537 out of 4276, Top 13%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#50903 out of 150436, Top 34%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Lottie for girls. Lottie /lot-tie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French origin, and the meaning of Lottie is little and womanly. Diminutive of Charlotte. Mostly 19th-century use. Singer Lotte Lenya
French Meaning: The name Lottie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Lottie is: A feminine form of Charles, meaning man. Alternate meaning, tiny and feminine. Famous bearers: Princess Charlotte, daughter of King George IV; British writer Charlotte Bronte.
[ 2 syll. lot-tie, lo-tt-ie ] The baby girl name Lottie is pronounced as L AA TTiy- †. Lottie is used predominantly in Dutch, English, German, and Polish, and its origin is Germanic. Lottie is a diminutive form of the name Charlotte (French, German, Dutch, English, and Scandinavian). Lottie is rare as a baby name for girls. In 1900, 0.217% of baby girls were named Lottie. It ranked at #97 then
Lotti /lot-ti/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Lotti's roots are Old German and French, and the meaning of the name Lotti is free man; little and womanly. Lotti is a variant transcription of Carol (Old German): originally a male name. Lotti is also a variant of Charlotte (Old German).
Lottie is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lo-ttie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2611 in baby name popularity for girls with 67 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Lottie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lottie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lottie to other names. Lottie is a diminutive (nickname) of Charlotte. Lottie falls into the classic name category
More About German Name: Lottie. Lottie is used predominantly in English and its origin is Germanic. Lottie is a pet form of the name Charlotte (Dutch, English, French, German, and Scandinavian).Charlotte is the feminine form of the English and French Charles. 
Meaning of Lottie. French name. In French, the name Lottie means-Diminutive of Charlotte: A feminine form of Charles, meaning man. Alternate meaning, tiny and feminine. Famous bearers: Princess Charlotte, daughter of King George IV; British writer Charlotte Bronte.. Other origins for the name Lottie include-French, Latin-American.The name Lottie is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-Diminutive of Charlotte: A feminine form of Charles, meaning man. Alternate meaning, tiny and feminine