Meat on our dinner plates takes a tremendous amount of water to produce. Data from The Water Footprint Network tell us it requires about 1,799 gallons of water to produce one pound of beef, 468 gallons per pound of chicken, 576 gallons per pound of pork, and 880 gallons per gallon of milk. Yet, taken together, our aggregate behavior is the source of these problems. An individual home can waste 10,000 gallons of water a year to leaking fixtures; as a nation, we lose one trillion gallons of water to leaks. We buy 450 million pair of blue jeans every year, each of which requires about 2,200 gallons of water to produce, mostly to grow cotton for denim
Consumers can reduce their direct water footprint (home water use) by installing water saving toilets, applying a water-saving showerhead, closing the tap during teeth brushing, using less water in the garden and by not disposing medicines, paints or other pollutants through the sink. The water footprint map (showing where and when what volumes of water are being appropriated) is the basis for assessing the local impacts of the various water footprint components. For this purpose the water footprint map can be overlaid with a map showing local water stress.
The Cost of Carbon , we've come up with a list of 10 actions you can take to reduce your carbon footprint. The 24 Hours of Reality broadcast streams live from Los Angeles on Oct. 22 and 23, beginning at 2 p.m. ET on Tuesday. Plant a Tree. This classic way to give back to the environment is one of the most efficient ways you can cut your carbon footprint. Trees provide shade and oxygen while consuming carbon dioxide. According to the Urban Forestry Network, a single young tree absorbs 13 pounds of carbon dioxide each year.
how to reduce your carbon footprint. Reduce What You Can, Offset What You Can’t.™. That’s our motto, and we’re proud of it. Everyone has a responsibility to reduce their individual carbon footprint, and there are lots of ways to do so. Reduce the Carbon Footprint of Your Travel. A lot of our emissions come from just being inefficient or not deliberate with our daily decisions. Every day think about how you could reduce the miles you drive and pretty soon you’ll start identifying lots of opportunities: Combine your trip with another.
Businesses can reduce their operational water footprint by saving water in their own operations and bringing water pollution to zero. Keywords are: reduce, recycle and treat before disposal. For most businesses, however, the supply-chain water footprint is much larger than the operation footprint. The water footprint map (showing where and when what volumes of water are being appropriated) is the basis for assessing the local impacts of the various water footprint components. For this purpose the water footprint map can be overlaid with a map showing local water stress.
By being judicious about our food purchases and careful about using food before it goes to waste, we can save water, energy, and money, and reduce greenhouse gases and toxic loads to our ecosystems. Electricity requires water: one kilowatt-hour of electricity takes about 25 gallons of water to produce. Yet, taken together, our aggregate behavior is the source of these problems. An individual home can waste 10,000 gallons of water a year to leaking fixtures; as a nation, we lose one trillion gallons of water to leaks. We buy 450 million pair of blue jeans every year, each of which requires about 2,200 gallons of water to produce, mostly to grow cotton for denim
We encourage everyone to think about their lifestyle decisions and find opportunities to reduce their climate impact. You can get partway to carbon neutrality through how you live your life, i.e., reducing your carbon footprint, and get the rest of the way there by supporting Carbonfund.org’s carbon offset projects. Here are some good ways to start. Reduce the Carbon Footprint of Your Travel. A lot of our emissions come from just being inefficient or not deliberate with our daily decisions. Every day think about how you could reduce the miles you drive and pretty soon you’ll start identifying lots of opportunities: Combine your trip with another.
Concrete things you can do to help our living planet. We all need to make better choices in what we consume and how we produce and use energy. To reduce our ecological footprint our actions must address the sources of the biggest impacts we humans have on our planet: energy use and eating. You might be surprised to discover that while we all need to make lifestyle changes, saving the planet doesn't have to mean giving up the things you love. © NASA. © WWF
The water footprint is a term that refers to the water used to make a product. In this context we can also speak about the ‘virtual water content’ of a product instead of its ‘water footprint’. The water footprint concept, however, has a wider application. The water footprint map (showing where and when what volumes of water are being appropriated) is the basis for assessing the local impacts of the various water footprint components. For this purpose the water footprint map can be overlaid with a map showing local water stress.