Dragonflies. Dragonflies are often referred to as “mosquito hawks.” Though they do eat mosquitoes, they do not eat enough mosquitoes to do much harm to wild populations. One feature that favors dragonflies as mosquito predators is that in the dragonflies’ aquatic stage, most of its food consists of mosquito larvae.
There are over 3,000 different species of mosquitoes throughout the world; currently 176 species are recognized in the United States. A new species, Anopheles grabhamii, was reported from the Florida Keys in 2001 (Darsie et al. 2002). Each mosquito species has a Latin scientific name, such as Anopheles quadrimaculatus.
Both adult and larval species of aquatic beetles will consume mosquito larvae and pupae. Two beetles that readily eat the aquatic stages of mosquitoes are the predaceous diving beetle and the water scavenger beetles. However, they will consume many types of aquatic insects other than mosquitoes.
Only a few species of mosquitoes can store enough energy as larvae, to produce eggs when they're adults, without needing a meal of blood. The blood can come from humans, mammals, birds, reptiles or frogs, though most mosquitoes have a preference for a few particular sources.
Mosquitoes also eat before they become adults. The larvae live in water and feed on microscopic organic particles which they filter from the water through brush-like structures around their mouth. The larvae of a few larger species also eat other small insects, including smaller mosquito larvae. More articles: Shelters to keep mosquitoes from your picnic Backpacking in mosquito country without getting bit Photos of mosquitoes feeding courtesy of the CDC.
Malaria is transmitted among humans by female mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles. Female mosquitoes take blood meals to carry out egg production, and such blood meals are the link between the human and the mosquito hosts in the parasite life cycle.
Types of Mosquitoes. There are more than 2,700 species of mosquitoes in the world, and there are 13 mosquito genera (plural for genus) that live in the United States. Of these genera, most mosquitoes belong to three: