Some of the food sources of ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids are fish and shellfish, flaxseed (linseed) , hemp seed, soya oil, canola (rapeseed) oil, chia seeds, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, leafy vegetables, and walnuts. The term essential fatty acid refers to fatty acids required for biological processes but does not include the fats that only act as fuel. Essential fatty acids should not be confused with essential oils, which are essential in the sense of being a concentrated essence.
Omega-3 fatty acids are derived from linolenic acid. The principal omega-3 is alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), which is then converted into eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenonic acid (DHA) by the body. This makes ALA the only essential omega-3 fatty acid. ALA can be found in many vegetables, beans, nuts, seeds, and fruits.
Ratio of omega-6:omega-3 Omega-3 Omega-6. Fatty acids, which are not naturally produced by the body, are available only through food sources such as fish and plant oils. They are a critical contributor to good vision and general health. Metabolized fatty acids, like glucose, are cell fuel sources. 
Adding more Essential Fatty Acids to your daily diet is a great way to support your health. EFAs support cardiovascular health, brain function and development, skin health, and offer many other benefits for your body. Let’s look at the most common food sources for Omega-3 and Omega-6 fatty acids. The first thing that probably comes to your mind is fish. It’s true, most fish are excellent sources of essential fatty acids. In particular, cold-water fish: 1  Salmon. 2  Herring.
In this article. When it comes to fat, there's one type you don’t want to cut back on: omega-3 fatty acids. Two crucial ones -- EPA and DHA -- are primarily found in certain fish. ALA (alpha-linolenic acid), another omega-3 fatty acid, is found in plant sources such as nuts and seeds. Not only does your body need these fatty acids to function, but also they deliver some big health benefits. 
To begin with, you should eat more raw nuts, seeds, whole grains and fish. Linoleic acid can be found in nuts, seeds, whole grains and legumes. Eat fatty fish, such as salmon, tuna, herring, mackerel and sardines at least twice a week. Fish is also an excellent source of omega-3 fatty acid, which supports heart health and helps the body break down dietary fat. 
Plant-based oils contain the essential fatty acids ALA and LA. Safflower, sunflower, corn, soybean and sesame oils are good sources of omega-6 fatty acids. One tablespoon of these oils contains 6 to 10 grams of omega-6, which is 50 to 83 percent of women’s and 35 to 58 percent of men’s recommended daily intake. Salmon and other oily fish are sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids are called essential because they must be obtained from the foods you eat.
Like vegetable oils, the types of essential fatty acids you get from nuts and seeds are ALA and LA. Sunflower seeds, pine nuts, pecans and Brazil nuts have 6 to 10 grams of omega-6 in a 1-ounce serving. Two good sources of omega-3 fatty acids are walnuts and flaxseeds. Salmon and other oily fish are sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids are called essential because they must be obtained from the foods you eat.
Complicating matters is another essential fatty acid, omega-6. Omega-6 is another polyunsaturated fatty acid, and it complements the functions of omega-3 in foods. In a contrasting role, however, omega-6 promotes inflammation. What's more, omega-6 may compete with omega-3 for metabolization in the body. 