Invasive Honeysuckles. Invasive honeysuckles are herbaceous shrubs native to Korea, Japan and China. In the late 1800's amur honeysuckles were introduced to North America to the Dominion Arboretum in Ottawa and to the Botanical Garden in New York for their attractive flowers. Impacts of Invasive Honeysuckles. 1  Rapidly invade areas, out-competing native plant species by forming dense patches. 2  Affect light and nutrient availability to neighboring plants. 3  Produce toxic chemicals that prevent other plants from growing in that area.
Lonicera x bella is a horticultural hybrid. Older stems have shaggy bark and are often hollow. Leaves: Opposite, simple, oval, and untoothed. L. tartarica has smooth, hairless leaves, L. morrowii has downy leaves. Flowers: Fragrant, tubular, bloom in May and June, white, red, but most often pink. Fruit: Fruits are red or yellow, situated in pairs in the leaf axils. Roots: Roots are fibrous and shallow
Several species of honeysuckle have become invasive when introduced outside their native range, particularly in New Zealand and the United States. Invasive species include L. japonica, L. maackii, L. morrowii, and L. tatarica. Most honeysuckle berries are attractive to wildlife, which has led to species such as L. japonica and L. maackii spreading invasively outside of their home ranges. Many species of Lonicera are eaten by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species — see a list of Lepidoptera that feed on honeysuckles.
Most species of Lonicera are hardy twining climbers, with a large minority of shrubby habit; a handful of species (including Lonicera hildebrandiana from the Himalayan foothills and L. etrusca from the Mediterranean) are tender and can only be grown outside in subtropical zones. Most honeysuckle berries are attractive to wildlife, which has led to species such as L. japonica and L. maackii spreading invasively outside of their home ranges. Many species of Lonicera are eaten by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species — see a list of Lepidoptera that feed on honeysuckles.
) are arching shrubs or twining bines in the family Caprifoliaceae, native to the Northern Hemisphere. Approximately 180 species of honeysuckle have been identified. About 100 of these species can be found in China and approximately 20 native species have been identified in Europe, 20 in India, and 20 in North America. Most honeysuckle berries are attractive to wildlife, which has led to species such as L. japonica and L. maackii spreading invasively outside of their home ranges. Many species of Lonicera are eaten by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species — see a list of Lepidoptera that feed on honeysuckles.
Several native honeysuckles of the Lonicera genus grow as vines, including grape honeysuckle (L. reticulata), yellow honeysuckle (L. flava), hairy honeysuckle (L. hirsuta) and red honeysuckle (L. dioica). 
Several species of honeysuckle found in NY are characterized as invasive, including: Morrow’s honeysuckle (Lonicera morrowii), Tatarian honeysuckle (Lonicera tatarica), Amur honeysuckle (Lonicera maackii), and Japanese honeysuckle (Lonicera japonica) . These dense stands suppress the growth of other native species. L. maackii leafs out very early in spring, giving it a competitive advantage over native plants. L. japonica leaves are semi-evergreen allowing the plant to grow longer into the winter and giving it a competitive advantage over native vegetation.
All four species are successful invaders of a similar range of habitats, including: abandoned fields; pastures; early successional, open canopy, and planted forests; along the edge of woodlots; floodplains; highway, railway and utility rights-of-way; open disturbed areas; vacant lots; edges of lawns; and, gardens. These dense stands suppress the growth of other native species. L. maackii leafs out very early in spring, giving it a competitive advantage over native plants. L. japonica leaves are semi-evergreen allowing the plant to grow longer into the winter and giving it a competitive advantage over native vegetation.
All native honeysuckles of the Lonicera genera--grape honeysuckle (Lonicera reticulata), yellow honeysuckle (Lonicera flava), and red honeysuckle (Lonicera dioica)--are woody vine-like twining species. The exotics are stout, erect shrubs. Flowers of the Tartarian honeysuckle are generally pink to crimson in color. Flowers of the other bush honeysuckle species are white and become yellow as they age. SIMILAR SPECIES: Lonicera maakii is another invasive species that is troublesome in states to the south, and may become a problem in Wisconsin. The exotic bush honeysuckles are easily separated from native Lonicera specie