1 Bromines are common endocrine disruptors and can be found in a number of places in your everyday world, including pesticides, plastics (used to make computer), bakery goods, soda, medications, fire retardants, and bromine-based hot tub and swimming pool treatments. 
Pure bromine is diatomic, Br 2. Bromine is the only nonmetallic element that is liquid at ordinary temperatures. It is a dense, reddish-brown liquid which evaporates easily at room temperature to a red vapor with a strong, chlorine-like odor. Bromine is less reactive than chlorine or fluorine but more reactive than iodine.
Bromine (from Greek: βρῶμος, bromos, brómos meaning-strong smelling or) stench is a chemical element with Symbol, br and atomic number. 35 it is a. halogen The diatomic element Br 2 does not occur naturally. Instead, bromine exists exclusively as bromide salts in diffuse amounts in crustal rock. Owing to leaching, bromide salts have accumulated in sea water at 65 parts per million (ppm), which is less than chloride.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Bromine is a nonmetallic chemical element that bears the distinction of being the only nonmetallic element that is liquid at room temperature. It is highly toxic and extremely reactive, requiring extreme care when it is handled. 
Bromine. Bromine is an element that belongs to the same group as chlorine and iodine. In its pure state, bromine is a reddish-orange liquid that gives off an unpleasant odor, but in nature it combines with other substances to form a salt. 
Elemental bromine is a fuming red-brown liquid at room temperature, corrosive and toxic, with properties between those of chlorine and iodine. The diatomic element Br 2 does not occur naturally. Instead, bromine exists exclusively as bromide salts in diffuse amounts in crustal rock. Owing to leaching, bromide salts have accumulated in sea water at 65 parts per million (ppm), which is less than chloride.
1 Bromine is a naturally occurring element that is a liquid at room temperature. 2  It has a brownish-red color with a bleach-like odor, and it dissolves in water. 1 Breathing bromine gas could cause you to cough, have trouble breathing, get a headache, have irritation of your mucous membranes (inside your mouth, nose, etc.), be dizzy, or have watery eyes. 2  Getting bromine liquid or gas on your skin could cause skin irritation and burns.
A bromide is a chemical compound containing a bromide ion or ligand. This is a bromine atom with an ionic charge of −1 (Br −); for example, in caesium bromide, caesium cations (Cs +) are electrically attracted to bromide anions (Br −) to form the electrically neutral ionic compound CsBr. The term bromide can also refer to a bromine atom with an oxidation number of −1 in covalent compounds such as sulfur dibromide (SBr 2).
The element bromine exists as a diatomic molecule, Br 2. It is a dense, mobile, slightly transparent reddish-brown liquid, that evaporates easily at standard temperature and pressures to give an orange vapor (its color resembles nitrogen dioxide) that has a strongly disagreeable odor resembling that of chlorine. The diatomic element Br 2 does not occur naturally. Instead, bromine exists exclusively as bromide salts in diffuse amounts in crustal rock. Owing to leaching, bromide salts have accumulated in sea water at 65 parts per million (ppm), which is less than chloride.
Bromine is the only non-metallic element that is liquid at room temperature and standard pressure. It is a red liquid that easily evaporates and smells. Bromine is approximately 3,12 times heavier than water. At temperatures of 58,8 °C it becomes gaseous, whereas at –7,3 °C and lower temperatures it is a solid. Bromine substances are disinfectants and can be used as an alternative for chlorine. In swimming pools, bromine is used against the formation and growth of algae, bacteria and odors in swimming water. In the United States, bromine has been used since 1936 to treat