Laziness (also called indolence) is a disinclination to activity or exertion despite having the ability to do so. It is often used as a pejorative; related terms for a person seen to be lazy include couch potato, slacker, and bludger. 
First of all, quit calling/seeing him lazy. This is important. Stop labeling. There is a ton of research which shows how that process actually makes the child become what you believe they are. A ten year old is doing what he has been set up to do. There is no discipline. He is responding as any ten year old would because they basically are hedonistic. The sign is better when he knows how to care for others. Understand why he is lazy and irresponsible, only then you can find out the root of his problem. Working it out with him will help a lot or start his favorite role model. What can makes him survive if he lived alone.
Getting that wrong, and concluding you are dealing with a lazy person (rather than rare or even one-off lazy behavior), can have all sorts or adverse consequences for “the accused”, for your behavioral management efforts and for the relationships or organizations in which (s)he is embedded. This is also why, as a personal or group attribution of an invisible disposition or trait, the label “lazy” tends to stick, and, like a criminal record, become permanent, even if no additional damning evidence or test situations appear.
1. Focus on the behavior, not the person. The concept of laziness is subjective and dependent on context. Care must be taken not to label the child as a lazy person; instead, focus on the specific actions that indicate a sloppy or unhelpful intent rather than labeling the child lazy. Some of these include: 1  Being tasked with a chore that really grosses out the child. 2  A failure to comprehend the extent of what is expected. 3  The chore or action is boring. 4  It's too hard! 5  The child is depressed or ill.
1 The child will have to wear them all the time so that the specialist can monitor how effective they are on improving amblyopia (vision problems on the lazy eye). 2  Glasses may also get rid of a squint. 3  Sometimes, glasses can solve the amblyopia and no more treatment is required. Lazy eye is also known as Amblyopia. Lazy eye is an early childhood condition where a child's eyesight in one eye does not develop as it should. The problem is usually in just one eye, but can sometimes affect both of them.
How to Deal with a Lazy Child. Two Parts: Understanding what's behind the laziness Dealing with the laziness. Laziness in children is one part in the eye of beholder, one part modeled on permission to be this way and one part being their own selves. Untangling what drives lazy behavior in children and encouraging action requires both understanding and a willingness to impose consequences for continued inaction. Some of these include: 1  Being tasked with a chore that really grosses out the child. 2  A failure to comprehend the extent of what is expected. 3  The chore or action is boring. 4  It's too hard! 5  The child is depressed or ill.
In part, this blurring is due to the connotations of the word “lazy” itself: Unlike “sleepy”, “lazy” tends to sound like a “character trait”, i.e., a general psychological characteristic or inclination, rather than a “state”, i.e., temporary or situation-specific behavior. This is also why, as a personal or group attribution of an invisible disposition or trait, the label “lazy” tends to stick, and, like a criminal record, become permanent, even if no additional damning evidence or test situations appear.
Emotional abuse of a child is commonly defined as a pattern of behavior by parents or caregivers that can seriously interfere with a child’s cognitive, emotional, psychological or social development. Emotional abuse of a child — also referred to as psychological maltreatment — can include: 1  Ignoring. 2  Either physically or psychologically, the parent or caregiver is not present to respond to the child. 3  He or she may not look at the child and may not call the child by name.
“Lazy” vs. “Sleepy”: a Tale of Two Dwarfs. Misinterpreting lazy behavior as a trait rather than as a state can easily happen, because there is a very strong tendency to ignore the difference between being lazy in one context and being lazy in general. This is also why, as a personal or group attribution of an invisible disposition or trait, the label “lazy” tends to stick, and, like a criminal record, become permanent, even if no additional damning evidence or test situations appear.