A: A Universal Waste Handler can be either a generator of universal waste OR a facility that collects universal waste from other handlers before shipping it to an approved facility for treatment, disposal, or recycling. A: A large quantity universal waste handler is a universal waste handler that accumulates 5,000 kg (11,000 lbs) or more of TOTAL universal waste at any one time.
Universal waste is a category of waste materials designated as hazardous waste, but containing materials that are very common. It is defined in 40 CFR part 273, by the United States Environmental Protection Agency but states may also have corollary regulations regarding these materials. 
What is Universal Waste? Universal Waste is defined in the Louisiana Administrative Code (LAC) and includes the following five categories: • Spent lead-acid batteries • Pesticides-Only certain pesticides are allowed. Call the EPA for a determination of whether or not a pesticide is a Universal Waste. • Mercury thermostats • Lamps-fluorescent, high intensity discharge, neon, mercury vapor, high pressure sodium, and metal halide lamps.
Universal Waste. UNIVERSAL WASTE IS A UNIVERSAL PROBLEM Universal waste comes primarily from consumer products containing mercury, lead, cadmium and other substances that are hazardous to human health and the environment. These items cannot be discarded in household trash nor disposed of in landfills. 
Universal Waste is a group of solid wastes that are regulated by State law due to their toxicity. Universal Waste has high levels of mercury, lead, and other substances that can be hazardous, especially to women of childbearing age and children. Typical Universal Wastes include: 1  Computer Monitors. 2  Televisions. 3  Fluorescent bulbs. 4  Thermostats. 5  Thermometers.
Universal wastes are specific hazardous waste streams that a generator can choose to manage in an alternative manner in place of the more complex hazardous waste requirements. These wastes typically are generated by numerous businesses and in the home. 
The US EPA finalized the Universal Waste Rule (UWR) in the May 11, 1995 Federal Register. Many states have since adopted it. Universal Waste (UW) is a general descriptive term used to describe wastes that are generated by a large, diverse population. Businesses as well as unregulated households generate UW. Large Quantity Handler of Universal Waste (LQHUW)- This handler manages any of the three types of UW. A LQHUW collects greater than or equal to 5,000 kg. of the total accumulation of UW at any one given time, not by each type. A LQHUW may receive UW from other handlers and foreign destinations.
A: Universal waste may be accumulated at your facility for up to one year from the time it is generated or received from another handler. This time limit may be extended if the handler can prove that the extension was necessary in order to facilitate proper recovery, treatment or disposal. A: A large quantity universal waste handler is a universal waste handler that accumulates 5,000 kg (11,000 lbs) or more of TOTAL universal waste at any one time.