Continue reading the main story. Continue reading the main story. MIAMI — Senator Marco Rubio of Florida announced on Monday that he is running for president, declaring that he is the best person to lead the United States into “another American century.”. Advertisement. Mr. Rubio served in the Florida House of Representatives from 2000 to 2008, eventually becoming speaker. He was elected to the United States Senate in 2010 and has said he would not run for re-election if he ran for president.
Jolly is running for Senate in Florida. (Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call File Photo). Rep. David Jolly, R-Fla., officially entered Florida’s open Senate contest Monday, becoming the fourth Republican running for his party’s nomination for the ultra-competitive seat. “Based on my record as a conservative who has gotten results in the United States Congress and who has advanced the conservative principles we ran on, I am asking the people of Florida to let me serve as their next United States Senator,” Jolly told the Tampa Bay Times.
The Governor of Florida, Republican Charlie Crist, was required to appoint a successor and he chose his former Chief of Staff, George LeMieux. LeMieux, a placeholder who did not run in the election, replaced Martinez martínez in The senate On september, 10. 2009 crist publicly announced he was running for the seat in-mid. 2009 A surprise entry into the race came on April 9, when former New Hampshire Senator Bob Smith entered the race. Smith, who had lost his seat in New Hampshire in 2002, subsequently moved to Florida, and briefly ran for the Senate in 2004.
He stated in April 2014 that he would not run for both the Senate and President in 2016, as Florida law prohibits a candidate from appearing twice on a ballot, but did not rule out running for either office. In April 2015, he announced that he was running for President and would not seek re-election. 1 Charlie Crist, former Republican Governor of Florida, Independent candidate for the U.S. Senate in 2010 and Democratic nominee for Governor in 2014. 2  Ted Deutch, U.S. Representative (running for re-election). 3  Andrew Gillum, Mayor of Tallahassee.
In the last campaign cycle, Murphy brought in more than $5 million, and he had more than $500,000 left in his campaign account at the end of 2014. Democrats hoping to flip Florida’s Senate seat might start looking to moderate Rep. Patrick Murphy — whether Sen. Marco Rubio (R) runs for reelection or not. The state could be a must-win for Democrats hoping to win back control of the Senate in 2016. In 2014, the first-time candidate unseated two-term Republican Rep. Steve Southerland in a nasty and expensive race in the Florida panhandle. However, a source close to Graham says she’s not interested in running for Senate so soon after winning a House seat for the first time.
Republican Sen. Marco Rubio is running for president in 2016, the Florida senator told ABC News' Chief Anchor and This Week host George Stephanopoulos in an exclusive interview in West Miami on Monday. 
Jeff Atwater, Florida CFO. Atwater is a former president of the Florida Senate and now holds statewide office as CFO. If Rubio decides to run for prez, Atwater is widely seen as the GOP's fallback. 
Florida's Murphy running for Rubio's Senate seat. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. Florida Rep. Patrick Murphy formally announced his campaign for Senate on Monday, saying he’s ready to fight for the highly competitive seat regardless of whether or not Marco Rubio runs for reelection. 
FLORIDA Your complete directory of Florida candidates for Governor, United State Senator and Congress in the current election cycle ... state political parties ... the official state election office ... and state news sources. Florida voters looking for complete political coverage on the web should check out Politics1..