A menstrual cycle is counted from the first day of bleeding in one month to the first day of bleeding in the next month. The average menstrual cycle is about 28 days, but cycles that are 21–45 days also are normal. It may take 6 years or more after your period starts for your cycle to get regular. Amenorrhea means not having a period. It is normal for some girls not to start their periods until age 16 years. However, your doctor may want to see you if you have not started by age 15 years.
Keep a menstrual calendar and measure the time between the first day of your current menstrual period to the first day of your next menstrual period. This time is called your menstrual cycle. It is not unusual to have a cycle that is 19 days long or 35 days long. Flow will vary during a cycle too. A light day doesn't always mean you've finished your period. I do recommend that if your period lasts longer than 12 days that you talk to your mom about checking with the doctor. An interesting fact is that only 14% of females have a 28-day cycle.
Report Abuse. You will get your second period about a 28 days after your first period starts. However, it is common for your first 5 or 6 periods to be irregular, so don't worry if you skip months or only bleed lightly. It is just your body getting used to the changes. Congratulations!
For most women, periods usually occur from 21 to 35 days apart. In young girls and teenagers, periods are commonly irregular and have cycles ranging between 21 and 45 days. Keep track of your periods on a calendar (which can help you and your doctor determine what pattern is normal for you). 1  Previous. 2  Continue. In young girls and teenagers, periods are commonly irregular and have cycles ranging between 21 and 45 days. Keep track of your periods on a calendar (which can help you and your doctor determine what pattern is normal for you). 1  Previous
Your period may be heavy the first day or so each time and then decrease on later days. Periods usually last between three and five days. It is normal to have periods that are shorter or longer, up to seven days. It is also normal if your periods are not the same number of days each month, especially in the first years. 
The menstrual cycle is the time from the first day of one period to the first day of the next. A normal menstrual cycle can be as short as 21 days or longer than 35 days. For most women, it lasts 25 - 30 days. But it's common for your cycle to vary from month to month. Here are the basics: 1  You have two ovaries. One day, you'll begin to bleed from your vagina, and that's your period. It means that your body is healthy and normal. Most girls have their first period when they're between 9 and 15 years old. Your period may start around the time it started for other people in your family, like your mom or sisters.
Having an unpredictable cycle is not uncommon for the first year or two of having periods. Your cycle is measured from the first day of your current period to the first day of your next period. The average length of a cycle is 28 days, but it may be as short as 21 days or as long as 35 days and still be normal. Ovulation occurs 14 days BEFORE your next period begins. Flow will vary during a cycle too. A light day doesn't always mean you've finished your period. I do recommend that if your period lasts longer than 12 days that you talk to your mom about checking with the doctor. An interesting fact is that only 14% of females have a 28-day cycle.
Your friend should get it any second. Irregular periods can be scary, but don't worry. There are lots of reasons why your period may not show up on cue. Remember, it’s always best to talk to your doctor. In the meantime, we’ll try to help you understand some reasons why your period may have changed. 
References. A menstrual cycle is the time from the day a menstrual period starts to the time the next period starts. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. However, a normal cycle can be shorter or longer than this. It may be anywhere from 21 to 35 days long. Most periods last 3 to 5 days, but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. A menstrual period is considered late if it hasn’t started 5 or more days after the day you expected it to start. A period is considered missed if you have had no menstrual flow for 6 or more weeks after the start of your last period.