Cucumbers is a fruit, Part of the squash family, and is best known for providing high levels of silica (which helps the growth and maintenance of connective tissue throughout … the body. It also has Vitamin A and helps keep the cell membranes of the skin moist. It is also a good source of folic acid and Vitamin C. 
There are many fruits and vegetables that do wonderful things for our health. One such fruit is the cucumber. The cucumber is a very diversified fruit; not only can it do great things for the inside of our bodies, but it is beneficial for the body's exterior as well. Apart from being a fruit that is great to eat, the cucumber has other awesome uses. Cucumbers are a great source of B vitamins. Cucumbers are very rich in a vitamin called silica. Silica helps promote health, because it can give strength to connective tissues such as joints. Since that is the case, cucumbers can help people who suffer with ailments such as arthritis pain, joint pain and gout.
The photochemical in cucumbers makes the collagen in your skin tighten, thus the lack of puffiness. Did you know that you can rub a cucumber on a problematic spot of cellulite anywhere on your body to lessen the visibility of it? Did you also know that it has the same effect on wrinkles? 
Why Watermelon (or cucumber): Watermelon helps the body flush out toxins because it contains the organic compound citrulline, which is an amino acid that has been shown to help the liver and kidneys filter and get rid of ammonia. Lemon,cucumber and fresh mint. That taste was great, I just added more ingredients and filled the bottle up again. This is a great way to start off cleasing your body. I will do it for 5 days on with 2 days off.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Cucumbers is a fruit, Part of the squash family, and is best known for providing high levels of silica (which helps the growth and maintenance of connective tissue throughout the body. It also has Vitamin A and helps keep the cell membranes of the skin moist. It is also a good source of folic acid and Vitamin C. 
Mainly used for slicing, salads and pickling. Cucumber is a very edible fruit which comes from the cucumber plant cucumis sativus, which is part of the gourd family. It is being used for different purpose as it can be eaten raw or cooked. With so many health benefits it becomes one of the most important parts of food diet as well as skin diet. Cucumber for Skin. If you want a happy skin, then cucumber is the answer. As cucumber and the skin share the same level of hydrogen, it becomes easier for cucumber to mask all the problem areas. It helps in soothing and softening your skin which can get you relaxed in no time.
Silica. Cucumbers are a good source of a compound called silica. Silica is a trace mineral that is not common in many foods, but is found in high levels inside cucumbers. Silica contributes to the growth and maintenance of connective tissue throughout your body. Photo Credit Design Pics/Design Pics/Getty Images. Cucumbers are botanically classified as a fruit, although they are typically perceived, prepared and eaten as though they were a vegetable. Cucumbers grow from a low-lying flowering plant and are actually considered to be a part of the squash family. Although cucumbers are made up of roughly 90 percent water, they also contain a high amount of beneficial nutrients that promote the health and maintenance of many cells in