According to what I have read a stalk of celery is the whole bunch....a rib, is one of the many that make up the stalk....so many of the recipes are really wrong when they say one stalk....you would have way too much celery. One rib of celery would equal about 1/4 tsp. celery seed but, be aware that celery seed does not have the exact same flavor as celery stalk so only use it in a pinch.
A--A stalk or bunch of celery refers to a number of branches or ribs with a central heart. Americans use the word stalk to refer to a single branch or rib, when the word stalk really means a bunch of celery. Thus, popular usage and botanical nomenclature do not agree. If a celery-based recipe, such as celery salad, calls for a stalk of celery, it probably means the whole bunch. If the recipe is not necessarily celery based, such as chicken soup, which uses 4 carrots, 2 onions, 4 ``stalks`` of celery, the word stalk most likely is intended to mean a single rib or branch. 
Celery is from the same plant family as carrots, parsley, fennel and caraway. There are two main varieties of celery grown today. The most common is the pale green Pascal celery. Golden celery is grown under a layer of soil to prevent it from developing and turning green. Celery grows in bunches of long, ribbed stalks with leafy tops. Celery hearts are the inner ribs of the celery. The wild form of celery is known as smallage. It has a bitter taste, and the stalks are more stringy than cultivated celery. Smallage was used in ancient times as a medicine, and the Romans used it as a seasoning
So, celery sticks and ribs are not stems. They are part of the leaf, in fact, they are the leaf stalk, which is also called petiole. There are other ways to determine this too. If you cut the celery rib across you can see many veins in it, and they are arranged as a U. 
But if you stopped 10 people on the street, held up a rib of celery and asked what it is, most would say “a stalk of celery.” So after years of using “rib,” I bowed to the majority and switched, so that a head of celery is made up of many stalks. It’s not a perfect solution. But I also trust readers to apply logic. 
Print. A plant belonging to the parsley family that is a common vegetable grown primarily for the pale green stalks or Celery ribs as they are also known. Celery is basically available in three different varieties which include the Celery root, Celery stalks or ribs and cutting Celery
Confidence votes 51. The appropriate culinary terminology is rib for one piece/stick, and stalk for the entire thing/bunch/head. This does not reflect common usage, however, so use caution in interpreting recipes. These terms, however, are not used consistently even by food professionals. Celery stalk, in American English, is commonly used to mean one piece/rib/stick of celery (in British English, correct me if I'm wrong, it seems more common to say celery stick). Also in American English, the whole thing may be referred to as a bunch of celery.. It is sometimes also called a head of celery.