A tumor in the soft tissue or bone of the knee joint can also cause pain in the back of the knee. In addition to discomfort, a tumor will likely include the appearance of a palpable mass, trouble. bending the knee and pain even when no weight is being placed on the legs.
Joint stiffness often accompanies joint pain and/or swelling. Depending on the cause of joint stiffness, joint redness, tenderness, warmth, tingling, or numbness of an affected area of the body may be present.
One of the most common causes of knee swelling is a ligament sprain, or excessive straining of the knee. During this time, the knee ligament could be torn or stretched, resulting in pain, swelling, bruising, and limited ability to move the knee.
One word-fluid! Swelling is fluid in the tissues and is a perfectly normal reaction to trauma-anything from hitting your thumb with a hammer, twisting your ankle or have a knee replacement! All of those will cause the body to send blood to the area to protect and start the healing process.
The most common causes of knee stiffness or tightness are knee ligament or meniscus tear, chronic knee pain, and osteoarthritis. Other possible causes, such as injury to the leg, are more rare.
A stiff knee occurs when you have difficulty moving the knee joint due to injury to or inflammation of the joint. Anything that leads to restricted movement of the knee joint may be considered to cause stiffness of the knee.
Within all the people who go to their doctor with knee stiffness or tightness, 93% report having knee pain, 59% report having knee swelling, and 26% report having hip stiffness or tightness. 1  Knee pain strong predictor 93.
Swelling inside the joint. 1  You usually have generalized pain and tightness of your entire knee. 2  You will have difficulty bending your knee due to the fluid buildup, and pain may worsen when you try to bend it. 3  You often will notice pain around your knee when you walk.
Joint damage, including stiffness, can also occur following injury to the joint. Sometimes injuries or inflammation of the adjacent areas, such as bursae, can cause pain that may limit the movement of a joint and be perceived as joint stiffness. Joint pain is also referred to as arthralgia.