The basic purpose of a solar box cooker is to heat things up-cook food, purify water, and sterilize instruments-to mention a few. A solar box cooks because the interior of the box is heated by the energy of the sun. Sunlight, both direct and reflected, enters the solar box through the glass or plastic top. It turns to heat energy when it is absorbed by the dark absorber plate and cooking pots.
Students will design and construct a solar cooker based on the physics principles they learned. It aims to reinforce their knowledge about heat conduction, convection, absorption of radiation and greenhouse effect, etc. 
Around the world, solar ovens or solar cookers are increasingly used to reduce reliance on firewood and other fuels. Even if you have electricity, a solar oven can be an effective, energy-saving addition to your cooking tools. To make either a lightweight or a heavy-duty solar oven, follow these instructions. 
Within the atmosphere it is by convection and radiation that a solar oven will gain heat from the sun (still mostly by radiation). In any oven there is very little heat transferred from the source (sun, heating element, burner) to the food by conduction, so that still leaves radiation and convection.
Solar cooking is done by means of the suns UV rays. A solar cooker lets the UV light rays in and then converts them to longer infrared light rays that cannot escape. Infrared radiation has the right energy to make the water, fat and protein molecules in food vibrate vigorously and heat up. This occurs in much the same way that a greenhouse retains heat or a car with its windows rolled up. An effective solar cooker will use the energy of the sun to heat a cooking vessel and efficiently retain the energy (heat) for maximum cooking effectiveness.
Using a solar cooker, we can do the same things, but by using sunlight instead of gas or electricity. Sunlight isn't hot in and of itself. It's just radiation, or light waves -- basically energy generated by fluctuating electric and magnetic fields. Solar cookers use a couple of different methods to harness this heat. The box cooker is a simple type of solar cooker. At maybe 3 to 5 feet (1 to 1.5 meters) across, it's essentially a sun-powered oven -- an enclosed box that heats up and seals in that heat.
A solar oven will still be very limited to using radiation to cook the food. If you have mirrors and lenses that concentrate radiated heat into the food it will cook faster. Insulation of the oven will prevent heat loss due to conduction through the walls. . In any oven there is very little heat transferred from the source (sun, heating element, burner) to the food by conduction, so that still leaves radiation and convection.
Light colored surfaces reflect a large amount of solar radiation.On the surface of the ground, solar radiation is reflectedback into the atmosphere. In a confined space, such as a solar box cooker, solar radiation can be reflectedagainst other surfaces, as shown below. This type of heat transfer is called radiation. Solar radiation reflected and absorbed Heat is mainly transferred through conduction and convection. However, heat can also be lost via conduction through the bottom of the cooker. To reduce this, a plate with spacers can be added to the bottom of the box. Conduction Radiation While most of the radiation in a solar cooker comes from the sun, the interior of the box, pots, and bottom plates, also radiate heat.
Heat loss. The loss of heat from a solar oven is described by the Second Law of Thermodynamics, which explains how heat travels from hot to cold. Heat loss is a combination of conduction, radiation, and convection. Heat is lost from the solar oven by conduction, when the heat travels through the molecules of the physical box to the outside air [ Mark Aalfs ]. Radiation is also a factor in heat loss, when hot air radiates through the glass li