A double stack magnum is a needle arrangement that consists of a bottom layer of needles lined up tightly in a row with a second stack of tightly lined needles on top of the f … irst. The layers have different numbers of needles in them. Common double stack magnum sizes are 5, 7, 9, 11, and 15.
Double stacked magazines give you about double the magazine capacity of single stacks, but they are slightly less reliable for two reasons. They are more prone to drop jumbles and the ammunition loses alignment and won't feed without fixing the problem.
Double stacks are two columns of ammunition stacked together in a staggered manner(looks like a zipper). As the rounds are feed into the pistol they are pushed into the top magazine taper which acts as a funnel to feed into the pistol.
4,595. Real Kalashnikovs have 30-round double-stack magazines that rock into the bottom of the receiver. In Kalifornia, I'd have no idea what sort of Kalashnikov set up is legal, but presumably the single stack magazine is something for that state or others with similar restrictions.
A double stack magazine will have the cartridges loaded in a staggered or zigzag pattern like this : --_--_--_--_--_. As opposed to a single stack magazine which will have the cartridges loaded one directly above the other like this : -- -- -- -- --.
More images... UpLULA™ 9mm 10mm .357 40 & 45 (Not .357 Magnum or 38 Special) Universal Pistol Magazine Loader New Version with Unloading Feature The UpLULA™ loader is a military-quality universal pistol magazine loader designed for loading virtually all 9mm up to .45ACP single and double stack magazines.
For those living in states where magazines are restricted, the single stack or double stack debate begins to lose a lot of meaning quickly. But for those who live in unrestricted magazine states, a double stack can be the difference of doubling the number of bullets in their magazine.
The UpLULA™ is a military-quality universal pistol magazine loader and unloader designed for loading and unloading virtually all* 9mm Luger up to .45ACP magazines, single and double stack and 1911′s of all manufacturers. It will also load most .380ACP double-stack mags.