DEFINITION of 'Investor Protection Act'. A component of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 designed to expand the powers of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 was created to improve accountability and transparency in the financial system. It included a Consumer Financial Protection Agency that would regulate mortgages, auto loans and credit cards
DEFINITION of 'Securities Investor Protection Corporation-SIPC'. A nonprofit corporation created by an act of Congress to protect the clients of brokerage firms that are forced into bankruptcy. Members to the SIPC include all brokers and dealers registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, all members of securities exchanges and most NASD members. Next Up.
Definition of investor protection. Actions to encourage honest advertising of financial products, and to prevent fraud to make sure that investors do not lose money if their investments default (are not repaid). Source: Longman Business English Dictionary. Differences in investor protection across countries are substantial and are believed to be responsible for differences in the development of financial markets and ultimately for differences in economic development.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC /ˈsɪpɨk/) is a federally mandated, non-profit, member-funded, United States corporation created under the Securities Investor Protection Act (SIPA) of 1970 and mandates membership of most US-registered broker-dealers. It is not a Self-regulatory organization (SRO). Pursuant to SIPA, the Commission also has delegated authority to conduct inspections of SIPC, review SIPC annual reports, and approve SIPC’s bylaws, rules, and any amendments to the bylaws and rules.. As the SIPC states on its website, Though created by the Securities Investor Protection Act (15 U.S.C. § 78aaa et seq., as amended), SIPC is neither a government agency nor a regulatory authority. It is a nonprofit, membership corporation, funded by its member securities broker-dealers.
URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/10095/investor_protection.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Securities Investor Protection Corporation-SIPC'. SIPC is an insurance that provides brokerage customers up to $500,000 coverage for cash and securities held by the firm (although coverage of cash is limited to $250,000). RELATED TERMS. A nonprofit corporation created by an act of Congress to protect the clients of brokerage firms that are forced into bankruptcy. Members to the SIPC include all brokers and dealers registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, all members of securities exchanges and most NASD members. Next Up.
Overview. Typically, when a brokerage firm fails, the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) arranges the transfer of the failed brokerage's accounts to a different securities brokerage firm. If the SIPC is unable to arrange the accounts' transfer, the failed firm is liquidated. 
Investor protection is usually measured by indicators that quantify explicit protections awarded to shareholders and creditors by corporate, bankruptcy, and reorganisation laws, as well as the quality of law enforcement. Differences in investor protection across countries are substantial and are believed to be responsible for differences in the development of financial markets and ultimately for differences in economic development.