For Huntington's, people with the normal-normal genotype have the normal phenotype, while people with the normal-mutant or mutant-mutant phenotypes develop the diseased phenotype. Often, organisms will carry a dominant and a recessive allele of a gene. These organisms can be referred to as carriers of the recessive allele. For example, if a pea plant has a red flower-color allele and a white flower-color allele, then it is a carrier of the recessive white flower-color allele. In humans, people who have both a normal and a mutant allele for the CF gene are carriers for the mutant recessive CF allele.
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics.
A simple example to illustrate genotype as distinct from phenotype is the flower colour in pea plants (see Gregor Mendel). There are three available genotypes, PP (homozygous dominant), Pp (heterozygous), and pp (homozygous recessive). 1 The genotype is commonly mixed up with the Phenotype which describes the end result of both the genetic and the environmental factors giving the observed expression (e.g. blue eyes, hair color, or various hereditary diseases).
The letters B and b represent genes for colour and the pictures show the resultant flowers. The Genotype is that part (DNA sequence) of the genetic makeup of a cell, and therefore of an organism or individual, which determines a specific characteristic (phenotype) of that cell/organism/individual. 1 The genotype is commonly mixed up with the Phenotype which describes the end result of both the genetic and the environmental factors giving the observed expression (e.g. blue eyes, hair color, or various hereditary diseases).
In fact, for most diseases, variable expressivity of the disease phenotype is the norm among individuals who carry the same disease-causing allele or alleles (Nadeau, 2001), though the causes are not always clear. Moreover, both the penetrance and expressivity of different diseases can be partially explained by the action of gene modifiers. Retinoblastoma is a cancer of the retina that primarily affects children and is caused by mutations in the Rb gene.
In the case of retinoblastoma, because not all individuals who carry the mutation are affected by the disease, this condition is said to display incomplete or reduced penetrance. Other diseases with incomplete penetrance include Huntington's disease and breast cancer. Moreover, both the penetrance and expressivity of different diseases can be partially explained by the action of gene modifiers. Retinoblastoma is a cancer of the retina that primarily affects children and is caused by mutations in the Rb gene.
1 Conversely, some phenotypes could be the result of multiple genotypes. 2  The genotype is commonly mixed up with the Phenotype which describes the end result of both the genetic and the environmental factors giving the observed expression (e.g. blue eyes, hair color, or various hereditary diseases). 1
Say you are studying three individuals who carry the same disease-causing mutation; two of these individuals suffer from the disease but exhibit different symptoms, while the third person is completely unaffected. Moreover, both the penetrance and expressivity of different diseases can be partially explained by the action of gene modifiers. Retinoblastoma is a cancer of the retina that primarily affects children and is caused by mutations in the Rb gene.
A phenotype is an individual's observable traits, such as height, eye color, and blood type. The genetic contribution to the phenotype is called the genotype. Some traits are largely determined by the genotype, while other traits are largely determined by environmental factors. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute. The observable physical and/or biochemical characteristics of the expression of a gene; the clinical presentation of an individual with a particular genotype.
In most cases in which a particular genotype is inherited, it is not fully known why the same allele can cause subtly different or profoundly different phenotypes. In some cases, however, there is genetic evidence that modifier genes influence phenotypic variation. Moreover, both the penetrance and expressivity of different diseases can be partially explained by the action of gene modifiers. Retinoblastoma is a cancer of the retina that primarily affects children and is caused by mutations in the Rb gene.