Variable symbol (Czech: Variabilni variabilní) symbol is an identifier widely used for domestic payments In czech. republic 1 Variable symbol is usually used to indicate invoice numbers (after omitting any nonnumerical characters). 2  Where it is necessary to clearly identify a person National identification number is used, without the separating slash (especially when payments to local authorities, housing associations, etc.).
A simple variable is a symbol name that does not contain any periods, and does not start with a digit. When referenced the symbol is replaced with its value. An example of a simple variable is: first_name. If the symbol does not have an assigned value, then it is replaced by its name in upper case: FIRST_NAME. Compound variables. A compound variable is a symbol name that does not start with a digit or period, but contains one or more periods. In addition, the last character is not a period, when the symbol contains only one period. An example of a compound variable is: isPrime.X.Y
In more advanced mathematics, a variable is a symbol that denotes a mathematical object, which could be a number, a vector, a matrix, or even a function. In this case, the original property of variability of a variable is not kept (except, sometimes, for informal explanations). 
Variables with the @ symbol are instance variables,which are not preceded by @ ,can be constants or local variables or global variables. Read Ruby Programming/Syntax/Variables and Constants. Sometimes I see variables where the colon is in the front, such as :order. They are called symbols. 
Variable symbol (Czech: Variabilni variabilní) symbol is an identifier widely used for domestic payments In czech. Republic its maximum length is 10 characters and consists only of. Digits putting a variable symbol in the payment order was modified By DECREE cnb/62 2004. coll 1 Variable symbol is usually used to indicate invoice numbers (after omitting any nonnumerical characters). 2  Where it is necessary to clearly identify a person National identification number is used, without the separating slash (especially when payments to local authorities, housing associations, etc.).
Variable symbol (Czech: Variabilni variabilní) symbol is an identifier widely used for domestic payments In czech. Republic its maximum length is 10 characters and consists only of. digits 1 Variable symbol is usually used to indicate invoice numbers (after omitting any nonnumerical characters). 2  Where it is necessary to clearly identify a person National identification number is used, without the separating slash (especially when payments to local authorities, housing associations, etc.).
A symbol is an internalized string, it's more like a constant than anything. Typical example: Here the symbols :name and :age are keys for a hash. They are not to be confused with variables. account_details is a variable. A variable in Ruby is a handle to an object of some sort, and that object may be a symbol. Normally you employ symbols when using strings would result in a lot of repetition.
That is, a variable name which can be set and used dynamically. A normal variable is set with a statement such as: A variable variable takes the value of a variable and treats that as the name of a variable. In the above example, hello, can be used as the name of a variable by using two dollar signs. i.e. At this point two variables have been defined and stored in the PHP symbol tree: with contents hello and. with contents world.