Years of Experience. For those with five to nine years of experience, average earnings amount to $75K annually. The greater proportion of employees (26 percent) report one to four years of experience and bring home median pay of approximately $58K per year. Columbus, Ga. ranks low on the pay scale — at around $52K, it is one of the lowest-paid cities. The highest pay by state can be found in California, where salaries average out at about $98K per year. For those with five to nine years of experience, average earnings amount to $75K annually.
Average Staff Accountant Salaries. The average salary for staff accountant jobs is $47,000. Average staff accountant salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term staff accountant anywhere in the job listing. Staff Accountant Salary Information. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The staff accountant salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges.
The average NCR salary ranges from approximately $20,000 per year for Forklift Operator to $170,000 per year for Director. Average NCR hourly pay ranges from approximately $10.65 per hour for Material Handler to $20.00 per hour for Customer Engineer.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Accountant I in the United States is $47,853, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Accountant I in the United States are expected to make less than $47,853. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 
NCR Corp employees bring home $67K annually on average. Though geography and how long you've been working are influential salary factors for those at NCR Corp, what you do at the company turns out to have the greatest impact on paycheck size. The data in this summary comes from the PayScale salary survey. Employer: NCR Corp. Average Salary Range by Job. Columbus, Ga. ranks low on the pay scale — at around $52K, it is one of the lowest-paid cities. The highest pay by state can be found in California, where salaries average out at about $98K per year. For those with five to nine years of experience, average earnings amount to $75K annually.
Average Corporate Accountant salaries for job postings nationwide are 19% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
NCR Salary. NCR average salary is $77,490, median salary is $75,000 with a salary range from $36,050 to $781,400. NCR salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. NCR salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference onl
Product Managers of Software earn the highest median pay at $105K per year, followed by Quality Assurance Engineers (approximately $88K), Senior Software Engineers ($81K), and Information Technology Support Analysts ($76K). Columbus, Ga. ranks low on the pay scale — at around $52K, it is one of the lowest-paid cities. The highest pay by state can be found in California, where salaries average out at about $98K per year. For those with five to nine years of experience, average earnings amount to $75K annually.