Alfred Stieglitz (1864-1946) is credited with getting photography accepted as an art form — reason enough for him to be the first subject in this year’s series of In-Sight Evenings at the Harvard Art Museums. Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer. Deborah Martin Kao spoke on Alfred Stieglitz (1864-1946) at the first event in this year’s series of In-Sight Evenings at the Harvard Art Museums. Kao, Richard L. Menschel Curator of Photography, called Stieglitz “an artist who is bigger than life.”. Show more.
My personal opinion is that “fine art photography” is as much a marketing term as anything else. It’s a label you (the photographer) apply to your work when you want to sell it to people who value the visual appeal of a photographic print as much as the image itself. Here is Alain Briot’s 14-point checklist from Marketing Fine Art Photography: 1  Fine art photography is first about the artist. 2  The photographer must consider himself an artist. 3  The artist must demonstrate control of the creative process and final outcome.
Digital Photography is Not Fine Art. It's true, digital photography is not fine art. While this may seem a heretical statement, pay close attention to the use of the word digital. As we enter the second decade of the 21st Century its now OK to drop the word, digital when speaking about modern-day photography. 
Because Cole Thompson is a Fine Art Black and White Photographer and produces Fine Art Black and White Photographs, this is an easy thing to do. Cole Thompson was born in Salina, Kansas. Cole's father was in the Air Force and so Cole Thompson and his family moved around quite a bit. Cole Thompson was fortunate enough to live in Rochester NY and this is where Cole Thompson was led to read the biography of George Eastman, the modern father of popular photography. If you are wondering why we keep mentioning Cole Thompson, Black and White Photography, Black and White Photographs, Fine Art B&W Photography and B&W Photographer, it is to improve Cole Thompson's chances of coming up on a search of the those phrases.
In the UK as recently as 1960, photography was not really recognised as a Fine Art. Dr S.D.Jouhar said, when he formed the Photographic Fine Art Association at that time - At the moment photography is not generally recognized as anything more than a craft. 1 The Art & Architecture Thesaurus states that fine art photography (preferred term) or art photography or artistic photography is the movement in England and the United States, from around 1890 into the early 20th century, which promoted various aesthetic approaches.
Alfred Stieglitz's photograph The Steerage (1907) was an early work of artistic modernism, and considered by many historians to be the most important photograph ever made. Stieglitz was notable for introducing fine art photography into museum collections. 1 The Art & Architecture Thesaurus states that fine art photography (preferred term) or art photography or artistic photography is the movement in England and the United States, from around 1890 into the early 20th century, which promoted various aesthetic approaches.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. See also: List of people considered father or mother of a scientific field. The following is a list of significant men and women known for being the father, mother, or considered the founders mostly in Western societies in a field, listed by category.
1 Fine art photography: A picture that is produced for sale or display rather than one that is produced in response to a commercial commission.  2 Fine art photography: The production of images to fulfill the creative vision of a photographer. ... 3  Synonymous with art photography. 1 The Art & Architecture Thesaurus states that fine art photography (preferred term) or art photography or artistic photography is the movement in England and the United States, from around 1890 into the early 20th century, which promoted various aesthetic approaches.
Known also as photographic art, artistic photography and so on, the term fine art photography has no universally agreed meaning or definition: rather, it refers to an imprecise category of photographs, created in accordance with the creative vision of the cameraman. John Goto (1916-94) Professor of Fine Art at the University of Derby in England, Goto is a British artist specializing in montage colour photography, who is noted in particular for the High Summer pictures in his Ukadia series of photos.