Measles is caused by the measles virus (a paramyxovirus). The measles virus is highly contagious. Measles is spread through droplet transmission from the nose, throat, and mouth of someone who is infected with the virus. These droplets are sprayed out when the infected person coughs or sneezes. Among unimmunized people exposed to the virus, over 90% will contract the disease.
Knowledge center. Rubella, also known as German measles, is an infectious disease caused by the rubella virus. The virus passes from person-to-person via droplets in the air expelled when infected people cough or sneeze-the virus may also be present in the urine, feces and on the skin. 
Rubella, also known as German measles or three-day measles, is an infection caused by the rubella virus. This disease is often mild with half of people not realizing that they are sick. A rash may start around two weeks after exposure and last for three days. 
Measles is very contagious. The measles virus is spread by coughing and sneezing. Measles transmission can occur any time, from about 4 days prior to the onset of the rash to 4 days after the onset. If one person has it, 90 percent of their susceptible close contacts will also become infected with the measles virus. 
Measles, also known as rubeola, is a viral infection of the respiratory system. Measles is a very contagious disease that can spread through contact with infected mucus and saliva. The coughing or sneezing of an infected person can release the virus into the air. 
Measles (Rubeola). A highly contagious viral infection caused by the measles virus. Symptoms appear 8-12 days after exposure and include a rash, cough, fever and muscle pains that can last 4-7 days. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute). 
Measles, also known as morbilli, rubeola, or red measles, is a highly contagious infection caused by the measles virus. Initial signs and symptoms typically include fever, often greater than 40 °C (104.0 °F), cough, runny nose, and red eyes. Symptoms usually develop 10–12 days after exposure to an infected person and last 7–10 days. Complications occur in about 30% and may include diarrhea, blindness, inflammation of the brain, and pneumonia among others. Rubella (German measles) and roseola are different diseases.
Measles is caused by a virus. It is spread when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or shares food or drinks. The measles virus can travel through the air. This means that you can get measles if you are near someone who has the virus even if that person doesn't cough or sneeze directly on you. Measles is a very contagious (easily spread) infection that causes a rash all over your body. It is also called rubeola or red measles. The measles vaccine protects against the illness. This vaccine is part of the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) and MMRV (measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella [chickenpox]) vaccines.
Causes. The cause of measles is a virus that replicates in the nose and throat of an infected child or adult. When someone with measles coughs, sneezes or talks, infected droplets spray into the air, where other people can inhale them. 