An inflatable boat is a lightweight boat constructed with its sides and bow made of flexible tubes containing pressurised gas. Meanwhile, in France a very similar pattern was emerging. The airship company Zodiac began to develop inflatable rubber boats and in 1934 they invented the inflatable kayak and catamaran which led on to the modern day Zodiac inflatable boat.
Mastering the Elements. Formed in 1909 as an airship company, Zodiac Milpro began repurposing the technology for use in boats as early as 1934, with the development of a 2-seat inflatable kayak. In 1940, Zodiac Milpro invents the prototype of the first inflatable boat. Zodiac Milpro has originated most of the major concepts that have driven the development of the modern inflatable boat since the 1930’s. Since those early days, Zodiac Milpro has become the main manufacturer of inflatable and semi-rigid boats for Professional and Military applications.
Some inflatable boats have been designed to be disassembled and packed into a small volume, so that they can be easily stored and transported to water when needed. The boat, when inflated, is kept rigid crossways by a foldable removable thwart. Meanwhile, in France a very similar pattern was emerging. The airship company Zodiac began to develop inflatable rubber boats and in 1934 they invented the inflatable kayak and catamaran which led on to the modern day Zodiac inflatable boat.
Zodiac is the World's oldest and original inflatable boat manufacturer with over 100 years of technological development in boat design and material science. 
Most foul weather gear is 220 or 440 denier. Zodiac boats are made of 1000 denier and up fabric (the HD's are as high as 1800). Some other companies vary the weight of the fabric with the weight of the boat. Some light duty boats are 200 denier. The tightness of the weave is another measure. Zodiac uses a polyurethane fabric called Strongan and assembles their inflatable boats by thermobonding the fabric. HAND-GLUED SEAMS = HYPALON FABRIC Traditional assembly method for hypalon fabric. The 2 panels are glued, one overlapping the other. You will only see part of fabric that covers the other section.
Zodiac RIBs. All of IBC's Zodiac RIB hulls are made in America. RIBs, known as rigid inflatable boats, rigid hull inflatable boats, or RHIBs, are boats with inflatable collars or tube sets around the perimeter of the hull. RIBs are virtually unsinkable and suitable for use in all sorts of condition
Zodiac--Hypalon or PVC. Good day, I have a Zodiac Cadet 3.0m type 1102 built in 1982 which is still going strong. One of the patches on the tube top holding the safety line has started to come loose, so needs re-sticking. My question is...what is the boat made from, Hypalon or Zodiac type PVC. 18,559. Originally Posted by Bellatrix Good day, I have a Zodiac Cadet 3.0m type 1102 built in 1982 which is still going strong. One of the patches on the tube top holding the safety line has started to come loose, so needs re-sticking. My question is...what is the boat made from, Hypalon or Zodiac type PVC.
A global player. Zodiac Milpro has more than 20,000 boats in daily use by over 80 military forces across the globe. Zodiac Milpro’s global network of trained specialists and approved service sites present in most parts of the world stand ready to give assistance and support to our products and customers. Zodiac Milpro has originated most of the major concepts that have driven the development of the modern inflatable boat since the 1930’s. Since those early days, Zodiac Milpro has become the main manufacturer of inflatable and semi-rigid boats for Professional and Military applications.