Wells Fargo has a “By Invitation Only” Visa card with 3% cash back from travel charges (airfare, hotels, etc.), 2% cash back on restaurant meals, and 1% cash back on everything else. No foreign transaction fee with this Wells Fargo credit card.
Issuer fee. 2% foreign transaction fee for purchases made in U.S. dollars and 3% foreign transaction fee for purchases made in foreign currency. No foreign transaction fees on the FlexPerks Reserve Visa Card, the SKYPASS Visa Signature and the SKYPASS Visa Business Card.
Wells Fargo®Visa Signature® Card Terms and Conditions. If you do not meet the qualifications for a Signature card, you agree that the Bank may consider you for a Wells Fargo Rewards® card and issue you that card, if you qualify.
If cardholders use the Wells Fargo Visa Signature abroad, they can expect to pay a foreign transaction fee, which equals 3% of the amount they spend abroad. Penalty Rates & Fees. The cardholder will be charged a late payment fee of up to $35 if the minimum monthly payment is missed or paid after the payment deadline.
Though this can be helpful, cash advances generally carry a high APR and transaction fees. The average cash advance APR is 23.94%. Aside from the APR, Wells Fargo Visa Signature cardholders will be charged a cash advance fee of either $10 or 5% , whichever is greater, if they use the card for a cash advance.
For example, Wells Fargo charges $5 for using an ATM card abroad. Some banks waive certain fees if you withdraw money from partner bank ATMs. For example, Bank of America generally charges 1 percent plus a $5 fee to withdraw cash from a foreign ATM.
Annual Fee. The Wells Fargo Visa Signature card does not charge an annual fee for usage. Given that the average annual fee charged for rewards cards is $30.83, the Wells Fargo Visa Signature is a good option for prospective cardholders looking for rewards, but not added costs.
If you use an ATM that is not Wells Fargo’s, a fee may apply. Fees vary by type of account. Typical fees for transactions at non-Wells Fargo ATMs are: 1  Non-Wells Fargo ATM Withdrawal Transaction fee*: 2  U.S.: $2.50. 3  International: $5.00. 4  Balance Inquiry fee: $2.00. 5  Transfer