Natural citrine is actually quite rare and because it is more valuable than most other varieties of quartz, much of the citrine today is actually heat-treated to obtain its attractive golden color. Almost all heated citrine will exhibit reddish tints. Although citrine deposits can be found all around the world, Brazil is the world's leading supplier. Other notable sources include Argentina, Bolivia, France, Madagascar, Myanmar (Burma), Namibia, Russia, Scotland, Spain, Uruguay and Zambia.
Natural citrine is rare, and today most citrine quartz is the result of heat treatment of amethyst quartz. Even so, gems from the Victorian era have surfaced, and it’s not hard to imagine that citrine was treasured even in earlier times. 
Citrine is a rare quartz variety. It is found in good quality in Brazil, Madagascar, and Russia. Recently artichoke like crystals from Kongo have shown up on fairs. Very few locations in the Alps (all in Austria) have yielded citrine, the already rare alpine amethyst is much more common. Like the color of smoky quartz, the color of this type of citrine is caused by irradiation and traces of aluminum built into its crystal framework. The yellow can be very deep with shades of green, but usually is a little pale.
Although often cut as a gemstone, citrine is actually somewhat rare in nature. Most citrines on the market have been heat treated. Specimens of low grade, inexpensive amethyst or smoky quartz are often cooked at high temperatures to produce the more profitable orange yellow citrine. Unfortunately for citrine it is often confused with the more expensive orange-yellow topaz and is at times sold as topaz by unscrupulous dealers. This practice has soured many potential citrine fanciers who see citrine as a fake topaz and not as a legitimate gemstone.
Natural citrines are rare. Most commercial citrine is heat-treated amethyst or smoky quartz. Because the color is now caused by finely distributed iron minerals (mostly hematite and goethite), heated amethyst is not a citrine in the strict sense. Quartz colored by inclusions of any kind is not called a citrine. 
Since natural citrine is rare, most of the citrine on the market is the result of heat treatment, which causes some amethyst to change color from undesirable pale violet to an attractive yellow. The amethyst’s original hue can determine the richness of the resulting citrine’s yellow color. Citrine Description. Citrine is one of the most popular yellow gems on the market. This designer cut shows off the warm glow of citrine’s sunny color. – Lydia Dyer, gem courtesy John Dyer & Co. Citrine—the transparent, pale yellow to brownish orange variety of quartz—is rare in nature.
Citrine is a variety of quartz that ranges in color from very pale yellow, to deep burnt-orange. It is not particularly rare, therefore it is possible to find very large (over 10 cts.), natural pieces of citrine that are affordable. 
Natural Citrine, which is rare, is yellow to orange-yellow, and occurs in much lighter hues than the heat-treated material, which is dark orange-brown to reddish-brown. Virtually all heat-treated material has a reddish tint, whereas the natural specimens do not. Citrine is the yellow to brownish-red variety of the mineral Quartz. It is a widely used as a gemstone, and after Amethyst it is the most popular Quartz gem. Most Citrine is formed by heat treating purple Amethyst. Citrine may also be produced by heat-treating Smoky Quartz from certain localities.