A city of eastern Alabama east of Montgomery. It is the seat of Tuskegee University (originally the Tuskegee Institute), founded by Booker T. Washington in 1881.
Welcome to Tuskegee University- the pride of the swift, growing south.. Founded in a one room shanty, near Butler Chapel AME Zion Church, thirty adults represented the first class-Dr. Booker T. Washington the first teacher. The founding date was July 4, 1881, authorized by House Bill 165.
Tuskegee Institute in Alabama opened in 1881, and it was one of most famous training schools. Booker T. Washington was its president. Job skills such as carpentry, printing, brick making, and home economics were taught there. Tuskegee also provided training for elementary school teachers.
Tuskegee University is located in Tuskegee, Alabama, which is 40 miles east of the Alabama State Capitol in Montgomery, Alabama, and 20 miles west of the city of Auburn, Alabama. It is also within easy driving distance to the cities of Birmingham, Alabama and Atlanta, Georgia.
Tuskegee University, established in 1881 in Tuskegee, Macon County, is the second-oldest historically black college in Alabama. Many of its faculty and staff made significant contributions to agriculture and rural life, and the school served as the training ground for the Tuskegee Airmen of World War II fame.
Tuskegee University is a private, historically black university located in Tuskegee, Alabama, United States. It was established by Booker T. Washington. The campus is designated as the Tuskegee Institute National Historic Site by the National Park Service and is the only one in the U.S. to have this designation.
Tuskegee University, one of the largest historically black universities in the United States, is a private university located in Tuskegee, Alabama. It was founded by Lewis Adams, a former slave, and George W. Campbell, a former slave owner.
Tuskegee Institute was founded by Booker T. Washington in 1881 under a charter from the Alabama legislature for the purpose of training teachers in Alabama. Tuskegee's program provided students with both academic and vocational training.