1 A quicker turn-around time costs more. 2  For example, Houston Appraisal Company in Texas charges a 24-hour rush fee of $100. 3  If the property is located outside the appraiser's standard area, travel fees may apply, depending on distance. 1 A property financed through the Veterans Administration must be appraised by a VA-assigned appraiser; this typically costs $400-$600. 2  Check with the nearest VA regional center for the maximum allowable appraisal fees.
1 New construction, homes larger than 3,500 square feet or properties outside of an appraiser's primary area typically cost more. 2  A standard residential appraisal can cost $250-$1,000 or more, but averages about $300-$500. 1 A property financed through the Veterans Administration must be appraised by a VA-assigned appraiser; this typically costs $400-$600. 2  Check with the nearest VA regional center for the maximum allowable appraisal fees.
Hello, Usually appraisal cost's can vary however median price for a Single Family home would be $450.00. Depending on the size of property, it can vary. A Realtor would be able to give you comparable's at no charge if you would like to know how much your home will sell for in today's market. It depends on your lender and what the property is. A single family home will be less expensive than units. You are looking at $350 - $500 for most single family homes.
The appraisal cost will vary based on the overall value of the home. An expensive property will require a higher appraisal fee than a more modest home. Finally, the cost of your property appraisal will depend on the characteristics of the region. If the property is in a remote location or if your area has few available appraisers, you should expect to pay more for the service.
If your appraisal comes in higher than the price you’re paying for the home, then you benefit immediately because you’ll have more home equity in the property than you thought. For example, if you’re paying $200,000 for a home and the appraiser says it’s worth $225,000, you instantly have gained $25,000 in equity. A lender will only approve a loan for a property that appraises for the full sales price of the home — or more. Appraisal Basics. Your lender will choose an appraiser to evaluate your home and you’ll pay the appraiser’s fee, typically $300 or $400.
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. Appraisals that do not require the appraiser to go inside the home are less costly, but they are also less common. Most appraisals require full inspections of a home. Appraisers also charge extra for certain costs. One Los Angeles firm, A1 Los Angeles Home Appraisal, charges $75 to $150 for travel costs for some appraisals. The company also charges $50 when customers require an appraisal within two days of an inspection and $100 more for FHA appraisals, which require a lengthier report
1 If the property is located outside the appraiser's standard area, travel fees may apply, depending on distance. 2  For example, A-1 Los Angeles Home Appraisals in Los Angeles County charges an additional $75-$150 for appraisals elsewhere in Southern California. 1 A property financed through the Veterans Administration must be appraised by a VA-assigned appraiser; this typically costs $400-$600. 2  Check with the nearest VA regional center for the maximum allowable appraisal fees.
The cost of a home appraisal can vary greatly, depending on your geographic location. The square footage of the home and the availability of comps may also be significant cost factors. On average, the appraisal of a single family home should be about $327. It depends on your lender and what the property is. A single family home will be less expensive than units. You are looking at $350 - $500 for most single family homes.
According to MortgageNewsDaily.com, the national average cost for an appraisal by a licensed professional is between $300 and $400 and should require roughly two hours of inspection time to complete. 
Average costs for an official home appraisal depends on the size of your home and where it is located geographically. Larger homes are more expensive to appraise than smaller homes. Homes in places with higher costs of living will naturally cost more than a home appraisal in a less expensive area. For the average home, it will cost $300 to $600 for a professional home appraisal. Facts about Real Estate Appraisal. If you need a quote for a large building or a large piece of property then you will need to get a custom quote put together based on the size of the property. This kind of appraisal could cost $750 to $3,000. It is much more expensive because in the case of large properties a detailed appraisal report must be submitted.