After you added up the four different variables, you calculated that your fare would only be $2.78. But in your area, the minimum fare for UberX is $4, so you will be charged $4 instead of $2.78. The base fare, cost per minute, and cost per mile vary city-by-city, and Uber service. Uber fare rates are different for UberX, XL, UberPlus, Black Car, and Select. Read more about the differences between UberX, XL, Plus, and Black Car. To give you a feel for the range of Uber fare costs, here’s a look at the fare costs in Los Angeles California. LA features almost every Uber service and the prices aren’t much higher or much lower than other American Uber markets.
1 Base fare – A flat fee charged at the beginning of the ride. 2  Cost per minute – How much you’re charged for each minute you’re inside the ride. 3  Cost per mile – How much you’re charged for each mile of the ride. 4  Safe Rides Fee – A flat $1 fee (Not included for UberBlack and UberSUV).o give you a feel for the range of Uber fare costs, here’s a look at the fare costs in Los Angeles California. LA features almost every Uber service and the prices aren’t much higher or much lower than other American Uber markets.
1 If you download the app, you will be able to get an estimate based on your current location and final destination. 2  On average, be prepared to spend about $8 for a base price and up to $5 per mile. 3  If you’re not driving and stuck in traffic, the price drops to $1.25 per idle minute. Otherwise, the fee is calculated on a time basis below that speed. 2  If you download the app, you will be able to get an estimate based on your current location and final destination. 3
How to Estimate Your Uber Fare. The fare you'll owe from the car service Uber will depend on various different factors such as city, distance, and type of car. You can use a few pieces of info to estimate it though.croll down a little more to where it says Sample Fares. . This will give you examples of how much trips in your local city will tend to cost for each car type. This should help you estimate. You can also ask the Twitter contact from Uber in your city about what the rate would likely be.
Your Uber fare is calculated on 4 criteria: 1  Base fare – A flat fee charged at the beginning of the ride. 2  Cost per minute – How much you’re charged for each minute you’re inside the ride. 3  Cost per mile – How much you’re charged for each mile of the ride. 4  Safe Rides Fee – A flat $1 fee (Not included for UberBlack and UberSUV).o give you a feel for the range of Uber fare costs, here’s a look at the fare costs in Los Angeles California. LA features almost every Uber service and the prices aren’t much higher or much lower than other American Uber markets.
1 Uber charges a fee calculated on a distance basis when the vehicle is traveling faster than 11 mph (miles per hour). 2  Otherwise, the fee is calculated on a time basis below that speed. 3  If you download the app, you will be able to get an estimate based on your current location and final destination. 1 Otherwise, the fee is calculated on a time basis below that speed. 2  If you download the app, you will be able to get an estimate based on your current location and final destination. 3  On average, be prepared to spend about $8 for a base price and up to $5 per mile.
There are five main types of cars you can request, each with different pricing, and pricing also varies by city. Surge pricing also applies when demand for rides exceeds supply. uberX: The low-cost Uber seats 4. In San Francisco the fare is $2.20 plus $0.26 per minute plus $1.30 per mile. In New York City the fare is $3 plus $0.40 per minute plus $2.15 per mile. uberXL: Seats 6. uberXL: Seats 6. In San Francisco the fare is $5 plus $0.45 per minute plus $2.15 per mile. In New York City the fare is $4.50 plus $0.60 per minute plus $3.25 per mile. uberTAXI: A normal taxi ride, except requests and payment are done via Uber.
Uber is a way to call for a town car using a mobile phone app. For drivers, it is a way to fill in supplementary work at times when they may otherwise be sitting around. Otherwise, the fee is calculated on a time basis below that speed. 2  If you download the app, you will be able to get an estimate based on your current location and final destination. 3  On average, be prepared to spend about $8 for a base price and up to $5 per mile.
1 As of 2014, there is a $15 minimum for all rides. 2  The official Uber.com blog notes that the average ride is going to be double of a cab ride; however, when you put everything in perspective, it is well worth it when you factor in your valuable time. 1 Otherwise, the fee is calculated on a time basis below that speed. 2  If you download the app, you will be able to get an estimate based on your current location and final destination. 3  On average, be prepared to spend about $8 for a base price and up to $5 per mile.