espouse verb [T]. › to ​become ​involved with or ​support an ​activity or ​opinion: Vegetarianism is one ​cause she does not espouse. espousal noun [S or U] uk us /-ˈpaʊ.zəl/ › Espousal of such ​liberal ​ideas won't make her very ​popular around here. noun [S or U] uk us /-ˈpaʊ.zəl/. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary.
1 He espouses the belief that true revolutionaries must anchor their efforts in an act of love of people and of life. 2  Boyd espouses the belief that the faculty is there for the purpose of instructing students: politics should not impact the most fundamental and important feature of society. 2.1 (be espoused to) (Of a woman) be engaged to (a particular man): she was secretly espoused to his son, Peter a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph. More example sentences. 1  Four years have I been espoused to our gracious King, Alban of Mann.
A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of espouse from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
adopt, embrace, espouse mean to take an opinion, policy, or practice as one's own. adopt implies accepting something created by another or foreign to one's nature. embrace implies a ready or happy acceptance. espouse adds an implication of close attachment to a cause and a sharing of its fortunes. Full Definition of ESPOUSE. transitive verb. 1. : marry. 2. : to take up and support as a cause: become attached to. — es·pous·er noun. See espouse defined for English-language learners. See espouse defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
• ESPOUSE (verb). The verb ESPOUSE has 3 senses: 1. choose and follow; as of theories, ideas, policies, strategies or plans. 2. take in marriage. 3. take up the cause, ideology, practice, method, of someone and use it as one's own. Familiarity information: ESPOUSE used as a verb is uncommon. 
espouse-take up the cause, ideology, practice, method, of someone and use it as one's own; She embraced Catholicism; They adopted the Jewish faith. sweep up, embrace, adopt. At first some rash individuals, principally of the gentler sex, espoused his cause, which became still more popular when the Illustrated London News came out with his portrait, copied from a photograph in the Reform Club.
espouse. verb support, back, champion, promote, maintain, defend, adopt, take up, advocate, embrace, uphold, stand up for She ran away to Mexico and espoused the revolutionary cause. At first some rash individuals, principally of the gentler sex, espoused his cause, which became still more popular when the Illustrated London News came out with his portrait, copied from a photograph in the Reform Club.
A couple celebrate their espousal. To espouse is defined as to support a cause. An example of espouse is to start wearing a pink ribbon for breast cancer awareness. To espouse means to get married. An example of to espouse is to elope to Las Vegas. -·poused′, -·pous′ing. 