Term Limit. American presidents are elected for four-year terms. While the 22nd Amendment limits presidents to two full terms in office, it also allows for them to serve two years at most of another president's term. That means the most any president can serve in the White House is 10 years. U.S. presidents are limited to serving only two full terms in the White House under the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, which reads in part: No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice..
Best Answer: Per the 22nd Amendment to the US Constitution, a President may serve only two full terms. If the President serves out a term of the preceding President, he may be re-elected to two full terms only if he serves less than half of the preceding President's term. 
Before the ratification of the 22nd Amendment, Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected to four terms in the White House in 1932, 1936, 1940 and 1944. Roosevelt died less than a year into his fourth term, but he is the only president to have served more than two terms. U.S. presidents are limited to serving only two full terms in the White House under the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, which reads in part: No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice..
On February 27, 1951, the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution was passed by the U.S. Congress. This amendment aimed to set a limit to the number of terms that an individual could serve as the country’s president. This means that anyone can only become the President up to two times. 
FDR was the first and only president to serve more than two terms. Passed by Congress in 1947, and ratified by the states on February 27, 1951, the Twenty-Second Amendment limits an elected president to two terms in office, a total of eight years.
The 22nd Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, ratified 2/27/1951,  limits the term of the President to two elected terms, or one  elected term if he or she filled more than t … wo years of another  President's term. Prior to the 22nd Amendment, there was no limit to the number of terms a President could serve.
Roosevelt was the first and only President to serve more than two terms. The amendment was passed by Congress in 1947. It was ratified by the states on February 27, 1951. The Twenty-Second Amendment says a person can only be elected to be president two times for a total of eight years. It does make it possible for a person to serve up to ten years as president.
The Twenty-second Amendment (Amendment XXII) of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election and overall time of service to the office of President of the United States. Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947. It was ratified by the requisite 36 of the then-48 states on February 27, 1951. Text [edit]. Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of the President more than once.
Prior to the 22nd Amendment, there was no limit to the number of terms a President could serve. After Washington did not run after serving only two terms, he set a president … for Presidents to follow, as they also did not serve longer than two terms -- sort of a gentlemen's agreement to not serve more than two terms. The 22nd Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, ratified 2/27/1951,  limits the term of the President to two elected terms, or one  elected term if he or she filled more than t … wo years of another  President's term. 2 people found this useful.