Step 3 If you want to open Blu-ray files from your laptop, click Open File... or press Ctrl+O, and choose a Blu-ray movie, you can watch it right now. If you want to open Blu-ray disc, insert the disc to Blu-ray drive, the Player will automatically load the disc information and play the video. You can also click Open Disc... or press Ctrl+D to play the disc manually. (Note: the drive should be Blu-ray drive. Step 3 If you want to open Blu-ray files from your MacBook, click Open File... or press Command+O, and choose a Blu-ray movie, you can watch it right now. If you want to open Blu-ray disc, insert the disc, the Player will automatically load the disc information and play the video.
iDeer Blu-ray Player can play Bluray discs and files on Windows laptops, Microsoft® Windows XP (SP2 or later), Windows Vista, Windows 7 are supported. Most of the latest Windows laptops are equipped with a Blu-ray drive, if your laptop doesn't have one, you can use an external Blu-ray drive. Here are the steps: Step 3 If you want to open Blu-ray files from your MacBook, click Open File... or press Command+O, and choose a Blu-ray movie, you can watch it right now. If you want to open Blu-ray disc, insert the disc, the Player will automatically load the disc information and play the video.
Share. How to play Blu-ray discs on your PC or laptop. A reader wrote in to PC Advisor requesting some advice on a free solution for watching Blu-ray movies on his Windows PC or laptop. Here's how we fixed his problem. Also see: What's the best Blu-ray drive for your PC. Q I’ve installed a Blu-ray drive in my PC in the hope that I would be able to play Blu-ray discs and watch them on my monitor. However, I can’t find a way to play these without buying some software.
Many laptops on the market are available with Blu-Ray optical drives that come pre-installed. All you need to do is turn your laptop on and put a Blu-Ray disc in the drive. Your laptop should then prompt you to play it via the default Blu-Ray player software on your system. Blu-Ray is a separate format from DVD. While Blu-Ray drives can also play DVDs, not all drives marked DVD can play Blu-Ray discs. Generally, most Blu-Ray drives have a Blu-Ray logo on them.
My laptop came with a Blu-ray drive, but I can't seem to play Blu-rays with it, and everyone says I need to buy extra expensive software to use it. The easiest way to watch Blu-rays without commercial software is to use a program called MakeMKV to rip the movie, and then watch it using VLC. To do this: 1  Install MakeMKV as described in our original Blu-ray how-to. 2  Insert your Blu-ray disc
Test your new drive. Play a Blu-ray disc in your new Blu-ray drive to test it. If your Blu-ray drive came with editing or disk-burning software, follow the program instructions to burn new Blu-ray media using a blank rewriteable Blu-ray disc. If possible, test the new disk in another Blu-ray player. 
Warning. Blu-Ray is a separate format from DVD. While Blu-Ray drives can also play DVDs, not all drives marked DVD can play Blu-Ray discs. Generally, most Blu-Ray drives have a Blu-Ray logo on them. If you're unsure whether or not your optical drive plays Blu-Ray discs, check with the manufacturer
Everyone you've talked to is half right. Sony's licensing on Blu-ray is obnoxious, and it means it's pretty difficult to play Blu-rays on your computer—in fact, Windows is the only operating system that can play them back natively. However, there are a few workarounds. The easiest way to watch Blu-rays without commercial software is to use a program called MakeMKV to rip the movie, and then watch it using VLC. To do this: 1  Install MakeMKV as described in our original Blu-ray how-to. 2  Insert your Blu-ray disc