Some World Trade Organization members say they are concerned that the 2014 U. WTO members raise concerns over latest U.S. farm bill by The Food & Fiber Letter. The family farm totals 8,000 acres near Byers in Arapahoe County, and Linnebur is one of many farmers who is happy the U. Misnomer aside, farmers and ranchers welcome farm bill by Romig, Suzie / ColoradoBiz. Other predictions include a shift to Asia for biofuel production and a revision of the U. U.S. farm bill-definition of U.S. farm bill by The Free Dictionary.
Noun. 1. farm bill-a statute that would regulate farm production and prices. 
The Farm Bill. The Agricultural Act of 2014 is important legislation that provides authorization for services and programs that impact every American and millions of people around the world. 
2014 Farm Bill | Agricultural Conservation Easement Program | NRCS. The Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) provides financial and technical assistance to help conserve agricultural lands and wetlands and their related benefits. Agricultural Land Easements. NRCS provides financial assistance to eligible partners for purchasing Agricultural Land Easements that protect the agricultural use and conservation values of eligible land. In the case of working farms, the program helps farmers and ranchers keep their land in agriculture.
Farm Bill Definitions. The definitions are excerpted from the Glossary of Agricultural Production, Programs, and Policy by Chuck Culver, Division of Agriculture, University of Arkansas, and Farm Commodity Legislation: Chronology 1933-2002 by Geoffrey Becker, Congressional Research Service. 
Wetland Reserve Easements. NRCSalso provides technical and financial assistance directly to private landowners and Indian tribes to restore, protect, and enhance wetlands through the purchase of a wetland reserve easement. Agricultural Land Easements. NRCS provides financial assistance to eligible partners for purchasing Agricultural Land Easements that protect the agricultural use and conservation values of eligible land. In the case of working farms, the program helps farmers and ranchers keep their land in agriculture.
Articles, Press Releases & Action Alerts Leading up to the 2014 Farm Bill: 1  2014 Farm Bill Analysis: Organic Agriculture (2/24/2014) - While U.S. consumer demand for organic grows exponentially, domestic production to meet that demand has not kept up, requiring greater imports of organic production to fill the gap. The 2014 Farm Bill was signed by President Obama on Feb. 7, 2014. 2014 Farm Bill Blog Series: 1  RAFI’s Official Statement on Final Passage of 2014 Farm Bill (January 30, 2014). 2  2014 Farm Bill Analysis: Crop Insurance (February 12, 2014).
USDA Rural Development: Highlights of the Agriculture Act of 2014 (PDF). Farm Bill Listening Session Follow-Up: On June 5, 2014, USDA Rural Development hosted a listening session to collect input on implementation of Sec. 6025 of the Farm Bill, relating to strategic economic and community development. Changes to the eligible areas map based on the Farm Bill will be released on May 6, 2014, on the USDA Income and Property Eligibility Site. Select “Single Family Housing” under the Property Eligibility menu.