Furthermore, lice are not one of the more common parasites found in dogs and other household pets, such as cats: Yes, dogs and cats do sometimes get lice, although lice are not one of the more common parasites diagnosed. They are most common in animals that live in poor conditions without proper sanitation. Dogs can get two different types of lice: Trichodectes canis and Linognathus setosus.
Answer: The short answer to this question is no; lice are species-specific, meaning that there is a different species of lice for each animal species that they depend on. Human lice need human blood to survive, dog lice need dog blood, and so on.
Conversely, while not as common in dogs and cats, the species of lice that live on dogs and cats are not able to live on humans. While not an immediate threat to health, human head lice is very contagious and is not an indicator of poor personal hygiene.
Pets can carry parasites and pass parasites to people. Proper handwashing can greatly reduce risk. A zoonotic disease is a disease that can be passed between animals and humans. Zoonotic diseases can be caused by viruses, bacteria, parasites, and fungi. Some of these diseases are very common.
Dogs can get two different types of lice: Trichodectes canis and Linognathus setosus. Cats get only one type: Felicola subrostrata. Other types of animals are susceptible to other species of lice.
Other types of animals can get lice on occasion as well, but once again the lice on these animals cannot be transmitted to humans and humans cannot transmit head lice to these animals.
Lice are species-specific, meaning that there is a different species of lice for each animal species that they depend on. Human lice need human blood to survive, dog lice need dog blood, and so on.
If you suspect that your pet has lice or other ectoparasites, please see your vet for a definitive diagnosis. Lice are much easier to treat than other parasites such as fleas, and your vet will be able to recommend the best medicated shampoo, spray or spot-on treatment for your pet to get rid of the lice.
Canine Lice. YES, dogs get lice. It is a different kind of lice than humans get, and much easier to treat, and it is not transferable to humans or cats. Dog lice are species specific, so you, your kids, and your cats cannot get lice from your dog. And a person with a human form of lice cannot pass it to their dog.