Frequency Coordination is required for a new filing. Major Modifications and Amendments that change or add frequencies, emissions, ERP, Output Power, Antenna Height, Ground Elevation, change location of Base, Fixed, Mobile or Control stations or number of Mobile units and any change to station class. This frequency coordination process is intended to make more efficient use of the PLMR spectrum for the benefit of all members of the public. In general, applications for new frequency assignments, changes to existing facilities or operation at temporary locations must include a showing of frequency coordination.
No Amateur Radio frequency coordinator has any authority to tell a repeater sponsor what he can, or cannot, do. However, the FCC has recognized that participation in a frequency coordination program by repeater sponsors is in the best interests of all Amateurs. Most frequency coordinators will consult with the sponsors of nearby co-channel (same frequency) and adjacent-channel repeaters, and frequently with his adjacent-area counterparts, to make sure there are not any valid objections to the new repeater.
Frequency coordinators, in this case, are private organizations that have been certified by the Commission to recommend the most appropriate frequencies for applicants in the designated Part 90 radio services. This frequency coordination process is intended to make more efficient use of the PLMR spectrum for the benefit of all members of the public. In general, applications for new frequency assignments, changes to existing facilities or operation at temporary locations must include a showing of frequency coordination.
There are different frequency coordinators authorized for the different categories of PLMR spectrum. 1  For frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band, applicants may use any frequency coordinator. 2  For frequencies below 470 MHz and above 512 MHz, applicants must choose a frequency coordinator as specified below. This frequency coordination process is intended to make more efficient use of the PLMR spectrum for the benefit of all members of the public. In general, applications for new frequency assignments, changes to existing facilities or operation at temporary locations must include a showing of frequency coordination.
There are different frequency coordinators authorized for the different categories of PLMR spectrum. 1  For frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band, applicants may use any frequency coordinator. 2  For frequencies below 470 MHz and above 512 MHz, applicants must choose a frequency coordinator as specified below. Frequency coordinators, in this case, are private organizations that have been certified by the Commission to recommend the most appropriate frequencies for applicants in the designated Part 90 radio services.
1 For frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band, applicants may use any frequency coordinator. 2  For frequencies below 470 MHz and above 512 MHz, applicants must choose a frequency coordinator as specified below. 3  Contact information for each of the certified coordinators is below. Frequency coordinators, in this case, are private organizations that have been certified by the Commission to recommend the most appropriate frequencies for applicants in the designated Part 90 radio services.
Frequency Coordination is not required for STAs unless they are filing a waiver of the 180 day limit of STA. Developmental and Demonstration applications, Radiolocation (RS) applications, Itinerant operations and station classes ending in the letter I or L and applications for 6.1 Meter Control Stations. Frequency coordinators, in this case, are private organizations that have been certified by the Commission to recommend the most appropriate frequencies for applicants in the designated Part 90 radio services.
Amateur Frequency Coordinators. [Note: The following is excerpted from the ARRL Repeater Directory.]. The ARRL is not a Frequency Coordinator, nor does the ARRL certify coordinators. Frequency Coordinators are volunteers normally appointed by a coordinating body