Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months. Hi I had a miscarriage on March 29th had a normal period April 26 and had no period in may but got it in June 25th is that normal. Made an apt with my doctor just want to hear any feed back if this has happen to any one before.
You should expect to get your period about four weeks after a D&C and you might expect to see your period around six weeks after a miscarriage that did not require a D&C. Hi I had a miscarriage on March 29th had a normal period April 26 and had no period in may but got it in June 25th is that normal. Made an apt with my doctor just want to hear any feed back if this has happen to any one before.
You will need to watch your symptoms after you miscarry to determine if your recovery is progressing at a normal and healthy pace. Spontaneous miscarriage refers to a condition that is caused when the body aborts a fetus within 20 weeks of gestation. As your body heals it may take time for your menstrual cycle to return to normal. Your first period after your miscarriage should occur four weeks after the hCG levels return to zero. Many examinations only measure these levels until the hCG levels fall below 5, so it can be difficult to determine when exactly normal bleeding can be expected. 
1 Vaginal bleeding, similar to a menstrual period, may last up to a week after a miscarriage. 2  Light bleeding, or spotting. 3  Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks. 4  Lower abdominal pain similar to menstrual cramps may last up to 2 days after the miscarriage. 
So if a woman has a 28 day cycle, she'll ovulate around 14 days after the miscarriage and have a period about 28 days after the start of the miscarriage,” says Aszani Stoddard, Certified Nurse-Midwife with Park Nicollet Health Services in Minnesota. But as you probably know, not all women have regular cycle. It may take four to six weeks for your period to return; if it takes longer than that, call your healthcare provider, who may want to schedule a check-up just to make sure everything is okay.
Your bleeding will taper off to spotting within a week, and maybe random spotting will continue for another week. Your hCG drops steadily, usually hitting zero during the end of the spotting, or about 10 days after the miscarriage or D&C. When the spotting ends, you will get strange symptoms. Only now will your levels drop to zero and a new cycle begin. You cannot expect a normal period any sooner than four weeks from this, and up to seven weeks could still be normal. Your total wait time from original miscarriage to first period can creep up to nine or ten weeks an
In a normal recovery, it can take three weeks for the hormone chain to fire up again, and it will not be marked by bleeding or any physical symptom. You will only know that the new cycle worked by having a period at the end of it, between five and seven weeks after your miscarriage. Only now will your levels drop to zero and a new cycle begin. You cannot expect a normal period any sooner than four weeks from this, and up to seven weeks could still be normal. Your total wait time from original miscarriage to first period can creep up to nine or ten weeks an
It usually takes four to six weeks for your periods to return after a miscarriage, although it can take longer to settle into a regular cycle. The length of time it takes will depend on how regular your periods were before your pregnancy. It’s worth seeing your GP for advice if your periods haven’t returned after four to six weeks and your cycle was regular before your pregnancy.
Also, you need to remember that if you are having unprotected sex, you can become pregnant again soon after having a miscarriage. It is generally thought that you are not fertile for four to six weeks after a miscarriage, but many women have conceived as little as two weeks after a miscarriage. Hi I had a miscarriage on March 29th had a normal period April 26 and had no period in may but got it in June 25th is that normal. Made an apt with my doctor just want to hear any feed back if this has happen to any one before.
Menstrual cycle. You may resume a normal cycle immediately with the next period 28 days after the miscarriage but there is a great personal variation, and it can take up to 6 or 7 weeks for your period to return, especially if you had a “natural” miscarriage (i.e. no D&C or tablets).