Well all-purpose flour = plain flour. My guess is you should for the in between one, smooth sounds like fine or sifted flour, and I don't know what rough is, unless they mean whole wheat, and so try the in between flour.
Polohruba polohrubá is literally the-semi coarse. Flour it is an ingredient in Traditional czech cakes such As czech, kolač (koláč babovka), bábovka bundt cake and (sweetened leaven), dough kynute kynuté těsto The basis of (traditional) , christmas Sweet bread (vanočka). vánočka and easter bread mazanec
Hladka, hladká meaning, smooth is the finest grain of. Flour In czech, cuisine it is used for thickening soups and, sauces or in the bases of light sponge cakes and pie, crusts and in. Pancakes it is needed for In czech ginger (bread) perničky perníčky and, linecke linecké těsto the main Dough for. many christmas cookies
Slovak to English translation service by ImTranslator will assist you in getting an instant translation of words, phrases and texts from Slovak to English and other languages. Slovak to English Translation provides the most convenient access to online translation service powered by various machine translation engines.
Because it lacks gluten, the starch can be used in place of flour in Czech classics such as babovka. Bábovka powdered (sugar icing) sugar is known as moučkový. Cukr this sugar is often used as dusting on strudels and bundt. Cakes (frosting) icing poweder is sold as. poleva
Slovak to English Translation tool includes online translation service, English text-to-speech service, English spell checking tool, on-screen keyboard for major languages, back translation, email client and much more. The most convenient translation environment ever created.
It is also used to make dumplings. Polohruba polohrubá mouka is a-semi coarse. Flour (krupice/semolina durum) flour is ground from durum wheat and makes a, strong sturdy dough frequently used for. Pasta mouka bezlepkova bezlepková is a high gluten flour derived from hard wheat with starch removed and. protein concentrated
Anyway, let’s start baking. This is a really easy cake (kolač) koláč to. Make besides these, ingredients you will also need (500g 3/1 3) cups of. Flour start by cracking the (eggs) vajcia into a large bowl and adding (400g about 3/1 3) cups of powdered (sugar praškový). práškový cukor
If anybody know what the other names mean, please let me know (Wroclawska, Tortowa etc). Wondra mixed with bread flour from King Arthur (unbleached) is another options and the Slovak store in Astoria selling original Hruba mouka on line. The link is on this forum somewhere.
Anyway, let’s start baking. This is a really easy cake (kolač) koláč to. Make besides these, ingredients you will also need (500g 3/1 3) cups of. Flour start by cracking the (eggs) vajcia into a large bowl and adding (400g about 3/1 3) cups of powdered (sugar praškový). Práškový cukor also (add) oil olej (and). milk mlieko