Geography of Madagascar. The island nation of Madagascar is located in the Indian Ocean and occupies an important position along the Mozambique Channel. It is also the fourth largest island in the world.
Weather & climate. The Madagascar climate is hot and sub-tropical, it is colder in the mountains, while the south and west regions are particularly dry. The stunning island is ringed by golden beaches and palm trees, and has a diverse interior with plateaus, volcanoes, forests and natural reserves. 
Madagascar is a country that occupies a large island of the same name, located in the Indian Ocean off the eastern coast of Africa. It is the fourth largest island in the world. 1 Located 45 minutes north of Morondava on Madagascar's west coast it is one of the most visited sites in the Menabe Region. 2  A candidate as one of the 7 Wonders of Africa; efforts are underway to protect this unique grove of more than a dozen trees.
(December 2008). Madagascar is an island in the Indian Ocean off the eastern coast of southern Africa, east of Mozambique. It is the fourth largest island in the world. The highest point is Maromokotro, in the Tsaratanana Massif region in the north of the island, at 2,876 metres (9,436 ft). The capital Antananarivo is in the Hauts Plateaux near the centre of the island. It has a total area of 587,040 square kilometres (226,660 sq mi) with 581,540 square kilometres (224,530 sq mi) of land and 5,500 square kilometres (2,100 sq mi) of water. Madagascar originated as part of the Gondwana supercontinent
This region is the home of the Betsimisaraka, the second largest ethnic group in Madagascar. Cash crops such as coffee, cloves, vanilla and all tropical fruits thrive on the East Coast, making the local population in general more affluent than in any other regions of Madagascar. With the exception of the island of Ste. 
Location and Geography. Madagascar is located off the eastern coast of southern Africa in the Indian Ocean along the Mozambique Channel. It is the fourth largest island in the world with a landmass of 226,498 square miles (586,889 square kilometers) which includes its offshore islands. The capital, Antananarivo, located in this region, is the largest town, with over one million people, and is an ethnic melting pot. The Betsileo live south of the Merina and are considered the best rice farmers in Madagascar.
Regions in Madagascar allude to the four divisions into which this island nation in the Indian Ocean is divided. Madagascar is divided into four distinct parts depending on the land and people of the nation. The topography of the island largely determines the division of Madagascar regions. The East Coast and West Coast of the island of Madagascar constitute most of the plain land of the nation. The Central Highlands are comparatively higher than the coastal regions. The Southwest is another distinct region of Madagascar