Typhoid fever is a serious disease spread by contaminated food and water. Symptoms of typhoid include lasting high fevers, weakness, stomach pains, headache, and loss of appetite. Some patients have constipation, and some have a rash. 
Typhoid Information. General Information. ***************************. Typhoid is a bacterial disease transmitted through contaminated food and water. The risk of Typhoid is thought to be in the region of 1/3,000 to 1/5,000 for the International Traveller to the tropics – especially for those visiting parts of India. 
Typhoid Fever is transmitted through the ingestion of contaminated food or water and it is caused by the bacterium Salmonella typhi. Typhoid Fever is an acute illness infecting about 21.5 million people worldwide. Typhoid Fever can be fatal in up to 10% of reported cases. 
Fecal-oral transmission route. The bacteria that cause typhoid fever spread through contaminated food or water and occasionally through direct contact with someone who is infected. In developing nations, where typhoid fever is endemic, most cases result from contaminated drinking water and poor sanitation. Typhoid fever is caused by virulent bacteria called Salmonella typhi (S. typhi). Although they're related, S. typhi and the bacteria responsible for salmonellosis, another serious intestinal infection, aren't the same.
Typhoid fever is a severe infection caused by a bacterium, Salmonella typhi. S. typhi is in the same family of bacteria as the type spread by chicken and eggs, commonly known as salmonella poisoning or food poisoning. Typhoid fever is passed from person to person through poor hygiene, such as incomplete or no hand washing after using the toilet. Persons who are carriers of the disease and who handle food can be the source of epidemic spread of typhoid.
Typhoid fever. Typhoid fever is a bacterial disease, caused by Salmonella typhi. It is transmitted through the ingestion of food or drink contaminated by the faeces or urine of infected people. Symptoms usually develop 1–3 weeks after exposure, and may be mild or severe. 
•. Typhoid is a serious disease is caused by the bacteria Salmonella Typhi. It is transmitted through the ingestion of food or drink, which has been contaminated by the feces of an infected person. •. Typhoid can cause a high fever, weakness, headache, loss of appetite, stomach pains, and a rash of flat, rose-colored spots.
Typhoid fever is contracted by drinking or eating the bacteria in contaminated food or water. People with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria. Contamination of the water supply can, in turn, taint the food supply. 
a bacterial infection usually caused by Salmonella typhi, transmitted by contaminated milk, water, or food. It is characterized by headache, delirium, cough, watery diarrhea, rash, and a high fever. The incubation period may be as long as 60 days. Typhoid fever is passed from person to person through poor hygiene, such as incomplete or no hand washing after using the toilet. Persons who are carriers of the disease and who handle food can be the source of epidemic spread of typhoid.
The cause of typhoid fever is an infection with the bacteria Salmonella typhi. These bacteria are primarily transmitted through contaminated food or water. 