What you both want to do is open control panel, search for Update Device Drivers, open that, then under display adapters, double click on AMD Radeon HD 7340M. Go to the driver tab, click update driver, then my computer for driver software. Then click Let me pick from a list of device drivers on m computer. I had the same problem, but fixed it. Go to control panel, system and security, power options. Click on your selected power plan change plan settings. Then to change advanced power settings. Scroll down to display, then turn off adaptive brightness.
How to Lower Brightness on a Toshiba Satellite Laptop. If your Toshiba's screen makes you squint, it's time to reduce its brightness. Polka Dot Images/Polka Dot/Getty Images. The brightness of your Toshiba Satellite laptop's display changes depending on the power source. Right-click the power icon from the Windows notification area and select Power Options.. The power icon looks like a battery when the laptop is running on battery power. The icon looks like a battery with a plug on top when connected to an external
These brightness levels change depending on your power source, so you will have to adjust brightness when plugged in or running on battery power. Step 1. Hold the Fn key and press the up or down arrows to increase or reduce brightness on most Dell laptops. Step 2. Hold the Fn key and press F4 or F5 to adjust brightness on some Dell laptops, such as their Alienware line of laptops. Related Reading: How to Turn on the Ambient Light Sensor on a Dell. Step 3. Right-click the power icon in your Windows 7 system tray and select Adjust Screen Brightness.. 
HB33 asked on April 26, 2013. Hi, I can't seem to adjust the brightness of my screen. I've used the ' Fn ' key, gone to the Settings icon to where it gives you the option to power down, adjust volume, check wireless status, etc., and have even gone into my Control Panel to tweak the power options. None of these are doing anything to help the situatio
http://www.youtube.com/ehowtech. Adjusting the brightness on a Toshiba laptop is something that you do right from the system tray. Adjust the brightness on a Toshiba laptop with help from a software engineer in this free video clip.
1 Open the Control Panel. 2  Click or tap the Display option. 3  Look for a link or option titled Adjust brightness. 4  This option allows you to adjust the laptop brightness based on the power plan or setting being used, whether the laptop is running on AC power or battery power. Adjust brightness through Display settings. You can also adjust brightness through the Display settings in the Control Panel with the following steps. 1  Open the Control Panel. 2  Click or tap the Display option. 3  Look for a link or option titled Adjust brightness
Many modern Windows laptops now come with light sensors that automatically adjust the screen's brightness based on ambient lighting. The feature works inconsistently in Windows, which can make for a frustrating experience. If the brightness switching is driving you crazy, here's how to disable adaptive brightness. 1  Click on Change advanced power settings.. 2  Scroll down to Display, then under Enable adaptive brightness, switch it off for both the battery and plugged in modes.
You can adjust the brightness on your computer through the Settings Charm in Windows 8. Use the following steps to adjust your computer’s brightness in Windows 8: 1  Press the Windows key + C to open your Charms.. 2  Select. 3  Click or tap Brightness, then slide the bar up or down to adjust your brightness. 