The fact is, trout can see a whole lot better than we think, and if you fish the right kinds of fly patterns, and target the right water, in many cases you can do pretty darn good fishing in these water conditions. 
As long as its not pouring, Rain will bring the fish (trout particularly) to the surface looking for bugs. Some of my best fishing days have been on overcast light shower days. Spinners are always good for trout (gold or silver or rainbow I've had most luck on). RainbowKiller. 07-10-2010, 03:21 PM. I find that a really light rain is good for dry fly fishing, because it seems to knock the insects out of the air, and the trout take quick advantage of the disadvantaged bug..
They can see you, he said. But with a little bit of rain and some color in the water, you can get right on top of them.. Generally, he said, when the temperature of the rain is higher than the water temperature, it will turn on the fish's metabolism and they'll often go into a feeding frenzy. However, it the rain temperature is colder than the water's, it tends to shut them down, or at least slows them down
Best Answer: In general the fishing is best when the weather is stable for several days, with no major temperature changes and the barometer pressure stays steady. But very often when a weather front approaches and the barometer pressure drops & the fish will go on a feed. So to answer your question, the fishing will be the best just before and durning the rain. If it rains for several days the best fishing will be on the first day. Rain or shine, any day is a good day to fish. It will help. If you are going after brook trout, you will think you have died and gone to heaven. The most exciting time I ever had in my life, while fishing, was fishing a 10' wide brook trout stream in a light all day rain.
For the most part.. the rain has very little to do with the fish biting. The key here is that a low pressure is moving in. This is usually the factor that makes fishing the best when the weather is the worse. Rain or snow accompanies a low pressure area. It will help. If you are going after brook trout, you will think you have died and gone to heaven. The most exciting time I ever had in my life, while fishing, was fishing a 10' wide brook trout stream in a light all day rain.
Fish slow and fish very close to the bottom. Trout fishing just before the rain is good. Trout fishing shortly after the rain started is still good. Trout fishing in continuous rain is not that good. Trout fishing in continuous pouring rain is not good. Trout fishing after the rain could be good if you know what you are doing. PS: Don't fish in thunder storms even if the bite is wide open. Many perished with a rod in their hands during thunder storms. Long rods (especially long, wet graphite rods) and thunder don't mix. 
Fishing in the rain and after the rain taught me a lot about trout fishing that to this day now makes sense scientifically. First, rain can actually raise the oxygen level in a stream by mixing and pounding the water. This usually causes the fish to feed in my estimation. When heavy rain causes a river to get muddy and/or overflow it banks, fly fishing generally becomes unproductive until the water has receded to normal levels, and has cleared to a reasonable degree. I doubt the fish quit feeding.
As you found, fishing in the rain can be very rewarding. It can also amount to nothing more than taking a fly rod for a walk and testing out the water repellant material of your jacket and waders. 
As you probably know, a warm, fine rain can draw fish to the surface. On a rainy day, watch the water for the movements of minnows and other baitfish. You might see them scatter suddenly. That means there's a predator -- such as a lake trout -- in the vicinity. Watch the weather report. Threats to Lake Trout and Weather Safety. Lake trout are near the top of the underwater food chain, so you might think their population is relatively stable. Not so. They're especially vulnerable to DDT, which accumulates in their fatty tissues, as it does in many predators' bodies.
Pedro Moreno Jr. of Granby was one of many fishermen at Nine Mile Creek on April 1. the opening day of trout fishing season. Stephen D. Cannerelli \ scannerelli@syracuse.com. With all rain yesterday and more predicted for today, I couldn't help but wonder how it's going to affect the trout fishing. Generally, he said, when the temperature of the rain is higher than the water temperature, it will turn on the fish's metabolism and they'll often go into a feeding frenzy.