The decision to run for a third term was difficult for Franklin D. Roosevelt to make. He knew running would be unprecedented. The previous eight long years in office made the thought of retreating to his lifelong home in Hyde Park, New York, and his new presidential library quite attractive. Others were convinced that Roosevelt's third term would signal America's acquiescence to a dictatorship. Still others were disturbed by Roosevelt's apparent dismissal of tradition  no president had ever run for a third term.
· just now. Report Abuse. FDR was actually elected to a third AND fourth term The 22nd amendment, probhibiting more than 2 terms, was not passed until 1947, and not officially ratified until 1952. FDR died a year into his fourth term in 1945. FDR was actually elected to a third AND fourth term The 22nd amendment, probhibiting more than 2 terms, was not passed until 1947, and not officially ratified until 1952
It should be noted that Henry A. Wallace was FDR's vice president during his third term. Had Wallace run for the fourth term, Roosevelt might not have been reelected. Wallace's unbending stand in favor of civil rights was unpopular with conservative Southern Democrats. 
The two term limit was only a tradition (started by Washington) until FDR. After FDR's passing, it became part of the Constitution. Declared wars have nothing to do with it. In fact, Roosevelt was elected to his third term in 1940, before we were involved in WWII. FDR was actually elected to a third AND fourth term The 22nd amendment, probhibiting more than 2 terms, was not passed until 1947, and not officially ratified until 1952.
A+E Networks. On this day in 1940, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who first took office in 1933 as America’s 32nd president, is nominated for an unprecedentedthird term. Roosevelt, a Democrat, would eventually be elected to a record four terms in office, the only U.S. president to serve more than two terms. In 1936, he won his second term in office by defeating Kansas governor Alf Landon in a landslide. On July 18, 1940, Roosevelt was nominated for a third presidential term at the Democratic Party convention in Chicago. The president received some criticism for running again because there was an unwritten rule in American politics that no U.S. president should
The first, and only president elected for a third term was Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940 due to some concerns during WWII. He was also elected in 1947 for a fourth term … , but died only months into his fourth term. 1 person found this useful. 
Publisher. A+E Networks. Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt is reelected president of the United States for a record third time, handily defeating his Republican challenger, Thomas Dewey, the governor of New York, and becoming the first and only president in history to win a fourth term in office. 
Up to FDR, their was no constitutional wording on the issue, it was just tradition since George Washington that a President would sit for two terms max, then leave office IE what George did, but since Constitution was silent FDR was able to run for third term, but after the Constitution was changed. FDR was actually elected to a third AND fourth term The 22nd amendment, probhibiting more than 2 terms, was not passed until 1947, and not officially ratified until 1952.