Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Jorge means-Spanish form of George farmer.. Other origins for the name Jorge include-Spanish, Portuguese.The name Jorge is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-Spanish form of George farmer. Origin-Spanish.
The name derives in origin from the name of Zeus Georgos, worshipped as a god of crops in Ancient Athens. The Greek word γεωργός (geōrgos) means husbandman, farmer, tiller (lit. earth-worker). Jurayj (جورايج) is an Arabic transliteration of the name George or Georgius. 
Meaning of Jorge. Portuguese name. In Portuguese, the name Jorge means-a farmer. Other origins for the name Jorge include-Portuguese, Spanish.The name Jorge is most often used as a boy name or male name. Portuguese Name Meaning-a farmer.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jorge and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jorge and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Jorge has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Jorge are: 1  Greek meaning: Earth worker. 2  English meaning: Earth worker
Jorge (. [ˈʒɔɾʒ(ɨ)] , [ˈxorxe]) is a Spanish and Portuguese given name, equivalent to the English George. It is derived from the Greek γεωργός (georgos), meaning farmer or earth-worker. 1  Jorge Ben Jor, Brazilian musician. 2  Jorge Betancourt, Cuban diver. 
Jorge /jor-ge/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced HOR-hay. It is of Spanish, Portuguese and Greek origin, and the meaning of Jorge is farmer. Variant of George. Baseball player Jorge Posada. Jorge is a very popular first name for males (#175 out of 1220, Top 14%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#6450 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Jorge is a Spanish, Portuguese form of the name George. The English name George is ultimately of Greek origin. It is from Old French, derived from the Latin name Georgius, which in turn derived from the Greek name Georgios. The Greek name Georgios is derived from the Greek elements gen (γη) meaning earth and ergon (εργον) meaning work. The name George was the name of several early saints, including one who in the 14th century, became regarded as the patron Saint of England.
The name Jorge is a Portuguese baby name. In Portuguese the meaning of the name Jorge is: American Meaning: The name Jorge is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jorge is: Spanish Meaning: The name Jorge is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Jorge is: farmer'.