Meaning & History. Anglicized form of the Irish place name Teamhair, which possibly means elevated place in Gaelic. This was the name of the sacred hill near Dublin where the Irish high kings resided.
Tara is a given name with multiple meanings in different cultures. It is also sometimes a nickname for Tamara, as an alternative to Tammy. Since 1968 the name Tara is currently accepted as being exclusively a female name in Western societies, although there have been men who carried the name (such as Tara Browne). It is also often considered a female name in the east, due to its connection to several goddesses.
Means star in Sanskrit. Tara is the name of a Hindu astral goddess, the wife of Brhaspati. She was abducted by Soma, a god of the moon, leading to a great war that was only ended when Brahma intervened and released her. This is also the name of a Buddhist deity (a female Buddha). 
Meaning of Tara. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Tara means-From the crag of a tower.. Other origins for the name Tara include-Gaelic, Irish, Irish, Scottish.The name Tara is most often used as a girl name or female name. Gaelic Name Meaning-From the crag of a tower. Origin-Gaelic.
The name Tara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tara is: Goddess of the sea. Gaelic Meaning: The name Tara is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Tara is: From the crag of a tower. Irish Meaning: The name Tara is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Tara is: Where the kings met. Also Tara's Halls, where ancient Bards sang deeds of Irish heroes. The ruins of the Halls are on the hill of Tara, meaning crag or tower.
Comments and insights on the name Tara: | Edit. My name is Tara and i love it because i have only met a few people named Tara also. Maybe 2-3. I do get a lot of confusing about pronouncing and spelling it but thats ok. I have had people spell my name as terra, tera, tarra and the normal spelling of tara.
Tara /tara/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced TAH-rah. It is of Gaelic and Sanskrit origin, and the meaning of Tara is hill; star. Ancient Tara was the site of the stone of destiny on which Irish kings resided, and Margaret Mitchell probably had this in mind when she named the fictional home of Scarlett O'Hara in her 1936 novel Gone With the Wind. Hindu mythology: Tara is one of the names of the wife of Shiva. See also Terra. Actress Tara Reid
Origin of the name Tara: Transferred use of an Irish place-name belonging to a hill in central Ireland, which was an ancient seat of kingship. Tara (hill) was used by Margaret Mitchell for the name of a plantation in her epic Gone With the Wind, resulting in the use of it as a female given name. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. My name is Tara and i love it because i have only met a few people named Tara also. Maybe 2-3. I do get a lot of confusing about pronouncing and spelling it but thats ok. I have had people spell my name as terra, tera, tarra and the normal spelling of tara.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Tara is a baby girl name. The name Tara comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Tara is: Where the kings met. Also Tara's Halls, where ancient Bards sang deeds of Irish heroes. The ruins of the Halls are on the hill of Tara, meaning crag or tower.