Two characteristics define brightness: luminosity and magnitude. Luminosity is the amount of light that a star radiates. The size of the star and its surface temperature determine its luminosity. Apparent magnitude of a star is its perceived brightness, factoring in size and distance, while absolute magnitude is its true brightness irrespective of its distance from earth.
The Sun is a yellow dwarf star. By observing the motion, spectrum, and luminosity of a star, astronomers can determine its age, mass, chemical composition, and many other properties. The primary factor in determining the type of evolution a star goes through is its total mass.
The apparent brightness of a star is therefore directly proportional to the stars luminosity and inversely proportional to the square of its distance: Thus, two identical stars can have the same apparent brightness if (and only if) they lie at the same distance from Earth.
1 A star can be luminous because it is hot or it is large, or both. 2  The luminosity of a star is its total energy output into all space over all wavelengths. 3  The star's luminosity is related to its mass. 4  The more massive a star is, the more luminous it will be.
1 A small, hot object can have the same luminosity as a large, cool object. 2  A star can be luminous because it is hot or it is large, or both. 3  The luminosity of a star is its total energy output into all space over all wavelengths. 4  The star's luminosity is related to its mass.
Using equation 4.6 all we need in order to calculate the intrinsic luminosity of a star is its effective temperature and its radius. In practice this equation is not used to determine the luminosity of most stars as only a few hundred stars have had their radii directly measured.
There is a correlation between a main sequence star's mass and its luminosity. Stars that are higher up (brighter) on the main sequence are more massive. This correlation is known as the Mass Luminosity relation. It says that the stars luminosity is proportional to the cube of its mass.