In the aftermath of her death, her boyfriend’s father, Mohamed Al-Fayed, was the main proponent of the idea that her death was the result of a murder plot. His son, Dodi Fayedwas in the car that night the crash occurred. Fayed died alongside Diana. At the time of her death she was no longer married to Prince Charles. The two were separated for some time, but the divorce was finalized in August 1996. Some theorists point to this divorce as a motive to kill Diana. Others believe that her involvement with the Landmine Survivors Network could be a possible motive.
Princess Diana died, as it happened, the night of my birthday, August 31, 1997. I hadn’t planned much of a celebration. My wife and I shared a bottle of good wine in our apartment in Paris, and went to bed. About 30 minutes later, an editor called from New York. 
Search. Diana Spencer and Dodi Al Fayed apparently died on Sunday, August 31st 1997 when their car crashed in a road tunnel in the French capital, Paris. The authorities announced yesterday that there will be an official inquiry to establish the cause of these two untimely deaths. Today is the eve of the sixth anniversary of the death of Princess Di, and Tomorrow's date reverberates more than any previous anniversary of her passing, because 31 August has not fallen on a Sunday since the day on which she was killed.
Recently, photographs surfaced of Princess Diana’s honeymoon with Prince Charles on the television show Antiques Roadshow, and the story was covered by ABC. However, with the emergence of these photos, it makes one naturally think back to tragic death of Diana in 1997, when she was killed in a car crash in Paris. At the time of her death she was no longer married to Prince Charles. The two were separated for some time, but the divorce was finalized in August 1996. Some theorists point to this divorce as a motive to kill Diana. Others believe that her involvement with the Landmine Survivors Network could be a possible motive.
Sceptics claim that Princess Diana was pregnant with Dodi's baby and that she was murdered to avoid causing trouble to the establishment. Conspiracists point to the fact that the princess was embalmed in Paris, hours after the crash, before a full autopsy had taken place on her body. Conspiracy theorists claim that Paul was a secret service agent and that he was paid to murder Princess Diana and Dodi Al Fayed on the orders of the British E
And he gave her what she wanted.. Since her death, Al Fayed has made outrageous claims about his friendship with the princess. But the most controversial is his assertion that Diana was pregnant with his grandchild, which he said in an interview with ABC News last fall. She was convinced she was going to be killed, says Diana's old friend, Argentinean businessman Roberto Deverik, who recalls Diana often speaking of murderous plots against her.
But 48 Hours has obtained a report produced by the French government that was never made public until now. The report contains thousands of pages of confidential police documents, scientific analysis and images that tell what really happened to Princess Diana, beginning with the night she died. She was convinced she was going to be killed, says Diana's old friend, Argentinean businessman Roberto Deverik, who recalls Diana often speaking of murderous plots against her.
Diana was the 'peoples princess', whom everyone loved and admired.But.... Did someone want her removed? Although a terrible thing to think, many people I've spoken to agree that things don't add up about the reporting of her terrible death, along with Dodi Al Fayed. 
Lady Diana was the Princess of Wales, and her lover Dodi was the wealthy son of Mohamed Al Fayed the multi-millionaire owner of the exclusive Harrods shopping mall in London. When a celebrity dies unexpectedly it is common for people to question and speculate about the version of events presented by the media. Today is the eve of the sixth anniversary of the death of Princess Di, and Tomorrow's date reverberates more than any previous anniversary of her passing, because 31 August has not fallen on a Sunday since the day on which she was killed.
Diana wrote this to Burrell, 10 months before she was killed in a car crash in a Paris underpass on August 31, 1997. Also killed in the crash were Diana's lover Dodi Fayed and the driver of their limousine. Dodi, 42, and Diana, 36, were in the back seat of their car when it crashed. Only Diana's bodyguard survived. 