Energy substrates in the human body are either carbohydrates, fat or proteins. Protein degradation yields amino acid residues which can be converted to carbohydrates and used in energy production. Carbohydrates (sugars) and amino acids from proteins give approximately 4 kcal/gram dry weight when burned in the body.
Metabolism of carbohydrates in muscle. Energy production, that is ATP synthesis from ADP and Pi, can occur anaerobically (without the use of oxygen) or aerobically (using mitochondrial reactions and oxygen). These reactions, especially anaerobic metabolism, are quite rapid.
Remember, conversion of 1 glucose to 2 pyruvate molecules requires 2 ADP and 2 NAD+(check the figure at the left). So, in order to run anaerobic metabolism while the substrate is still there, muscles must use lactic dehydrogenase to restore NAD+ levels. There is no other rapid source for NAD+!
The first concept relates to energy substrate metabolism as the essential link between gene expression and contractile function of the heart. The acute effects of ischemia are the effects of a deranged metabolism on the
The main source of ATP in heart muscle is oxidative phosphorylation of ADP in the respiratory chain. Substrate level phosphorylation of ADP in the glycolytic pathway and in the Krebs cycle contributes only a minor amount of energy to the tissue. The enzymes of oxidative metabolism are located within the mitochondria.
4. Substrate concentration and reaction rate. C. Metabolism and regulation of enzymes. 1. Metabolism is organized into pathways. - product of one reaction is a reactant in the next reaction. - each reaction catalyzed by an enzyme. 2.
An important principle of energy substrate metabolism in the heart is its ability to extract energy from all of the substrates presented to the mammalian organism (i.e., the heart is an omnivore).
To this day, most researchers accept that “glucose is the only blood-borne substrate used by the normal, adult brain that can support its metabolic demands” [ 28 ]. The dissensions consider only what form neurons use glucose as a source of energy: as glucose [ 29, 30 ] or as lactate [ 31 – 39 ].