. .    For example, the unit of electrical current is the Ampere, or just  Amp.   The unit of electrical r … esistance is the Ohm. (rhymes with 'home')    By the same token, the unit of electromotive force (or EMF) is the  Volt.    All three units are capitalized because they are real peoples'  names.
1000 V is equal to one unit for voltage (V base = 1000 V) 100 Ω is equal to one unit for resistance (Z base = 100 Ω) 10 A is equal to one unit for current (I base = 10 A) 10,000 VA is equal to one unit for power (S base = 10,000 VA) These basic units are called the base values.
. .    For example, the unit of electrical current is the Ampere, or just  Amp.   The unit of electrical r … esistance is the Ohm. (rhymes with 'home')    By the same token, the unit of electromotive force (or EMF) is the  Volt.
Voltage is also known as electrical potential difference. It is denoted with symbol 'V' and the SI unit for voltage is the volt. Voltage difference is the force, known as electromotive force (or e.m.f.), which drives a conventional current from a point of high potential to lower potential.
A voltmeter is used to measure voltage and the unit of voltage is volt. the most common voltmeter is a digital volt meter which can measure voltage from below 2 volts (2000 millivolts) to up to 1000 volts.
Voltage. Voltage is electric potential energy per unit charge, measured in joules per coulomb (= volts). It is often referred to as electric potential, which then must be distinguished from electric potential energy by noting that the potential is a per-unit-charge quantity.
Confidence votes 172. The value of the voltage (potential difference) across a conductor when a current of one ampere dissipates one watt of power in the conductor. It is also equal to one joule of energy per coulomb of charge, J/C.
I think you mean what is the voltage of the electric power distribution in US houses   It's called 240 volt single phase, which is a misnomer, as it is actually two phase … s of 120 volts each. Most outlets are connected to one of those phases and supply 120 volts to appliances.
Voltage is electric potential energy per unit charge, measured in joules per coulomb (= volts).