The process for applying for a Special Permission Number is very structured and specific—if you do not follow all of the directions, your SPN request will be rejected. Be sure to read any and all information regarding the application process for SPN’s. By clicking on the link to access the SPN Application Form, you are hereby acknowleding that you have read all of the instructions carefully, and that you accept the responsibility of ensuring that your form has been submitted in the appropriate manner: I have read all of the above instructions.
Do not use the SPN Application Form to request an SPN for internship and/or independent study, otherwise your request will be automatically rejected. If you are trying to register for any CLOSED course(s)/course section(s), you will need to apply for a special permission number. By clicking on the link to access the SPN Application Form, you are hereby acknowleding that you have read all of the instructions carefully, and that you accept the responsibility of ensuring that your form has been submitted in the appropriate manner: I have read all of the above instructions.
Instructors must keep a record of the student(s) to whom they have given a special permission number. Please check with your department regarding their policy for special permission numbers and how they are assigned. Special permission numbers are course/section specific and may only be used once. These numbers are not generated by the Registrar’s Office. Requests for additional special permission numbers must be made through your department. Requiring special permission numbers after the add period is over allows an instructor to determine if a student may enter his/her class at the late date.
NOTE: When vieing the Special Permission login page for the first time, you may get a notice that the SSL certificate is invalid. You can disregard this and know that the site is still perfectly secure. In order to fix this, please add a permanent exception and reload the page. Closed Sections. A student should seek this form of special permission only after trying to register through the Rutgers Web Registration System and finding that all sections that he or she can take are closed.
1 Admission to some honors courses is by permission of the department. 2  Admission to closed sections of regular courses requires a special permission number. 3  Admission to courses for which the prerequisites have been filled in an unusual way may require a prerequisite override. Closed Sections. A student should seek this form of special permission only after trying to register through the Rutgers Web Registration System and finding that all sections that he or she can take are closed.
Special Permission Numbers. A Special Permission Number (SPN) is a 6 digit number that is used to allow a student to register for course that is full or that is not open to that student's major or class year. Students must consult with the department that offers the course to inquire about getting a Special Permission Number. 1 For math courses, the Mathematics Department has a structured web special permission request process that you must follow. 2  All other courses – Consult the department that offers the course for the number, whether it is mechanical engineering, math, economics, spanish, etc.
Do NOT call the office regarding Special Permission Numbers! SPN Application Instructions: The Special Permission Number registration period for Spring 2016 is currently CLOSED. We will open the SPN registration period on Friday, October 30th and will close on Thursday, November 19th. By clicking on the link to access the SPN Application Form, you are hereby acknowleding that you have read all of the instructions carefully, and that you accept the responsibility of ensuring that your form has been submitted in the appropriate manner: I have read all of the above instructions.
1 Get this person’s full name, address, phone number and title. 2  You might need to write a different request letter to ask someone who you should write to. 3  In this case, still follow these steps for writing a request letter. 2. Learn the format for a business letter. Your request letter should use the proper business letter format, as it is likely a formal request. This applies whether you're sending an email or a hard copy letter. Become familiar with the following format and be sure to use it when writing your
There is no guarantee that you will be granted an SPN if you only select one course. NON-SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES STUDENTS: You will need a special permission number in order to register for any course, whether it is open or closed (including Introduction to Criminal Justice 01:202:201). By clicking on the link to access the SPN Application Form, you are hereby acknowleding that you have read all of the instructions carefully, and that you accept the responsibility of ensuring that your form has been submitted in the appropriate manner: I have read all of the above instructions.