A syndicated loan is one that involves a group of lenders (called the syndicate) who pool their lending resources to make a loan. Typically there is a lead bank or underwriter of the loan, known as the arranger, agent, or lead lender. This lender may be putting up a proportionally bigger share of the loan, or perform duties like dispersing cash flows amongst the other syndicate members and administrative tasks.
Definition. Collaboration among lenders to share in a loan (or a package of loans) too big to handle for any one of them. Such loans (called participation loans or syndicated loans) sometimes involve more than a hundred banks scattered around the globe. Also called loan syndication or participation financing.
Syndicated Loan. A loan made by many lenders to a single borrower. Syndicated loans are made in large amounts that would be too big for one lender to handle. In many ways, a syndicated loan operates like an ordinary loan; there is an interest rate (fixed or floating) and a time until repayment is due. 
(April 2010). A syndicated loan is one that is provided by a group of lenders and is structured, arranged, and administered by one or several commercial banks or investment banks known as lead arrangers. An amortizing term loan (A-term loan or TLA) is a term loan with a progressive repayment schedule that typically runs six years or less. These loans are normally syndicated to banks along with revolving credits as part of a larger syndication.
DEFINITION of 'Syndicated Loan'. A loan offered by a group of lenders (called a syndicate) who work together to provide funds for a single borrower. The borrower could be a corporation, a large project, or a sovereignty (such as a government). The loan may involve fixed amounts, a credit line, or a combination of the two. Typically there is a lead bank or underwriter of the loan, known as the arranger, agent, or lead lender. This lender may be putting up a proportionally bigger share of the loan, or perform duties like dispersing cash flows amongst the other syndicate members and administrative tasks.
The syndicated loan market is the dominant way for corporations in the U.S. and Europe to top banks and other institutional financial capital providers for loans. An amortizing term loan (A-term loan or TLA) is a term loan with a progressive repayment schedule that typically runs six years or less. These loans are normally syndicated to banks along with revolving credits as part of a larger syndication.
A syndicated business loan is a loan agreement between an individual and several different lenders. A bilateral business loan is a loan agreement between an individual and one lender. While syndicated loans are the more commonly seen loan type in the business world, bilateral loans also have their uses. 
DEFINITION of 'Loan Syndication'. The process of involving several different lenders in providing various portions of a loan. Loan syndication most often occurs in situations where a borrower requires a large sum of capital that may either be too much for a single lender to provide, or may be outside the scope of a lender's risk exposure levels. Mainly used in extremely large loan situations, syndication allows any one lender to provide a large loan while maintaining a more prudent and manageable credit exposure, because the lender isn't the only creditor.
Syndicated loans are debts issued by a consortium of lenders to a sole borrower. The amount of one syndicated loan is so big such that one lender cannot fund or take on the debt alone. comments. Syndicated loans are debts issued by a consortium of lenders to a sole borrower. The amount of one syndicated loan is so big such that one lender cannot fund or take on the debt alone. Corporations are usually the borrowers for this type of loan. They use the funds to help them bankroll takeovers, acquisitions or expansion projects.