The period of a wave is the time for a particle on a medium to make one complete vibrational cycle. Period, being a time, is measured in units of time such as seconds, hours, days or years. The period of orbit for the Earth around the Sun is approximately 365 days; it takes 365 days for the Earth to complete a cycle. Answer: 0.0195 sec. Here is an example of a problem with a lot of extraneous information. The period is simply the reciprocal of the frequency. In this case, the period is 1/(51.2 Hz) which is 0.0195 seconds.
OK. This gets into MRI and molecular physics. This is basic 2nd year university physics stuff (V cross B/Hall effect) For protons (hydrogen nuclei), the Larmor frequency is 42.58 MHz/Tesla. So a 3.0 Tesla MRI (127.74 MHz) is double the Larmor frequency of a 1.5 Tesla (85.16MHz) .
Report Abuse. 'Period' in wave motion is measure in units of time. The period of a wave is the time taken between corresponding points on a train of waves. This time is related to the frequency of the wave: Period, T = 1 / Frequency. Frequency is measured in Hz (or cycles per second) The distance between corresponding points on a wave is the wavelength-measured in units of distance. Source(s): Me: I'm a radio engineer.
The SI unit for period is the second. For counts per unit of time, the SI unit for frequency is hertz (Hz), named after the German physicist Heinrich Hertz; 1 Hz means that an event repeats once per second. A previous name for this unit was cycles per second (cps). For each dot, f is the frequency in hertz (Hz) – meaning the number of times per second (i.e. cycles per second) that it flashes – while T is the flashes' period in seconds (s), meaning the number of seconds per cycle. Each T and f are reciprocal.
The period of the object's motion is defined as the time for the object to complete one full cycle. Being a time, the period is measured in units such as seconds, milliseconds, days or even years. The standard metric unit for period is the second. An object in periodic motion can have a long period or a short period. 
Period (T) is the time required for any repeating process (waves included) to complete an entire cycle. The units of period are the units of time, such as seconds. This time is related to the frequency of the wave: Period, T = 1 / Frequency. Frequency is measured in Hz (or cycles per second) The distance between corresponding points on a wave is the wavelength-measured in units of distance. Source(s): Me: I'm a radio engineer.
Angular Frequency. Angular frequency, f, is defined as the number of circular revolutions in a given time interval. It is commonly measured in units of Hertz (Hz), where 1 Hz = 1 s –1. For example, the second hand on a clock completes one revolution every 60 seconds and therefore has an angular frequency of 1 / 60 Hz. T = 1/f. Since we know that the frequency of the second hand is 1 / 60 Hz, we can quickly see that the period of the second hand is 60 s. It takes 60 seconds for the second hand to complete a revolution, so the period of the second hand is 60 seconds.
Frequency is the number of occurrences of a repeating event per unit time. It is also referred to as temporal frequency, which emphasizes the contrast to spatial frequency and angular frequency. The period is the duration of time of one cycle in a repeating event, so the period is the reciprocal of the frequency. For example, if a newborn baby's heart beats at a frequency of 120 times a minute, its period – the interval between beats – is half a second (60 seconds (i.e., a minute) divided by 120 beats). For each dot, f is the frequency in hertz (Hz) – meaning the number of times per second (i.e. cycles per second) that it flashes – while T is the flashes' period in seconds (s), meaning the number of seconds per cycle. Each T and f are reciprocal.