Price and Plans. Lynda.com is a subscription-based service. Some videos are made available free to help you preview courses, but you really need a subscription to get to the valuable meat of this online learning site. You can try the service for 10 days, but you'll have to enter a credit card for access. By Jill Duffy, Jordan Minor Lynda.com is hands-down one of the best sources for online learning. For years, Lynda.com (from $25 per month) has put informative and clear video-based training in front of people who need it.
A Lynda.com subscription grants members unlimited access to a vast library of over 2,000 courses and over 107,000 high quality, current, and engaging video tutorials. Approximately 24 new courses and topics are added every month at no extra cost. According to degreedirectory.org, the average cost of tuition per credit at an online university is around $200-300 for undergraduate level business courses, and between $500-600 for technology or computer science courses.
A Basic plan costs $25 per month or $240 per year, and that includes unlimited access to all the videos Lynda.com has to offer. In other words, rather than paying for a course, you pay for unlimited access to everything in the catalog. By Jill Duffy, Jordan Minor Lynda.com is hands-down one of the best sources for online learning. For years, Lynda.com (from $25 per month) has put informative and clear video-based training in front of people who need it.
Save $60! Sign up now * Billed as one time payment of $359.88 Unlimited access to all videos New courses weekly Project files to download Practice while you learn! Download the files the instructor uses to teach the course. Follow along and learn by watching, listening, and doing. $ 19 .99 per month. Sign up now Unlimited access to all videos New courses weekly Project files to download Practice while you learn! Download the files the instructor uses to teach the course. Follow along and learn by watching, listening, and doing.
Pay a month-to-month Premium subscription fee of $35, and you'll get the project files. Or opt for annual billing for a Premium account at $360 per year, and you'll get offline viewing access, too. By Jill Duffy, Jordan Minor Lynda.com is hands-down one of the best sources for online learning. For years, Lynda.com (from $25 per month) has put informative and clear video-based training in front of people who need it.
Lynda free trial – or claim your 60 days free with full membership. Good news – Lynda.com now increased their free trial period from 7 days to 10 days free trial, which means when you click any of the links below, you automatically qualify for a lynda.com 10-day free trial. 1  Save 30% on all Lynda.com plans. 2  Lynda.com 10-day free trial. 3  Lynda.com membership gift.
You can try the service for 10 days, but you'll have to enter a credit card for access. A Basic plan costs $25 per month or $240 per year, and that includes unlimited access to all the videos Lynda.com has to offer. In other words, rather than paying for a course, you pay for unlimited access to everything in the catalog. Pay a month-to-month Premium subscription fee of $35, and you'll get the project files. Or opt for annual billing for a Premium account at $360 per year, and you'll get offline viewing access, too.
In 2013, I signed up to a 7 day free trial of Lynda.com. before upgrading to a paid account. It cost me just under EUR19 for a month’s access. For this, you can watch any of Lynda.com’s 3000+ courses and learn on your computer or mobile device. Update: Lynda.com now offer a 10 day free trial. Lynda.com offers a premium version for just under EUR28 per month. This premium service gives users access to all of Lynda.com’s source files and lets users save videos for offline
There are various levels of individual and business subscriptions so that there is a membership for every need. One of the best values is the annual individual membership which offers a Lynda 60-day free trial. The end result is that the consumer gets 12 months of unlimited access for the price of 10. Further, if one subscribes to the premium annual membership, there is a Lynda.com discount of $50. Good news – Lynda.com now increased their free trial period from 7 days to 10 days free trial, which means when you click any of the links below, you automatically qualify for a lynda.com 10-day free trial. 1  Save 30% on all Lynda.com plans. 2  Lynda.com 10-day free trial. 3  Lynda.com membership gift.