DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection) 4 mcg/mL is available as a sterile solution in cartons of ten 1 mL single-dose ampules (NDC 0075-2451-01) and in 10 mL multiple-dose vials (NDC 0075-2451-53), each containing 4.0 mcg DDAVP per mL. Directions for use of One Point Cut (OPC) Ampules for DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection) : 1  Use aseptic technique to clean ampule. 2  Gently tap the top of the ampule to assist the flow of the solution from the upper portion of the ampule to the lower portion.
Uses. Desmopressin is used to control the amount of urine your kidneys make. Normally, the amount of urine you make is controlled by a certain substance in the body called vasopressin. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious
von Willebrand's Disease (Type I): DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection) 4 mcg/mL is indicated for patients with mild to moderate classic von Willebrand's disease (Type I) with factor VIII levels greater than 5%. Directions for use of One Point Cut (OPC) Ampules for DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection) : 1  Use aseptic technique to clean ampule. 2  Gently tap the top of the ampule to assist the flow of the solution from the upper portion of the ampule to the lower portion.
Desmopressin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Desmopressin is a man-made form of a hormone that occurs naturally in the pituitary gland. This hormone is important for many functions including blood flow, blood pressure, kidney function, and regulating how the body uses water. Desmopressin injection is used to treat hemophilia A or von Willebrand's disease Type I. Desmopressin injection is also used to treat central cranial diabetes insipidus, and increased thirst and urination caused by head surgery or head trauma.
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY DDAVP Injection 4 mcg/mL contains as active substance, desmopressin acetate, a synthetic analogue of the natural hormone arginine vasopressin. One mL (4 mcg) of DDAVP (desmopressin acetate) solution has an antidiuretic activity of about 16 IU; 1 mcg of DDAVP is equivalent to 4 IU. (See WARNINGS .) In case of overdosage, the dosage should be reduced, frequency of administration decreased, or the drug withdrawn according to the severity of the condition. There is no known specific antidote for desmopressin acetate or DDAVP Injection 4 mcg/mL.
DDAVP Injection 4 mcg/mL is contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of DDAVP Injection 4 mcg/mL. DDAVP is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (defined as a creatinine clearance below 50ml/min). (See WARNINGS .) In case of overdosage, the dosage should be reduced, frequency of administration decreased, or the drug withdrawn according to the severity of the condition. There is no known specific antidote for desmopressin acetate or
Desmopressin nasal may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Desmopressin is a man-made form of a hormone that occurs naturally in the pituitary gland. Desmopressin injection is used to treat hemophilia A or von Willebrand's disease Type I. Desmopressin injection is also used to treat central cranial diabetes insipidus, and increased thirst and urination caused by head surgery or head trauma.
DDAVP® Injection (desmopressin acetate) 4 mcg/mL is a synthetic analogue of the natural pituitary hormone 8-arginine vasopressin (ADH), an antidiuretic hormone affecting renal water conservation. It is chemically defined as follows: Mol. Stop using desmopressin and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  nausea, vomiting, weakness, loss of appetite, headache, feeling restless or irritable, confusion, hallucinations, muscle pain or weakness, and/or seizure;
DDAVP Injection 4 mcg/mL is provided as a sterile, aqueous solution for injection. Each mL provides: Desmopressin acetate 4.0 mcg Sodium chloride 9.0 mg Hydrochloric acid to adjust pH to 4 The 10 mL vial contains chlorobutanol as a preservative (5.0 mg/mL). (See WARNINGS .) In case of overdosage, the dosage should be reduced, frequency of administration decreased, or the drug withdrawn according to the severity of the condition. There is no known specific antidote for desmopressin acetate or DDAVP Injection 4 mcg/mL.
Diabetes Insipidus: DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection)) diabetes insipidus and for the management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region. DDAVP is ineffective for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Directions for use of One Point Cut (OPC) Ampules for DDAVP Injection (desmopressin acetate injection) : 1  Use aseptic technique to clean ampule. 2  Gently tap the top of the ampule to assist the flow of the solution from the upper portion of the ampule to the lower portion.