Various Types Of Cranes. A crane is a tower or derrick that is equipped with cables and pulleys that are used to lift and lower material. They are commonly used in the construction industry and in the manufacturing of heavy equipment. Cranes for construction are normally temporary.
1 Tower Crane. 2  Different types of cranes exist depending on the particular job that needs to be completed. 3  One of the most commonly seen cranes seen in cities is a tower crane. 4  Tower cranes were initially developed in Europe and are now popular all over the world.
Different Types of Cranes. The types of cranes used in construction are generally temporary structures and will be either fixed to the ground or mounted on a vehicle. The operator can control the crane from inside a cab that moves with the crane, by radio controls or by a push button pendant control station.
NSA461 120928 | Page 2 of 7 Types of Cranes Sidelift Crane A side lifter crane is a road-going truck or semi-trailer, able to hoist and transport ISO standard containers. Container lift is done with parallel crane-like hoists, which can lift a container from the ground or from a railway vehicle.
1 Different types of cranes exist depending on the particular job that needs to be completed. 2  One of the most commonly seen cranes seen in cities is a tower crane. 3  Tower cranes were initially developed in Europe and are now popular all over the world. 4  A tower crane is used in the construction of tall buildings.
NSA461 120928 | Page 1 of 7 Types of Cranes Mounted Crane A crane mounted on a truck carrier provides the mobility for this type of crane. Generally, these cranes are able to travel on highways, eliminating the need for special equipment to transport the crane.
1 Other types of mobile cranes used in construction are floating cranes. 2  Floating cranes are usually used in waterway construction such as bridges, ports, and dams.
When it comes to types of cranes, there is a wide variety of brands, sizes, weights, and lifting capacity to suit any lifting needed anywhere in the world. What we find is that most cranes are engineered to have a working life of between 20-25 years, if there is regular maintenance and upkeep done.