Mook (noun) Originally referred to an Italian-American male; similar to Mick in reference to an Irish-American male; Modern use extends beyond ethnicity, gender, and income levels to refer to a average person inclined not to be athletically or mentally gifted, especially in the moment or during a particular situation. Two brothers reply ...because we are just a couple of Mooks! when asked why after graduating from elite universities they ended up doing PBS talk radio about automobile repairs. The word mook is best applied with a Bronx, Philly, or New Jersey shore accent.
Mook is slang for a stupidly annoying person. Mook is a term used in the advertising industry for the type of 'in your face person', like Tom Green, the people in the tv show jackass or the cartoon south park The term Mook sparks a brawl in Martin Scorsese's film Mean Streets. The term mook was a fairly common description for these types of books during the 1980s, but, while the reference books are still being published, the term has now fallen into disuse as English becomes more prevalent in Asia, although the term has resurfaced a few times in recent years.
1 The Mooks, a gang in the City of Villains MMORPG. 2  Mooks, a type of extraterrestrial enemy in Mother and EarthBound. 3  Mook (gaming) , often synonymous with mob, but generally used to refer to enemies specifically opposed to the player. 1 Mook, a playable character race in the Wizardry RPG series. 2  The Mooks, a gang in the City of Villains MMORPG. 3  Mooks, a type of extraterrestrial enemy in Mother and EarthBound. 4  Mook (gaming) , often synonymous with mob, but generally used to refer to enemies specifically opposed to the player.
Mook is used as either a humorous (knucklehead) or derrogative (jerk) expression of humanistic imperfection or inappropriatness, such as to describe a person's clumsiness or loudness. The word is most often heard in the NE region of the United States, particularly New York City, Atlantic City, Philadelphia, and Boston. Hear What a mook! in a ballpark when a baseball player drops an easy fly ball or to describe a person having no worldly knowledge beyond his neighborhood. Two brothers reply ...because we are just a couple of Mooks! when asked why after graduating from elite universities they ended up doing PBS talk radio about automobile repairs. The word mook is best applied with a Bronx, Philly, or New Jersey shore accent.
Report Abuse. Mook is a slang term with several different meanings. The term mook or jamook is Italian American slang for an annoying, stupid, undesirable person. Often simply meaning that the person is contemptible or below your consideration. The term Mook sparks a brawl in Martin Scorsese's film Mean Streets. In some cases, mook can refer to a nondescript, unspecial person, such as some mook from the block.. Mook is the Japanese publishing industry's generic name for quarterly or irregularly published large-format softcover publications having more pages than a typical magazine, yet less pages than a proper book
Mooks In the game City of Villains is a Gang that is currently at war with The Family. The mooks are headed by Gang Leader Guido The Mook Verrandi, the former advisor to Emil Marcone's (the leader of The Family) father Manuel Marcone. The term mook was a fairly common description for these types of books during the 1980s, but, while the reference books are still being published, the term has now fallen into disuse as English becomes more prevalent in Asia, although the term has resurfaced a few times in recent years.
mook. A term coined by Douglas Rushkoff in an episode of PBS's Frontline entitled The Merchants of Cool.. Mooks are archetypal young males(teens-early 20s) who act like moronic boneheads. They are self centered simpletons who live a drunken frat-boy lifestyle(or are frat-boys). Examples can be found anytime someone watches Jackass.
Merriam Webster defines mook as a slang term from the 1930's. It refers to a foolish, insignificant, or contemptible person. Wiktionary defined it as a disagreeable or incompetent person. Pretty close to what i thought it meant. I also found reference to it as a movie/game term. It is a slang term for the hordes of standard-issue, disposable bad guys whom the hero mows down with impunity.
Definition of MOOK. : a foolish, insignificant, or contemptible person. ADVERTISEMENT. 