Xylem and phloem are the two types of vascular tissues found in plants. Xylem tissues transport water from the roots throughout the plant, while phloem transports food (suga … rs) from photosysnthesis throughout the plant. Both are found in the central vascular bundle. Basically, xylem tranports water and phloem transports organic substances. Xylem is a tissue found in vascular plants that transorts water and dissolved mineral nutrients.
Xylem. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cells. 2  Is transported through the xylem vessels up the stem to the leaves. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cell
Plants have long pipe-like vessels to transport water and nutrients dissolved in the water. The vessels are made of special cells, forming the vascular tissue.The vascular tissue for the transport of water and nutrients in the plant is called the xylem. Thus, the xylem is found in the root system of the plant. =). 4 people found this useful.
Plants have two different types of transport tissue. Xylem transports water and solutes from the roots to the leaves, phloem transports food from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Transpiration is the process by which water evaporates from the leaves, which results in more water being drawn up from the roots. Xylem vessels xylem vessel: Vein-like tissue which transports water and minerals up a plant are involved in the movement of water through a plant from its roots to its leaves. Water: 1  Is absorbed from the soil through root hair cell
V ascular plants contain two main types of conduction tissue, the xylem and phloem. These two tissues extend from the leaves to the roots, and are vital conduits for water and nutrient transport. In a sense, they are to plants what veins and arteries are to animals. 
Phloem: tubes that usually move sap, with dissolved sucrose, produced by photosynthesis in the leaf, out of the leaf and to other parts of the plant. Both are found in the central vascular bundle. Basically, xylem tranports water and phloem transports organic substances. Xylem is a tissue found in vascular plants that transorts water and dissolved mineral nutrients.
Xylem also contains two other cell types: parenchyma and fibers. Xylem can be found: 1  in vascular bundles, present in non-woody plants and non-woody parts of woody plants. 2  in secondary xylem, laid down by a meristem called the vascular cambium in woody plants. The most distinctive xylem cells are the long tracheary elements that transport water. Tracheids and vessel elements are distinguished by their shape; vessel elements are shorter, and are connected together into long tubes that are called vessels.
Phloem and xylem are complex tissues that perform transportation of food and water in a plant. They are the vascular tissues of the plant and together form vascular bundles. They work together as a unit to bring about effective transportation of food, nutrients, minerals and water. 
Xylem and phloem are found in the vascular tissue of a plant. Xylem is located in the roots of a flower and phloem is located in the stem. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Biology. Both are found in the central vascular bundle. Basically, xylem tranports water and phloem transports organic substances. Xylem is a tissue found in vascular plants that transorts water and dissolved mineral nutrients.