191 Followers. A. Tramadol is a man-made (synthetic) analgesic (pain reliever). Its exact mechanism of action is unknown but similar morphine. Like morphine, tramadol binds to receptors in the brain (opioid receptors) that are important for transmitting the sensation of pain from throughout the body to.
Strong opioids (sometimes called opiates) are medicines used to treat severe pain. Tramadol is a type of strong opioid. It works on your nervous system and brain to reduce the way you feel pain.
Tramadol is sometimes prescribed off-label to treat migraines and drug withdrawal. Some individuals may experience hives as part of an allergic reaction to Tramadol. Drowsiness is a common side effect of Tramadol. Headaches can be a side effect of taking tramadol.
Tramadol is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol extended-release tablets and capsules are only used by people who are expected to need medication to relieve pain around-the-clock. Tramadol is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics.
Tramadol, like other narcotics used for the treatment of pain, may be abused. Tramadol is not a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and does not have the increased risk of stomach ulceration and internal bleeding that can occur with NSAIDs. This answer should not be considered medical advice...
1 Tramadol (Ultram, Tramal, others below) is a centrally-acting analgesic, used in treating moderate to moderately severe pain. 2  The drug has a wide range of applications, including treatment for restless leg syndrome, acid reflux, and fibromyalgia.
Tramadol or Ultram® is a German invented pain reliever created in the 1970s. It is quite different than other prescribed pain relievers like codeine or hydrocodone, and generally considered far less addictive, though people can become addicted to it.
Tramadol, like other narcotics used for the treatment of pain, may be abused. Tramadol is not a nonsteroidal anti-iinflammatory drug (NSAID) and does not have the increased risk of stomach ulceration and internal bleeding that can occur with NSAIDs. The FDA approved tramadol in March 1995.