Welcome to Ravenswood Hotel, Near Mandurah on the Banks of the Murray River. Located on the banks of the Murray River WA, the Ravenswood Hotel is renowned for its idyllic setting, live entertainment, great food and friendly atmosphere. Offering a truly unique experience for visitors anytime of year, the Ravenswood Hotel is only a 50 minute drive from Perth (turn left at Pinjarra Road freeway exit). From humble beginnings as a wheat farm in 1838, the Ravenswood Hotel is now a historic slice of Australiana.
View Suburb Map. The townsite of Ravenswood is located in the south west region, 83 km south of Perth and 8 km south east of Mandurah. It is located on a bend in the Murray River, and was originally the name of a property taken up in this area by Adam Armstrong in the 1840's. Armstrong's property was known as Ravenswood Farm. Ravenswood was known as a locality as early as 1895, and following private subdivision in the area in the 1960's the Shire of Murray requested the declaration of a townsite. The townsite of Ravenswood was gazetted in 1970.
Ravenswood is a gorgeous cul-de-sac community originally crafted by premier Northwest builder John F. Buchan Homes that features a variety of home styles: cul-de-sac homes, homes backing to green space, and more. Ravenswood residents bask in the privacy of a neighborhood that ends in a cul-de-sac and has no drive through traffic. Ravenswood residents enjoy a private community park with activities for all ages
Welcome to Ravenswood Farm! We are a multi-disciplinary equestrian facility located on 25 acres between Cougar and Squak Mountains. Ravenswood Farm is just 10 minutes away from downtown Issaquah and Exit 15 off the I-90. We welcome riders of all experience levels and deeply care about our horses.
Ravenswood is a city in Jackson County, West Virginia, United States, along the Ohio River. The population was 3,876 at the 2010 census. Ravenswood public schools include Henry J. Kaiser Elementary School (Grades K-2), Ravenswood Grade School (Grades 3-5), Ravenswood Middle School (Grades 6-8), and Ravenswood High School (9-12). Ravenswood Grade School is located about 1-1/2 miles outside of the town limits.
Read More. Located on the banks of the Murray River WA, the Ravenswood Hotel is renowned for its idyllic setting, live entertainment, great food and friendly atmosphere. Offering a truly unique experience for visitors anytime of year, the Ravenswood Hotel is only a 50 minute drive from Perth (turn left at Pinjarra Road freeway exit). From humble beginnings as a wheat farm in 1838, the Ravenswood Hotel is now a historic slice of Australiana.
Welcome to Ravenswoodin Issaquah, WA. Our Community website was developed to serve as an informative resource for both our neighborhood and our local community.Please feel free to contact us with your comments and suggestions. MEETINGS AND EVENTSDryer vent cleaningDate: August 25th, 2015Time: Beginning at 9amPlace: Your Ravenswood home. We're having our dryer vents cleaned to increase dryer efficiency and satisfy our insurance requirements.
Melodie has been managing Ravenswood Farm for several years. Previously she had a very successful career managing and riding horses on the racetrack before coming to Ravenswood. Melodie shares her time between managing the farm and spending time with her family in Southern WA. Meet the Owners: With a strong love of horses and a passion for riding, Frank and Michelle Sample purchased Ravenswood Farm in 1997. Frank is a lifetime long Western rider, enjoying trail rides and simply being around the horses.