For a medium to medium-rare steak, I would grill this over hot coals for 6 minutes on the first side. Turn and grill for about 4 minutes on the other side. Get a meat thermometer to check the doneness of the steak. When the meat is 170-degrees Fahrenheit, it is well done, 160 degrees for medium and 145 degrees for medium-rare. You are now ready to enjoy. Happy to help you.
A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out. A normal steak cut is about 3/4 of an inch thick and on average, the cooking temp on a grill is 300-350of. With these, an average of about 8 minutes per side will leave a bit of red in the center. To be safe, check it a bit early by cutting a small slice in the middle of the steak
Lay the steak away from direct flames; as the steak cooks, fat will drip down and cause the flames to jump up and burn the steak. Cook the steak for 2 to 3 minutes, depending on how you like it cooked, and then rotate the steak 45 degrees and cook another 2 to 3 minutes to give the steak diamond-patterned sear marks. Cooking Times. Rare: 8-10 minutes for a 1-inch steak or 10-12 minutes for a 1 1/2-inch steak. Medium: 12-14 minutes for a 1-inch steak or 16-20 minutes for a 1 1/2-inch steak. Well-done: 16-20 minutes for a 1-inch steak or 22-26 minutes for a 1 1/2-inch steak
If you are pan-frying the steak, for medium I would do it about 5 minutes per side on medium-high heat...1 inch is not very thick, so it shouldn't take any longer than that. samantha · 9 years ago. Enter the details like the type of grill (gas or charcoal), the cut of steak, that it's 1 inch think and that you want it medium. It will give you precise instructions for how to grill steak that are right what you're looking for.
To cook a 1-inch-thick steak, use direct heat. When grill is hot (you can hold your hand at grill level only 2 to 3 seconds), follow directions below; cook steak 8 to 10 minutes for rare, 12 to 15 for medium. To cook a 2-inch-thick steak, use direct heat. When grill is medium (you can hold your hand at grill level only 4 to 5 seconds), follow directions below; cook steak 20 to 25 minutes for rare, 27 to 30 for medium. To cook a 3-inch-thick steak, use indirect heat. Follow directions below; cook steak 40 to 45 minutes for rare, 50 to 65 for medium. Direct Heat: Place steak on grill with heat directly under it. Cook, turning once, until meat is browned and desired doneness.
Nobody wants that. The rib eye also has more connective tissue than other steaks, especially as it gets higher up toward the shoulder, and those tissues also need time to render and break down. A 1 1/2-inch steak should cook for about 5 minutes on each side in a hot skillet or grill. Invest in some grapeseed oil — it has a higher smoke-point than most neutral oils, which means you can get a better sear on your steak without setting off the fire alarm. 
Best Answer: It depends on the type of steak, but here's a best guess. Medium to medium high burner setting, 6-7 minutes per side. As for a website, if you can grill it next time, the cookout calculator at charcoalbob.com might help. Enter the details like the type of grill (gas or charcoal), the cut of steak, that it's 1 inch think and that you want it medium. It will give you precise instructions for how to grill steak that are right what you're looking for. It also has grilling tips. Other considerations
The variables are: Thickness of the steak, temperature of the grill  and distance of the grill from the fla … me. For a 1-inch steak, try  using a medium heat and flip the steak after 5 minutes. Give the  steak another 3 minutes and cut into it. If the center is not pink,  you over-cooked it. If it is red, you didn't cook it long enough. Get a meat thermometer to check the doneness of the steak. When the meat is 170-degrees Fahrenheit, it is well done, 160 degrees for medium and 145 degrees for medium-rare. You are now ready to enjoy. Happy to help you.