Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs.
Aerobic and Anaerobic Respiration both deal with the creation of energy, or ATP, within the body. Both begin through a process called Glycolosis in which a glucose molecule is … split into two pyruvate molecules. The main difference between aerobic and anaerobic respiration occurs after glycolosis.
Aerobic respiration requires oxygen in order to generate energy molecule ATP, where as an anaerobic respiration synthesize ATP by using the electron transport chain, with inorganic molecules other than oxygen. Anaerobic Respiration is typically referred to as fermentation and no oxygen is used in the process. There are two types of fermentation which include lactic acid fermentation or alcoholic fermentation.
Aerobic respiration is the one that repuire oxygen for metabolism and cannot live without it,example such as pneumonia.many of these bacteria cause respiratory illnesses. Anaerobic is the one that do NOT require oxygen.There are also two types of Anaerobic respiration,Obligate and Facultative.
Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs.
However, aerobic respiration produces much more energy, or ATP molecules, than anaerobic respiration. For every molecule of glucose that is metabolized in the presence of oxygen by aerobic respiration, 38 ATP molecules are produced.
Energy is obtained more efficiently in the presence of oxygen via the process called aerobic respiration. When there is no oxygen available to break the sugar molecules, some cells are still able to produce energy by the process called fermentation or anaerobic cellular respiration or anaerobic glycolysis. Certain organisms do not need molecular oxygen to produce the energy molecules called ATP.