Full Definition of COWARD. : one who shows disgraceful fear or timidity. — coward adjective. See coward defined for English-language learners. See coward defined for kids. 
Coward. 1  Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion. 2  Destitute of courage; timid; cowardly. 3  Belonging to a coward; proceeding from, or expressive of, base fear or timidity. 4  A person who lacks courage; a timid or pusillanimous person; a poltroon. 5  To make timorous; to frighten. 
coward. a person who lacks courage, esp. one who is shamefully unable to control fear and so shrinks from danger or trouble. Middle English and amp; Old French couard, coward, literally, with tail between the legs; from Old French coue, coe, tail; from Classical Latin cauda, tail. Origin of coward. noun. The definition of a coward is a person who lacks courage and turns away from danger. An example of coward is a man who runs the other direction after seeing a person who needs help.
coward noun [C]. B2 a ​person who is not ​brave and is too ​eager to ​avoid ​danger, ​difficulty, or ​pain: They ​branded her a coward for ​informing on her ​colleagues during the interrogation. More examples. 1  He ​ despised himself for being such a coward. 2  He is a coward and a ​ bully. coward noun [C]. › ​person who is not ​brave, is ​easily ​frightened, or ​tries to ​avoid ​danger or ​difficulties: A coward is someone who ​sends you a ​nasty ​letter without ​signing it.
cow′ard adj. Word History: A coward is one who turns tail.. The word comes from Old French couart, coart, coward, and is related to Italian codardo, coward.. Couart is formed from coe, a northern French dialectal variant of cue, tail (from Latin cōda), to which the derogatory suffix-ard was added. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a coward is a person who lacks courage and turns away from danger. An example of coward is a man who runs the other direction after seeing a person who needs help.
Origin. Middle English: from Old French couard, based on Latin cauda 'tail', possibly with reference to a frightened animal with its tail between its legs, reflected in sense 2 of the adjective (early 16th century). More. The Latin word cauda ‘tail’ is the source of coward. This may be from the idea of a frightened animal drawing its tail between its legs or ‘turning tail’ in flight. In heraldry lion coward is the term for a lion depicted with its tail drawn between its hind legs
: someone who is too afraid to do what is right or expected: someone who is not at all brave or courageous. a proven coward who had deserted his troops. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. Comments & Questions. 
coward punch. A term used in Australia. A very hard punch, usually delivered to the head, that is completely unexpected. Most often results in knock outs or knock downs. Viewed upon by most as an act of cowardice. 