“Radionecrosis is the result of damage to either soft tissues or bone caused by ionizing radiation during the course of radiation therapy,” says Susan Mahany, MD, Medical Director of St. Joseph’s/Candler’s Center for Hyperbarics and Wound Care in Savannah. Returning The Power To Heal Long after successful radiation therapy, patients may need hyperbaric treatment for damaged tissue For cancer survivors, there is often a quest for a new normal—a daily way to manage the long-term physical and emotional effects of going through a life-altering disease and its treatment.
Treatment Options. In cases of soft tissue radionecrosis,the damage caused by the radiation primarily affects the blood vessels. Aside from adequate nutritional and medical support, hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) is indicated for the treatment of this condition. Soft tissue radionecrosis can cause extensive tissue death, resulting in ulceration of the affected area. More often than not, the wounds caused by soft tissue radionecrosis are of the nonhealing type.
Osteoradionecrosis is a possible complication following radiotherapy where an area of bone does not heal from irradiation. Irradiation of bones causes damage to osteocytes and impairs the blood supply. The affected hard tissues become hypovascular (reduced number of blood vessels), hypocellular (reduced number of cells) and hypoxic (low levels of oxygen).
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy offers significant beneficial effects for these conditions as well as other radiation damaged soft tissues and is the only treatment that has been shown in clinical trials to reverse the damaging affects of radiation. Radiation damage can occur anywhere in the body that radiotherapy has been used to treat cancer. Radiation to the urinary bladder can cause pain, incontinence and bleeding, this is called hemorrhagic cystitis. Radiation proctitis or enteritis can occur when there is radiation to the area of the lower GI tract.
Abstract. Radionecrosis is still one of the major complications following the use of radiotherapy in the treatment of malignant tumors [1–7]. Because of the late effects of radiation, soft tissue and bone changes as obliterative endarteritis and fibrosis occur [8–11]
Definition and Causes. Radionecrosis is a complication of cancer radiation therapy, especially external beam radiation therapy (EBRT). Necrosis means the death of cells in bones, organs, and soft tissues. Side effects of radiation therapy may not present a health problem for months or even years after treatment. Treatment with Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) is widely accepted as an effective treatment for delayed radiation injuries. HBOT works by improving blood circulation, supplying more oxygen to damaged tissue, reducing scarring, and increasing stem cell activity.
Causes. As the name suggests, exposure to radiation is the cause of soft tissue radionecrosis. Upon exposure to radiation, the tissue starts to become damaged and results in the proliferation of cells lining the small arteries and capillaries (proliferative endarteritis). Soft tissue radionecrosis can cause extensive tissue death, resulting in ulceration of the affected area. More often than not, the wounds caused by soft tissue radionecrosis are of the nonhealing type.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy works to heal the soft tissue by promoting angiogenesis, the growth of blood vessels into a tissue involving the development of new capillary blood vessels, in the injured areas. This allows for improved oxygenation and nutrition. Print. Patients who undergo radiation therapy sometimes experience complications long after the treatment. Soft tissue radionecrosis, especially of the head and neck, was studied by R.E.
For example, during radiation for neck cancers, the larynx or voice box can sustain radionecrosis and its cartilages damaged. The main treatment is to put the patient in a hyperbaric, that is, superstaurated oxygen chamber for a few hours whenever chances of radionecrosis is suspected during radiation treatment. Expert: Dr. P. Jyoti replied 6 years ago. Radionecrosis is damage to the body tissues due to radiation. This occurs mainly during radiation therapy given for cancers. Tissues which can be damaged include bon, muscles, cartilage, blood vessels, skin, etc.