Clark Leonard Hull (May 24, 1884 – May 10, 1952) was an influential American psychologist who sought to explain learning and motivation by scientific laws of behavior. Hull is known for his debates with Edward C. Tolman. He is also known for his work in drive theory. Hull spent the mature part of his career at Yale University, where he was recruited by the president and former-psychologist, James Rowland Angell. Clark Hull found inspiration for his own theory of learning after learning about Ivan Pavlov ’s idea of conditional reflexes, and Watson ’s system of behaviorism.
Clark Leonard Hull (May 24, 1884 – May 10, 1952) was an influential American psychologist and learning theorist in behaviorism. He sought to explain learning and motivation by scientific laws of behavior. In 1929, Clark Hull was named to a research position at Yale University and began the serious development of his behavior theory. During that period of his professional career, Hull also published influential articles on behavior theory in the Psychological Review.
According to such theorists as Clark Hull and Kenneth Spence, drive reduction is a major cause of learning and behavior. Primary drives are innate drives (e.g. thirst, hunger, and sex), whereas secondary drives are learned by conditioning (e.g. money). Clark Hull aimed to develop a learning theory that could be deduced mathematically. He created the Mathematico Deductive Theory of Behavior: sER = (V x D x K x J x sHr) – (sIr + Ir) +/- sOr (Thomson, 1968).
Clark Leonard Hull (1884 - 1952) was an influential American psychologist and behaviorist who sought to explain learning and motivation by scientific laws of behavior. 
Life. Clark Leonard Hull was born in Akron, New York on May 24, 1884. He was raised in Michigan, attending a one-room school for many years. Hull suffered from health problems, had poor eyesight, and was crippled from polio. His education was interrupted at various times due to illness and financial problems. In 1929, Clark Hull was named to a research position at Yale University and began the serious development of his behavior theory. During that period of his professional career, Hull also published influential articles on behavior theory in the Psychological Review.
Clark Hull grew up handicapped and contracted polio at the age of 24, yet he became one of the great contributors to psychology. His family was not well off so his education had to be stopped at times. When Clark was 34 when he received his Ph.D. in Psychology at the University of Wisconsin in 1918. Soon after graduation he became a member of the faculty at the University of Wisconsin, where he served for 10 years.
Clark Hull did his undergraduate work at University of Michigan (1913) and later earned his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1918. He spent most of his professional career at the Institute of Psychology at Yale University (1929 until his death in 1952). Major influences on Hull's thinking included the work of Pavlov, Darwin, Thorndike and Tolman. His theory was an attempt to create a synthesis of the theories of these researchers plus Newtonian physics.
Clark L. Hull. Clark Leonard Hull (May 24, 1884 – May 10, 1952) was an influential American psychologist who sought to explain learning and motivation by scientific laws of behavior. Hull is known for his debates with Edward C. Tolman. He is also known for his work in drive theory. Behavior. Clark Hull found inspiration for his own theory of learning after learning about Ivan Pavlov ’s idea of conditional reflexes, and Watson ’s system of behaviorism. He also was impacted by Edward Thorndike, as he adapted his theory to include and agree with Thorndike’s law of effect.