The recommended starting dosage of Diovan for most adults with high blood pressure (hypertension) is either 80 mg or 160 mg once a day. Based on the blood pressure response and/or Diovan side effects, the amount may be increased or decreased. For children ages 6 to 16, the recommended Diovan dosage is based on weight. The recommended starting amount is Diovan 1.3 mg per kg once daily (about 0.6 mg per pound once daily), up to a maximum of 40 mg per day.
As always, do not adjust your dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended starting dosage of Diovan HCT for most people with high blood pressure (hypertension) is Diovan HCT 160 mg/12.5 mg once a day. For most people with high blood pressure, the recommended starting Diovan HCT dosage is
The recommended starting valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide dose for most people with high blood pressure is 160 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The dose of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (Diovan HCT ®) your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: 1 If you do not take your valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as scheduled, take your next dose as soon as you remember. 2  If it is almost time for the next scheduled dose, skip the missed one and continue with normal dosing.
As always, do not adjust your dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended starting dosage of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide for most people with high blood pressure (hypertension) is 160 mg/12.5 mg once a day. Based on the blood pressure response and/or valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide side effects, the dosage may be increased or decreased. 1 If you do not take your valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as scheduled, take your next dose as soon as you remember. 2  If it is almost time for the next scheduled dose, skip the missed one and continue with normal dosing.
With each change in dosage, it may take several weeks to see the medication's full effect on lowering blood pressure. Most people take Diovan 80 mg to 320 mg, either as one daily dose or two smaller doses. For children ages 6 to 16, the recommended Diovan dosage is based on weight. The recommended starting amount is Diovan 1.3 mg per kg once daily (about 0.6 mg per pound once daily), up to a maximum of 40 mg per day. Your child's healthcare provider may adjust your child's dose as necessary
Diovan (valsartan) is available as capsules containing valsartan 80 mg or 160 mg. All strengths are packaged in bottles and unit dose blister packages (10 strips of 10 capsules) as described below. Adult Hypertension. The recommended starting dose of Diovan (valsartan) is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. Patients requiring greater reductions may be started at the higher dose. Diovan may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily, administered once a day
Diovan (Valsartan) Dosage. Diovan tablets come in doses of 40 mg, 80 mg, 160 mg, and 320 mg. For high blood pressure, doses range from 80 mg to 160 mg per day, but once your doctor finds the dose that is right for you, you might take up to 320 mg per day. A: Diovan (valsartan) is an angiotensin II receptor blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions. The most common side effects with Diovan are dizziness, and increased kidney function blood tests. Other side effects with Diovan include hepatitis (inflammation of the liver).
A: Diovan (valsartan) is used to treat high blood pressure. Some of its more common side effects are dizziness, low blood pressure, headache, diarrhea, joint pain, fatigue, abdominal pain, back pain, high potassium, and cough. A: Diovan (valsartan) is an angiotensin II receptor blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions. The most common side effects with Diovan are dizziness, and increased kidney function blood tests. Other side effects with Diovan include hepatitis (inflammation of the liver).
Heart Failure. The recommended starting dose of Diovan is 40 mg twice daily. (Doses below 80 mg are available only in the tablet form.) Uptitration to 80 mg and 160 mg twice daily should be done to the highest dose, as tolerated by the patient. Adult Hypertension. The recommended starting dose of Diovan (valsartan) is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. Patients requiring greater reductions may be started at the higher dose. Diovan may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily, administered once a day