Our standard on-site biometric screenings include the following measurements: 1  Choose Between Fingerstick or Blood Draw for a Cholesterol & Glucose test with readings on Total Cholesterol (TC), HDL Cholesterol, LDL Cholesterol, TC/HDL Ratio, and Triglycerides. 2  Blood Pressure. Currently, the wellness industry thinks of biometric screenings as necessary, but all the same. We’re out to prove that by providing better, more positive screening experiences employees will be more engaged and get more out of corporate wellness programs.
Biometric Screening (BMI-Height, Weight, Body Mass Index). Usually, the first thing that is done is your body measurements. Assessing your height, weight, and body mass index can help a health professional understand if you are overweight or not. 1 Blood Pressure High blood pressure or hypertension is linked to heart disease and stroke, which makes measuring your blood pressure a very important factor in the biometric screening process.
1 Cholesterol Levels Most people aren’t very fond of this test. 2  They draw blood by pricking your finger with a needle to test your cholesterol levels. 3  You will be given metrics on your total cholesterol, HDL, VDL, and VLDL cholesterol levels. 4  However, knowing your cholesterol level is important to know. 1 Blood Pressure High blood pressure or hypertension is linked to heart disease and stroke, which makes measuring your blood pressure a very important factor in the biometric screening process.
The typical biometric screening test can take up to 15 minutes, and is performed at a physician's clinic, or on site at an employment facility or college campus. A biometric screening is a short health examination that determines the risk level of a person for certain diseases and medical conditions.
The diabetes screening is performed by measuring glucose levels in the blood from the blood test.The cholesterol screening is performed with a finger-stick test that measures full lipid and glucose levels. The carotid artery ultrasound test determines the risk factor of having a stroke. A biometric screening is a short health examination that determines the risk level of a person for certain diseases and medical conditions.
Biometric Screening. During the biometric screening, a health professional will collect measurements, including height and weight. A sample of your blood will be taken to determine your cholesterol and glucose levels, triglycerides and other factors that can lead to lifestyle-related health complications. The biometric screening does not test for illicit drugs, HIV/AIDS, or hepatitis. The results are not shared with your employer. 
A biometric screening is typically used in a corporate wellness program. There are many reasons for this, but overall it’s to track the health of employees and improvement of their health. 1 Blood Pressure High blood pressure or hypertension is linked to heart disease and stroke, which makes measuring your blood pressure a very important factor in the biometric screening process.
All of our biometric tests are performed conveniently at the worksite with rapid results. The proper analysis of biometric data will develop a true health baseline for a designated population. If you are interested in our biometric test offerings please contact us. This is a combined test that measures Total Cholesterol and Glucose from the same blood sample. Fasting is not required for this test. The Total Cholesterol measurement is actually the combination of several different types of cholesterol in the blood.
Biometric Health Check. Biometric testing provides several measures including cholesterol level, blood glucose levels, weight and height measurements, blood tests, carotid ultrasound artery screening (used to determine the risk factors for stroke) and body mass index (BMI). Biometric testing determines the risk level of an individual for certain diseases and other medical conditions. It can identify significant cardiovascular and nervous system problems and can provide information about future health risk factors.
Biometric screenings are a series of health tests designed to offer insight into your employees’ overall health. Currently, the wellness industry thinks of biometric screenings as necessary, but all the same. We’re out to prove that by providing better, more positive screening experiences employees will be more engaged and get more out of corporate wellness programs.