Pharmacists review the accuracy of each filled prescription before it is given to the customer. Pharmacists dispense prescription medications to patients and offer expertise in the safe use of prescriptions. They also may provide advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle, conduct health and wellness screenings, provide immunizations, and oversee the medications given to patients. Community pharmacists work in retail stores such as chain drug stores or independently owned pharmacies. They dispense medications to patients and answer any questions that patients may have about prescriptions, over-the-counter medications, or any health concerns that the patient may have.
A pharmacist is a member of the health care team directly involved with patient care. Pharmacists undergo university-level education to understand the biochemical mechanisms and actions of drugs, drug uses, therapeutic roles, side effects, potential drug interactions, and monitoring parameters. The award wages for a pharmacist is $812 a week. Pharmacist graduates are the lowest paid university graduates most years. Most pharmacists do earn above the award wage; the average male pharmacist earns $65,000, a female pharmacist averages $56,500. Over recent years, wages have stagnated, and even gone backwards.
Pharmacy is the science and technique of preparing and dispensing drugs. It is a health profession that links health sciences with chemical sciences and aims to ensure the safe and effective use of pharmaceutical drugs. 
What Pharmacists Do. Pharmacists dispense prescription medications to patients and offer expertise in the safe use of prescriptions. They also may provide advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle, conduct health and wellness screenings, provide immunizations, and oversee the medications given to patients. Community pharmacists work in retail stores such as chain drug stores or independently owned pharmacies. They dispense medications to patients and answer any questions that patients may have about prescriptions, over-the-counter medications, or any health concerns that the patient may have.
Pharmacists, also known as chemists (Commonwealth English) or druggists (North American and, archaically, Commonwealth English), are healthcare professionals who practice in pharmacy, the field of health sciences focusing on safe and effective medication use. The award wages for a pharmacist is $812 a week. Pharmacist graduates are the lowest paid university graduates most years. Most pharmacists do earn above the award wage; the average male pharmacist earns $65,000, a female pharmacist averages $56,500. Over recent years, wages have stagnated, and even gone backwards.
Clinical pharmacists work directly with physicians, other health professionals, and patients to ensure that the medications prescribed for patients contribute to the best possible health outcomes. 
Pharmacists may work in all environments where medications are used or medication therapy is evaluated as part of the patients’ care, but most commonly in community-based settings and health-systems. Pharmacists are also legally charged to manage appropriate access to medication information and products. Pharmacists are medication experts, responsible to patients for achieving the best medication treatment outcomes at the same time assuring cost-effective and safe therapy.
What pharmacists do and where they work. Pharmacy is not just about filling prescriptions. it is about promoting health awareness and contributing to the betterment of the community. Consultant pharmacists are either employed by community pharmacies or hospitals, or are self-employed and contract with community pharmacies to provide medication reviews for residential care or ambulatory care patients and/or other medication-related cognitive services.
Pharmacists are responsible for: 1  the quality of medicines supplied to patients. 2  ensuring that the supply of medicines is within the law. 3  ensuring that the medicines prescribed to patients are suitable. 4  advising patients about medicines, including how to take them, what reactions may occur and answering patients' questions. 1 ensuring that the supply of medicines is within the law. 2  ensuring that the medicines prescribed to patients are suitable. 3