In 1866, Italy won Venice by helping Prussia against Austria in the Austro-Prussian War. Likewise, Italian help in the Franco-Prussian War earned it Rome (except for the Vatican which remained an independent state inside of Rome). By 1871, Italy was unified. But, as one politician put it, Italy is made.
The person who unified northern and southern Italy was... The White Man Giuseppe Garibaldi the Hero of the teo World in 1860 and recognised Vittorio Emanuele II as King of … Italy. 5 people found this useful.
Giuseppe Garibaldi unified Italy in 1861. He was an anti-Catholic (anti-papist) Freemason and is considered an Italian war hero.  The eventual unification of Italy took more … than a decade. Garibaldi made several attempts to seize Rome in the mid-1860s, and was captured three times and sent back to his farm.
The United States established diplomatic relations with Italy in 1861 following the unification of most of the peninsula into one state. In 1941, Italy -- with the other World War II Axis powers Germany and Japan -- declared war on the United States. U.S. relations with Italy were reestablished in 1944.
In the Franco-Prussian War, Garibaldi, out of sympathy for the newly formed French Republic, briefly fought against the Prussians.   As a result of the Franco-Prussian War, the Italian government took control of Rome, and Italy was essentially united. Garibaldi was eventually voted a pension by the Italian government, and he was considered a national hero until his death on June 2, 1882.
In War and Military History. Giuseppe Garibaldi unified Italy in 1861. He was an anti-Catholic (anti-papist) Freemason and is considered an Italian war hero.  The eventual unification of Italy took more … than a decade.
Garibaldi went on to help France's Third Republic in her war against Prussia. Already a popular hero he served as a global exemplar of mid-19th century revolutionary nationalism and liberalism.. His anti-clericalism was common among Latin liberals and did much in circumscribing the temporal power of the Papacy.