Every time I hear how the electronic data warehouse is referenced by clinicians and how the organization is using a rich repository of data to improve quality outcomes, all I can do is smile and say, wow, mission accomplished.” — Myra Davis, Chief Information Officer, Texas Children’s Hospital.
The data gathered by these performance standards can then be used to improve healthcare quality in a variety of ways, including: 1  Public reporting. 2  Pay for performance. 3  Internal quality improvement.
This discussion document, produced by the Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC) and endorsed by the Academy of Royal Medical Colleges (external link), highlights how improvements to the collection and use of hospital data by clinicians can be made to secure good quality outcomes and inform patient choice.
2Quality Improvement Demands Increasing Quality improvement is not a new concept for hospitals. Hospitals have had quality improvement departments and employed related staff for many years. What is new, however, is the proliferation of these activities and the escalating pressure on hospitals to participate.
—Bill Gates. Everybody wants better quality of data. Some organizations hope to improve data quality by moving data from legacy systems to enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) packages.
IMPROVING DATA QUALITY: A GUIDE FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 10 2 Data quality As coded health care data are being increasingly used in the health careenvironment, it is important to ensure that the original source data areaccurate and timely, which in turn, will produce reliable and useful information.
Safe and efficient patient care relies on high quality data. By taking responsibility for their clinical data, clinicians can improve its quality and help drive up standards of care. Our discussion document and resources can help you understand the importance of correct clinical coding, and how to improve your data quality.
The data gathered by these performance standards can then be used to improve healthcare quality in a variety of ways, including: 1  Public reporting. 2  A healthcare institution (e.g., a hospital) reports the results of a standard to an external body, such as a state or federal agency.