If convicted of a third OWI felony offense, then depending on your prior record, you could spend as many as one to two years in prison; the statute even allows up to five years! Cases that involve injury or death could result in 15 years in prison.
A first or second DUI conviction in Michigan is a misdemeanor offense unless the DUI involves an accident that causes death or serious bodily injury, in which case it may be classified as a felony. A third DUI within seven years is classif
Answer: Under most circumstances a conviction for driving under the influence is a misdemeanor, but there are circumstances upon which a DUI can be a felony. In many states, a drunk driving charge is considered a traffic offense or a misdemeanor, but those charges can be enhanced depending upon other factors.
In Michigan, you may be charged with a felony if convicted of a third drinking and driving offense. The penalties include one to five years in prison, expensive fines, probation, loss of driving privileges, and community services.
Read Case Wins. While most operating while intoxicated (OWI) offenses are considered a misdemeanor, you could be charged with a Michigan OWI felony if you have had three or more drunk-driving offenses in your lifetime or you were involved in a collision involving serious injury and/or death.
In Michigan a felony is any crime punishable by incarceration of more than one year. This would include any (non-injury/death) felony OWI, meaning three or more OWIs in one’s lifetime, or any OWI involving serious injury or death.
The drunk driving law in the State of Michigan makes it illegal to drive with a .08 percentage blood alcohol concentration (BAC) or above. The .08 limit is the standard measure of the impaired driver across the United States.
This would include a first offense OWI, which is punishable by up to 93 days, a super drunk offense, which is punishable by up to 180 days, first offense child endangerment and 2nd offense OWI, both of which are punishable by 5 days to one year. Under 21 BAC is also a misdemeanor.
In Michigan, a DUI is usually a misdemeanor crime. However, if you have a prior offense within the past seven years and you receive a DUI with a passenger under 16 years of age you face a felony offense. Also, a third or greater DUI is a felony offense under Michigan law regardless of the age of the prior offenses.