With a history of human use of over 7,000 years, garlic is native to central Asia, and has long been a staple in the Mediterranean region, as well as a frequent seasoning in Asia, Africa, and Europe. It was known to Ancient Egyptians, and has been used for both culinary and medicinal purposes. 
Garlic Mustard (Alliaria petiolata) – Originally from Europe, this invasive was introduced to the U.S. via Long Island in the 1860s. Garlic mustard can now be found throughout the eastern United States. Garlic mustard thrives in the understory where it has been demonstrated to displace native plants and alter forest communities. One aspect of garlic mustard that makes it a good invader is that its seeds may remain viable for up to five years.
Its thrifty, biennial habit allows the plant to optimize growth before native vegetation greens up while sewing thousands of seeds with each mother plant. A native to Europe, it was originally introduced in North America by settlers for its “proclaimed” medicinal properties and use in cooking. Understanding the life cycle. Garlic mustard is a biennial, meaning it completes its lifecycle in just two years. The first year it is a diminutive, even attractive little plant with clusters of 3 to 4 rounded-to kidney-shaped leaves with scalloped edges. At first glance, it may be mistaken for a wild violet.
Garlic mustard is also found in North Africa, India, Sri Lanka, and New Zealand. Site and Date of Introduction: The first sighting of the garlic mustard herb in the U.S.A. was in 1868 in Long Island, New York. There are several native plants that are similar in appearance to the garlic mustard. These include: toothworts (Dentaria), sweet cicely (Osmorthiza claytonii), and early sexifrage (Saxifraga virginica).
The garlic mustard can be distinguished from these plants by the garlic/onion smell that the leaves, and stem emit when crushed. Original Distribution: Garlic mustard was originally found in Northeastern Europe, from England east to Czechoslovakia and from Sweden and Germany south to Italy. Current Distribution: At the present time garlic mustard is distributed throughout the northeastern and midwestern United States. There are several native plants that are similar in appearance to the garlic mustard. These include: toothworts (Dentaria), sweet cicely (Osmorthiza claytonii), and early sexifrage (Saxifraga virginica).
In Europe, the original range of garlic mustard, there are over 30 insects that attack its leaves, stem, and seeds. There are also specialist herbivores that use garlic mustard as a food source. In North America there are no such enemies. There are several native plants that are similar in appearance to the garlic mustard. These include: toothworts (Dentaria), sweet cicely (Osmorthiza claytonii), and early sexifrage (Saxifraga virginica).
Garlic Mustard is usually a biennial species, but will occasionally grow to maturity in one year. Edible: Garlic Mustard is edible raw or cooked like a vegetable green. A fairly decent pesto can be made from the leaves. Garlic Mustard was originally brought to North America as a food plant! Books: Newcomb's Wildflower Guide: 138 Native/Non-native: Non-native; Garlic Mustard is an invasive plant in many areas. It has only become seriously invasive during the past 20 years or so. 
1 A. petiolata is of European origin and was probably introduced to the United States by early settlers. 2  It was used as a vegetable for its high Vitamin A and C content, a garlic-flavored herb in cooking, and planted to prevent erosion. 3  A. petiolata was also used for medicinal purposes, treating gangrene and ulcers. 1 A. petiolata is a biennial herb most commonly found in woodland communities. 2  Although A. petiolata grows most frequently in moist shaded soil, it occurs from full sun to full shade and in diverse soil moisture levels.
Origin: 1  A. petiolata is of European origin and was probably introduced to the United States by early settlers. 2  It was used as a vegetable for its high Vitamin A and C content, a garlic-flavored herb in cooking, and planted to prevent erosion. 1 A. petiolata is a biennial herb most commonly found in woodland communities. 2  Although A. petiolata grows most frequently in moist shaded soil, it occurs from full sun to full shade and in diverse soil moisture levels.