Texas has the highest population of deer in the United States according to the 2006 Whitetail Deer Almanac. I have seen conflicting reports. ESPN whitetail hunting claims Pennsylvania has the highest population but In other publications I have seen Texas. I think that Pennsylvania has the highest population per square mile but over all numbers Texas has the highest count.
Notably high populations of white-tailed deer occur in the Edwards Plateau of Central Texas. Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Illinois, Wisconsin, Maryland, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, and Indiana also boast high deer densities. The deer of Virginia can run faster than their predators and have been recorded at speeds of 75 km (47 mi) per hour; this ranks them amongst the fastest of all cervids, alongside the Eurasian roe deer. They can also jump 2.7 m (8.9 ft) high and up to 10 m (33 ft) in length.
Included in the top ten states in deer population is Kentucky. Also  included are Indiana, Kansas, Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska, North and  South Dakota. 1 Since 1917, it has been a major training ground for many important government agencies, mostly associated with 2  …. Top Five Anti-Deer Hunting Arguments In the United States, deer are hunted by outdoor enthusiasts. 3  Deer are found in so throughout the United States.
This adjusted view of the record books helps account for the fact that some states have more hunters and more deer, which could skew the results in that states favor – for example, Wisconsin has one of the largest whitetail populations and largest hunter numberss in America. 
The white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), also known as the whitetail, is a medium-sized deer native to the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and South America as far south as Peru and Bolivia. The deer of Virginia can run faster than their predators and have been recorded at speeds of 75 km (47 mi) per hour; this ranks them amongst the fastest of all cervids, alongside the Eurasian roe deer. They can also jump 2.7 m (8.9 ft) high and up to 10 m (33 ft) in length.
Most recent estimates by Maryland DNR put the state's whitetail deer herd around 231,000 animals-source, MD Deer Report, 2009-10. 1 Its story provides for an excellent introduction to state 2  …. Top Five Anti-Deer Hunting Arguments In the United States, deer are hunted by outdoor enthusiasts. 3  Deer are found in so throughout the United States.
White-tailed deer from the Andes are larger than other tropical deer of this species and have thick, slightly woolly looking fur. Length ranges from 95 to 220 cm (37 to 87 in), including a tail of 10 to 36.5 cm (3.9 to 14.4 in), and the shoulder height is 53 to 120 cm (21 to 47 in). The deer of Virginia can run faster than their predators and have been recorded at speeds of 75 km (47 mi) per hour; this ranks them amongst the fastest of all cervids, alongside the Eurasian roe deer. They can also jump 2.7 m (8.9 ft) high and up to 10 m (33 ft) in length.
A population of white-tailed deer in New York is entirely white (except for areas like their noses and toes)—not albino —in color. The former Seneca Army Depot in Romulus, New York, has the largest known concentration of white deer. The deer of Virginia can run faster than their predators and have been recorded at speeds of 75 km (47 mi) per hour; this ranks them amongst the fastest of all cervids, alongside the Eurasian roe deer. They can also jump 2.7 m (8.9 ft) high and up to 10 m (33 ft) in length.
The Bad. Even though populations are generally healthy, most studies have overall whitetail numbers in a slight decline in recent years. Some states are suffering, while most are thriving. Whitetails can be found in every state in the Lower 48, with the total nearing 30 million. But as they say: more deer, more problems. 
Over 4 million deer live in Texas, twice as many as any other state including Alaska. 1 Since 1917, it has been a major training ground for many important government agencies, mostly associated with 2  …. Top Five Anti-Deer Hunting Arguments In the United States, deer are hunted by outdoor enthusiasts. 3  Deer are found in so throughout the United States.