Polymers are very large molecules that are made up of thousands-even millions-of atoms that are bonded together in a repeating pattern. The structure of a polymer is easily visualized by imagining a chain. Polymers are made through polymerization reactions where molecules called monomers bond together to form repeat units. The polymer chains can either entangle with each other to form amorphous arrangements or align to form crystalline arrangements.
Polymers are both man made and are naturally occurring. For example, rubber is a natural polymeric material that is extremely useful and has been used by man for thousands of years. Rubber has excellent elastic properties, and this is a result of the molecular polymer chain created by mother nature. Intro to Polymers. The term polymer is commonly used today in the plastics and composites industry, and it is often used to imply the meaning of plastic or resin. In actuality, the term polymer means much more. A polymer is chemical compound where molecules are bonded together in long repeating chains.
The term polymer derives from the ancient Greek word πολύς (polus, meaning many, much) and μέρος (meros, meaning parts), and refers to a molecule whose structure is composed of multiple repeating units, from which originates a characteristic of high relative molecular mass and attendant properties. Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer.
Polymers are substances containing a large number of structural units joined by the same type of linkage. These substances often form into a chain-like structure. Polymers in the natural world have been around since the beginning of time. Starch, cellulose, and rubber all possess polymeric properties. 
Report Abuse. you can fine the answer if you go to those sites Polymer-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Etymology|Historical...|Polymer...|Pol... Polymers are widely used as adhesives and lubricants, as well as structural ... A copolymer of these polymers is used for biomedical applications, such as ... en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymers - 118k-Cached Chemical of the Week -- Polymers In many polymers, only one monomer is used. ..
They are all polymers! Polymers are very large molecules that are made up of thousands-even millions-of atoms that are bonded together in a repeating pattern. The structure of a polymer is easily visualized by imagining a chain. The chain has many links that are connected together. Polymers are made through polymerization reactions where molecules called monomers bond together to form repeat units. The polymer chains can either entangle with each other to form amorphous arrangements or align to form crystalline arrangements.
A lot of everyday items are made from polymers. Many of these polymers are not biodegradable-microbes cannot digest them and they take a long time to break down. Polymers are usually disposed of by burying them in landfill sites or burning them in incinerators. 
A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits. Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer.
Polymers are very large molecules that are made up of thousands to millions of atoms that form a sequence of repeat units. Polymers are made through polymerization reactions where molecules called monomers bond together to form repeat units. The polymer chains can either entangle with each other to form amorphous arrangements or align to form crystalline arrangements.