giving unwanted advice. Also often spelled kibbitz, this word originally meant to converse idly, but in the United States grew to have the negative connotation of giving unwanted advice, usually about someone's card game. A kibbitzer is a gossiper. This word is related to the Hebrew word kibbutz, meaning collectiv
For Yiddish words used in English, particularly in the U.S., see Yiddish words used in English. This is a list of words that have entered the English language from the Yiddish language, many of them by way of American English. A number of Yiddish words are related to Hebrew, Germanic or Slavic forms, and some words of those origins have entered English via Yiddish.
Yiddish is a Germanic language, originally spoken by the Jews of Central and later Eastern Europe, written in the Hebrew alphabet, and containing a substantial substratum of words from Hebrew as well as numerous loans from Slavic languages. A number of Yiddish words are related to Hebrew, Germanic or Slavic forms, and some words of those origins have entered English via Yiddish.
Kibitzer. A kibitzer is a non-participant person, offering advice or commentary. This Yiddish term is used in Contract bridge, chess, Go, and many other games. Kibitz is also a term referring to circular commenting. One person comments, then the other person comments.
kibitz. To sit in on a conversation, meeting, card-game or online chat and offer unsolicited, informal comments. The original meaning from Yiddish (kibitzen, derived from German kiebitzen-to be an onlooker or spectator) had a negative connotation of being a busybody or giving intrusive, meddlesome, unwanted advice.
Report Abuse. It's a Yiddish word with different meanings. It's a chess term: Kibitz As a spectator, making comments on a chess game that can be heard by the players. Kibitzing on a serious game while it is in progress (rather than during a post-mortem) is a breach of etiquette. It's a (linux) computer term: Kibitz allows two (or more) people to interact with one shell (or any arbitrary program).
Many of these words have slightly different meanings and usages in English, from their Yiddish originals. For example chutzpah is usually used in Yiddish with a negative connotation meaning improper audacity, while in English it has a more positive meaning. A number of Yiddish words are related to Hebrew, Germanic or Slavic forms, and some words of those origins have entered English via Yiddish.
This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. Yiddish words may be used in a primarily English language context. An English sentence that uses these words sometimes is said to be in Yinglish or Hebronics; however, the primary meaning of Yinglish is an anglicism used in Yiddish. 
(Yiddish) a meddler who offers unwanted advice to others. Classified under: Nouns denoting people. Hypernyms (kibitzer is a kind of...): meddler (an officious annoying person who interferes with others). 