All objects of experience can be classified into six categories, dravya (substance), guṇa (quality), karma (activity), sāmānya (generality), viśeṣa (particularity) and samavāya (inherence). Later Vaiśeṣika s (Śrīdhara and Udayana and Śivāditya) added one more category abhava (non-existence). The earliest systematic exposition of the Vaisheshika is found in the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra of Kaṇāda (or Kaṇabhaksha). This treatise is divided into ten books. The two commentaries on the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra, Rāvaṇabhāṣya and Bhāradvājavṛtti are no more extant.
The atomic theory as well as the classification of substances and the acceptance of the two means of knowledge strongly suggests that the Vaisesika is at least as old as the time of Buddha and Mahavira (sixth-fifth century B.C.). The Vaisesika originally had adopted a sixfold classification of padarthas into substance (dravya), quality (guna), activity (karma), generality (samanya), particularity (visesa), and inherence (samavaya), to which a seventh non-existence (abhava) was added later.
All qualities inhere in substances. Therefore, there is a substance to which desire and the rest belong. This conclusion is then followed by an argument from elimination. None of the material elements like earth or water are the bearers of desire and the rest. Substances are the bedrock of Nyāya/Vaiśeṣika metaphysics (hereafter, simply “Nyāya Metaphysics”), as other categories generally inhere within substances or are nested within properties that inhere with
Nyāya’s response is to defend the existence of substances generally and selves in particular. In defense of substances, it argues that composite substances have capacities beyond the mere collection of their parts (NS 2.1.35). Substances are the bedrock of Nyāya/Vaiśeṣika metaphysics (hereafter, simply “Nyāya Metaphysics”), as other categories generally inhere within substances or are nested within properties that inhere within substances.
The Nyaya-Vaisesika answer to this was that, first of all, it assumes that if there is a distinction between substances and their qualities it must be like that between a horse and a cow. But this is to misconceive what qualities and substances are. 
Vaisheshika or Vaiśeṣika (Sanskrit: वैशेषिक) is one of the six orthodox schools of Hinduism (Vedic systems) from ancient India. In its early stages, the Vaiśeṣika was an independent philosophy with its own metaphysics, epistemology, logic, ethics, and soteriology. The earliest systematic exposition of the Vaisheshika is found in the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra of Kaṇāda (or Kaṇabhaksha). This treatise is divided into ten books. The two commentaries on the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra, Rāvaṇabhāṣya and Bhāradvājavṛtti are no more extant.
In opposition to these schools of thought, the Nyaya-Vaisesikas held the self to be an immaterial and eternal soul, and they defined the soul as a certain sort of substance. The Nyaya-Vaisesika definition of substance is as follows. Substance = An entity in which qualities and actions inhere. An adventitious quality of a thing, on the other hand, is a quality it can have, but need not have. Cognition for the Nyaya-Vaisesika is actually an adventitious quality of finite souls. For although souls, unlike matter, are able to be conscious, they are not always and necessarily conscious, in the way God is.
Inherence is a relation which is central to Nyāya’s ontology, by which qualities, actions, universals, and individuators relate to substances, by which universals relate to qualities and actions, and by which wholes relate to their parts. In the first instance, the brown color of a cow inheres in the cow. Substances are the bedrock of Nyāya/Vaiśeṣika metaphysics (hereafter, simply “Nyāya Metaphysics”), as other categories generally inhere within substances or are nested within properties that inhere within substances.
Vaisheshika school is known for its insights in naturalism, and it is a form of atomism in natural philosophy. The earliest systematic exposition of the Vaisheshika is found in the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra of Kaṇāda (or Kaṇabhaksha). This treatise is divided into ten books. The two commentaries on the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra, Rāvaṇabhāṣya and Bhāradvājavṛtti are no more extant.
“Substance is not annihilated by effect or cause.” – Kanada’s Vaisesika. 1  Here, the point is that matter is indestructible at the atomic level. 2  After expounding on the theory of cause and effect, Vaisesika proceeds to the manifold aspects of matter together with a detailed discussion of its qualities. Nyaya and Vaisesika. 1  The Nyaya system is a philosophy of logic. 2  The word Nyaya literally means that by which the mind is led to a conclusion. 3  The popular usage of nyaya is “right” or “just” and so Nyaya as a system has come to mean the science of correct reasoning.