Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to absorb energy from light. Chlorophyll molecules are specifically arranged in and around photosystems that are embedded in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. In these complexes, chlorophyll serves two primary functions. The function of the vast majority of chlorophyll (up to several hundred molecules per photosystem) is to absorb light and transfer that light energy by resonance energy transfer to a specific chlorophyll pair in the reaction center of the photosystems. Chlorophyll (also chlorophyl) is a term used for several closely related green pigments found in cyanobacteria and the chloroplasts of algae and plants. Its name is derived from the Greek words χλωρός, chloros (green) and φύλλον, phyllon (leaf).
Two Groups of Reactions • Light-dependent reactions  Chlorophyll and other molecules of the thylakoids capture sunlight energy  Sunlight energy is converted to the energy carrier molecules ATP and NADPH  Oxygen gas is released as a by-product. Light-Dependent Reactions  Photosystems within thylakoids  Photosystems are assemblies of proteins, chlorophyll, & accessory pigments  Two Photosystems (PSI and PSII) in thylakoids  Each Photosystem is associated with a chain of electron carriers.
When the light strikes the photosystem I units, photons of the SEMR are trapped by a number of antenna like chlorophyll-protein complexes. This energy is transferred from molecule to molecule towards the special molecule called chlrophyll-a 700, which acts as the reaction centre or energy trap. 
Thylakoid membranes contain all the molecular structures necessary to convert light energy into chemical energy. This process requires the following components: • Photosystems -- are a large group of antenna pigments which capture and transfer light energy to a central chlorophyll molecule. Packets of light energy (or quantas) are called photons. A photon striking, and being absorbed by a chlorophyll. molecule imparts a small amount energy, which raises an electron to a higher energy level. Remember that atoms are organized with their electrons in shells surrounding the nucleus.
Eventually, the energy may be absorbed by the chlorophyll at the reaction center. At that point the reactions leading to ATP and NADPH production can occur. The pigment molecules are organized in groups of around 200 to 300 called photosystems. Packets of light energy (or quantas) are called photons. A photon striking, and being absorbed by a chlorophyll. molecule imparts a small amount energy, which raises an electron to a higher energy level. Remember that atoms are organized with their electrons in shells surrounding the nucleus.
Because they interact with light to absorb only certain wavelengths, pigments are useful to plants and other autotrophs --organisms which make their own food using photosynthesis. In plants, algae, and cyanobacteria, pigments are the means by which the energy of sunlight is captured for photosynthesis. Pigments are chemical compounds which reflect only certain wavelengths of visible light. This makes them appear colorful. Flowers, corals, and even animal skin contain pigments which give them their colors. More important than their reflection of light is the ability of pigments to absorb certain wavelengths.
Answers. Best Answer: Chlorophyll molecules are specifically arranged in and around pigment protein complexes called photosystems which are embedded in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. In these complexes, chlorophyll serves two primary functions. The function of the vast majority of chlorophyll (up to several hundred per photosystem) is to absorb light and transfer that light energy by resonance energy transfer to a specific chlorophyll pair in the reaction center of the photosystems.
1. Light Reactions. 1. A pigment molecule absorbs a photon of light, passing its energy to other pigment molecules until it reaches Photosystem II. In Photosystem II, it excites an electron of chlorophyll P680 to a higher energy level. 2. The electron is captured by the primary electron acceptor