While associate's degrees are enough for most dental hygienist positions, some hygienists earn higher degrees as a way to advance their careers. Bachelor's and master's degrees in dental hygiene may qualify hygienists for careers beyond the dental office, such as in teaching and research. Step 1: Get an Undergraduate Degree. Dental hygienists usually hold an associate's degree, such as an Associate of Applied Science, in dental hygiene. Two-year degree programs are available at community colleges, vocational institutes, or dental schools.
Becoming a registered dental hygienist (RDH) allows you to work in one of the fastest growing careers in America. With the growth of preventative dental cleaning, the Bureau of Labor Statistics expects demand for RDHs to grow by 38 percent until 2020. Learn how to become a dental hygienist. 1 Apply to a 2-year certificate or associate's program with a technical school. 2  Make sure that the program is accredited and helps you to pass the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination. 3  Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. 4  These programs are usually run by community colleges
To become a dental hygienist, you'll need either a 2- or 4-year degree in dental hygiene. Most programs are two years long and lead to an associate's degree. They are offered through community colleges and technical colleges. Dental hygiene programs at universities are typically four years and lead to a bachelor's degree.
Education and Qualifications. To become a dental hygienist, you'll need either a 2- or 4-year degree in dental hygiene. Most programs are two years long and lead to an associate's degree. They are offered through community colleges and technical colleges. Your coursework will include classes such as the following: 1  Anatomy and Physiology. After earning licensure, dental hygienists may use RDH after their names to signify that they are a Registered Dental Hygienist. Check with the medical or health board in the state you choose to work in. Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014-15 Occupational Outlook Handbook; Dental Hygienists.
Education/Training & Admission Requirements. Dental hygienists receive their education through academic programs at community colleges, technical colleges, dental schools or universities. The majority of community college programs take at least two years to complete, with graduates receiving associate degrees. Receipt of this degree allows a hygienist to take licensure examinations (national and state or regional), become licensed and to work in a dental office. University-based dental hygiene programs may offer baccalaureate and master's degrees, which generally require at least two years of further schooling
Education. Dental hygienists typically need an associate’s degree in dental hygiene. Bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene are also available, but are less common. A bachelor's or master's degree is usually required for research, teaching, or clinical practice in public or school health programs. 
Dental hygienist certificate programs are often available at community colleges or university schools of dentistry. Most prepare you to pass national and state dental hygiene licensing exams upon graduation. Some may even allow you to transfer your credits to a dental hygiene associate's or bachelor's degree program. 
Dental hygienists should consider completing an associate or bachelor’s degree program in dental hygiene or a closely related field from an accredited school. It’s important to make sure your school and its dental hygiene program is accredited by The Commission on Dental Accreditation. 