Greek Meaning: The name Delfina is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Delfina is: From Delphi. American Meaning: The name Delfina is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Delfina is: From Delphi. The name Delfina is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Delfina is: Dolphin.thirteenth-century French saint Delphine. Spanish Meaning: The name Delfina is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Delfina is: Dolphin.thirteenth-century French saint Delphine
Delfina is a very popular first name for women (#1363 out of 4276, Top 32%) but a rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Delfina for girls. Delfina entered the list in 1910-1919 and reached its apex position of #809 in the U.S. in the 1920s, but is not found in the list currently.
Delfina is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Del-fi-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6729 in baby name popularity for girls with 18 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Delfina Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Delfina has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Delfina to other names. Just for fun, see the name Delfina in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Delfina in Nautical Flags page.
[ 3 syll. del -(p)hi-na, de-lph-ina ] The baby girl name Delphina is pronounced DehLF IY-Nuw-or D EH LFiy-Nuw- †. Delphina has its origins in the Old Greek language. It is used largely in English and German. The name Delphina means 'from Delphi; dolphin'. An old form of the name is Delphina (Latin). Delphi was an ancient city in Greece; the place name is probably of the Greek element delphis.
Delfina. Delfina (noun) Del-fina (from-fine). 1. Daughter of the Roman god Apollo and Daphne. Delfina is the goddess ruler of the sun. In heathen theology; a cherisher and protector of the polite arts, Inherited Like Apollo she was the god of light, medicine, eloquence, music and beauty. 2 Essentially a female name (Latin) Spanish or European upper class
[ 3 syll. del-fi-na, de-lf-ina ] The baby girl name Delfina is pronounced as DehLF IY-Naa- †. Delfina is largely used in the Italian and Spanish languages, and it is derived from Old Greek origins. Delfina is a variant transcription of the name Delphina (English and German). Delfina is uncommon as a baby name for girls. At the modest height of its usage in 1925, 0.007% of baby girls were given the name Delfina.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Delfina in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Delfina in Nautical Flags page.
Another English variant is the contracted form Del. The Italian and Spanish Delfina is a form of the name that is used in foreign languages. Delphina is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. The name Delphina means 'from Delphi; dolphin'. An old form of the name is Delphina (Latin). Delphi was an ancient city in Greece; the place name is probably of the Greek element delphis.
Delfina /del-fi-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced del-FEEN-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Delfina is dolphin. Variant of Delphine, the name of the 13th-century French saint. Delphi (DEL-fye) refers to the oracle of Delphi on Mount Parnassus. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Delfina for girls. Delfina entered the list in 1910-1919 and reached its apex position of #809 in the U.S. in the 1920s, but is not found in the list currently.