This page lists all the various symbols in the Religious Symbols category. Religious symbolism is the use of symbols, including archetypes, acts, artwork, events, or natural phenomena, by a religion. Religions view religious texts, rituals, and works of art as symbols of compelling ideas or ideals.
OM. There are thousands of symbols in Sanatana Dharma, but the most important one is OM (picture on the left), often also written as AUM (in English); it is a mystical word and part of all (important) mantras. OM is the breath of the universe that first sounded during its creation.
There are thousands of symbols in Sanatana Dharma, but the most important one is OM (picture on the left), often also written as AUM (in English); it is a mystical word and part of all (important) mantras. OM is the breath of the universe that first sounded during its creation.
The Tibetan antelope or chiru (Pantholops hodgsoni) is a symbol of innocence and generosity. Its pelt is often pictured in tangkas as the shawl, or seat cover, of great yogis such as the Buddhist master Naropa. Perhaps it is one of those horns he holding.
ANT-Also known as the Emmet, patience and forethought. ANTELOPE-The symbol of peace and harmony, the heraldic antelope is unlike it’s cousin in the zoo or safari park. The body of a stag with the tail of the Unicorn and fearsome horns. APE and MONKEY-Used to signify sagacity.
The Roman symbol of Liberty. ANT-Also known as the Emmet, patience and forethought. ANTELOPE-The symbol of peace and harmony, the heraldic antelope is unlike it’s cousin in the zoo or safari park. The body of a stag with the tail of the Unicorn and fearsome horns. APE and MONKEY-Used to signify sagacity.
Given the varied number of tribes, it is understandable that many symbols were used by the different tribes. However, they were used in keeping with the same belief in spirit and universe. The symbols often represented power, safety and success. They also represented the rider's affection for his horse.