Languages: Marathi, Hindi, English. Introduction to Maharashtra. Maharashtra is one of the most industrialized states of India, it occupies the western and central parts of the country and extends over the Sahyadri mountains; a vast stretch of 720 kilometers of the Arabian sea coast providing it a beautiful backdrop.
Located in the West region, Maharashtra [1] is the third largest state of India by size and the second largest by population. It stretches from the west coast to the interior regions and its climate too varies with its geography. Maharashtra contains India's most industrialized region, the Mumbai-Pune belt.
Maharashtra is the most urbanized state in India, with large cities besides the capital Mumbai such as Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad. Maharashtra is one of the wealthiest and the most developed states in India, contributing 25% of the country's industrial output and 23.2% of its GDP (2010–11). As of 2011, the state had a per capita income of ₹1.0035 lakh (US$1,500), more than the national average of ₹0.73 lakh (US$1,100).
Surrounded by the Arabian Sea to its west, Gujarat to its northwest, Madhya Pradesh to its north, Karnataka to its south and Chhattisgarh and Telangana to its East, this state of India is 3,07,713 sq km in area. Mumbai is the capital of Maharashtra as well as the financial capital of the entire country. Nagpur is known as the auxiliary capital of the state. Also known as the wealthiest state, Maharashtra contributes around 15% of the industrial output of the country and around 14% of its gross domestic product.
Maharashtra is a significant part of the famous Deccan plateau with the Sahyadri range or the Western Ghats forming the physical backbone as well as the coastal belt of the state. The highest peak is the Kalsubai for the Western Ghats and to the west, lies the coastal plains of Konkan. To its east is the Deccan plateau.
Maharashtra, situated in the western part of India, is the third largest state of India. It is bordered by the states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Karnataka, Goa and the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.