A genome is an organism’s complete set of DNA, including all of its genes. Each genome contains all of the information needed to build and maintain that organism. In humans, a copy of the entire genome—more than 3 billion DNA base pairs—is contained in all cells that have a nucleus. In addition to the human genome, the Human Genome Project sequenced the genomes of several other organisms, including brewers’ yeast, the roundworm, and the fruit fly. In 2002, researchers announced that they had also completed a working draft of the mouse genome.
Logo. The Human Genome Project (HGP) was an international scientific research project with the goal of determining the sequence of chemical base pairs which make up human DNA, and of identifying and mapping all of the genes of the human genome from both a physical and functional standpoint. It is considered a Mega Project because the human genome has approximately 3.3 billion base-pairs. With the sequence in hand, the next step was to identify the genetic variants that increase the risk for common diseases like cancer and diabetes.
To map the entire genome of the human. nova net-to identify every human gene. The main goals of the Human Genome Project were to provide a complete and accurate sequence of the 3 billion DNA base pairs that make up the human genome and to find all of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 human genes. 1.To map and sequence all of the DNA base pairs in the human chromosomes. 2.To identify all of the genes within the seqeunce.
The Human Genome Project (HGP) refers to scientific research  project aimed at determining the sequence of various chemical base  pairs of human DNA. It maps genes based on … a physical and  functional standpoint. 1.To map and sequence all of the DNA base pairs in the human chromosomes. 2.To identify all of the genes within the seqeunce.
The Human Genome Project (HGP) is an international scientific research project with a primary goal of determining the sequence of chemical base pairs which make up DNA, and of identifying and mapping the approximately 20,000 25,000 genes of the human genome. 
The main goals of the Human Genome Project were to provide a complete and accurate sequence of the 3 billion DNA base pairs that make up the human genome and to find all of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 human genes. For more information about the Human Genome Project's goals: The National Human Genome Research Institute provides a fact sheet about DNA sequencing. The National Human Genome Research Institute details the goals and accomplishments of the Human Genome Project.
It completed its initial mission in 2003. The initial purpose or goals were to: Identifying the sequences of the 3 billion chemical base pairs that make up human DNA was an enormous achievement of the Human Genome Project which some say is akin to developing the periodic table of elements. The Human Genome Project was a 13-year project coordinated by the U.S. Department of Energy and the National Institute of Health.
The Human Genome Project originally aimed to map the nucleotides contained in a human haploid reference genome (more than three billion). The genome of any given individual is unique; mapping the human genome involves sequencing multiple variations of each gene. It is considered a Mega Project because the human genome has approximately 3.3 billion base-pairs. With the sequence in hand, the next step was to identify the genetic variants that increase the risk for common diseases like cancer and diabetes.
The Department of Energy's Human Genome Program and the National Institutes of Health's National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) together coordinate the HGP. The HGP's original plan was a three billion dollar 15-year project that would be completed in 2005. 1 Determine sequence of 3 billion chemical bases that make up human DNA. 2  Human DNA sequence goals: 3  Achieve coverage of at least 90% of Genome in working draft by the end of 2001 (moved up to spring 2000) - Goal Reached -.
Best Answer: The human genome project lets us know what's exactly in our genes (as humans). Sequencing our DNA is like charting all the areas of the world on a map. This way, we can discover how genes are related to genetic disorders and overall human health. Report Abuse. The human genome project is used to attain information of the human genes and their sequences. We can use this information to look at variations among people (paternity tests) and the variations/mutations that cause diseases like cancer or genetic disorders.