Causes. Rheumatic fever can occur after an infection of the throat with a bacterium called Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A streptococcus. Group A streptococcus infections of the throat cause strep throat or, less commonly, scarlet fever
Causes of scarlet fever. Scarlet fever is caused by a bacterium called Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus. This is the same bacterium that causes strep throat. When the bacteria release toxins scarlet fever symptoms occur, including the rash, Pastia's lines, red tongue and flushed face. Other types strains of Streptococcus pyogenes linked to either skin infections, such as impetigo, or uterine infections that may occur during childbirth may also cause scarlet fever-however, this is much rarer.
In addition to infections of the upper respiratory tract and the skin, S pyogenes can cause a wide variety of invasive systemic infections. Along with Staphylococcus aureus, group A streptococcus is one of the most common pathogens responsible for cellulitis. S pyogenes also has the potential to produce outbreaks of disease in younger children in daycare. Rheumatic fever is most frequently observed in the age group most susceptible to group A streptococcal infections (ie, children aged 5-15 y).
Streptococcus pyogenes is not a bacteria that should be taken lightly. Many people carry the bacteria without incident, however it has the potential to cause both mild and severe diseases. Streptococcus pyogenes has claimed many lives, including that of Muppet's creator, Jim Henson. Other symptoms include fever and chills, swollen glands, blistering of the skin, and malaise.[3]. Figure 5. Redness and swelling caused by cellulitus. Necrotizing fasciitis is a rare, but very serious infection caused by Streptococcus pyogenes that is popularly termed flesh eating bacteria.
S. pyogenes can also cause disease in the form of postinfectious nonpyogenic (not associated with local bacterial multiplication and pus formation) syndromes. These autoimmune-mediated complications follow a small percentage of infections and include rheumatic fever and acute postinfectious glomerulonephritis. Examples of mild S. pyogenes infections include pharyngitis (strep throat) and localized skin infection (impetigo). Erysipelas and cellulitis are characterized by multiplication and lateral spread of S. pyogenes in deep layers of the skin.
A ubiquitous organism, S pyogenes is the most common bacterial cause of acute pharyngitis, accounting for 15-30% of cases in children and 5-10% of cases in adults. During the winter and spring in temperate climates, up to 20% of asymptomatic school-aged children may be group A streptococcus carriers. S pyogenes also has the potential to produce outbreaks of disease in younger children in daycare. Rheumatic fever is most frequently observed in the age group most susceptible to group A streptococcal infections (ie, children aged 5-15 y).
Overview. The bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes is a significant cause of human disease, most often associated with infections of the respiratory tract, blood, and skin. It is estimated that streptococcus results in about 10 million mild throat and skin infections each year, according to the National Institutes of Health. Strep Pharyngitis. Known as strep throat, this disease can have symptoms similar to viral sore throats. MedlinePlus sites Streptococcus pyogenes as the most common cause of bacterial sore throats. Symptoms usually involve a low-grade or moderate fever, swollen lymph nodes, and a beefy, red throat with draining white patches. Children may also complain of headache and stomach ache
Background. Infection with Streptococcus pyogenes, a beta-hemolytic bacterium that belongs to Lancefield serogroup A, also known as the group A streptococci (GAS), causes a wide variety of diseases in humans. S pyogenes also has the potential to produce outbreaks of disease in younger children in daycare. Rheumatic fever is most frequently observed in the age group most susceptible to group A streptococcal infections (ie, children aged 5-15 y).
Knowledge center. Scarlet fever, also known as scarlatina, is a disease caused by a toxin (erythrogenic exotoxin) released by Streptococcus pyogenes or group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus-the disease occurs in a small percentage of patients with strep infections, such as strep throat or impetigo. Other types strains of Streptococcus pyogenes linked to either skin infections, such as impetigo, or uterine infections that may occur during childbirth may also cause scarlet fever-however, this is much rarer.