It also approved “significantly lower” rates for certain BCE Inc.-owned Bell companies and Telus Communications Corp. in Alberta and British Columbia due to errors discovered in the companies’ costs studies. No changes were made to the wholesale rates for Bell Aliant in Atlantic Canada, MTS Inc. or SaskTel. 
The merger was completed in 1999, with the corporate name slightly modified to Telus Corporation. While the merged company chose to retain the Telus name, it moved its headquarters from Edmonton to Vancouver. The merger created Canada's second largest telcom, with 22% of market share compared to Bell Canada 's 42%.
Bell Canada is one of the main assets of the conglomerate BCE Inc. , formerly known as Bell Canada Enterprises, Inc. In addition to its core telecommunications operations, BCE owns Bell Media, which operates media properties including the CTV Television Network. Bell Aliant, now an income trust, is 44% owned by Bell. Other company assets include Western Canada CLEC Bell West. BCE partially or fully owns 17 companies in the fields of telecommunications, media, and information technology.
The company was formed in 1990 by the government of Alberta as TELUS Communications, a holding company, in order to facilitate the privatization of a crown corporation, the Alberta Government Telephones Commission (AGT). While the merged company chose to retain the Telus name, it moved its headquarters from Edmonton to Vancouver. The merger created Canada's second largest telcom, with 22% of market share compared to Bell Canada 's 42%.
In turn, Bell has assumed responsibility for Bell Aliant's wireless and retail operations. Bell Aliant, now an income trust, is 44% owned by Bell. Other company assets include Western Canada CLEC Bell West. BCE partially or fully owns 17 companies in the fields of telecommunications, media, and information technology.
Telus (stylized as TELUS) is a Canadian national telecommunications company that provides a wide range of telecommunications products and services including internet access, voice, entertainment, healthcare, video, satellite and IPTV television. While the merged company chose to retain the Telus name, it moved its headquarters from Edmonton to Vancouver. The merger created Canada's second largest telcom, with 22% of market share compared to Bell Canada 's 42%.
Bell Canada (commonly referred to as Bell) is a Canadian telecommunications and media company headquartered in Montreal, Quebec. Bell Aliant, now an income trust, is 44% owned by Bell. Other company assets include Western Canada CLEC Bell West. BCE partially or fully owns 17 companies in the fields of telecommunications, media, and information technology.
Telus's wireless division, Telus Mobility, offers CDMA 2000, IDEN, HSPA+ , and LTE-based mobile phone networks. Telus is the incumbent local exchange carrier in British Columbia and Alberta, and a major competitive local exchange carrier in Ontario and Quebec. While the merged company chose to retain the Telus name, it moved its headquarters from Edmonton to Vancouver. The merger created Canada's second largest telcom, with 22% of market share compared to Bell Canada 's 42%.
Vancouver, B.C. – TELUS has filed a submission to the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), opposing Bell’s potential acquisition of Astral Media and specifically the impact that an unprecedented concentration of market power in the broadcasting sector would have on Canadian consumers. TELUS supports the views expressed last week by the Say No to Bell coalition, comprised of Quebecor, Cogeco and Eastlink, as well as the concerns expressed by the Public Interest Advocacy Centre and its associates.
Its subsidiary Bell Mobility (including Solo Mobile and Virgin Mobile Canada) is one of Canada's big three mobile telecommunications providers, while Bell TV provides direct-to-home satellite TV service. Bell Aliant, now an income trust, is 44% owned by Bell. Other company assets include Western Canada CLEC Bell West. BCE partially or fully owns 17 companies in the fields of telecommunications, media, and information technology.