Translations for 'alcove'. 1  British English: alcove An alcove is a small area of a room which is formed by one part of a wall being built further back than the rest of the wall. 2  NOUNIn the alcoves on either side of the fire were bookshelves. There was an alcove at the far side of the circle where a hallman in a pretty snappy uniform of his own sat behind a desk. Without its usual brilliant lighting on the rose-pink marble the alcove in which the pool was situated had a murky dimness.
alcove. n. 1. a recess or niche in the wall of a room, as for a bed, books, etc. 2. (Architecture) any recessed usually vaulted area, as in a garden wall. 3. any covered or secluded spot, such as a summerhouse. al•cove. 1. a recess or small room adjacent to or opening out of a room: a dining alcove. 2. a recess in a room for a bed, bookcases, or the like. 3. an arbor or bower.
Alcove. Alcove is an architectural term for a recess in a room, usually screened off by pillars, balustrades or drapery. In geography and geology, alcove is used for a wind-eroded depression in the side of a cliff of a homogenous rock type, famous from sandstones of the Colorado Plateau like the Navajo Sandstone. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: alcove (Noun). A small recessed area set off from a larger room. Origin: From alcove, alcôve from Or portuguese, alcova, alcoba ‘from the, vault chamber with vaulted’. roof
The definition of an alcove is a small recessed section in a room, such as a nook. An example of an alcove would be a small area in a restaurant, only partially enclosed, intended for private dining for a couple or small group.
alcove. n. 1. a recess or niche in the wall of a room, as for a bed, books, etc. 2. (Architecture) any recessed usually vaulted area, as in a garden wall. Aramis had pronounced these words with his face turned towards the alcove of his own bedroom, where D'Artagnan, seated with his back towards the alcove, could not suspect that any one was lying concealed.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. alcove means: is an architectural term for a recess in a room, usually screened off by pillars, balustrades or drapery. 
Full Definition of ALCOVE. 1. a: a small recessed section of a room: nook b: an arched opening (as in a wall) : niche. 2. : summerhouse 2. — al·coved \-ˌkōvd\ adjective. See alcove defined for English-language learners. See alcove defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
› a ​small ​space in a ​room, ​formed by one ​part of a ​wall being ​farther back than the ​parts on each ​side. (Definition of alcove from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). › a ​small ​space in a ​room, ​formed by one ​part of a ​wall being ​further back than the ​parts on each ​side: We've put some ​bookshelves in the alcove. (Definition of alcove from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus
Alcove (/aelˈkoʊv/ ælˈkoʊv /or/ ; ˈaelkoʊv ˈælkoʊv: through [spanish] , alcoba Alˈkoβa: القبة ‎, arabic القبه-meaning, al qubbah) the vault is an architectural term for a recess in, a room usually screened off, by pillars balustrades. or drapery In geography and geology, alcove is used for a wind-eroded depression in the side of a cliff of a homogenous rock type, famous from sandstones of the Colorado Plateau like the Navajo Sandstone.
al•cove. 1. a recess or small room adjacent to or opening out of a room: a dining alcove. 2. a recess in a room for a bed, bookcases, or the like. 3. an arbor or bower. Aramis had pronounced these words with his face turned towards the alcove of his own bedroom, where D'Artagnan, seated with his back towards the alcove, could not suspect that any one was lying concealed.