Best Answer: Hey Their main function is contraction. As you will notice the heavier the weight you try and lift the more your muscles have to contract...this leads to more muscle mass. Also contraction causes alteration in the sacromeres and cells that make up the muscle causing them to increase in number. Muscles are there to enable you to pick things up, run, reach, walk and even stand. All bodily movements depends on the contraction and relaxation of muscles.
The heart's natural pacemaker is made of cardiac muscle that signals other cardiac muscles to contract. Like visceral muscles, cardiac muscle tissue is controlled involuntarily. While hormones and signals from the brain adjust the rate of contraction, cardiac muscle stimulates itself to contract. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual.
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual.
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium.
The functions of muscle tissues depend on the type of muscle tissues and their locations in the body. Here is an overview of the 3 types of muscle tissues : : Skeletal muscle is called striated because of its appearance consisting of light and dark bands visible using a light microscope. Unlike Skeletal and Cardiac muscle tissue, Smooth muscle is. . Smooth muscle fibers are small and tapered-with the ends reducing in size, in contrast to the cylindrical shape of skeletal muscle. Each smooth muscle fiber has a single centrally located nucleus.
Muscle tissue is made of excitable cells that are capable of contraction. Of all of the different tissue types (muscle, epithelial, connective, and nervous), muscle tissue is the most abundant in most animals. 
Muscular System Physiology. Function of Muscle Tissue. The main function of the muscular system is movement. Muscles are the only tissue in the body that has the ability to contract and therefore move the other parts of the body. Related to the function of movement is the muscular system’s second function: the maintenance of posture and body position. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Muscle tissue is also found inside of the heart, digestive organs, and blood vessels. In these organs, muscles serve to move substances throughout the body....
I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel. MUSCLES AND MUSCLE TISSUE. Muscle is composed of fibers, nerves and connective tissues and account for over 40% of the body weight. The fibers contract to produce tension on the associated tissues or tendons. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament. There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Muscle tissue provides a) posture and body support b) locomotion and c) heat production
The structure of these muscle tissues can be described from the level of detail of the muscle fibres (muscle cells) through all the other muscle structures and parts of structures that bind muscle cells together enabling them to perform their functions. Unlike Skeletal and Cardiac muscle tissue, Smooth muscle is. . Smooth muscle fibers are small and tapered-with the ends reducing in size, in contrast to the cylindrical shape of skeletal muscle. Each smooth muscle fiber has a single centrally located nucleus.