Minerals. Multivitamins also contain varying minerals-zinc, calcium, iron, iodine, choline, etc. There is a particularly large potential for harm if your child eats too many vitamins that contain iron. For children, iron overdose is a leading cause of poisoning-related injury and death. Luckily, the gummy vitamins that my son ate did no
High levels of phosphate in the blood (hyperphosphatemia) or low levels of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphatemia) : Calcium and phosphate have to be in balance in the body. Taking too much calcium can throw this balance off and cause harm. Don’t take extra calcium without your health provider’s supervision.
If you get too much vitamin E or K, bleeding problems can occur. Vitamin B-3 overdose can cause skin flushing, while vitamin B-6 overdose can cause serious nerve damage, leading to numbness and difficulty walking. Too much iron increases heart disease risk, while too much zinc weakens the body’s immune system.
Risk of Overdose. While most gummy vitamins contain relatively low doses of many vitamins and minerals, it's still possible to overdose if you eat more than the recommended daily allowance. Gummies with iron pose the biggest danger, so parents should avoid any gummy vitamins that contain iron. Even adults can overdose by eating too many iron-containing gummies. Fat-soluble vitamins such as vitamin A, D, E and K also pose a risk of overdose. According to the National Library of Medicine, several brands of gummy vitamins contain 100 micrograms of Vitamin D per unit.
While most gummy vitamins contain relatively low doses of many vitamins and minerals, it's still possible to overdose if you eat more than the recommended daily allowance. Gummies with iron pose the biggest danger, so parents should avoid any gummy vitamins that contain iron. Even adults can overdose by eating too many iron-containing gummies. Fat-soluble vitamins such as vitamin A, D, E and K also pose a risk of overdose. According to the National Library of Medicine, several brands of gummy vitamins contain 100 micrograms of Vitamin D per unit.