Quick booking links: Accademia tickets: Uffizi tickets: Uffizi guided tours: Colosseum tickets: Florence guided tours : Vatican tickets: Vatican tours: Borghese tickets: Venice Museums: The Last Supper: Last Supper-tours: Verona Opera tickets: Pisa Tower tickets: Pompeii and Naples area tickets. 
Uffizi is ranked as the 25th on the most visited art museums in the world, with around 2 million visitors annually. The building of Uffizi complex was begun by Giorgio Vasari in 1560 for Cosimo I de' Medici so as to accommodate the offices of the Florentine magistrates, hence the name uffizi, offices. The construction was later continued by Alfonso Parigi and Bernardo Buontalenti and completed in 1581. In early August 2007, Florence was caught with a large rainstorm, and the Gallery was partially flooded, with water leaking through the ceiling, and the visitors had to be evacuated. There was a much more significant flood in 1966 which damaged most of the art collections in Florence severely, including the Uffizi.
I started in telecommunications back when a crank on the phone had to be turned before asking the telephone operator to connect a call. The Galleria degli Uffizi is located in Florence, Italy, near the Piazza della Signoria. Gallery Furniture has two locations in Houston, Texas. One store is located at 6006 North Freeway, Houston, Texas and the store is located 2411 post Oak Blvd., Houston, Texas … .
The Uffizi Gallery (Italian: Galleria degli Uffizi, [ɡalleˈriːa deʎʎ ufˈfittsi]) is a prominent art museum located adjacent to the Piazza della Signoria in central Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy. In early August 2007, Florence was caught with a large rainstorm, and the Gallery was partially flooded, with water leaking through the ceiling, and the visitors had to be evacuated. There was a much more significant flood in 1966 which damaged most of the art collections in Florence severely, including the Uffizi.
Galleria degli Uffizi (Uffizi Gallery) is an art museum in Florence and is one of the oldest and most famous art museums in the Western world. In his Inferno Dan Brown mentions it many times, referring to it as “world-famous.”. The Vasari Corridor then continues through the facade of the church of Santa Felicita to reach the Boboli Gardens. After the death of Cosimo I, his son Francesco I de’ Medici commissioned Bernardo Buontalenti to create the famous Tribuna degli Uffizi, an octagonal room located in the east corridor of the Uffizi Gallery. Francesco transferred his private collections to this room from the Studiolo in Palazzo Vecchio
Uffizi Gallery-The second corridor: The second corridor, also called 'midday corridor', is certainly one of the most enthralling places of the whole Palazzo degli Uffizi. It is the connecting corridor between the two wings of the horseshoe-shaped palace. Nowadays the building hosts the Uffizi Gallery, one of the most visited museums in the world, with masterpieces from the 13th to the 18th century. In 1993 a bomb at the Accademia dei Georgofili caused major damage to some masterpieces of the Uffizi Gallery.
Location of Italy Italy is located in Southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula. It includes the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea, Sicily and Sardinia. Italy shares … its northern border with France, Switzerland, Slovenia, and Austria. Answered. Gallery Furniture has two locations in Houston, Texas. One store is located at 6006 North Freeway, Houston, Texas and the store is located 2411 post Oak Blvd., Houston, Texas … .
The tickets will be delivered right at home, so when you will get to Florence, you will only have to arrive a few minutes before the booked time, and visit the Uffizi Gallery. This is because only small groups of visitors can enter, to not spoil the magnificent works kept in the museum. If you do not want to do long queues under the Tuscan's sun or the bitter cold of Florence, you can buy tickets in advance, paying only a small fee.