Rəʻuʼēl; Rəʻûʼēl friend Of ) el meaning friend Of god or one who is intimate With, god is A hebrew name associated with Several biblical/and or religious. Figures biblical persons with this name: 1  Are, Jethro ' moses-father-in, law also Called (Reuel exodus:2; 18 numbers:10).  29 Rəʻuʼēl; Rəʻûʼēl friend Of ) el meaning friend Of god or one who is intimate With, god is A hebrew name associated with Several biblical/and or religious. Figures biblical persons with this name: 1  Are, Jethro ' moses-father-in, law also Called (Reuel exodus:2; 18 numbers:10). 2  29 a son Of.  esau
Ruel /ru-el/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name. Ruel's name origin is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Ruel is friend of God. Ruel is a variant transcription of Reuel (Hebrew). Rel is a common surname. 
Means friend of God in Hebrew. The fantasy author John Ronald Reuel Tolkien was a famous bearer of this name.
[ 2 syll. re-uel, reu-el ] The baby boy name Reuel is pronounced as R UW-ahL in English †. Reuel is used mostly in English and Hebrew. Its language of origin is Hebrew. The meaning of Reuel is friend of God. The names Reuele, Reuell, Reuelle, Ruel, Ruele, Ruell, and Ruelle are derivatives of Reuel. Reuel is not popular as a baby boy name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Reuel include Ruell, Racel, Rachel, Ralie, Rangli, Ranglie, Rasool, Rasoole, Rasoul, Rasoule, Rasul, Rasule, Rauel, Razelle, Regal, Regall, Rexley, Regulo, Régulo, ridgelie And. ridgely
Reuel /re-uel/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Reuel is friend of God. Kreatif forms: Reuelfa, Reuelru, Rureuel. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Reuel and affiliated names. The only popular related form of Reuel (not ranked) is Ruel. Adoption of this boy name was at its most widespread during the years 1890-1899 (usage of 0.041%) and has become less since.
For a meaning of the name Reuel, both NOBSE Study Bible Name List and Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names read Friend Of God. BDB Theological Dictionary does not offer a translation of this name but does list it under the verb רעה (ra'a II). | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |. Etymology of the name Reuel. The name Reuel consists of two elements, the final one being אל (El), the prominent Canaanite deity, whose name became applied to the God of Israel, or the common abbreviation of Elohim, the genus God: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: אל.
Reuel is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Reuel is an equivalently uncommon last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Reuel and affiliated names. The only popular related form of Reuel (not ranked) is Ruel. Adoption of this boy name was at its most widespread during the years 1890-1899 (usage of 0.041%) and has become less since.
Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Reuel means-friend of god.The name Reuel originated as an Israeli name. The name Reuel is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-friend of god. Origin-Israel. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special! 