Below is a typical use of a cam. A simple toy based on a cartoon character (Ed the Handyman) is controlled by a cam and follower. As the cam rotates in an anticlockwise direction, the follower falls (diagram 2) and so does the arm of the toy. As the cam continues to rotate the arm begins to rise as seen in diagram 4. The cam shown is a pear shaped cam (named after its shape). Cams can be shaped in any number of ways and this is determined by the way the follower is to move. The shape of the cam is called the PROFILE. Examples of various cam profiles can be seen below
1 Cams come in many different shapes-for example pear-shaped, triangular or square. 2  The cam may have a chunk or chunks removed, so that the follower falls into a gap and is then is pushed out again. 3  Whatever the shape of the cam, positioning the shaft off-centre will alter the behaviour of the follower. The pear shape of this cam means that for half the cycle, the follower will dwell. Then, as the pointed part of the cam approaches, the follower is pushed up (rises), then, as the point passes, falls and dwells-and the cycle starts again.
The aim of this article is to show you how to dress a pear shaped body to make sure you appear balanced and proportional. Some good examples on how to dress a pear shaped body can be seen with famous actresses like: Beyonce Knowles, Sophia Loren, Kim Kardashian, Jennifer Love Hewwit, and Alicia Keys. They all have something in common. You can see more outfits in the 365 pear shape challenge. As a pear shaped body, you want to direct attention to your tops and shirts. Fun colors, prints, and details at the neck draw the eye away from the hip area. Make sure that whatever you wear on top flatters your figure and corresponds with your lower half.
Or simply put: how to dress a pear shape! Women with a pear shaped body often feel frustrated when shopping for clothes. A problem with having this figure is that the difference between the small shoulders and heavier thighs gives the appearance of looking heavy bottomed. You can see more outfits in the 365 pear shape challenge. As a pear shaped body, you want to direct attention to your tops and shirts. Fun colors, prints, and details at the neck draw the eye away from the hip area. Make sure that whatever you wear on top flatters your figure and corresponds with your lower half.
It rotates in an arc around the fulcrum, which is the point at which the lever pivots. A hole puncher and pair of scissors are both types of levers. Levers are used in many mechanisms to translate the rotary motion of a cam into an up down or linear motion, or to amplify a small distance into a greater distance. Lever in 3 positions. Cams and shafts. Cams change a rotary motion into a linear motion that follows the shape of the cam. Cams can have a variety of shapes, or profiles, which determine which way the follower will move. One example is the pear-shaped cam which can be seen below
Pear-shaped cam. The pear shape of this cam means that for half the cycle, the follower will dwell. Then, as the pointed part of the cam approaches, the follower is pushed up (rises), then, as the point passes, falls and dwells-and the cycle starts again. Your web browser does not have JavaScript switched on at the moment
November 25, 2013 | By Jennifer Cohen. Power to the pear! The pear shape is a common, if not the most common body type for women. Celebs everywhere, from J. Lo to Claire Danes, rock the red carpet with their sexy hips and slender top halves. 
But if the cam is a different shape, and/or the shaft is not central, the follower will rise or fall. How often and how quickly the follower moves is determined by the shape of the cam and the position of the shaft. 1  Cams come in many different shapes-for example pear-shaped, triangular or square. The pear shape of this cam means that for half the cycle, the follower will dwell. Then, as the pointed part of the cam approaches, the follower is pushed up (rises), then, as the point passes, falls and dwells-and the cycle starts again.
The pear body shape is the most common female body shape. Grab a mirror and take a look: If your hips and backside are wider than your shoulders, you're the lucky owner of a pear-shaped body. Go for an A. A-line dresses and tops emphasize the upper body while slimming wider hips characteristic of a pear-shaped body. Wide is good. Keep the hems of pants, skirts and dresses wide to visually balance a pear-shaped body. Pointy-toed shoes with a wide-hemmed pants will elongate your legs. Get a little structure.