Stereotype content refers to the attributes that people think characterize a group. Studies of stereotype content examine what people think of others, rather than the reasons and mechanisms involved in stereotyping. One explanation for why stereotypes are shared is that they are the result of a common environment that stimulates people to react in the same way. The problem with the ‘common environment’ explanation in general is that it does not explain how shared stereotypes can occur without direct stimuli.
In social psychology, a stereotype is a thought that can be adopted about specific types of individuals or certain ways of doing things. These thoughts or beliefs may or may not accurately reflect reality. One explanation for why stereotypes are shared is that they are the result of a common environment that stimulates people to react in the same way. The problem with the ‘common environment’ explanation in general is that it does not explain how shared stereotypes can occur without direct stimuli.
Stereotype threat is a situational predicament in which people are or feel themselves to be at risk of confirming negative stereotypes about their social group. Since its introduction into the academic literature, stereotype threat has become one of the most widely studied topics in the field of social psychology. The opposite of stereotype threat is stereotype boost, which is when people perform better than they otherwise would have, because of exposure to positive stereotypes about their social group.
Full Definition of STEREOTYPE. 1. : a plate cast from a printing surface. 2. : something conforming to a fixed or general pattern; especially: a standardized mental picture that is held in common by members of a group and that represents an oversimplified opinion, prejudiced attitude, or uncritical judgment.
Best Answer: stereotypes are assumptions we make about an entire group based on observations of some members. We attribute observations to all members of the group whether it really applies to them or not. Very often, they are racially or ethnically based and very often, they are incorrect. It's not the social, ethnic, or racial group label that is the stereotype but instead the qualities we assume that all members of that group display. A simple example is all blondes are dumb - blonde isn't the stereotype, that we ascribe being dumb to blondes is the stereotype.
While all stereotypes are generalizations, not all generalizations are stereotypes. Stereotypes are oversimplifications of people groups widely circulated in certain societies. In the United States, racial groups have been linked to stereotypes such as being good at math, athletics and dancing. While stereotypes may refer to a specific sex, race, religion or country, often they link various aspects of identity together. A stereotype about black gay men, for example, would involve race, sex and sexual orientation.
The use of stereotypes is a major way in which we simplify our social world; since they reduce the amount of processing (i.e. thinking) we have to do when we meet a new person. By stereotyping we infer that a person has a whole range of characteristics and abilities that we assume all members of that group have. Stereotypes lead to social categorization, which is one of the reasons for prejudice attitudes (i.e. “them” and “us” mentality) which leads to in-groups and out-groups.