www.healthoracle.org 1 Amorphous phosphates Amorphous phosphates are the name given to a granular precipitate containing calcium and phosphate in an alkaline urine. Calcium phosphate crystals, regrouped under the term apatite, have mineralogical names that differ according to their chemical composition.
3-16. Amorphous phosphate, triple phosphate (ammonium magnesium phosphate), calcium phosphate, and ammonium urate crystals are frequently found in alkaline urine specimens. The phosphates are all soluble in acetic acid and may be differentiated from other crystals by this characteristic.
Amorphous crystals are frequently seen in urine from various species. This is a generic and quite non-specific term and just indicates small crystals that are not identifiable as to source. Some could represent fragmentation of larger crystals. The pH of the urine can be a guide as to the likely nature of the amorphous crystals (e.g. amorphous phosphates are more likely in alkaline urine in small animal patients). The main issue with amorphous crystals is that they mimic bacterial cocci (and even undergo brownian movement in urine).
Amorphous. Amorphous urates (Na, K, Mg, or Ca salts) tend to form in acidic urine and may have a yellow or yellow-brown color. Amorphous phosphates are similar in general appearance, but tend to form in alkaline urine and lack color. Xanthine crystals are usually in the form of “amorphous” crystals.
Amorphous crystals are often identified on the basis of the urine pH. In an acid specimen, urates are reported, in an alkaline specimen, amorphous phosphates are reported. This simplification should be used with care. Amorphous phosphates and triple phosphates are sometimes observed in slightly acid specimens.
Usually, the presence of these crystals is non significant. The distinction between amorphous urates and amorphous phosphates is often made on the urinary pH basis. With a simple examination of the centrifuge pellet, the precipitate of calcium phosphate is white, while that amorphous urate is pink.
Amorphous crystals are often identified on the basis of the urine pH. In an acid specimen, urates are reported, in an alkaline specimen, amorphous phospate are reported. This simplification should be used with care. Amorphous phosphates and triple phosphates are sometimes observed in slightly acid specimens.