Noun. 1. crescent-any shape resembling the curved shape of the moon in its first or last quarters. curve, curved shape-the trace of a point whose direction of motion changes.
1. The figure of the moon as it appears before its first quarter phase or after its third quarter phase, with concave and convex edges terminating in points. 2. Something shaped like a crescent, such as a curved pastry or a curved street. adj. 1. a shape resembling a segment of a ring tapering to points at the ends. 2. something, as a cookie, having this shape. 3. the figure of the moon in its first or last quarter, resembling such a shape. 4. shaped like a crescent.
crescent-any shape resembling the curved shape of the moon in its first or last quarters. curve, curved shape-the trace of a point whose direction of motion changes. 1. a shape resembling a segment of a ring tapering to points at the ends. 2. something, as a cookie, having this shape. 3. the figure of the moon in its first or last quarter, resembling such a shape. 4. shaped like a crescent.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: crescent (Noun). The figure of the moon as it appears in its first or last quarter, with concave and convex edges terminating in points. crescent (Noun). Something shaped like a crescent, especially: crescent (Noun). A crescent spanner. crescent (Verb). To form into a crescent, or something resembling a crescent.
Full Definition of CRESCENT. 1. a: the moon at any stage between new moon and first quarter and between last quarter and the succeeding new moon when less than half of the illuminated hemisphere is visible b: the figure of the moon at such a stage defined by a convex and a concave edge. 2. : something shaped like a crescent. Definition of CRESCENT for Kids. 1. : the shape of the visible part of the moon when it is less than half full. 2
The word crescent is derived etymologically from the present participle of the Latin verb crescere to grow, thus meaning waxing or increasing, and so was originally applied to the form of the waxing moon (luna crescens). The crescent is also used as a heraldic symbol. While this usage is not directly affiliated with Islam, in some instances one can trace the introduction of the crescent in European heraldry to Crusaders returning home.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: crescent (adj). any shape resembling the curved shape of the moon in its first or last quarters. crescent(a), crescent-shaped, semilunar, lunate (adj). resembling the new moon in shape. The figure of the moon as it appears in its first or last quarter, with concave and convex edges terminating in points. crescent (Noun). Something shaped like a crescent, especially: crescent (Noun). A crescent spanner. crescent (Verb). To form into a crescent, or something resembling a crescent.
1. any shape resembling the curved shape of the moon in its first or last quarters. Familiarity information: CRESCENT used as a noun is very rare. • CRESCENT (adjective). The adjective CRESCENT has 1 sense: 1. resembling the new moon in shape. Familiarity information: CRESCENT used as an adjective is very rare. 
1 The curved sickle shape of the waxing or waning moon: the moon was a slender crescent. More example sentences. 1  The moon waxes from new to sickle, crescent, half-full and disk, and wanes back again as the relative positions of sun and moon change. 1 They take their name from one of the symbols of Islam, the crescent, and the fact that they are allying together or ‘combining.’. 2  And I mark that the crescent was Mohammed's emblem! 3  The flag has a red star and crescent, symbolizing Islam, in a white circle in a red field.