The global distribution of cold environments polar (land and marine based), alpine, glacial and periglacial. Glaciers as systems glacial budgets and Ice movement-internal deformation, rotational, compressional, extensional and basal sliding; warm and cold based glaciers. Glacial processes and landscape development. Glacier Erosion and deposition landforms Alpine Glacial environments Fluvioglacial processes the role of melt water erosion and deposition. Fluvioglacial landforms melt water channels, kames, eskers and outwash plains.
GEOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS Each place has distinctive characteristics that distinguishes it from otherplaces. Geographic characteristics are divided into two categories: physicalcharacteristics and human characteristics. Physical characteristics describe the natural environment of the place. Theyinclude: • physical features-are landforms and bodies of water. • weather and climate weather-is how hot or cold and how wet or dry a place is. climate-is the kind of weather a place has over a long period time. 
Human and Physical Geography is the study of the environment, people, and the resources they use. Geography determines the way in which humans live, the adaptations they have developed to survive, and the alterations to the environment they have made to better their existence. Climate is a very important part in the study of human and physical geography. Climate is the usual weather patterns that occur in an area over a long period of time. There are four major climate zones, tropical, dry, mid-latitude, and high latitude.
Climate. Climate is a very important part in the study of human and physical geography. Climate is the usual weather patterns that occur in an area over a long period of time. There are four major climate zones, tropical, dry, mid-latitude, and high latitude.
Some examples of this geography theme are damming a river, polluting the air, building highways or railroads, and even watering lawns and gardens. Human behavior such as planting trees is a positive interaction with the environment where creating landfills is a negative interaction. Longitude lines measure distances east and west of the Prime Meridian. A place's absolute location is defined with latitude and longitude lines. This is its exact location. The geography theme of location can also deal with relative location. Relative location means how a place is related or connected to other places through water, land, or technology. For example, the latitude and longitude of London, England is 51.5072° N; 0.1275° W
Corsica, a mountainous island and the country's largest island, is located 160 km (99 miles) southeast of Nice. Mountains dominate eastern, south central and southern France, including the snowcapped Alps that stretch along its border with Italy, then on into Switzerland and across southern Europe. France, the second largest country in Europe, is partially covered central, north and west by a relatively flat plain that's punctuated by some time-worn low rolling hills and mountains. Rugged cliffs front its coastline along the English Channel.
The study of Human and Physical Geography has five themes, Location, Place, Interaction between People and their Environment, Movement, and Region. Five Themes of Human and Physical Geography Location Describes where a place is -- its position on the Earth's surface. Climate is a very important part in the study of human and physical geography. Climate is the usual weather patterns that occur in an area over a long period of time. There are four major climate zones, tropical, dry, mid-latitude, and high latitude.
Geography. France, the second largest country in Europe, is partially covered central, north and west by a relatively flat plain that's punctuated by some time-worn low rolling hills and mountains. Rugged cliffs front its coastline along the English Channel.
China stretches some 5,026 km (3,123 mi) across the East Asian landmass. China is bordered in the east by the East China Sea, Korea Bay, Yellow Sea, Bohai Sea, Taiwan Strait, and South China Sea, and shares land borders with a total of 14 countries in the north, south and west.