I have attached a sketch of the offsets and a reference I found from Union Pacific RR. I have read Bowles' discussion regarding the Boussinesq equation, and am using the version provided by AREMA. Where I am having trouble, is applying the equation to the retaining wall for stem design and overturning/sliding. The figures provided in Bowles section 12-5 show the earth pressure force applied to the stem, and to the virtual back behind the heel. Also, every example I find has the equation applied to a cantilever wall. The more I think about it, the equation should be applied against the wall, with different off-sets for change in stem thickness and location of footing. I also attached a excel file I created to find the resultant.
Note: If the Adjacent Footing is another retaining wall at a higher elevation, the Boussinesq analysis may be used for the vertical load applied to the soil from the wall, however the design must also consider the lateral (sliding) loads from that adjacent wall. 
Retaining walls shall be designed to withstand lateral earth and water pressures, the effects of surcharge loads, the self-weight of the wall and in special cases, earth­quake loads in accordance with the general principles specified in this section. 
With these equations one can “discretize” the strip load. Meaning you divide the strip load into a series of concentrated loads. Then apply the Boussinesq equation to each point load. Then the sum the results to find the resulting pressure at a certain elevation on the wall. Therefore if you were to solve the Boussinesq equation and divide your answer by your vertical pressure you would get somewhat of a pseudo-Ka value. It would not really be a Ka value to use with soil pressure but it does relate the vertical surcharge load to horizontal pressure.
Well in this segment we will cover the analysis of surcharge loads on retaining walls using elastic methods. You may commonly here this as a Boussinesq analysis or a Boussinesq as modified by Terzaghi or Tang. Also other equations have been produced by Spangler and Mindlin. Terzaghi proposed (2) different modified boussinesq equations for point and line loads both using v=0.5. 1962 Teng – Similar modification claiming that the pressure on rigid walls for strip loads should be 2x the results obtained by the ‘integrated’ Boussinesq equation.
When and How to Apply Elastic Methods. First the how – The equations presented below give pressures at a certain height on the wall. Therefore it is suggested that a program or spreadsheet is made that uses these equations to find pressures at set intervals or segments of the wall (sigmah). Terzaghi proposed (2) different modified boussinesq equations for point and line loads both using v=0.5. 1962 Teng – Similar modification claiming that the pressure on rigid walls for strip loads should be 2x the results obtained by the ‘integrated’ Boussinesq equation.
Elevation View Fig. 9 - Lateral pressure due to line load (Boussinesq equation modified by experiment) (after Terzaghi 22) Strip Loads-Highways and railroads are examples of strip loads. When they are parallel to a sheet pile wall, the lateral pressure distribution on the wall may be calculatedas shown in Figure 10. Fig. 
Note: If the Adjacent Footing is another retaining wall at a higher elevation, the Boussinesq analysis may be used for the vertical load applied to the soil from the wall, however the design must also consider the lateral (sliding) loads from that adjacent wall. If this is the case, then the soil is sloped and Slope Pressure will be used behind the wall to generate lateral loads. Maximum Pressure can be entered to instruct the program to limit the lateral pressure intensity. (The pressure diagram then becomes uniform).