1 Young, sexually active women with multiple sex partners are at greatest risk for pelvic inflammatory disease. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 3  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. 1 Pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted disease. 2  Most cases of pelvic inflammatory disease are caused by gonorrhea and/or Chlamydia. 3 
The most common symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease include abdominal pain, vaginal discharge, and fever. More severe symptoms may include painful sexual intercourse, painful urination, fatigue, and nausea with or without vomiting. Antibiotic therapy is the treatment for PID and can prevent serious complications. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of the female reproductive organs, including the uterine lining, ovaries, and fallopian tubes. It may produce severe symptoms, including pain and reproductive dysfunction. Pelvic inflammatory disease is a common disease that affects nearly one million women each year.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pelvic inflammatory disease or pelvic inflammatory disorder (PID) is an infection of the upper part of the female reproductive system namely the uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries, and inside of the pelvis. Often there may be no symptoms. Signs and symptoms, when present may include lower abdominal pain, vaginal discharge, fever, burning with urination, pain with sex, or irregular menstruation. Untreated PID can result in long term complications including infertility, ectopic pregnancy, chronic pelvic pain, and cancer.
A. Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) range from none at all to severe. It's common to think that PID symptoms are a sign of something less serious. Many women who have pelvic organ damage caused by PID report that they've never been diagnosed with PID. 
Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease infection can vary among individuals. Symptoms can run the gamut from none to severe. Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease may include lower abdominal pain, vaginal discharge with a foul odor, pain with sexual intercourse, vomiting, and fever. 
1 Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 2  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. 3  Pelvic inflammatory disease is treated with antibiotics. 1 Pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted disease. 2  Most cases of pelvic inflammatory disease are caused by gonorrhea and/or Chlamydia. 3  Young, sexually active women with multiple sex partners are at greatest risk for pelvic inflammatory disease.
PID can be difficult to recognise if the symptoms are mild, and some women don’t have any symptoms. Most women have mild symptoms that may include one or more of the following: 1  pain around the pelvis or lower abdomen (tummy). 2  discomfort or pain during sex that is felt deep inside the pelvis. 3  pain during urination. 4  bleeding between periods and after sex. 5  heavy or painful period