Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection may be the most common viral sexually transmitted disease (STD) in this country. Infection due to Human papillomavirus types 6 or 11 is usually associated with external genital warts, such as condylomata acuminata, whereas those due to Human papillomavirus type 16 or 18 are associated with cancers of the genitals (cervical, vulvar, and anal carcinomas).
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a DNA virus from the papillomavirus family that is capable of infecting humans. Like all papillomaviruses, HPVs establish productive infections only in keratinocytes of the skin or mucous membranes. Persistent infection with high-risk HPV types—different from the ones that cause skin warts—may progress to precancerous lesions and invasive cancer. High-risk HPV infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer.
Knowledge center. Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection with most sexually active men and women being exposed to the virus at some point during their lifetime.1,2. The virus is common in the United States, there are approximately 14 million newly diagnosed cases of HPV annually
HPV (human papillomavirus) is a sexually transmitted virus. It is passed on through genital contact (such as vaginal and anal sex). It is also passed on by skin-to-skin contact. At least 50% of people who have had sex will have HPV at some time in their lives. HPV is not a new virus. But many people don't know about it. 
HPV transmission typically occurs through direct skin-to-skin contact, including genital-to-genital contact. Human papillomavirus (or HPV for short) is a group of over 100 different types of viruses. 
HPV is a different virus than HIV and HSV (herpes). HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. Some types can cause health problems including genital warts and cancers. But there are vaccines that can stop these health problems from happening. HPV is so common that most sexually-active men and women will get at least one type of HPV at some point in their lives. Health problems related to HPV include genital warts and cervical cancer. Genital warts: About 360,000 people in the United States get genital warts each year.