Last week Piada NYC opened in the basement of the Citycorp building (on 53rd and Lex), becoming the latest place to bring some sort of strange, yuppiefied version of supposedly ethnic food stuffs to Midtown. I like quesadillas. It’s Piada time! The ingredients are nicer than what you’d get in a generic Midtown deli, and I don’t mind paying the extra $$ THE-I don’t care how good the ingredients are, I’m not really that interested in a yuppie-fied, Italian quesadilla.
Piada Italian Street Food is a fast casual Italian cuisine restaurant chain with 21 locations in three states (Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana) as of 2014. There are seventeen locations in Ohio, two in Indiana and two in Michigan. He sold his stake to investors in 2006 and launched the Piada concept around the Italian wrap-like sandwich known as a Piada or Piadina, a street food he sampled in northern Italy. It is stuffed with pastas, meats, cheeses, sauce and vegetables.
No matter if it’s in a pasta bowl, chopped salad, or piada, the price for chicken, Italian sausage, or vegetarian is $6.98; calamari is $7.25; steak is $7.45; and salmon is $8.95. An average check, including a drink, is under $10. Guests can then choose from three cold sauces and three hot sauces. The restaurant’s namesake item, the piada, starts with an Italian thin-crust dough made with flour and olive oil. That crust is baked on a stone grill, then filled with ingredients and hand rolled. It’s similar to a wrap or a burrito, but an Italian version.
Emilia-Romagna is the home region of world famous Italian director Federico Fellini-a true Piada lover-whose movies inspired the names of our Piadas. Piada (also known as Piadina) is a very popular Italian flat bread sandwich that is a specialty of the Emilia-Romagna region. Ogni donna fa la Piada a modo suo (Every woman makes piada in her own special way). With these words, mocking an old Italian saying, Maddalena Fellini (sister of Federico) perfectly describes the variety of ways in which a piada can be made.
Piadina [pjaˈdiːna] or Piada [ˈpjaːda] is a thin Italian flatbread, typically prepared in the Romagna region (Forli - Forlì, Cesena ravenna And). rimini The first written evidence of Piadina as it is now recognized dates back to 1371, in the Descriptio Romandiolae compiled by Cardinal Anglico, who for the first time gave the recipe of the bread of the people of Romagna; It is made with wheat flour moistened with water and flavoured with salt.
So you come up to the counter and first you choose among a Piada (which is kind of a wrap, with or without pasta), a pasta bowl, or a salad. In addition, there are Piada sticks that are already made and are heated on the very hot stone that is used to heat the very good bread used in the Piada. If you have not been there yet, you really need to go NOW. The food totally rocks! Piada is the latest venture and creation of Chris Doody, who, along with his brother Rick, created Bravo and Brio (BDI). I had the pleasure of meeting Chris a few visits ago. He is very involved; very “hands on”.
Think of piada (also called piadina) as a cross between Middle Eastern pita breads and Mexican flour tortillas. They're rolled out to the size of dinner plates and baked on a flat griddle or grill. Pricking them with a fork keeps them from puffing up, and the final texture is simultaneously soft, chewy, and tender. Use a rolling pin to roll the first piada out as thin as possible, about 9 inches across and 1/8 inch thick. Roll it over the rolling pin (like transferring pie dough) or drap it over your palm, and quickly settle it in your pan. Prick the piadina all over with a fork to prevent it from puffing up.
The etymology of the word piadina is uncertain; many think the term piada (pie, piê, pieda) pièda pida pìda was Borrowed from the greek. Word for focaccia others think the term was borrowed from other languages because of the large use of similar Foods Throughout The. eastern roman empire The first written evidence of Piadina as it is now recognized dates back to 1371, in the Descriptio Romandiolae compiled by Cardinal Anglico, who for the first time gave the recipe of the bread of the people of Romagna; It is made with wheat flour moistened with water and flavoured with salt.
Piadina [pjaˈdiːna] or Piada [ˈpjaːda] is a thin Italian flatbread, typically prepared in the Romagna region (Forli - Forlì, Cesena ravenna And). Rimini it is usually made with white, flour lard or olive, oil salt and. water The first written evidence of Piadina as it is now recognized dates back to 1371, in the Descriptio Romandiolae compiled by Cardinal Anglico, who for the first time gave the recipe of the bread of the people of Romagna; It is made with wheat flour moistened with water and flavoured with salt.