Answers. Best Answer: This is a type of derivative trade: INTEREST RATE CORRIDOR An interest rate corridor is composed of a long interest rate cap position and a short interest rate cap position. The buyer of the corridor purchases a cap with a lower strike while selling a second cap with a higher strike. The buyer of the corridor is then protected from rates rising above the first cap’s strike, but exposed again if they rise past the second cap’s strike. Source(s): http://www.derivactiv.com/definitions.as...
Interest rate corridor refers to the window between the repo rate and the reverse repo rate wherein the reverse repo rate acts as a floor and the repo as the ceiling. Ideally, rates in the overnight interbank call money market, where lending and borrowing is unsecured, should move within this corridor. Repo rate is the rate of interest charged by the central bank when banks borrow money from it. It is the tool through which the RBI in-fuses funds into the system by lending to banks against pledging of securities. The reverse repo is the rate the RBI offers to banks when they deposit funds with it
29 Jul, 2010. Interest rate corridor refers to the window between the repo rate and the reverse repo rate wherein the reverse repo rate acts as a floor and the repo as the ceiling. Ideally, rates in the overnight interbank call money market, where lending and borrowing is unsecured, should move within this corridor. However, when banks are short of funds and the overnight call money rates are high and above the repo rate, banks approach the RBI to borrow under the repo window. Therefore, the repo rate becomes an effective policy tool as it would help bring down the rates in the overnight market.
A narrow rate corridor means that short-term interest rates in the call money market will move within that band. This band was earlier 150 basis points, which has now been lowered to 125 basis points. Repo rate is the rate of interest charged by the central bank when banks borrow money from it. It is the tool through which the RBI in-fuses funds into the system by lending to banks against pledging of securities. The reverse repo is the rate the RBI offers to banks when they deposit funds with it
In a corridor-type system, the interest-on-reserves rate is lower than the market interest rate. Banks thus have an incentive to invest time and effort trying to economize on the quantity of balances they hold by lending extra funds to other banks or by purchasing other assets. These two rates form a “corridor” that will contain the market interest rate; the target rate is often (but not always) set in the middle of this corridor. Open market operations are then used as needed to change the supply of reserve balances so that the market interest rate is as close as possible to the target.