Within the genus Mustela, ferrets belong to the subgenus Putorius, from which there are only three extant species: M. putorius, the European polecat; M. eversmanni, the Siberian, or steppe polecat; and M. nigripes, the black-footed ferret. Of the 16 extant species currently classified in the genus Mustela, ten have weasel in their common name. Among those that do not are the stoat or ermine, the two species of mink, and the polecats or ferrets. depends what you mean by weasels--they are in the weasel genus Mustela.
The history of the ferret's domestication is uncertain, like that of most other domestic animals, but it is likely that ferrets have been domesticated for at least 2,500 years. Male ferrets are called hobs; female ferrets are jills. A spayed female is a sprite, a neutered male is a gib, and a vasectomised male is known as a hoblet. Ferrets under one year old are known as kits. A group of ferrets is known as a business, or historically as a busyness.
In the past, ferrets have received a good deal of negative publicity. As with any pet, poor understanding of their needs and behavior and needs can lead to problems. However, we have to remember that the majority of ferret owners are responsible owners, and there are several common misconceptions about ferrets. 
The ferret use as a hunter of rodents and rabbits can be traced to the 4th century B.C. The ferret is mentioned in Aristophanes comedy 'The Acharnians' written in 450 BC and Aristotle lists the ferret in his 'Historia Animalium' written about 420 BC. Historical documents from Greece mention the ferret about 450 BC. Of the 16 extant species currently classified in the genus Mustela, ten have weasel in their common name. Among those that do not are the stoat or ermine, the two species of mink, and the polecats or ferrets. depends what you mean by weasels--they are in the weasel genus Mustela.
1 Ferrets come from the same family (Mustelidae) as badgers, wolverines, otters, mink, weasels, black footed ferrets and polecats. 2  The distant ancestry of the domestic ferret is somewhat of a mystery, although they are very closely related to the European polecat. 
Scientists give animals classifications to make it easier to study them. The ferret is the domesticated member of the Order Carnivora, Family Mustelidae and Genus Mustela. This means that ferrets are meat-eaters and one of the members of the weasel family. A common misconception is that ferrets are rodents. 
Weasels are mammals in the genus Mustela of the Mustelidae family. In technical discourse, however, as in American usage, the term weas … el can refer to any member of the genus, or to the genus as a whole. Of the 16 extant species currently classified in the genus Mustela, ten have weasel in their common name. Among those that do not are the stoat or ermine, the two species of mink, and the polecats or ferrets. depends what you mean by weasels--they are in the weasel genus Mustela.
The domestic ferret should not be confused with the Black-Footed ferret (Mustela nigripes), a close cousin, which is native to North America & currently on the endangered species list. Ferrets are not members of the rodent family, nor are they related to the opossum, raccoon or mongoose. A ferret does not have to have contact with an infected animal to contract this disease. Fervac D and Galaxy D are the vaccines of choice. The initial baby shot is given at 6 to 8 weeks-of-age with follow-up vaccinations every 3 weeks.
There is a limited amount of information on ferret history and where ferrets originate from. However, mentions of ferrets date back as far as 450BC (Aristophanes and later Aristotle mentioned something about them at around 350BC)! Below is a painting of Queen Elizabeth I with her ferret (however the artist made the ferret look more royal by giving it spots!). In ferret history there was no mention of white or albino ferrets till AD 1551 in Britain where they are described as ‘the colour of wool stained urine’.
The Mustelidae (from Latin mustela, weasel) are a family of carnivorous mammals, including the otters, badgers, weasel, martens, ferrets, minks and wolverines. Mustelids are diverse and the largest family in the order Carnivora. 