A method used to identify multilocus DNA banding patterns that are specific to an individual by exposing a sample of the person's DNA to molecular probes and various analytical techniques such as Southern blot analysis. DNA fingerprinting is often used to provide evidence in criminal law cases.
DNA fingerprinting A technique that is used to compare DNA from different sources or to identify a genome by comparison with a known standard. Minisatellite DNA is partially broken down by restriction enzymes and the sections are separated by electrophoresis.
Guide. DNA fingerprinting is a test to identify and evaluate the genetic information-called DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)-in a person's cells.
Only a small sample of cells is needed for DNA fingerprinting. A drop of blood or the root of a hair contains enough DNA for testing. Semen, hair, or skin scrapings are often used in criminal investigations. A person who has DNA fingerprinting done voluntarily usually provides a sample of blood taken from a vein.
DNA fingerprinting is a way of identifying a specific individual, rather than simply identifying a species or some particular trait. It is also known as genetic fingerprinting or DNA profiling. As a technology, it has been around since at least 1985, when it was announced by its inventor, Sir Alec Jeffreys.
DNA fingerprinting is a laboratory technique used to establish a link between biological evidence and a suspect in a criminal investigation. A DNA sample taken from a crime scene is compared with a DNA sample from a suspect. If the two DNA profiles are a match, then the evidence came from that suspect.
DNA fingerprinting or DNA profiling, any of several similar techniques for analyzing and comparing DNA from separate sources, used especially in law enforcement to identify suspects from hair, blood, semen, or other biological materials found at the scene of a violent crime.
DNA Fingerprinting is a procedure whereby the genetic information, called DNA, in a person's cells is analysed and identified. The word fingerprinting is used because, just like a fingerprint, no two person's genetic code is exactly the same. This makes DNA fingerprinting a very useful tool for our modern society.