Creates a new contract. A contract defines the message types that are used in a Service Broker conversation and also determines which side of the conversation can send messages of that type. Is the name of the contract to create. A new contract is created in the current database and owned by the principal specified in the AUTHORIZATION clause. Server, database, and schema names cannot be specified.
contract_name. Is the name of the contract to create. A new contract is created in the current database and owned by the principal specified in the AUTHORIZATION clause. Server, database, and schema names cannot be specified. The contract_name can be up to 128 characters
The elements of a contract are offer and acceptance by competent persons having legal capacity who exchange consideration to create mutuality of obligation.. Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct. A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur. The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Applies To: SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016 Preview. Creates a new contract. A contract defines the message types that are used in a Service Broker conversation and also determines which side of the conversation can send messages of that type. Each conversation follows a contract. Is the name of the contract to create. A new contract is created in the current database and owned by the principal specified in the AUTHORIZATION clause. Server, database, and schema names cannot be specified.
Some contracts are required to be in writing in order to be enforced. (2) An agreement between two or more parties which creates obligations to do or not do the specific things that are the subject of that agreement. Examples of a contract are a lease, a promissory note, or a rental agreement. 
A contract is an agreement between two parties that creates an obligation to perform (or not perform) a particular duty. A legally enforceable contract requires: 1  An Offer (I’ll mow your lawn this weekend if you pay me $30). 2  An Acceptance (You’ve got a deal). 
Is the name of the contract to create. A new contract is created in the current database and owned by the principal specified in the AUTHORIZATION clause. Server, database, and schema names cannot be specified. The contract_name can be up to 128 characters. Note. Do not create a contract that uses the keyword ANY for the contract_name. When you specify ANY for a contract name in CREATE BROKER PRIORITY, the priority is considered for all contracts. It is not limited to a contract whose name is ANY.
Creates a new contract. A contract defines the message types that are used in a Service Broker conversation and also determines which side of the conversation can send messages of that type. Note. Do not create a contract that uses the keyword ANY for the contract_name. When you specify ANY for a contract name in CREATE BROKER PRIORITY, the priority is considered for all contracts. It is not limited to a contract whose name is ANY.
If you are creating a contract for goods or services, it is important that you protect yourself by ensuring that the contract is legal and enforceable. Knowing the elements necessary to create and execute a contract can help you create an appropriate legal contract. 2. Do not attempt to write a contract for something illegal. A contract is not legal or enforceable if the goods or services in the contract are illegal. 1  For example, you cannot contract someone into prostitution services in a state in which prostitution is illegal.