Vaccinations for Adults without a Spleen The table below shows which vaccinations you should have to protect your health if you do not have a functioning spleen. You are at increased risk for Hib disease because you do not have a functioning spleen. If you have never received Hib vaccination (or don’t know if you received it) you should receive 1 dose now. Maybe. You need this vaccine if you are a woman age 26 or younger or a man age 21 or younger.
Endocrine Surgery Clinic Splenectomy - 2 - What vaccinations will I need after a splenectomy? Three bacteria for which you will be or have been vaccinated for that cause the most severe infections. 1. Pneumococcus vaccine (Pneumovax) is used to prevent infection caused by the pneumococcal bacteria. The spleen is a small, solid organ, located in the upper left side of the abdomen just under the rib cage. The spleen’s function is to store red blood cells and help remove “old” cells and other particles from circulation. The spleen plays a role in fighting infections in the body. What happens
Your spleen, an organ located in the upper left side of your abdomen, helps your body resist infection. Sometimes, the spleen stops working properly as a result of an accident or other health problems. In certain cases, a person's spleen has to be taken out. This surgical procedure is called a splenectomy. Before your splenectomy, you should get vaccinated against pneumococcal infection and get a booster shot every 3 to 5 years. You should also get a flu shot each year. Your doctor may want you to get 2 other shots, one to protect you against Haemophilus infections and another to protect against meningitis.
However, you have an increased risk of developing some serious infections if you do not have a spleen, or have a spleen that does not work properly. This complication is called overwhelming post-splenectomy infection (OPSI). The risk is small and OPSI is uncommon, but very serious and is often fatal if it occurs. The spleen is an organ in the upper left side of the tummy (abdomen). It helps to protect against infections. As blood passes through the spleen, special cells kill germs (bacteria) that may be present.
If your spleen has been taken out or is not working right, you should see your doctor at the first sign of infection, such as fever or chills. Other conditions that you should see your doctor for are a severe sore throat, an unexplained cough, severe abdominal pain, and headache or drowsiness. You should get a booster shot of the vaccine every 3 to 5 years. Your doctor may also want you to get two other shots, one against Haemophilus infections and another against meningitis. In children, antibiotics might be given for at least two years after the spleen is taken out and sometimes until age 21.
Maybe. You need this vaccine if you have a specific risk factor for hepatitis B virus infection* or simply want to be protected from this disease. The vaccine is given in 3 doses, usually over 6 months. Yes! You are at increased risk for Hib disease because you do not have a functioning spleen. If you have never received Hib vaccination (or don’t know if you received it) you should receive 1 dose now. Maybe. You need this vaccine if you are a woman age 26 or younger or a man age 21 or younger.
Your spleen plays an important part in your resistance to infection (immunity). Your spleen is in the upper left side of your abdomen, partly protected by your lower ribs. The spleen may have to be taken out (splenectomy) or may stop working right for many reasons. You should get a booster shot of the vaccine every 3 to 5 years. Your doctor may also want you to get two other shots, one against Haemophilus infections and another against meningitis. In children, antibiotics might be given for at least two years after the spleen is taken out and sometimes until age 21.
0. 15. If you do not have a spleen, or have a spleen that does not work well, you have an increased risk of developing some serious infections. The risk is reduced by immunisation, taking regular low-dose antibiotics, and taking full-strength antibiotics as soon as the first sign of infection develops. The spleen is an organ in the upper left side of the tummy (abdomen). It helps to protect against infections. As blood passes through the spleen, special cells kill germs (bacteria) that may be present.
If your spleen has to be taken out, you may have an increased risk of severe infection. The degree of risk depends on your age and if you have other diseases. Although your risk of infection is highest in the first two years after splenectomy, it stays high for the rest of your life. With no spleen, the risk of a severe infection is about the same as dying in a home accident. You should get a booster shot of the vaccine every 3 to 5 years. Your doctor may also want you to get two other shots, one against Haemophilus infections and another against meningitis. In children, antibiotics might be given for at least two years after the spleen is taken out and sometimes until age 21.