Who: Gandy. What: 48-inch overseeder. Description: Gandy's 48-inch dethatcher/overseeder packages are designed to complement each other by adding a dethatcher deck and add-on overseeding hopper to your existing turf equipment. Remember, you might be doing this all day long. When you shop for an overseeder, consider your specific needs. Of primary importance is the size of the sites on which you'll use the unit. Obviously, larger sites require larger overseeders
An overseeder is a verti-cutter, or dethatcher, that is equipped with a hopper. The cutting portion of the machine creates cuts, or grooves, in the lawn. The blades also pull away old, dead, pressed-down grass, which is commonly known as thatch. To buy an overseeder on eBay, navigate to the Home & Garden category from the main page, and then continue to Yard & Garden. From there, click over to Outdoor Power Equipment and select the Other Outdoor Power Equipment subcategory. Use the search box to find specific brands or types of overseeders for sale.
Do you mean you mowed to 3 inches or you meant to mow at 3 inches? In any case you should have mowed to one inch for overseeding. Otherwise I don't see any harm in what you did. For your grass you could set your mower to the highest setting and only lower it to one inch for overseeding. If that setting is 4 inches, wait until your new grass gets to 5 inches high and then mow. You can overseed in the spring, but don't count on great results.
The overseeder basket holds the seeds. Choose the seed type that thrives in your environment. Cleaning the basket removes any fertilizer left from a previous task. Drying the basket prevents the seeds from sticking to the sides while you are overseeding. Preparing the Lawn. Prepare your lawn to receive the new seeds. Remove thatch with a dethatching tool and rake the loose thatch and other debris from the lawn. Remove any weeds that gathered in clumps with the rake and loosen the top layer of soil. Water the lawn to moisten the soil
1. Spread grass seed evenly over the entire lawn. Use the amount specified on the seed packaging, based on the size of your lawn. To seed, you can either use a rotary spreader, a drop spreader, a hand spreader, or spread by hand. 1  Make sure you choose a variety of seed that blends nicely with your existing lawn. 
How to use a self propelled lawn overseeder, available at One Stop Rental. http://www.onestoprent.com/cincinnati... West Chester/Mason Location. Phone: 513-777-3393. Liberty/Fairfield Township Location. Phone: 513-895-8665. Additional places to find One Stop Rental: Website: http://www.onestoprent.com. 
Grass seed must touch the soil to germinate. Overseeding your lawn helps you thicken thin areas, fill bare patches or add an entirely new type of grass -- covering your summer lawn with a cool-season grass to keep it green all year, for example.
Overseeding is the planting of grass seed directly into existing turf, without tearing up the turf, or the soil. It’s an easy way to fill in bare spots, improve the density of turf, establish improved grass varieties and enhance your lawn’s color. 