Aside from the above mentioned functions, the only difference between the bicuspid and tricuspid is the number of cusps or sections. Bicuspid has 2 and tricuspid has 3. There is no documented significance for the right side having the tricuspid and the left having the mitral/bicuspid. Four types of valves regulate blood flow through your heart: 1) The tricuspid valve regulates blood flow between the right atrium and right ventricle.
Normally the only cardiac valve that is bicuspid is the mitral valve (bicuspid valve) which is situated between the left atrium and left ventricle. Cardiac valves play a crucial role in ensuring the unidirectional flow of blood from the atrium to the ventricles, or the ventricle to the aorta or pulmonary trunk. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is most commonly a congenital condition of the aortic valve where two of the aortic valvular leaflets fuse during development resulting in a valve that is bicuspid instead of the normal tricuspid configuration.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Both bicuspid and tricuspid valves are called atrio-ventricular valves. Since left ventricle beat with strong force than right ventricle, nature has designed bicuspid valve (mitral valve) to withstand more pressure of blood from the left ventricle. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heart_valve... 
The bicuspid (or mitre) and tricuspid valves are valves controlling the blood flow in the heart. The tricuspid valve has three flaps, and bicuspid valve two. The tricuspid is … located in between the right atrium and the right ventricle. from the name itself, the bicuspid valve contains two cusps or flaps and the tricuspid valve contains three cusps or flaps. they both prevent the blood from flowing back into … the atria........
Best Answer: See this website for a diagram of the heart valves: http://texasheart.org/HIC/Anatomy/valves... Four types of valves regulate blood flow through your heart: 1) The tricuspid valve regulates blood flow between the right atrium and right ventricle. 2) The pulmonary valve controls blood flow from the right ventricle into the pulmonary arteries, which carry blood to your lungs to pick up oxygen
Query: As far as I have been able to find, there is (currently) no 'definitive' answer as to why a three-leafed tricuspid valve separates the right atrium from the left, and a two-leafed bicuspid valve (the mitral valve) separates the left atrium from the left ventricle. 
bicuspid valves prevents the backflow of blood from the left ventricle. because there are two ventricles in the heart, left and right. the left one consist of oxygenated blood and the right one consist of deoxygenated blood so it will not mix up thru the present of bicuspid and tricuspid valve. 
the tricuspid valve is a valve so the flow of blood does not go backwards through the heart. It is located between the right atrium and the right ventricle in the heart. You c … an pull up a picture in google of the lableing of the heart and can see the tricuspid valve in the heart. Answer by Bhuvanajagan94. Confidence votes 57. from the name itself, the bicuspid valve contains two cusps or flaps and the tricuspid valve contains three cusps or flaps. they both prevent the blood from flowing back into the atria........
The bicuspid (or mitre) and tricuspid valves are valves controlling the blood flow in the heart. The tricuspid valve has three flaps, and bicuspid valve two. The tricuspid is … located in between the right atrium and the right ventricle. Answer by Bhuvanajagan94. Confidence votes 57. from the name itself, the bicuspid valve contains two cusps or flaps and the tricuspid valve contains three cusps or flaps. they both prevent the blood from flowing back into the atria........