Determining exactly when humans began wearing clothes is a challenge, largely because early clothes would have been things like animal hides, which degrade rapidly. It means modern humans probably started wearing clothes on a regular basis to keep warm when they were first exposed to Ice Age conditions.”. As to when humans moved on from animal hides and into textiles, the first fabric is thought to have been an early ancestor of felt.
Scientists are still debating when people started wearing clothes. Ralf Kittler, Manfred Kayser and Mark Stoneking, anthropologists at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, have conducted a genetic analysis of human body lice that suggests clothing originated quite recently, around 107,000 years ago. 
A recent University of Florida study concluded that humans started wearing clothes some 170,000 years ago, lining up with the end of the second-to-last ice age. How did they figure that date out? Determining exactly when humans began wearing clothes is a challenge, largely because early clothes would have been things like animal hides, which degrade rapidly. Therefore, there’s very little archaeological evidence that can be used to determine the date that clothing started being worn.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 170.000 years ago - - - -http://news.discovery.com/human/humans-f... Humans began to wear clothing 170,000 years ago, concludes a new study that suggests our ancestors first put on clothes after the second-to-last Ice Age, when being nude must have been too cool for comfort. 
1 However, the studies on lice were to find with the earliest modern humans started wearing clothes, coming up with the 170,000 years ago number. Determining exactly when humans began wearing clothes is a challenge, largely because early clothes would have been things like animal hides, which degrade rapidly. Therefore, there’s very little archaeological evidence that can be used to determine the date that clothing started being worn
A recent University of Florida study concluded that humans started wearing clothes some 170,000 years ago, lining up with the end of the second-to-last ice age. How did they figure that date out? By studying the evolution of lice. It means modern humans probably started wearing clothes on a regular basis to keep warm when they were first exposed to Ice Age conditions.”. As to when humans moved on from animal hides and into textiles, the first fabric is thought to have been an early ancestor of felt.
Another group of anthropologists concluded that humans began wearing clothes over 170,000 years ago, although the earliest physical evidence of clothing we have is 33,000 years old. The majority of pre-historic clothes would consist of animal hides and leaves which would disintegrate before we even found them. In answer to your question, anthropologists can make estimated guesses (or precise stabs in the dark folds of time). The consensus is that humans wore clothes for over 100,000 years or roughly between 83,000 to 170,000 years and without them we would probably all still be living somewhere in Africa.
A study of clothing lice in 2003 led by Mark Stoneking, a geneticist at the Max Planck Institute in Leipzig, Germany, estimated humans first began wearing clothes about 107,000 years ago. View. comments. Research into the DNA of lice has found man started wearing clothes about 170,000 years ago - 100,000 years before he migrated to colder climates. Man started wearing clothes 170,000 years ago enabling him to successfully migrate out of Africa, according to a new study following the evolution of lice. Dr David Reed, a mammalogist at the University of Florida, studies lice in modern humans to better understand human evolution and migration patterns