Short for asymmetric digital subscriber line, ADSL is a type of DSL broadband communications technology used for connecting to the Internet. ADSL allows more data to be sent over existing copper telephone lines (POTS), when compared to traditional modem lines. 
Both DSL (ADSL1) and ADSL2+ filters are low-pass filters designed to block anything that is higher then the frequencies used for analog voice on the phone network. This means that the filter frequency is the same (somewhere between 5 and 25kHz)! 
Installing DSL filters Installing DSL filters Check if you need to install or replace a phone line DSL filter with the Verizon Troubleshooter. Installing High Speed Internet filters on your phone devices is Step 1 of the Verizon High Speed Internet installation process. You need to install filters on all phone devices using a telephone line before installing your modem.You'll install your modem in Step 2 of the installation process. Install DSL Filters on: Standard Telephones Modems and phones sharing the same jack Wall-mount telephones Connected phone devices Don't install High Speed Internet filters on: Modems Installing a filter on your modem interferes with your Verizon High Speed Internet service.
DSL filters block the high frequency DSL signals from being transmitted to the telephone. For most installations, it is recommended that you connect the plug end of the DSL filter into the telephone jack, then connect a telephone line cord between the jack end of the filter and your phone. Please contact your service provider to obtain DSL filters and installation information. Solution: If you subscribe to DSL internet service using your telephone line, DSL filters must be plugged into EVERY phone jack that has a phone connected to it. The DSL signal can cause static, noise, squealing (similar to fax tones), caller ID disruption and other issues on your line.
A DSL filter or microfilter is an analog low-pass filter installed between analog devices (such as telephones or analog modems) and a plain old telephone service (POTS) line, in order to prevent interference between such devices and a digital subscriber line (DSL) service operating on the same line. The usual symptom of a failed filter is frequent DSL disconnects or slow internet speed, and the usual procedure to test for failed filters is to remove all filters from the telephone line leaving only the router and checking to see whether the DSL speed increased.
Other Filters and Troubleshooting. A DSL filter is typically a small device, though some other equipment can have filters built into them. Some surge protectors or power strips, for example, include a filter to help with DSL connections and to protect equipment in case of a power surge through a phone line. 
Without DSL filters, signals or echoes from analog devices at the top of their frequency range can result in reduced performance and connection problems with DSL service, while those from the DSL service at the bottom of its range can result in line noise and other issues for analog devices. The usual symptom of a failed filter is frequent DSL disconnects or slow internet speed, and the usual procedure to test for failed filters is to remove all filters from the telephone line leaving only the router and checking to see whether the DSL speed increased.