Question: What is the difference between exegesis and eisegesis?. Answer: Exegesis and eisegesis are two conflicting approaches in Bible study. Exegesis is the exposition or explanation of a text based on a careful, objective analysis. The word exegesis literally means to lead out of. That means that the interpreter is led to his conclusions by following the text.
The Midrash is a homiletic method of exegesis and a compilation of homiletic teachings or commentaries on the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible), a biblical exegesis of the Pentateuch and its paragraphs related to the Law or Torah, which also forms an object of analysis. In biblical exegesis, the opposite of exegesis (to draw out) is eisegesis (to draw in), in the sense of an eisegetic commentator importing or drawing in his or her own purely subjective interpretations into the text, unsupported by the text itself.
Exegesis (/ˌɛksəˈdʒiːsəs/ ; from the Greek ἐξήγησις from ἐξηγεῖσθαι 'to lead out') is a critical explanation or interpretation of a text, particularly a religious text. In biblical exegesis, the opposite of exegesis (to draw out) is eisegesis (to draw in), in the sense of an eisegetic commentator importing or drawing in his or her own purely subjective interpretations into the text, unsupported by the text itself.
Exegesis. Exegesis is when a person interprets a text based solely on what it says. That is, he extracts out of the text what is there as opposed to reading into it what is not there (Compare with Eisegesis). There are rules to proper exegesis: read the immediate context, related themes, word definitions, etc., that all play a part in properly understanding what something says and does not say.
Related to English 'seek'.] To interpret a text by way of thorough analysis of its content. When you do exegesis, you are an exegete who is exegeting the text. In its most basic Bible-relevant meaning, exegesis means finding out what the Spirit originally was saying through its author in that Bible passage. Exegesis is what comes out of the Bible, as against what gets read into it. That's really eisegesis in a Halloween costume.) In a more theological setting, exegesis means what comes from the use of certain methods of studying the Bible. Just about every imaginable method already has a name, and there are all sorts of mixes, but the main types are :
Definition of EXEGESIS. : exposition, explanation; especially: an explanation or critical interpretation of a text. ADVERTISEMENT. 1  exegesis.
Exegesis is a critical explanation or interpretation of a text, especially a religious text. Traditionally the term was used primarily for exegesis of the Bible; however, in contemporary usage it has broadened to mean a critical explanation of any text, and the term Biblical exegesis is used for greater specificity. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: exegesis (Noun). An exposition or explanation of a text, especially a religious one. Origin: From ἐξήγησις, from ἐξηγέομαι, from ἐξ + ἡγέομαι.
Obviously, only exegesis does justice to the text. Eisegesis is a mishandling of the text and often leads to a misinterpretation. Exegesis is concerned with discovering the true meaning of the text, respecting its grammar, syntax, and setting. Exegesis is the exposition or explanation of a text based on a careful, objective analysis. The word exegesis literally means to lead out of. That means that the interpreter is led to his conclusions by following the text.
Answer: Exegesis means exposition or explanation. Biblical exegesis involves the examination of a particular text of scripture in order to properly interpret it. Exegesis is a part of the process of hermeneutics, the science of interpretation. A person who practices exegesis is called an exegete. Good biblical exegesis is actually commanded in scripture.
Answer Exegesis is a fancy word to say that my interpretation of the scripture is the only correct interpretation. Answer For some further clarification of terms. The meaning of the word exegesis is really quite simple. Although it is commonly used in relation to the Bible, it could apply to any work of literature. In relation to a poem, for example, it would involve studying it to see what the author intended to say. Ultimately exegesis is not an argument of 'my opinion versus your opinion' or anybody elses opinion except the author of the text in hand. It does not help to then push this back further to say that it is my opinion about what the author says versus your opinion about what the author says.