TRAVATAN Eye Drops contains the active ingredient travoprost, which belongs to a class of medicines known as prostaglandins. TRAVATAN Eye Drops is used, either alone or in combination with other eye drops/medicines, to lower raised pressure in the eye and to treat glaucoma.
Stop using travoprost ophthalmic and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  redness, swelling, itching, or pain in or around your eye; 2  oozing or discharge from your eye; 3  increased sensitivity to light; 4  vision changes; or.
It is used to treat eye disorders, such as glaucoma, which cause an increase in pressure within the eyes and raised pressure within the eye and open angle glaucoma.Travatan eye drops may cause ocular and conjunctival hyperaemia, conjunctivitis as its side effect. Your ophthalmologist knows what is best for you.
TRAVATAN contains propylene glycol which may cause skin irritation. TRAVATAN contains polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 which may cause skin reactions.
In these clinical studies, the most common side effect of Travatan was eye redness, which occurred in 35 to 50 percent of people. Other common side effects (which occurred in 5 to 10 percent of people) included: 1  Less clear or sharp vision. 2  Eye discomfort or pain. 3  Feeling like something is stuck in the eye. 4  Eye itching.
Before using travoprost eye drops, 1  tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to travoprost, benzalkonium chloride, or any other medications. 2  tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking.
SIDE EFFECTS: Blurred vision, eye redness /discomfort/ itching, feeling as if something is in your eye, dry eyes, tearing, eyelid crusting, increase in eyelash number/length/thickness, darkening of the eyelashes and eyelids, eyelid changes, or increased sensitivity to light may occur.
The first type of eyedrop used by most glaucoma patients is the group called prostaglandins: bimatoprost (Lumigan), latanoprost (Xalatan), and travoprost (Travatan Z). Through this section, we’ll use the small letter name for the chemical or generic product and Capital letter for the brand name.
Travoprost ophthalmic is used to treat glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision) and ocular hypertension (a condition which causes increased pressure in the eye). Travoprost is in a class of medications called prostaglandin analogs.
Travoprost eye drops may change the color of your eye (to brown) and darken the skin around the eye. It may also cause your eyelashes to grow longer and thicker and darken in color. These changes usually occur slowly, but they may be permanent.