Cyanide poisoning occurs when a living organism is exposed to a compound that produces cyanide ions (CN −) when dissolved in water. Common poisonous cyanide compounds include hydrogen cyanide gas and the crystalline solids potassium cyanide and sodium cyanide. The cyanide ion halts cellular respiration by inhibiting an enzyme in the mitochondria called cytochrome c oxidase.
Consequently, the tissues with the highest oxygen requirements (brain and heart) are the most profoundly affected by acute cyanide poisoning. The LCt 50 (the concentration-time product capable of killing 50% of the exposed group) for hydrogen cyanide is 2500-5000 mg/min/m 3. Pathophysiology. Cyanide exposure most often occurs via inhalation or ingestion, but liquid cyanide can be absorbed through the skin or eyes. Once absorbed, cyanide enters the blood stream and is distributed rapidly to all organs and tissues in the body.
In small doses, cyanide in the body can be changed into thiocyanate, which is less harmful and is excreted in urine. In the body, cyanide in small amounts can also combine with another chemical to form vitamin B 12, which helps maintain healthy nerve and red blood cells. In large doses, the body’s ability to change cyanide into thiocyanate is overwhelmed. Large doses of cyanide prevent cells from using oxygen and eventually these cells die. The heart, respiratory system and central nervous system are most susceptible to cyanide poisoning. 1 Quickly move away from the area where you think you were exposed. 2  If the release was indoors, go outdoors. 3  If you are near a release of cyanide, emergency coordinators may tell you to either evacuate the area or to shelter in place.. 4  To shelter in place means to remain indoors to avoid being exposed to the chemical.
1 Cyanide prevents the cells of the body from using oxygen. 2  When this happens, the cells die. 3  Cyanide is more harmful to the heart and brain than to other organs because the heart and brain use a lot of oxygen. 1 Cyanide gas is less dense than air; so it will rise. 2  Cyanide prevents the cells of the body from using oxygen. 3  When this happens, the cells die. 4  Cyanide is more harmful to the heart and brain than to other organs because the heart and brain use a lot of oxygen.
Cyanide poisoning is a form of histotoxic hypoxia because the cells of an organism are unable to use oxygen, primarily through the inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase. Common poisonous cyanide compounds include hydrogen cyanide gas and the crystalline solids potassium cyanide and sodium cyanide. The cyanide ion halts cellular respiration by inhibiting an enzyme in the mitochondria called
Cyanides can be produced by certain bacteria, fungi and algae. Cyanides are also found in cigarette smoke, in vehicle exhaust, and in foods such as spinach, bamboo shoots, almonds, lima beans, fruit pits and tapioca. 1 Quickly move away from the area where you think you were exposed. 2  If the release was indoors, go outdoors. 3  If you are near a release of cyanide, emergency coordinators may tell you to either evacuate the area or to shelter in place.. 4  To shelter in place means to remain indoors to avoid being exposed to the chemical.
Cardiac muscle tissue is an extremely specialized form of muscle tissue that has evolved to pump blood throughout the body. In fact, cardiac muscle is only found in the heart and makes up the bulk of the heart’s mass. 
This group, known as the cyano group, consists of a carbon atom triple-bonded to a nitrogen atom. In inorganic cyanides, such as sodium cyanide, NaCN, this group is present as the negatively charged polyatomic cyanide ion (CN −); these compounds, which are regarded as salts of hydrocyanic acid, are highly toxic. The cyanide ion is isoelectronic with carbon monoxide and with molecular nitrogen. Most cyanides are highly toxic. Organic cyanides are usually called nitriles; in these, the CN group is linked by a covalent bond to a carbon-containing group, such as methyl (CH 3) in methyl cyanide (acetonitrile). The cyanide anion is an inhibitor of the enzyme cytochrome c oxidase (also known as aa 3) in the fourth complex of the electron transport chain (found in the membrane of the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells).
Metabolic poisons, such as hydrogen cyanide and cyanogen chloride, inhibit cellular respiration, whereby cells extract oxygen from the blood and transform the energy in sugar molecules into a useful form of energy for cells. All systems of the body are ultimately affected by these metabolic poisons. 