We are located on Grand Turk, which is one of the Turks Islands and is the capital of the entire island chain. This small, unique island is located approximately 80 miles from the island of Provo and can be reached by a short 30 minute commuter flight from there. If you are flying into the Turks and Caicos Islands, you might be staying on Grand Turk or on one of the other inhabited islands within the country. The majority of passengers arriving by air into the Turks and Caicos Islands stay on the island of Providenciales (aka Provo), which is one of the Caicos Islands.
Shore excursions on Grand Turk run the gamut from horseback riding to fly fishing -- and one of the biggest draws is diving, with the islands -- technically in the Atlantic, not the Caribbean -- lying along one of the largest barrier reefs in the world. The Grand Turk Lighthouse is more than 150 years old and stands on the northern tip of the island, opposite the cruise terminal. It was built in the U.K. and transported piece by piece with hopes that it would bring a halt to the many shipwrecks on Grand Turk's reefs.
Grand Turk. Grand Turk is the administrati ve and political capital of the Turks and Caicos Islands. Cockburn Town has been the seat of the TCI Government since 1766. This small island is six miles long and just over a mile wide. 
Grand Turk. Location: Grand Turk is the capital of the Turks & Caicos Islands archipelago and it is located 575 miles Southeast of Miami, Florida, and 30 miles south of the Bahamas. 
Margaritaville Wins Certificate of Excellence! Our very own Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville-Grand Turk has received a TripAdvisor® Certificate of Excellence award! The accolade, which honors hospitality excellence, is given only to establishments that consistently achieve outstanding traveler reviews on TripAdvisor. Visit our NASA Interactive Exhibit on the south side of the cruise center. Go back in time and learn about the early days of NASA’s Mercury Program and the island of Grand Turk’s involvement.
Explore Historical Grand Turk! Since 1766, Grand Turk has been the capital of the Turks and Caicos Islands. Originally founded by Bermudian salt collectors in 1681, the island still retains a colonial heritage through its colonial buildings and old salt salinas. Donkeys and horses, once the only means of transportation, now roam freely in the wild. The Grand Turk Lighthouse. The most-recognizable structure in the Turks and Caicos, the Grand Turk Lighthouse overlooks the treacherous North Reef. Built in 1852, this cast iron tower was prefabricated in England.
But even though it's the capital of the island chain Turks and Caicos, Grand Turk maintains a slower pace of life. Though Grand Turk is part of Eastern Caribbean itineraries, it is interesting to note that Turks more ... less. In many Caribbean ports, active excursions such as zip-lining, kayaking and hiking have replaced lazy days on the beach and the gridlock in shopping and sightseeing areas. The Grand Turk Lighthouse is more than 150 years old and stands on the northern tip of the island, opposite the cruise terminal. It was built in the U.K. and transported piece by piece with hopes that it would bring a halt to the many shipwrecks on Grand Turk's reefs.
Grand Turk Island is an island in the Turks and Caicos Islands. It is the largest island in the Turks Islands (the smaller of the two archipelagos that make up the island nation) with 18 km 2 (6.9 sq mi). Grand Turk contains the territory's capital, Cockburn Town and the JAGS McCartney International Airport. The island is the administrative, historic, cultural and financial center of the territory, and has the second largest population of the islands at approximately 3,720 people. Grand Turk was first colonised in 1681 by Bermudians, who set up the salt industry in the islands. In 1766 it became the capital of the country.
Though Grand Turk is part of Eastern Caribbean itineraries, it is interesting to note that Turks and Caicos is not a part of the Caribbean at all. Each island is surrounded on all sides by the Atlantic Ocean, and though it's only about 30 miles south of the Bahamas, it's not a part of that chain of islands, either. The Grand Turk Lighthouse is more than 150 years old and stands on the northern tip of the island, opposite the cruise terminal. It was built in the U.K. and transported piece by piece with hopes that it would bring a halt to the many shipwrecks on Grand Turk's reefs.
Blue Water Divers is located on the island of Grand Turk, which is one of the Turks Islands. If you are traveling to the Turks and Caicos Islands by cruise ship, you will be coming into port on the island of Grand Turk, where we are located. If you are flying into the Turks and Caicos Islands, you might be staying on Grand Turk or on one of the other inhabited islands within the country. The majority of passengers arriving by air into the Turks and Caicos Islands stay on the island of Providenciales (aka Provo), which is one of the Caicos Islands.