Together and in separation liability. In joint and several agreements, the liability for default is enforceable against all of the signatories as a group (not necessarily on a proportional or pro-rata basis), or against any one of them as an individual at the choice of the enforcing party. See also jointly and severally.
Joint and several liability refers to a shared responsibility for a debt or a judgment for negligence, in which each debtor or each judgment defendant is responsible for the entire amount of the debt or judgment. 
Joint and Several Liability. A designation of liability by which members of a group are either individually or mutually responsible to a party in whose favor a judgment has been awarded. Joint and several liability is a form of liability that is used in civil cases where two or more people are found liable for damages.
Joint and Several Liability. When two or more parties are jointly and severally liable for a tortious act, each party is independently liable for the full extent of the injuries stemming from the tortious act. Joint and several liability reduces plaintiffs' risk that one or more defendants are judgment-proof by shifting that risk onto the other defendants.
DEFINITION of 'Joint And Several Liability '. When multiple parties can be held liable for the same event or act and be responsible for all restitution required. In cases of joint and several liability, a person who was harmed or wronged by several parties could be awarded damages and collect from any one, several, or all of the liable parties. Joint and several liability favors the plaintiff suing for damages because it enables him or her to seek payment from the party or parties with the deepest pockets.
Having full liability for the whole of a debt or injury. Comakers on promissory notes have joint and several liability,so that the lender may collect the entire amount due from only one borrower and is not limited to collecting one-half from each borrower. 
Several liability refers to the responsibility of one party to pay the entire debt or judgment when the party has joined with others in agreeing to pay an obligation, or is ordered responsible to pay a judgment jointly with other parties. 
Liability of more than one person for which each person is liable to pay back the entire amount of a debt or damages. An obligation entered into by two or more persons, so that each is liable severally, and all liable jointly, and a creditor or obligee may sue one or more severally, or all jointly, at his option.. An assertion of joint and several liability is an assertion that each defendant is liable for the entire amount, although the plaintiff only recovers the entire amount once. Joint and several liability can arise in many different contexts ... various torts .
Joint and several liability is a form of liability that is used in civil cases where two or more people are found liable for damages. The winning plaintiff in such a case may collect the entire judgment from any one of the parties, or from any and all of the parties in various amounts until the judgment is paid in full. Joint and several liability can also arise where a Husband and Wife or members of an organization owe the government income taxes. In such cases, the revenue agency may collect on the debt from any and all of the debtors.