Jaundice, also known as icterus, is a yellowish pigmentation of the skin, the conjunctival membranes over the sclerae (whites of the eyes), and other mucous membranes caused by high blood bilirubin levels. This hyperbilirubinemia subsequently causes increased levels of bilirubin in the extracellular fluid. Urine is dark in colour. The conjunctiva of the eye are one of the first tissues to change color as bilirubin levels rise in jaundice. This is sometimes referred to as scleral icterus. However, the sclera themselves are not icteric (stained with bile pigment) but rather the conjunctival membranes that overlie them.
Sclera is defined as the white hard covering of the eye. It is what makes the actual eye ball. Anicteric means without jaundice. So, anicteric sclera would mean that whites of the eyes are actually white and not yellow as if there was a problem with the liver. When someone is jaundiced, their skin and the whites of their eyes can take on a yellow tint. This is common with newborns as their body is learning how to release the toxins.
Icterus: Jaundice. At least one medical dictionary defines icterus as the presence of jaundice seen in the sclera of the eye. This is incorrect. Icterus is synonymous with jaundice. They are one and the same thing. Curiously, both icterus and jaundice come from the Greek.
The main symptom of jaundice is a yellowish discoloration of the white area of the eye and the skin. Urine is dark in colour. The conjunctiva of the eye are one of the first tissues to change color as bilirubin levels rise in jaundice. This is sometimes referred to as scleral icterus. However, the sclera themselves are not icteric (stained with bile pigment) but rather the conjunctival membranes that overlie them.
Jaundice is often seen in liver disease such as hepatitis or liver cancer. It may also indicate leptospirosis or obstruction of the biliary tract, for example by gallstones or pancreatic cancer, or less commonly be congenital in origin (e.g., biliary atresia). Urine is dark in colour. The conjunctiva of the eye are one of the first tissues to change color as bilirubin levels rise in jaundice. This is sometimes referred to as scleral icterus. However, the sclera themselves are not icteric (stained with bile pigment) but rather the conjunctival membranes that overlie them.
The sclera is the opaque white fibrous tissue of the eyeball itself. This fibrous tissue extends across the front of the eye, except where the cornea and iris are located in t … he center front of the eye, and it extends around to back of the eye where it meets the blood vessels and optic nerve. The Sclera in the Human Eye is the white, tough wall of the eye. Few diseases affect this layer. It is covered by the Episclera. * * The Sclera is the membrane behind the Re … tina * * It protects the eye from diseases and helps keep our eye healthy.
See an eye doctor: As we age the clear tissue that covers the sclera is exposed to the environment and like the rest of our body undergoes aging changes. These changes include pigmentary changes, increase in size of blood vessels, and slight darkening of the conjunctiva when compared to the part of eye under the lids. The sclera is the white hard covering of the eye. It creates the actual eye ball and is made out of dense connective tissue. The conjunctiva is a thin, clear covering to the sclera.
The sclera (from the Greek skleros, meaning hard), also known as the white of the eye, is the opaque, fibrous, protective, outer layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fiber. 
The sclera is the opaque white fibrous tissue of the eyeball itself. This fibrous tissue extends across the front of the eye, except where the cornea and iris are located in t … he center front of the eye, and it extends around to back of the eye where it meets the blood vessels and optic nerve. 
The Sclera is the posterior opaque white/off-white surface of the eye; this dense fibrous tissue envelops the entire posterior surface of the eye, excluding the continuous ant … eriorly of the cornea, iris, and pupil which is at its center. The Sclera in the Human Eye is the white, tough wall of the eye. Few diseases affect this layer. It is covered by the Episclera. * * The Sclera is the membrane behind the Re … tina * * It protects the eye from diseases and helps keep our eye healthy.