Actions taken by an executor during the probate of an estate are usually monitored by the court, so the opportunity for any actual wrongdoing by an executor who is also a beneficiary is limited. If your estate is small and all your beneficiaries are next-of-kin, the choice of an executor may not be as critical. Disadvantages. Since the job of an executor is to pay your debts and taxes, then distribute the balance of your estate to the beneficiaries, it creates a conflict of interest for a beneficiary to disburse funds from the estate that would otherwise go to him if those debts were declined for payment.
If you trust your executor a great deal -- and your other beneficiaries do, as well -- you may feel comfortable waiving the requirement that he post bond, which most state laws will demand unless you expressly waive the responsibility in your will. Disadvantages. Since the job of an executor is to pay your debts and taxes, then distribute the balance of your estate to the beneficiaries, it creates a conflict of interest for a beneficiary to disburse funds from the estate that would otherwise go to him if those debts were declined for payment.
I am often asked by people planning their Wills whether it is possible for a beneficiary under their Will to also be named as the executor. This is particularly common in family situations when of course people want to name their own spouses and children as both beneficiary and executor. In Alberta there is no law that excludes someone from being both beneficiary and executor. This is done all the time, for example where a married couple name each other as their executors and also leave their estates to each other.
yes a beneficiary can act as an executor, usually one is appointed by probate attorney, by family of deceased, or it may be stated in the deceased persons will. Remember, the executor must remain neutral and decisions made on behalf of the estate. But it's very common for a beneficiary to act as executor (for example, my wife is the sole beneficiary of my will if she survives me, and she is also my personal representative -- different names in different states). Source(s): 13+ years experience as a paralegal specialist. sarge927 · 9 years ago.
That will void your will. But it's very common for a beneficiary to act as executor (for example, my wife is the sole beneficiary of my will if she survives me, and she is also my personal representative -- different names in different states). Source(s): 13+ years experience as a paralegal specialist. sarge927 · 9 years ago.
8. It is the right of all beneficiaries of a Will in NSW, QLD & VIC to receive their entitlement under the Will within 12 months of the deceased's death (plus any interest as prescribed by the Court, if paid outside this 12 month period). However, the Will can allow the Executor to delay the distribution of assets. 2. It is not a legal requirement for the Executor to invite all beneficiaries to read the entire Will. The Executor only has a duty to inform each beneficiary of the nature and extent of their entitlement from the Estate under the Will.
Beneficiary. A beneficiary is a person or an entity, such as a charity, who is named to receive assets from an estate, a trust or an insurance policy. A person drafting a will may name individuals and organizations as beneficiaries. Beneficiaries can be a spouse, children and grandchildren, relatives, friends and even pets. Executor. A person named as executor of a will is responsible for carrying out someone’s wishes about how his property is dispersed after death. The person making the will chooses the executor and names him in the will. He can appoint an individual or an institution, such as a bank or trust company, to act as executor
Advantages. Executors are commonly compensated for their services. Someone who stands to inherit under the terms of your will may be more inclined to waive payment for acting as executor. Since the estate pays the fee, it is probably going to be deducted from his bequest to some extent anyway. Disadvantages. Since the job of an executor is to pay your debts and taxes, then distribute the balance of your estate to the beneficiaries, it creates a conflict of interest for a beneficiary to disburse funds from the estate that would otherwise go to him if those debts were declined for payment.
This person is referred to as a personal representative or executor. Since family members are often the most trusted people in the testator's life, one or more of them are frequently named as personal representatives even though they may also be devisees, or beneficiaries, under his will. Alternatively, the eldest child may be named to serve as sole executor, with another child being named as a successor executor in the event the eldest is unable or unwilling to serve. These same children are likely also to be devisees under the will, sharing the assets jointly or with a surviving spouse.