Simply locate and select the appropriate family tree file on your hard drive-upload it to Ancestry, and Ancestry will interpret the file correctly and create your tree. Alternately, you can create a GEDCOM file from your family tree software and upload it to Ancestry. Nearly all family tree software supports importing family trees from a GEDCOM file…. 1  Family Tree Maker (.ftw). Luckily, nearly all family tree software programs use the same basic steps to export an existing tree as a GEDCOM file: 1  Click on the File menu in the upper left. 2  Click on the Export or Export File option in the menu.
On the Upload a Family Tree page on Ancestry, click on the Browse button to the right of Choose file. This will bring up a window in which you should locate the appropriate family tree file or GEDCOM file on your hard drive. When you've selected the appropriate family tree file, click the Open button. Luckily, nearly all family tree software programs use the same basic steps to export an existing tree as a GEDCOM file: 1  Click on the File menu in the upper left. 2  Click on the Export or Export File option in the menu.
2. If you have not already uploaded this GEDCOM file, upload it:a. Click Choose File, and find the GEDCOM file that you want to upload.b. Enter a name and description for your GEDCOM file.c. Click Upload .The name of the GEDCOM file is added to a list of your uploaded files. In the Status column of thatlist, the word “Uploading...” appears until the file is uploaded. The larger your GEDCOM file, thelonger this upload process takes.
If you wantto look at an alphabetical list of the people in your GEDCOM file instead, click All Individuals. In thelist of individuals, look at the icon to the left of the person’s name. That tells you which process to use tomove information into Family Tree. Click Upload .The name of the GEDCOM file is added to a list of your uploaded files. In the Status column of thatlist, the word “Uploading...” appears until the file is uploaded. The larger your GEDCOM file, thelonger this upload process takes.
If you have access to Family Tree, you can also copy information from an uploaded GEDCOM file intoFamily Tree.GEDCOM (GEnealogical Data COMmunications) is a computer format that lets computer users transfergenealogical data from one computer program to another. Click Upload .The name of the GEDCOM file is added to a list of your uploaded files. In the Status column of thatlist, the word “Uploading...” appears until the file is uploaded. The larger your GEDCOM file, thelonger this upload process takes.
Nearly all family tree software supports importing family trees from a GEDCOM file… U ploading an existing tree file to Ancestry from a family tree software program that you're already using (like Family Tree Maker, PAF, or Legacy) is easy. Ancestry directly supports the data files from the following software products: Luckily, nearly all family tree software programs use the same basic steps to export an existing tree as a GEDCOM file: 1  Click on the File menu in the upper left. 2  Click on the Export or Export File option in the menu.
Each free family history site allows you to upload a GEDCOM file and photos and comes with ancestor and descendant charts, ahnentafel reports, an events page, photo album and a relationship tool. You can include your family names in their database so your Web site can be found by other researchers, or keep it private. Putting your family tree on the Web allows other relatives to view your information and add their own. It is also a great way to exchange family photos, recipes and stories. These sites and software options include the tools you need to put your family tree online, along with photos, sources and pedigree charts.
Part 2. View the Results After the system has compared your GEDCOM file to Family Tree, you can see the results.1. On the list of GEDCOM files that you added, click View for the file whose results you want to see.A summary appears. Click Upload .The name of the GEDCOM file is added to a list of your uploaded files. In the Status column of thatlist, the word “Uploading...” appears until the file is uploaded. The larger your GEDCOM file, thelonger this upload process takes.
On the Upload a Family Tree page on Ancestry, click on the Browse button to the right of Choose file. This will bring up a window in which you should locate the appropriate family tree file or GEDCOM file on your hard drive. When you've selected the appropriate family tree file, click the Open button. A GEDCOM file is a common file format that allows different family tree software programs to communicate with each other. Nearly all family tree software supports importing family trees from a GEDCOM file as well as exporting to GEDCOM format.