Children are more likely to suffer side effects such as diarrhea and abdominal pain from antibiotics. If you ask long enough for antibiotics for your children's viral infections, chances are your doctor might just prescribe them -- even though the doctor knows antibiotics won't help your child get better.
1. Because the majority of common colds are viral, using antibiotics to treat them does nothing to stop the infection and can create unwanted side effects. Still, studies have shown that half of antibiotics prescribed for children are for upper respiratory infections associated with the common cold.
Side effects can occur in 1 out of every 10 children who take an antibiotic. Side effects may include rashes, allergic reactions, nausea, diarrhea, and stomach pain. Make sure you let your child's doctor know if your child has had a reaction to antibiotics.
Antibiotics treat a UTI and prevent complications of infection such as kidney damage. Antibiotics also prevent infections in children who have had or may be at risk for recurrent UTIs. The doctor might prescribe preventive antibiotic therapy if your child: 1  Has had a few UTIs in a 6- to 12-month period.
Why It Is Used. Antibiotics treat a UTI and prevent complications of infection such as kidney damage. Antibiotics also prevent infections in children who have had or may be at risk for recurrent UTIs. The doctor might prescribe preventive antibiotic therapy if your child: 1  Has had a few UTIs in a 6- to 12-month period.
Using antibiotics to treat viral infections may instead lead to an infection caused by resistant bacteria. Also, your child may develop diarrhea or other side effects. If your child develops watery diarrhea, diarrhea with blood in it, or other side effects while taking an antibiotic, call your child's doctor.
Antibiotics have now become one of the most often prescribed drugs for children's diseases. Their use has become so common that not much thought is given to their need for use, their side effects and precautions to be observed during the treatment.
Like all medicines, antibiotics that you may be taking for a bacterial respiratory tract infection have the potential to cause side effects. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the possible side effects of your medicine.
The most common side effects of almost all antibiotics are stomach problems such as diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting. Between 1 and 10 in every 100 people taking an antibiotic will experience these side effects (up to 10%).