Edema. Peripheral oedema (symptom description): Peripheral oedema is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Edema. Peripheral oedema (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Peripheral oedema', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Edema (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Peripheral oedema' may be possible. 
A very common place to see edema is in the feet, ankles and lower legs. Edema is fluid build up which may occur in any part of your body. However, due of the effects of gravity, the fluid more commonly appears as painless swelling in the lower legs. Common Causes of Peripheral Edema. As a person gets on in years, he or she is more likely to have a gathering of edema fluid in their lower legs when they stand or sit too long. They may also see a tightness and swelling the shoes and socks are removed at the end of the day.
1 Edema is a swelling, usually of the legs, due to the accumulation of excessive fluid in the tissues. 2  The edema that occurs in diseases of the heart, liver, and kidneys is mainly caused by salt retention, which holds the excess fluid in the body. The swelling is the result of the accumulation of excess fluid under the skin in the spaces within the tissues. All tissues of the body are made up of cells and connective tissues that hold the cells together. This connective tissue around the cells and blood vessels is known as the interstitium.
Oedema (formerly known as dropsy or hydropsy) is observable swelling from fluid accumulation in body tissues. Oedema most commonly occurs in the feet and legs, where it is referred to as peripheral oedema. The swelling is the result of the accumulation of excess fluid under the skin in the spaces within the tissues. All tissues of the body are made up of cells and connective tissues that hold the cells together.
Introduction. Oedema is the medical term for fluid retention in the body. The build-up of fluid causes affected tissue to become swollen. The swelling can occur in one particular part of the body – for example, as the result of an injury – or it can be more general.
Peripheral Edema is a swelling, usually of the legs, due to excessive fluid in the tissues. Standing for an extended period of time or sitting with your legs left hanging for prolonged period of time, especially in hot weather, causes excess fluid accumulation in your legs and ankles. 
Edema Overview. Edema (or Oedema) is the abnormal accumulation of fluid in certain tissues within the body. The accumulation of fluid may be under the skin-usually in dependent areas such as the legs (peripheral edema, or ankle edema), or it may accumulate in the lungs (pulmonary edema).
Leg swelling related to fluid buildup. Leg swelling caused by the retention of fluid in leg tissues is known as peripheral edema. It can be caused by a problem with the circulatory system, the lymphatic system or the kidneys. You may also experience swelling due to fluid buildup after sitting or standing for a long time. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Peripheral edema is edema (accumulation of fluid causing swelling) in tissues perfused by the peripheral vascular system, usually in the lower limbs. In the most dependent parts of the body (those hanging distally), it may be called dependent edema. 
Edema is observable swelling from fluid accumulation in body tissues. Edema most commonly occurs in the feet and legs, where it is referred to as peripheral edema. The swelling is the result of the accumulation of excess fluid under the skin in the spaces within the tissues. All tissues of the body are made up of cells and connective tissues that hold the cells together. This connective tissue around the cells and blood vessels is known as the interstitium.