Encephalitis is a rare condition that is most often caused by viruses. It can also be caused by noninfectious diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus and Behcet'behçet s. Disease the leading cause of severe encephalitis is the herpes simplex. Virus other causes include enterovirus infections or-mosquito borne. viruses Encephalitis and meningitis facts. 1  Encephalitis is inflammation of the brain. 2  Meningitis is inflammation of the membranes (called meninges) that surround the brain and spinal cord. 3  Both encephalitis and meningitis can be caused by bacteria or viruses, and rarely a fungus, or be noninfectious.
Meningitis is most often caused by a bacterial or viral infection. It also may be caused by a fungal infection, parasite, a reaction to certain medications or medical treatments, a rheumatologic disease such as lupus, some types of cancer, or a traumatic injury to the head or spine. 1 Most cases are seen in children under age 16. 2  Symptoms such as vomiting, headache, fever, and lethargy appear 5-10 days following infection. 3  Severe complications include seizure, coma, and permanent neurologic damage. 4  About 100 cases of LaCrosse encephalitis are reported each year.
Encephalitis has subtypes that are considered contagious and also has subtypes that are not contagious. Generally the disease can be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc., but not ALL subtypes. About contagion and contagiousness: Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Encephalitis is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability.
Infections, and less commonly other causes, in the brain and spinal cord can cause dangerous inflammation. This inflammation can produce a wide range of symptoms, including fever, headache, seizures, change in behavior or confusion and, in extreme cases, can cause brain damage, stroke, or even death. 1 Most cases are seen in children under age 16. 2  Symptoms such as vomiting, headache, fever, and lethargy appear 5-10 days following infection. 3  Severe complications include seizure, coma, and permanent neurologic damage. 4  About 100 cases of LaCrosse encephalitis are reported each year.
There are several different causes of encephalitis. The most common is infection, usually by a virus. The condition can range from mild to severe, depending on the type of germ producing the infection. Encephaliti s may be caused by a variety of viruses, bacteria, and other organisms. These agents include:. 1  Measles, chicken pox, rubella (German measles), mumps, polio, and other viral illnesses, which generally lead to a mild form of encephalitis known as postinfectious or para-infctious
Encephalitis can occur with certain childhood viral illnesses, such as mumps, measles, varicella (chicken pox), rubella (German measles), or mononucleosis. A much more serious type of encephalitis is caused by the herpes simplex virus * (HSV). HSV rarely infects the brain, but when it does, it can be life threatening. West Nile virus, which first arrived in the United States from other parts of the world in the late 1990s, can cause encephalitis as well. Encephaliti s may be caused by a variety of viruses, bacteria, and other organisms. These agents include:. 1  Measles, chicken pox, rubella (German measles), mumps, polio, and other viral illnesses, which generally lead to a mild form of encephalitis known as postinfectious or para-infctious encephalitis.
Encephalitis (en-sef-uh-LIE-tis) is inflammation of the brain. Viral infections are the most common cause of the condition. Encephalitis can cause flu-like symptoms, such as a fever or severe headache. It can also cause confused thinking, seizures, or problems with senses or movement. However, many cases of encephalitis result in only mild flu-like symptoms or even no symptoms.
Common causes of encephalitis include: 1  Herpes simplex virus. 2  There are two types of herpes simplex virus (HSV). 3  Either type can cause encephalitis. 4  HSV type 1 (HSV-1) is usually responsible for cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, and HSV type 2 (HSV-2) commonly causes genital herpes. 1 Either type can cause encephalitis. 2  HSV type 1 (HSV-1) is usually responsible for cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, and HSV type 2 (HSV-2) commonly causes genital herpes. 3  Encephalitis caused by HSV-1 is rare, but it has the potential to cause significant brain damage or death. 4  Other herpes viruses.
Because several different germs can cause encephalitis, spread of the infection may take place in different ways. For example, mosquitoes transmit viruses that cause West Nile encephalitis, St. Louis encephalitis, and western equine encephalitis. Encephaliti s may be caused by a variety of viruses, bacteria, and other organisms. These agents include:. 1  Measles, chicken pox, rubella (German measles), mumps, polio, and other viral illnesses, which generally lead to a mild form of encephalitis known as postinfectious or para-infctious