Wearing barbecue mitts, carefully remove the chicken-on-a-can from the grill, being careful not to spill the beer—it will be hot. Let the chicken rest for 5 to 10 minutes (the internal temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees during this time) before lifting it from the can. Discard the beer. Prepare the grill for indirect cooking over medium heat (350° to 450°F). Open the beer can and pour off half of the beer. Set the can on a flat surface and slide the chicken over the top so the can fits inside the cavity.
1 Remove from heat and allow to rest for 10 minutes before removing from can and cutting up to serve. 2  Alternatively, preheat your oven to 350 degrees. 3  Pour 1/3 of the first beer in to the bottom of a 13x9 pan. 4  Place the chicken on top of the can, legs down. 1 Alternatively, preheat your oven to 350 degrees. 2  Pour 1/3 of the first beer in to the bottom of a 13x9 pan. 3  Place the chicken on top of the can, legs down. 4  Open the second beer and pour half of it in to the bottom of the pan and reserve the other half.
1 Bake for 45 minutes, and then pour the remaining beer over the chicken and in to the bottom of the pan. 2  Continue to bake for an additional 45 minutes, or until juices run clear and internal temperature by the leg reads 160 degrees. 1 Alternatively, preheat your oven to 350 degrees. 2  Pour 1/3 of the first beer in to the bottom of a 13x9 pan. 3  Place the chicken on top of the can, legs down. 4  Open the second beer and pour half of it in to the bottom of the pan and reserve the other half.
5 Carefully transfer the chicken to a tray or pan. I say carefully because the beer can, and the beer inside of it, is quite hot. One way to do this is to slide a metal spatula under the bottom of the beer can. Use tongs to hold the top of the chicken. Lift the chicken, beer can still inside, and move it to a tray. Let the chicken rest for 10 minutes. Just place it as directed on an open half-filled can of beer, sitting up, in a roasting pan on the lower rack of your oven. Roast at 350°F until done (about an hour fifteen to an hour and a half for a 4 lb chicken). For an alcohol-free version of this recipe, just fill a pint mason jar halfway with chicken stock and use it instead of the beer. You can also use an open can of baked beans (remove the label) instead of the beer
Preheat grill for a medium heat. Place birds on grill balanced by the beer cans. Grill over indirect medium heat for 1 1/2 to 2 hours until internal temperature of thigh is 180 degrees F (82 degrees C). Remove chicken when finished cooking and let sit (with beer can still intact), for 10 minutes before carving. 
Open beer can and take several gulps (make them big gulps so that the can is half full). Place beer can on a solid surface. Grabbing a chicken leg in each hand, plunk the bird cavity over the beer can. Transfer the bird-on-a-can to your grill and place in the center of the grate, balancing the bird on its 2 legs and the can like a tripod. 
1 Pour out (or drink) half of beer. 2  Prepare grill for high, indirect heat and fit with grill pan (for a charcoal grill, bank coals on 1 side of grill and put drip pan on empty side; for a gas grill, leave 1 burner turned off and place drip pan over unlit burner). 3  Add water to pan to a depth of 1/2. Preparation. 1  Pour out (or drink) half of beer. 2  Prepare grill for high, indirect heat and fit with grill pan (for a charcoal grill, bank coals on 1 side of grill and put drip pan on empty side; for a gas grill, leave 1 burner turned off and place drip pan over unlit burner). 3  Season chicken with 4-3-2-1 Spice Rub.
Carefully remove the chicken-on-a-can from the grill (do not spill the contents of the beer can, as it will be very hot). Let the chicken rest for 10 to 15 minutes (the internal temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees during this time) before lifting it from the beer can and carving it into serving pieces. Serve warm. 