State Disability Insurance (SDI) Forms and Publications. The forms and publications on this website are replicas of the official EDD forms and publications and are in Adobe’s Portable Document Format (PDF). You may need Adobe Reader to view and print linked documents. Visit Online Forms and Publications to search, view, and order SDI forms.
Serial digital interface [SDI] standard is based on a 270 Mbps transfer rate, over a single 75 ohm coaxial cable [BNC connector], up to 600 feet. It is the common term for a high-definition digital video transmission standard known as SMPTE 292M. The SMPTE 292M standard is part of a family of Serial Digital Interface standards that use a coaxial cable to transport uncompressed digital video -- currently still predominantly used in professional TV studios.
The California State Disability Insurance (SDI) program provides short-term Disability Insurance (DI) and Paid Family Leave (PFL) wage replacement benefits to eligible workers who need time off work. You may be eligible for DI if you are unable to work due to non-work-related illness or injury, pregnancy, or childbirth. 
The SDI engine is a design of naturally aspirated (NA) direct injection diesel engine developed and produced by Volkswagen Group for use in cars and vans, along with marine engine (Volkswagen Marine) and Volkswagen Industrial Motor applications. The SDI engine is generally utilised in applications where reliability and fuel economy are of primary concern. These engines lack any type of forced induction, hence the use of 'suction' in the title, and as such, their power output is lower when compared with a similar displacement turbocharged engine.
SDI stands for state disability insurance, which pays a portion of your salary if you experience a non-work-related illness, injury, pregnancy or childbirth. Only a few states require that employers carry the insurance, and either you, your employer or both parties may pay the cost. If your employer paid all of your SDI, it includes those payments in your state taxable wages in Box 16 of your W-2.You would report the amounts paid by your employer as taxable income on your state tax return.
For example, the 2.0 SDI engine fitted to the Volkswagen Golf Mk5 has a peak power output of 55 kilowatts (75 PS; 74 bhp); whereas the same engine in Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) form is rated at 103 kilowatts (140 PS; 138 bhp) or 125 kilowatts (170 PS; 168 bhp), depending on specification. The SDI engine is generally utilised in applications where reliability and fuel economy are of primary concern. These engines lack any type of forced induction, hence the use of 'suction' in the title, and as such, their power output is lower when compared with a similar displacement turbocharged engine.
Ski-Doo SDI-a quite different and more economical route to low two-stroke emissions and fuel consumption. SDI stands for Semi-Direct Injection, and it describes a system by which fuel is injected, not into the combustion chamber, but into the fast-moving air streams in the rear transfer ports. SDI stands for serial digital interference. It is a video interface used within broadcast environments and supports both SD and HD signals. It runs on a single co-ax cable wit … h BNC terminations.
SDI. SDI is a national systems integrator that delivers advanced technology systems and infrastructure for organizations with public-facing, critical operations, specializing in public safety and homeland security solutions. For more than 20 years, SDI embodies the technical breadth, depth of talent, and complex systems experience of a national, top-tier systems integrator-with a reputation of sticking with their projects until their obligations are met and their clients are successful. see more on Definitions.net ».