While stirring, carefully add the iron filings to the hot cupric sulfate solution. When all the iron has been added, let the solution sit for ten more minutes to allow it to react. Stir it occasionally and record any observations (e.g. color of the solution, appearance and/or. disappearance of solids). Cupric sulfate will be in excess; not all of it will be used up in the reaction. The number of moles of iron that reacts will be equal to the number of moles of copper produced. The reaction indicates the 1:1 ratio between the iron and the copper.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. when iron filings are added to copper sulphate solution the blue colour of copper sulphate fades away due to the formation of new product and the colour of iron filing becomes brown. Answers. Best Answer: The iron filings become brownish in color and the blue color of color of copper sulphate solution fades. This is because iron, being more reactive than copper displaces copper from copper sulphate solution. Fe(s) + CuSO4(aq) --- FeSO4(aq) + Cu(s).
Copper (II) sulfate will be in excess; not all of it will be used up in the reaction. Since the number of moles of iron that reacts will be equal to the number of moles of copper produced, the number of copper atoms produced should be the same as the number or iron atoms we start with. You will first make a copper sulfate solution by dissolving copper sulfate crystals in hot water.
Best Answer: The iron filings become brownish in color and the blue color of color of copper sulphate solution fades. This is because iron, being more reactive than copper displaces copper from copper sulphate solution. Answers. Best Answer: The iron filings become brownish in color and the blue color of color of copper sulphate solution fades. This is because iron, being more reactive than copper displaces copper from copper sulphate solution. Fe(s) + CuSO4(aq) --- FeSO4(aq) + Cu(s).
The variable that I will be changing is the mass of Iron Filings (in grams) added to the Copper Sulphate. Plan: 1. Collect all appropriate apparatus and then set up. 2. Carefully pour 20cm³ of Copper Sulphate into a beaker. 3. Place a sheet of filter paper on to the scales and then set scales to zero. 4. Measure out 0.5g of Iron Filings on to the filter paper by reading the scales. 5. Pour the Iron Filings into the beaker whilst simultaneously starting the stopwatch. When 3 minutes has gone, stop the stopwatch and pour all of the Iron Filings into the filter funnel and allow to filter. 8. When the Copper Sulphate has filtered out, take out the filter paper and allow it to dry. ...read more.
When all the crystals are dissolved, stop heating, remove from the beaker from the hotplate, and place it on a thermal pad or wire gauze. While stirring, carefully add the iron filings to the hot copper sulfate solution. When all the iron has been added, let the solution react for ten more minutes. Since the number of moles of iron that reacts will be equal to the number of moles of copper produced, the number of copper atoms produced should be the same as the number or iron atoms we start with. You will first make a copper sulfate solution by dissolving copper sulfate crystals in hot water.
A displacement reaction takes place. Iron being a more reactive element than copper displaces copper from its compound. Ferrous Sulphate which is green in color and copper a reddish brown element are formed. So, blue color of copper sulphate fades away and the solution becomes light green. 
When the iron is placed in the solution of copper sulfate, it replaces the copper in the solution, turning copper sulfate into iron sulfate (FeSO4) and pure copper collects on the iron. If an aqueous solution of copper(II) sulfate is contacted with metallic iron, at the least the surface of the iron passes into solution and is replaced by a layer of metallic … copper.