Passive transport is the diffusion of substances across a membrane. As we stated above, this is a spontaneous process and cellular energy is not expended. Molecules will move from where the substance is more concentrated to where it is less concentrated. As illustrated in the image above: This cartoon illustrates passive diffusion. The dashed line is intended to indicate a membrane that is permeable to the molecules or ions illustrated as red dots. Initially all of the red dots are within the membrane.
Nonpolar and small polar molecules can pass through the cell membrane, so they diffuse across it in response to concentration gradients. Carbon dioxide and oxygen are two molecules that undergo this simple diffusion through the membrane. The simple diffusion of water is known as osmosis. Small and nonpolar (hydrophobic) molecules can freely pass through the membrane, but charged ions and large molecules such as proteins and sugars are barred passage. The selective permeability of the cell membrane allows a cell to maintain its internal composition at necessary levels.
How is the concentration of a substance within a cell related to the concentration of the same substance outside the cell? Many molecules can pass freely across cellular membranes. Small molecules and nonpolar molecules are the ones that can move most easily across the lipid bilayer and enter the cell. Diffusion is the process that causes these molecules to move in or out of the cell. 
Passive Diffusion of Small Lipophilic Molecules. Studies with pure phospholipid membranes show that certain substances easily cross the membrane by a process known as passive diffusion. Diffusion refers to the dispersal of molecules by random motion.
Passive Transport: Simple Diffusion. Diffusion across a cell membrane is a type of passive transport, or transport across the cell membrane that does not require energy. Remember that the cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer. Simple diffusion is the diffusion of small, uncharged, or hydrophobic molecules from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration across the cell membrane.
Each method of passage through the cell membrane might be useful to different molecules. Facilitated diffusion is passive transport that uses integral membrane proteins to help larger, charged, hydrophilic, and polar molecules across a concentration gradient. Remember that integral membrane proteins span the phospholipid bilayer, connecting the inside and the outside of the cell. Simple diffusion is the diffusion of small, uncharged, or hydrophobic molecules from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration across the cell membrane.
Facilitated Diffusion. Facilitated diffusion involves the use of a protein to transport molecules across the cell membrane. Photo Credit: Mariana Ruiz Villarreal. Facilitated diffusion is a type of passive transport that allows substances to cross membranes with the assistance of special transport proteins. As illustrated in the image above: This cartoon illustrates passive diffusion. The dashed line is intended to indicate a membrane that is permeable to the molecules or ions illustrated as red dots. Initially all of the red dots are within the membrane.
Polar molecules and large ions dissolved in water cannot diffuse freely across the plasma membrane due to the hydrophobic nature of the fatty acid tails of the phospholipids that make up the lipid bilayer. Only small, non-polar molecules, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, can diffuse easily across the membrane. Being passive, facilitated transport does not directly require chemical energy from ATP hydrolysis in the transport step itself; rather, molecules and ions move down their concentration gradient reflecting its diffusive nature. Facilitated diffusion is different from free diffusion in several ways.
Facilitated diffusion (also known as facilitated transport or passive-mediated transport) is the process of spontaneous passive transport (as opposed to active transport) of molecules or ions across a biological membrane via specific transmembrane integral proteins. Being passive, facilitated transport does not directly require chemical energy from ATP hydrolysis in the transport step itself; rather, molecules and ions move down their concentration gradient reflecting its diffusive nature. Facilitated diffusion is different from free diffusion in several ways.
Facilitated diffusion (or facilitated transport) is a process of diffusion, a form of passive transport facilitated by transport proteins. Facilitated diffusion is the s … pontaneous passage of molecules or ions across a biological membrane passing through specific transmembrane transport proteins. The facilitated diffusion may occur either across biological membranes or through aqueous compartments of an organism.