Cham is related to languages spread over much of Asia and the Pacific. Most Cham in Cambodia are bilingual, speaking both Cham and Cambodian. Cambodian Cham speak a dialect called Western Cham. Cham in coastal central Vietnam speak Ea
There are 4 official languages in Switzerland. In order of the percentage of the population which speak them they are: German (63.7%), French (20.4%), Italian (6.5%) and Roman … sh (0.5%). Different languages are spoken in different parts of the country. The languages were spoken before Switzerland existed.
The Cham live in Vietnam and Cambodia. They are descendants of refugees from the ancient kingdom of Champa who fled central Vietnam 500 years ago. The ancient Cham were heavily influenced by India, as can be seen in their religion and art.
Language is more than just a means of communication. It influences our culture and even our thought processes. During the first four decades of the 20th century, language was viewed by American linguists and anthropologists as being more important than it actually is in shaping our perception of reality.
Relating to the Cham, their culture, or their language. Example sentences. 1  Words in the Cham language contain up to three syllables. ‘ 2 Please pray for the Cham people,’ he asks his classmates.
1 They speak Cham, and keep the old Cham traditions. 2  They speak Western Cham, a Malayo-Polynesian language that uses an old Devanagari script; the alphabet in which many modern Indian languages are written. 3  Among tribal languages, Cham is the most important.
The majority of Cambodians, even those who are not ethnic Khmer, speak Khmer, the official language of the country. Ethnic Khmer living in Thailand, in Vietnam, and in Laos speak dialects of Khmer that are more or less intelligible to Khmer speakers from Cambodia. Minority languages include Vietnamese, Cham, several dialects of Chinese, and the languages of the various hill tribes.
1 They speak Western Cham, a Malayo-Polynesian language that uses an old Devanagari script; the alphabet in which many modern Indian languages are written. 2  Among tribal languages, Cham is the most important.
Part of the problem is that there is more involved than just language and thought; there is also culture. Your culture—the traditions, lifestyle, habits, and so on that you pick up from the people you live and interact with—shapes the way you think, and also shapes the way you talk.