Stop taking this medication and tell your doctor immediately if you develop these unlikely but very serious side effects: severe headache, vision changes, ringing in the ears, hearing loss, chest pain, yellowing eyes/skin, dark urine, severe diarrhea, rectal bleeding.
Accutane in Detail-Patient Information: Side Effects. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using isotretinoin and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  depressed mood, trouble concentrating, sleep problems, crying spells, aggression or agitation, changes in behavior, hallucinations, thoughts of suicide or hurting yourself; 2  sudden numbness or weakness, especially on one side of the body; 3  blurred ...
Side Effects. Dry lips and mouth, minor swelling of the eyelids or lips, crusty skin, nosebleeds, upset stomach, or thinning of hair may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
Rare but serious possible side effects of accutane: 1  Blood clots. 2  Pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) is a rare side effect. 3  A very serious side effect that has been observed in patients that have taken medications similar to accutane for treatment of leukemia, is called APL differentiation syndrome.
Accutane side effects. Accutane is a systemic medication that affects the entire body. Side effects are numerous and widespread, and affect upwards of 80% of patients. 1 Side effects are most often mild to moderate and reversible, but in some cases can be severe or long-term. When data exists, incidence information is listed.
Accutane Overview-Patient Information: Side Effects. SIDE EFFECTS: Dry lips and mouth, minor swelling of the eyelids or lips, crusty skin, nosebleeds, upset stomach, or thinning of hair may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
Stop taking this medication and tell your doctor immediately if you develop these unlikely but very serious side effects: severe headache, vision changes, ringing in the ears, hearing loss, chest pain, yellowing eyes/skin, dark urine, severe diarrhea, rectal bleeding.