Sweet almond is a plant. It produces kernels (nuts) that are a familiar food. Sweet almond oil, prepared by pressing the kernels, is used to make medicine. Sweet almond is used as a mild laxative, and as a remedy for cancer of the bladder, breast, mouth, spleen, and uterus. Some people apply sweet almond directly to the skin to soften chapped skin, to soothe mucous membranes, and to kill germs.
How to Use: Almond. Sweet almond oil is a favorite in aromatherapy as a carrier oil and is valued in natural skin care for it's ability to soften and condition the skin. Pale yellow in color, almond oil is expeller pressed from raw almond kernels. The oil contains glucosides, minerals and vitamins and is rich in protein. Almond Side Effects: Exposure to extreme heat will lessen the shelf life of almond oil. ^ Top^. There are two forms of the plant, one (often with white flowers) producing sweet almonds, and the other (often with pink flowers) producing bitter almonds.
The oil from the two kinds appears identical. The oil is edible, but is used largely in the manufacture of certain pharmaceuticals. Sweet almond oil is obtained by pressing sweet almonds. Sweet Almond oil makes an excellent eye make-up remover. Place a few drops of a cotton ball, and rub lightly over make-up to remove. Almond Oil: Made from roasted almonds, almond oil has the flavor of almonds. Use it in baked goods, pastas, drizzled over vegetables, or on grilled bread.
The almond (/ɑːmənd/ or /ɑːlmənd/) (Prunus dulcis, syn. Prunus amygdalus, Amygdalus communis, Amygdalus dulcis) (or badam in Indian English, from Persian: بادام ‎‎) is a species of tree native to the Middle East and South Asia. Almond is also the name of the edible and widely cultivated seed of this tree. The almond fruit measures 3.5–6 cm (1–2 in) long. In botanical terms, it is not a nut, but a drupe. The outer covering or exocarp, fleshy in other members of Prunus such as the plum and cherry, is instead a thick, leathery, grey-green coat (with a downy exterior), called the hull.
Almond Oil A type of nut oil extracted from the almond. The almond tree has beautiful flowers which ripen into the almond nut. The oil typically used as an ingredient in salad dressings, sauces and mayonnaise, and it is often used in desserts. Almond oil has a distinctively nutty flavor. Almond Oil: Made from roasted almonds, almond oil has the flavor of almonds. Use it in baked goods, pastas, drizzled over vegetables, or on grilled bread.
---Adulterations and Substitutes--- The adulteration of Bitter Almonds with Sweet Almonds is a frequent source of loss and annoyance to the pressers of Almond Oil, whose profit largely depends on the amount of volatile oil they are able to extract from the residual cake. The Sweet Almond is the earliest to flower, and is cultivated more largely than the Bitter Almond. It is valuable as a food and for confectionery purposes, as well as in medicine, being rich in a bland oil, and sustaining as a nutriment: the staying power conferred by a meal of Almonds and raisins is well known.
Aroma: Light, slightly sweet and nutty. Texture: Slightly oily, leaves a slight oily feeling on the skin. Absorbs semi-quickly. Color: Virtually clear with a tinge of yellow. Notes: Sweet Almond oil is considered to be a good all-purpose carrier oil to keep on hand and is moderately priced.
It bears soft cream blossoms with yellow centres, which appear before the leaves. Sweet Almond Oil is obtained from the dried kernels of the almond tree and it is an excellent emollient (softening and soothing to the skin) and also helps the skin to balance its loss and absorption of moisture. Texture: Slightly oily, leaves a slight oily feeling on the skin. Absorbs semi-quickly. Color: Virtually clear with a tinge of yellow. Notes: Sweet Almond oil is considered to be a good all-purpose carrier oil to keep on hand and is moderately priced.
Unlike the others, however, the outer layer of the almond is not edible. The edible portion of the almond is the seed. Virgin, cold-pressed sweet almond oil with no additives. An excellent massage oil valued for its viscosity and durability. Good for oily and easily irritated, sensitive skins. Texture: Slightly oily, leaves a slight oily feeling on the skin. Absorbs semi-quickly. Color: Virtually clear with a tinge of yellow. Notes: Sweet Almond oil is considered to be a good all-purpose carrier oil to keep on hand and is moderately priced.
The seeds are used chiefly as a source of Almond Oil, but also yield a volatile oil, which is largely employed as a flavouring agent. Bitter Almonds are usually shorter, proportionately broader and smaller, and less regular than the Sweet Almonds. The Sweet Almond is the earliest to flower, and is cultivated more largely than the Bitter Almond. It is valuable as a food and for confectionery purposes, as well as in medicine, being rich in a bland oil, and sustaining as a nutriment: the staying power conferred by a meal of Almonds and raisins is well known.