Strength of K-cup coffee. I was shopping for a new coffeemaker, and wanted one of the Keurig models. These use pre-measured k-cups of coffee, which you put into the machine, and in less than 60 seconds, your coffee is ready-to-drink. To fill a larger mug, I make multiple servings of the smallest size cup. I use 2 K-cups to make two 5+ oz. servings to fill a large travel mug (leaving some room for milk).
I have the same Keurig and yes, the coffee is stronger in the small cup. The more water than runs through the k-cup, the weaker it becomes. I find the largest size is still strong enough. In fact, I sometimes reuse the k-cup and run the smallest size on the second cup. Keurig brewers feature sizes ranging anywhere from 2-5 cup sizes. For example, the Keurig Platinum K75 K-Cup Coffee Brewer holds 4 oz., 6 oz., 8 oz., 10 oz., and 12 oz.
If you are a K Cup coffee drinker that is constantly filling your Travel Mug and bolting out the door for work then you might want to listen up. Just last month Green Mountain released a new line of K Cups that is geared toward the coffee lover that is on the go. Let me introduce the Travel Mug K Cups! This coffee is sure to linger on your palate for hours and make you long for more. Donut House Travel Mug K-Cup. Of the three coffees this was my favorite. I would describe as a medium roast, with a nice body that is bold but not bitter in any way.
I use a Keurig single-cup coffee brewer, but it's obviously more cost-effective and tastier to use the My K-Cup filter adapter to brew my own fresh-ground coffee instead of using K-Cups all the time. Plus there's less waste. The main problem with this method is that it's hard to get a consistent cup of coffee. 
We have one at work and to get a bearable cup of coffee I use 2 k-cups on the smallest setting. So I get 4oz + 4oz from 2 cups. To Trenell, MizKerri and geeky: I pray none of you ever has to live in a communist state. Geeky is my hero. # 1: Need Keurig tips for a strong cup of coffee. My MIL just got us a Keurig and I want to figure out how to recreate the results of how we normally make our coffee. We normally use French Roast (Wegmans brand) and use 1 tbsp per cup (6 oz).
Posts: 6,221. Keurig's choice of 3 cup sizes. I measure precisely when I make coffee in the drip machine and with my Aeropress. I also use my one-cup-at-a-time Keurig machine. It bothers me that you get to choose 6-8-10 oz cups of coffee when the Keurig cups only come in one size. Posts: 5,867. Not necessarily; there are K-Cups for 'to-go' cups, and other larger sizes. http://search.keurig.com/coffee/Larger%20Size%20K%20Cup. I always make the biggest cup regardless of the K Cup I use because while yes it's probably a little weaker coffee (but not much), it also has more caffeine in it.
I can take home some of the Green Mountain K-cups from the office for free coffee, or use this reusable K-cup coffee filter for my own fresh-ground coffee when I feel like it. That said, you are right to be suspicious about the small, medium and large cups all being made with the same amount of coffee. To fill a larger mug, I make multiple servings of the smallest size cup. I use 2 K-cups to make two 5+ oz. servings to fill a large travel mug (leaving some room for milk).
I found that the machine brews various Keurig cup sizes to which I wondered what the benefits would be to choosing one size over the other. Keurig brewers feature sizes ranging anywhere from 2-5 cup sizes. For example, the Keurig Platinum K75 K-Cup Coffee Brewer holds 4 oz., 6 oz., 8 oz., 10 oz., and 12 oz. cup sizes. The amount of coffee I drink on a particular occasion matters to me, so having more choices is appealing