Pernicious anemia (PA) is an autoimmune disorder that causes psychiatric, neurological changes, including dementia, deafness and a condition of anemia related to vitamin B12 deficiency. Vitamin B12 is a nutrient derived from dietary such as beef, poultry, fish, cheese, eggs and cereals. Pernicious anemia (PA) is an autoimmune condition of anemia caused by a deficiency of vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 deficiency can have many causes including PA, malabsorption syndromes, and food cobalmin
Back to Top Causes. Pernicious anemia is a type of vitamin B12 anemia. The body needs vitamin B12 to make red blood cells. You get this vitamin from eating foods such as meat, poultry, shellfish, eggs, and dairy products. A special protein, called intrinsic factor, helps your intestines absorb vitamin B12. When the stomach does not make enough intrinsic factor, the intestine cannot properly absorb vitamin B12. Common causes of pernicious anemia include: 1  Weakened stomach lining (atrophic gastritis). 2  An autoimmune condition in which the body's immune system attacks intrinsic factor protein or the cells that make it.
• Most cases of pernicious anemia are due to autoimmune disease (see Autoimmune Disease). It may be associated with other autoimmune diseases, particularly thyroid disease, Addison’s disease and vitiligo (loss of skin pigmentation). Anemia is a deficiency in red blood cells. Iron, B12 and folic acid are required to produce red blood cells. Pernicious anemia is a condition in which there is thinning of the lining of the stomach with a subsequent lack of production of a substance called intrinsic factor.
One way pernicious anemia can develop is by loss of gastric parietal cells, which are responsible, in part, for the secretion of intrinsic factor, a protein essential for subsequent absorption of vitamin B 12 in the ileum. Historically, pernicious anemia (PA) was detected only after it caused symptoms and the anemia was well established, i.e., liver stores of B 12 had been depleted. The pernicious aspect of the disease – prior to the discovery of treatment – was its fatal prognosis, similar to leukemia at that time.
Abstract. Pernicious anemia (PA) is a complex, autoimmune, multi-factorial disease. Rapid progress has been made in the understanding of susceptibility to a spectrum of other autoimmune diseases through genome wide association studies (GWAS). However, PA has been conspicuous by its absence from this work. Introduction. Pernicious anemia (PA) is a multi-factorial disease with an autoimmune basis. It has a prevalence of 1 to 2 per 1000 in the British population [1] and is an important cause of morbidity across the world, resulting in megaloblastic anemia, glossitis and neurological deficits [2] .
Pernicious Anemia. Pernicious anemia (PA) is an autoimmune disorder in which the body fails to make enough healthy red blood cells (RBCs). The body requires vitamin B-12 and a type of protein called intrinsic factor (IF) to make red blood cells. Vitamin B-12, or cobalamin, is found in certain foods and medications
People who have pernicious anemia can't absorb enough vitamin B12 from food. This is because they lack intrinsic (in-TRIN-sik) factor, a protein made in the stomach. A lack of this protein leads to vitamin B12 deficiency. Other conditions and factors also can cause vitamin B12 deficiency. Examples include infections, surgery, medicines, and diet. Technically, the term pernicious anemia  refers to vitamin B12 deficiency due to a lack of intrinsic factor.
Vitamin B12 is absorbed in the stomach. Pernicious anemia (PA) is an autoimmune condition of anemia caused by a deficiency of vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 deficiency can have many causes including PA, malabsorption syndromes, and food cobalmin deficiency.