The U.S. FDA should be protecting you from food and drug hazards. Instead it is protecting large corporate interests at your expense. http://www.facebook.com/pages/The-FDA-is-bad-for-your-health/121575731196161. Photos. 
only this is the only reason why your friend request got rejected. very bad site, facebook is really very bad site. we come and use facebook to meet people and add people freely, we use internet freely, to play games. facebook force people prove they are real names, which is retarded. 1 It can lead to a sense of false consensus. 2  Sit next to a friend while you each search for the same thing on Google. 3  Eli Pariser, author of The Filter Bubble (2012), can promise you won’t see the same search results.
EMR said... Social isolation because facebook users think they are connected to world but the fact is that they are not in contact with good friends too. people dont meet often face to face because of facebook and this leads loneliness. These types of psychological symptoms could eventually lead to more serious health concerns, such as heart disease, cancer and dementia. Time that was previously spent interacting socially has increasingly been displaced by the virtual variety,” Sigman said in his article.
1) Privacy: Good Privacy is not really a term associated with social networking, especially with a giant like Facebook that is considered to be the backbone of social networking. Be careful about what you post as a status update or on another person's wall. There is enough material on Facebook to keep you engaged all day long. You might love it but you are at a risk, at the cost of your privacy. You may not be aware of the dangers you face making so much personal information available, but that isn't all that is bad about facebook.
1 You spend a lot of time thinking about Facebook or planning how to use it. 2  You feel an urge to use Facebook more and more. 3  You use Facebook in order to forget about personal problems. 4  You have tried to cut down on the use of Facebook without success. 1 It can lead to a sense of false consensus. 2  Sit next to a friend while you each search for the same thing on Google. 3  Eli Pariser, author of The Filter Bubble (2012), can promise you won’t see the same search results.
New research shows that obsessing over your ex on Facebook might seem like it helps ease the pain of breaking up, but it's potentially harmful for your mental health. By Violet Blue for Pulp Tech |. (...) In spite of the need for further research, the take-home message from the present study is that keeping tabs on an expartner through Facebook is associated with poorer emotional recovery and personal growth following a breakup.
Turns out, obsessing over your ex on Facebook isn't just kinda creepy-it's also not good for you. So-called Facebook stalking: ex-partners is the focus of a new article published in the academic journal Cyberpsychology, Behavior and Social Networking. (...) In spite of the need for further research, the take-home message from the present study is that keeping tabs on an expartner through Facebook is associated with poorer emotional recovery and personal growth following a breakup.
Psychologist, Aric Sigman suggests that the use of social networking sites as opposed to face-to-face interaction could lead to major health problems. Dr. Sigman claimed in the British Journal, The Biologist, that spending too much time online could lead to social isolation, loneliness and a negative outlook. These types of psychological symptoms could eventually lead to more serious health concerns, such as heart disease, cancer and dementia. Time that was previously spent interacting socially has increasingly been displaced by the virtual variety,” Sigman said in his article.
Over the weekend psychologist Dr. Larry Rosen released his findings regarding teens and technology. And surprise! Technology can be bad for your health! His findings show that teens who use technology, such as the internet and video games, are more likely to suffer from stomach aches, sleeping problems and depression. Facebook isn't all bad though. Dr. Rosen said it is a great way to bring shy kids out of their shell, giving them a safe way to engage in social interactions. I say it's only a matter of time until they are just as narcissistic as the rest of us.