The three main types, or classes, of rock are sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous and the differences among them have to do with how they are formed. Sedimentary. Sedimentary rocks are formed from particles of sand, shells, pebbles, and other fragments of material. 
Types of Rocks There are three main types of rocks: Igneous-formed when molten rock cools. Sedimentary – formed by the “cementing together” of small grains of sediment. Metamorphic – rocks changed by the effect of heat and pressure.
Grade: 3 - 12. The three types of rocks are igneous, formed from molten rock, sedimentary, formed from the elements of an existing rock, and metamorphic, formed by a change in heat or pressure. Learn to identify the three different types of rocks in this lesson on rocks
Rocks and Minerals. Enjoy our wide range of fun facts and information about different types of rocks and minerals for kids. Learn what rocks and minerals are, what the difference is, examples of rocks and minerals, the difference between igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, Mohs scale of hardness and much more. Read on and have fun finding out about rocks and minerals.
Learn the 3 types of rock-igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary! (lyrics below). see more of Mr. R.'s free science resources at sciencepoems.net. LYRICS. Igneous, Metamorphic, Sedimentary... There's 3 types of rocks, and that's all 3! Say 3 types of rocks, and that's all 3! 
The foundation of a great rock collection is to identify your rocks by type. Geologist classify rocks into three basic groups based on how they were formed in nature. The types of rocks are: 1  Igneous. 2  Sedimentary. 
This video is about a class that teaches kids about the 3 different types of rocks. By watching this video, you will be able to learn about the different types of rocks; igneous rocks, sedimentary rocks and metamorphic rocks. You will find out how these rocks are different from each other and how they are formed. 
The minerals may or may not have been formed at the same time. What matters is that natural processes glued them all together. There are three basic types of rock: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. Extremely common in the Earth's crust, igneous rocks are volcanic and form from molten material. They include not only lava spewed from volcanoes, but also rocks like granite, which are formed by magma that solidifies far underground. 
There are three different types of rocks based on the way they form, igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. When magma cools and solidifies it forms igneous rock. Examples of igneous rocks include granite, basalt, gabbro, obsidian and pumice. More igneous rock facts. Learn what rocks and minerals are, what the difference is, examples of rocks and minerals, the difference between igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, Mohs scale of hardness and much more. Read on and have fun finding out about rocks and minerals.