Vladimir Putin: the future of Russia lies in his hands. The BBC's former Moscow correspondent Bridget Kendall asks how Vladimir Putin-a former KGB spy-emerged from nowhere and became the leader of the world's largest country. Vladimir Putin has been president of Russia for nearly a year, but still remains an enigma.
Mr. Putin is a career KGB officer who spent 16 years of his life in the KGB. ... He graduated from then Leningrad State University from the law department, that like many things didn't prepare laws--since law didn't exist at the time of the Soviet Union--but prepared governmental bureaucrats.
Vladimir Putin's rumored girlfriend was a controversial Olympic torchbearer at Opening Ceremony. One of Russia’s final flagbearer choices created a controversy Friday night due to her rumored romantic ties to Russian president (…). I found this on FTW and wanted to share: %link% For more great sports stories ...
Putin would leave the presidency in 2008 due to term limits, but he was installed as prime minister by his successor, Dmitry Medvedev, leading many to believe Putin still retained the ultimate power in Russia. In 2012, there would be no doubt who was in charge, as Putin once again was elected president.
Vladimir Putin. Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, born 7 October 1952, is a Russian politician who has served as both President and Prime Minister of Russia.
The BBC's former Moscow correspondent Bridget Kendall asks how Vladimir Putin-a former KGB spy-emerged from nowhere and became the leader of the world's largest country. St Petersburg in Russia, Putin's birth place Vladimir Putin has been president of Russia for nearly a year, but still remains an enigma. Mr Putin's past suggests that he is a mixture of contradictory influences and instincts.
Putin previously served as President from 2000 to 2008, and as Prime Minister of Russia from 1999 to 2000 and again from 2008 to 2012. During his last term as Prime Minister, he was also the Chairman of United Russia, the ruling party.
(USA TODAY Sports Images). One of Russia’s final flagbearer choices created a controversy Friday night due to her rumored romantic ties to Russian president Vladimir Putin.