The hypoglossal nerve is the twelfth paired cranial nerve. Its name is derived from ancient greek, ‘ hypo ‘ meaning under, and ‘ glossal ‘ meaning tongue. The nerve has a purely somatic motor function, innervating the majority of the muscles of the tongue. Fig 1.0 – The extracranial anatomical course of the hypoglossal nerve. The hypoglossal nerve arises from the hypoglossal nucleus in the medulla oblongata of the brain. It then passes laterally across the posterior cranial fossa, within the subarachnoid space. The nerve exits the cranium via the hypoglossal canal.
These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Injury to hypoglossal nerve: 1  Hypoglossal nerve. 2  Hypoglossal nerve diseases. 3  Injury. 4  Hypoglossal. 5  Nerve. 6  Nerve symptoms (9132 causes). 7  Nerve disease. 8  Nerve disorder. 9  Nerve problem (9132 causes). 10  Nerve pain. 
1 An injury to the cranial nerves caused by surgery around the neck or the head, or removing a blockage from the artery located in the neck can result in severe damage. 2  Any bone abnormality or tumor at the base of the skull. 3  Diseases of the lower brain stem like ischemia and motor neuron disease may affect this nerve. It varies depending on the cause of injury or damage. Treatment. Thus, the hypoglossal nerve is responsible for many important functions of our tongue. Disclaimer: This Buzzle article is for informative purposes only, and should not be used as a replacement for expert medical advice.
Uncommon causes include multiple sclerosis and idiopathic isolated hypoglossal nerve palsy, which is a diagnosis of exclusion. Acute onset of pain with tongue weakness points to dissection of the extracranial internal carotid artery, a medical emergency. 
Hypoglossal nerve to the motor nerve damage cause the tongue muscle paralysis and atrophy, performance for Shenshe tend to the sick side. Symptoms of Hypoglossal Nerve Disorder. Simple hypoglossal nerve damage disease side the genioglossus paralyzed when Shenshe, the tip of the tongue to the affected side, tongue muscle atrophy disease side.
The path of the nerve starts in the hypoglossal nucleus of the brainstem, which is located near the midline of the medulla oblongata, and then travels between the carotid artery and jugular vein to end up on the underside of the tongue. If there are problems with the hypoglossal nerve, the tongue may become paralyzed. To test the nerve’s function, a patient would be asked to stick out their tongue. If paralysis were present, the tongue would point in the direction of the affected side. The hypoglossal nerve is the twelfth cranial nerve and controls movements
Nerve injuries in this region may take the form of an isolated single nerve or of paresis of two nerves together in the form of hypoglossal and recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy (Tapia's syndrome). However, combined injury of the lingual and hypoglossal nerves following intubation anesthesia is a much rarer condition. 
Damage to the hypoglossal nerve is a relatively uncommon cranial nerve palsy. Possible causes include tumours and penetrating traumatic injuries. If the symptoms are accompanied by acute pain, a possible cause may be dissection of the internal carotid artery. Fig 1.0 – The extracranial anatomical course of the hypoglossal nerve. The hypoglossal nerve arises from the hypoglossal nucleus in the medulla oblongata of the brain. It then passes laterally across the posterior cranial fossa, within the subarachnoid space. The nerve exits the cranium via the hypoglossal canal.
There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves, and the hypoglossal nerve is the twelfth nerve that connects from the brain to below the tongue. The axons of the nerve cells form root like structures which emerge from its nucleus located in the medulla oblongata. It varies depending on the cause of injury or damage. Treatment. Thus, the hypoglossal nerve is responsible for many important functions of our tongue. Disclaimer: This Buzzle article is for informative purposes only, and should not be used as a replacement for expert medical advice.