Cultured freshwater pearls are pearls that are farmed and created using freshwater mussels. These pearls are produced in Japan and the United States on a limited scale, but are now almost exclusively produced in China. This mussel produced a high volume of low-quality pearls that came to be known as  Rice Krispie pearls in the 1970s and 1980s. More than a decade ago the freshwater pearl industry of China shifted production from the cockscomb pearl mussel to the triangle shell mussel (Hyriopsis cumingii).
Freshwater Pearls. Freshwater pearls add timeless elegance to any jewelry design. Perfect for formal occasions and bridal jewelry, freshwater pearls can be combined with a wide variety of jewelry components from brilliant SWAROVSKI ELEMENTS crystal beads to colorful gemstones. We offer freshwater pearls in a wide range of colors, sizes and shapes to cater to your creativity. Please note: Because freshwater pearls are a natural material expect slight variations in size and appearance. Always take pearls off their original string and rinse and dry them thoroughly before using
Freshwater Pearls. Pearl Jewelry. Pearl Jewelry. Our round Freshwater cultured pearls make an excellent, affordable gift of good quality pearls. As opposed to rice-shaped Freshwater pearls, these pearls are mostly round, and look very similar to Akoya pearls when worn, but are available for a much lower price. To provide these pearls at an exceptional value, we offer them with good levels of quality, and set with 14k gold posts and clasps. The Freshwater pearl looks remarkably similar to the Akoya pearl, but Freshwater pearls are available for almost 1/5 the price of Akoya pearls. The only tradeoff is that Freshwater pearls are generally smaller, less symmetrical, and not as well matched when strung on a strand
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission requires that farmed freshwater pearls be referred to as freshwater cultured pearls in commerce. Quality of cultured freshwater pearls is evaluated through a grading system of a series of A values, based on luster, shape, surface, color, color and matching. This mussel produced a high volume of low-quality pearls that came to be known as  Rice Krispie pearls in the 1970s and 1980s. More than a decade ago the freshwater pearl industry of China shifted production from the cockscomb pearl mussel to the triangle shell mussel (Hyriopsis cumingii).
Pearls evoke a sense of sophistication, style, and opulence. When you're shopping for pearl jewelry, you will encounter a variety of different pearls, and you may be wondering which ones are right for you. There are distinct differences between naturally occurring pearls and cultured pearls, as well as differences between freshwater and saltwater varieties. 
From natural color lavender freshwater pearls to color enhanced chocolate pearls, freshwater pearls offer something for everyone. Freshwater pearls The highest quality freshwater pearls, such as those available from American Pearl, are somewhat similar to salt water Akoyas in appearance at first glance. The cultivation of freshwater pearls started at approximately the same time salt-water pearl cultivation began, in the early 1900s.
Today China is the only commercial producer of freshwater pearls, producing 1500 tons (2005) using the triangle shell mussel (Hyriopsis cumingii) and several hybrids that have shown heterosis from several mussel species. This mussel produced a high volume of low-quality pearls that came to be known as  Rice Krispie pearls in the 1970s and 1980s. More than a decade ago the freshwater pearl industry of China shifted production from the cockscomb pearl mussel to the triangle shell mussel (Hyriopsis cumingii).
However, since the 1990s, a class of freshwater pearls that are round and lustrous have emerged which rival Akoya pearls in both quality and value. Freshwater pearls cover the widest range of options for pearl buyers in size, shape and color. Freshwater pearls cover a wider range of colors and shapes than any other pearl type. Originally these pearls were marketed as a lower quality, inexpensive alternative to Akoya pearls