A typical healthy gestation period for a domestic cat is typically anywhere from 57 to 69 days, but you'll hear different numbers in or around that range, even from veterinarians. The number 65 is often mentioned as the ideal time frame. Afterward, the mother cat may want to move her kittens several times. The entire cat gestation period, while not all that long, is very stressful for your cat. Make sure that your vet is fully involved in the pregnancy and that you report anything that may be a possible health issue for your cat during this time.
How to Tell if a Cat is Pregnant. Three Parts: Recognizing Signs of Fertility Looking for Signs of Pregnancy Caring for a Pregnant Cat. The typical gestation period for cats is about 9 weeks, and a pregnant cat will begin to display telling physical and behavioral changes soon after becoming pregnant. 
How Long is the Gestation Period. The standard gestation period for cats is about 60 to 70 days, the equivalent of about two months. This will be a period of ups and downs for your pregnant cat. She may go from being contented and affectionate, to agitated, and back again during this time. The Kittens’ Birthday. When the gestation period for cats is finally over, It can be a very exciting time. When it’s time for your cat to give birth, you will know. She will most likely go into hiding for very long periods of time.
At this point in the cat's gestation period, the fetus has all its major organs and bodily systems. Now the queen's nourishment to the fetus is used for growth. During the last three weeks of the cat's pregnancy the fetus will grow by seven times until it can survive outside its mother's body. kittens nursing / mother cat image by Katrina Miller from Fotolia.com. The cat gestation period or cat pregnancy lasts about nine weeks. It is normal for cat gestation to be anywhere from 57 to 65 days. The pregnant cat, also known as a queen, experiences various physical changes as she progresses through the three trimesters of gestation. A pregnant cat normally delivers a litter of two to six kittens, with as many as eight possible
If your cat was in heat and had access to a whole male cat, the likelihood that she is pregnant is very strong. A pregnant queen will show both physical and personality changes which will become more evident around three weeks after breeding. The gestation period for cats runs from 60 to 67 days. I like to use 63 days as an average, because it is easier to equate with human gestation (nine weeks vs nine months).
The Gestation Period for Cats is approximately 60-67 days from the first breeding. Cats will not always conceive after one breeding and will generally mate multiple times in one cycle. *Uses an average 63 day gestation period for a Cat. Cat gestation periods can generally be anywhere from 60-67 days.
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. 