To clarify what is meant by electron-donating and electron-withdrawing substituents: Any substituent whose first atom (the one that's attached to the benzene ring) has a lone pair will be a pi electron donor to the phenyl ring, as shown in the resonance structure in the next figure.
This is a good way to remember certain electron withdrawing/donating groups that aren't so quick to reason out. NO2 is an amazing electron withdrawing group, along with carbonyls. They are also meta directing and deactivate a benzene ring. On the other hand, NH2 is electron donating (no oxygens to suck up the negative charge), along with alkoxy groups (-OR).
Electron donating groups (EDG) with lone pairs (e.g. -OMe, -NH2) on the atoms adjacent to the p system activate the aromatic ring by increasing the electron density on the ring through a resonance donating effect. The resonance only allows electron density to be positioned at the ortho-and para-positions.
Electron withdrawing groups (EWG) with p bonds to electronegative atoms (e.g. -C=O, -NO2) adjacent to the p system deactivate the aromatic ring by decreasing the electron density on the ring through a resonance withdrawing effect. The resonance only decreases the electron density at the ortho-and para-positions.
Electron withdrawing groups (EWG) with p bonds to electronegative atoms (e.g. -C=O, -NO2) adjacent to the p system deactivate the aromatic ring by decreasing the electron density on the ring through a resonance withdrawing effect.
Halogen substituents are a little unusual in that they are deactivating but still direct ortho- / para-. The reason is that they are both inductive electron withdrawing (electronegativity) and resonance donating (lone pair donation).
Electron donating groups (EDG) with lone pairs (e.g. -OMe, -NH2) on the atoms adjacent to the p system activate the aromatic ring by increasing the electron density on the ring through a resonance donating effect.
Electron withdrawing groups deactivate the benzene ring to electrophilic aromatic substitution. electron withdrawing groups decrease the electron density in the ring and make it less reactive with electrophiles.
In electrophilic aromatic substitution, the benzene ring acts as an electron donor (Lewis base or nucleophile) and reacts with an electron acceptor (Lewis acid or electrophile). The result of electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions is that an aromatic hydrogen is replaced by some other atom or functional group.