HDPE Corrugated subsoil drainage pipes are used for subsoil drainage for playing fields, golf courses, stadium, roads, highway and construction works. They are designed for removal of excess ground water. HDPE corrugated subsoil drainage pipes are produced in either single wall or double wall.
Efficient subsoil drainage is an important factor in maintaining the service life of roads and highways. When water leaks into the structural layers via rainfall or other sources like drainage ditches, they expand and contract weakening the road structure and causing it to crack.
Drain envelopes are placed around a subsoil drain for various purposes, including: 1  To prevent excessive soil movement. 2  To increase to effective surface area of the drain. 3  To stabilize the soil in which the drain is located. 4  To provide structural bedding for the pipe.
A subsoil drainage system is installed within the ground and should be installed by either a landscaper or qualified plumber. Purpose of subsoil drainage: 1  It increases the stability of the ground. 2  Reduces building foundation movements due to the variations in the soil moisture content. 3  Increases soil strength.
You are probably wondering where to install this subsoil drainage system by now. If your property has a retaining wall, it is a good idea to install the subsoil drain system behind it to relieve water pressure. Another good spot is in the lower areas of your garden where water usually accumulate.
An effective yet unobtrusive method is to use subsoil drainage. Here’s what you need to know about subsoil drainage systems. A subsoil drainage system is designed to be installed within the ground in order to remove excessive water from the soil, so that it doesn’t cause damage to buildings or to the landscape.
The most commonly used subsoil drainage system is a special pipe covered with geotextile material. A number of perforations are through the pipe to let water through to be drained. The geotextile covering is crucial as it prevents soil and other materials coming into the pipe and causing a blockage.
The most common type of subsoil drainage is in the form of a special pipe that is covered with a geotextile material. The pipe itself has a number of perforations through it to let the water through to be drained away.
Subsoil drainage protects your property from water damage. This system are used to remove excessive water from the soil surrounding your property in architectural, sewage and irrigation applications and to provide water to plants as well as drain sewage away from your property.