The Blue Ridge belt, as the region is known in geological circles, is well known for its deposits of feldspar, mica and quartz-basic materials which are used in products we use everyday, including ceramics, paint and electronics. Feldspar. Feldspar was first mined in North Carolina in 1911 in the Spruce Pine district, the main feldspar-producing district in North America. Feldspar is a major ingredient in the manufacture of many types of glass, from automobile windshields and computer screens to baby food bottles and electric light bulbs.
It also contains rare chemical elements. The minerals formed from this type of magma are often valuable because they have concentrations of rare chemical elements. When magma cools very slowly, very large crystals can grow. These mineral deposits are good sources of crystals that are used to make jewelry. For example, magma can form large topaz crystals. The different colored speckles in the granite are the crystals of the different minerals. The mineral crystals are large enough to see because the magma cools slowly, which gives the crystals time to grow. Figure 3.20: Granite is a type of rock that forms from magma. It contains the minerals quartz (clear), plagioclase feldspar (shiny white), potassium feldspar (pink), and other miner
Many of these minerals valued as ore deposits are located in what is called the mineral belt (See Figure 1). The belt runs from the northeast to the southwest through the Rocky Mountains and is from 10 to 60 miles wide (Matthews et al., 2003). This mineral rich belt stretches from Boulder to the La Plata Mountains just north of Durango. and was created 75 to 20 million years ago when igneous intrusion and volcanic eruptions deposited over the landscape in a lineament
Iron. Deposits of iron ore, including siderite and the limonite-group minerals, are present in the Eocene Weches Formation in northeastern Texas. Deposits are present in Anderson, Camp, Cass, Cherokee, Harrison, Henderson, Marion, Morris, Nacogdoches, Smith, and Upshur counties.
As the magma cools, interlocking crystals of feldspar, quartz, and mica form. One example is Old Rag Granite, which forms some of the mountainous peaks of Shenandoah National Park in the Blue Ridge Province, including Old Rag Mountain. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that is composed primarily of fossilized plant matter. Coal in Virginia occurs as layers in sedimentary rocks in the Appalachian Plateaus and Valley and Ridge provinces, and Mesozoic Basin sub-province of the Piedmont.
There are several excellent museums in the region that tell the story of the mineral wealth of Western North Carolina: Frankliln Gem & Mineral Museum, Franklin, NC. Colburn Earth Science Museum, Asheville, NC. Museum of North Carolina Minerals, Spruce Pine, NC. Feldspar. Feldspar was first mined in North Carolina in 1911 in the Spruce Pine district, the main feldspar-producing district in North America. Feldspar is a major ingredient in the manufacture of many types of glass, from automobile windshields and computer screens to baby food bottles and electric light bulbs.
Extrusive igneous rock. Extrusive, or volcanic, igneous rock is produced when magma ex its and cools outside of, or very near the Earth's surface. These are the rocks that form at erupting volcanoes and oozing fissures. 
Deposits of nickel sulfides are mined from greenstone belts in many ancient volcanic terranes. The ore is associated with ultramafic lava flows called komatiites. Komatiites have more than 18 weight % magnesium oxide (MgO) and large amounts of the mineral olivine. The ancient volcanic hills called Glass Buttes hold a dazzling variety of gem-quality obsidian, including: mahogany, red, flame, midnight lace, jet black, pumpkin, brown, rainbow, gold sheen, silver sheen, green, lizard skin, snowflake and more.
Gold forms in close association with volcanoes or is hosted in volcanic rocks. Three environments/styles are most common: gold in greenstone belts, gold in porphyry deposits, and gold in epithermal deposits. The ancient volcanic hills called Glass Buttes hold a dazzling variety of gem-quality obsidian, including: mahogany, red, flame, midnight lace, jet black, pumpkin, brown, rainbow, gold sheen, silver sheen, green, lizard skin, snowflake and more.