1 The peroneal nerves originate from the nerve roots at the fourth and fifth lumbar spine (L4-L5) and first and second levels of the sacrum (S1-2). 2  After the peroneal nerves leave the pelvis, they travel down the front and side of the leg, and along the outer side of the knee, to the foot. 1 Other complex nerve structures are involved—the peroneal nerves and tibial nerves. 2 
The superficial peroneal nerve originates between the peroneus longus muscle and the fibula. It courses down the lateral compartment of the lower leg along with the peroneus longus muscle and the peroneus brevis muscle. It then descends posterolaterally to the anterior crural intermuscular septum. 
- Innervation of the Leg and Foot : - Anatomy: - common peroneal nerve is derived from (L4, L5, S1, S2) as a part of the sciatic nerve; - posterior component, supplies short head of biceps femoris in thigh, crosses posterior to lateral head of gastrocnemius, and becomes subQ behind head of fibula; - along the length of the proximal one third of the fibula, the superficial peroneal nerve is on the lateral cortex of the fibula; - passes between peroneus longus & peroneus brevis; - superficial sensory nerves: - subcutaneous superficial sensory branch lies between peroneus brevis and EDL msucles.
A peroneal nerve injury (also called foot drop or drop foot), is a peripheral nerve injury that affects a patient’s ability to lift the foot at the ankle. While foot drop injury is a neuromuscular disorder, it can also be a symptom of a more serious injury, such as a nerve compression or herniated disc. Causes of peroneal nerve injury (foot drop). Foot drop injury can be caused by an injury to the spinal cord or from other underlying diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) , multiple sclerosis (MS) , or Parkinson's disease.
This is not to be confused with Perineal nerve. The common peroneal nerve (common fibular nerve; external popliteal nerve; lateral popliteal nerve), about one-half the size of the tibial nerve, is derived from the dorsal branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. The common peroneal nerve innervates the short head of the biceps femoris muscle via a motor branch that exits close to the gluteal cleft. The remainder of the peroneal-innervated muscles are innervated by its branches, the deep peroneal nerve and superficial pero
1. L4-S2 roots, which becomes the sciatic nerve. 2. It branches from the sciatic nerve in the distal posterior thigh to form the common peroneal nerve. It then travels through the popliteal fossa, winds around the fibular head, then splits into the deep and superficial nerves. Prior to this, it gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the calf. 
It descends obliquely along the lateral side of the popliteal fossa to the head of the fibula, close to the medial margin of the biceps femoris muscle. Where the common peroneal nerve winds round the head of the fibula, it is palpable. The common peroneal nerve innervates the short head of the biceps femoris muscle via a motor branch that exits close to the gluteal cleft. The remainder of the peroneal-innervated muscles are innervated by its branches, the deep peroneal nerve and superficial peroneal nerve.
Injury or entrapment of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, also known as meralgia paresthetica (from the Greek words mēros [“thigh”] and algos [“pain”]), is a syndrome of paresthesia and pain in the lateral and anterolateral thigh. 
The sciatic nerve branches into the tibial and common peroneal nerves in the apex of the popliteal fossa. The common peroneal nerve winds around the proximal neck of the fibula to reach the anterior leg where it divides into the superficial and deep peroneal nerves. abducent nerve sixth cranial nerve; origin, a nucleus in the pons, beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, emerging from the brain stem anteriorly between the pons and medulla oblongata; distribution, lateral rectus muscle of eye; modality, motor.
Branching out from the sciatic nerve the peroneal nerve is located in the back of the leg and wraps around the fibula or calf bone. Problems with this nerve can cause a decrease in sensations or movement of the lower leg and foot. 