Infections cause about 2 million cancer cases a year, and 80 percent of those cases occur in less developed areas of the world, according to the study, which was published online May 8 in The Lancet Oncology. A new study suggests that treatable infections cause cancer in 1 of 6 cases. HealthDay. + More. WEDNESDAY, May 9 (HealthDay News) -- One in six cancers worldwide is caused by preventable or treatable infections, a new study finds.
Eighty percent of all infection-caused cancers were in less developed regions, where vaccines and treatments for these infections may be harder to come by, and sometimes the numbers are shocking: in China, more than a quarter of cancer cases were infectious in origin. By Veronique Greenwood | May 9, 2012 3:03 pm. Where viruses and bacteria cause cancer. Strictly speaking, cancer is not contagious. But a fair number of cancers are clearly caused by viral or bacterial infections: lymphomas can be triggered by the Epstein-Barr virus, which also causes mononucleosis.
With these additions, the worldwide total would be 21%. It is claimed that most of the cancers caused by infection are in the undeveloped countries, and in the developed countries, the total is only 9.1%. With the above corrections, this would increase to about 12.4%. Most likely more than 95% of liver cancer is caused by either HBV or HCV, with the exception of those caused by schistosomes, which would increase the total by 0.8%. Only AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are attributed to EBV, and no gastric carcinomas.
HAV infection does not cause eitherchronic infection or liver cancer. Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) About 6.2% of liver cancers in North America and 35%worldwide are attributed to chronic infection with HBV. 3 Symptoms of initial infection with HBV are variable.Many people have no symptoms. Indeveloping countries, 37% of liver cancers are attributa-ble to HBV, 25% to HCV, 10% to infection of the intra-hepatic bile ducts by liver flukes, and 9% to other causes.In developed countries, 14% of liver cancers are attrib-utable to HBV, 14% to HCV, and 71% to other causes Cancer Facts & Figures 2005 23Figure 2.
In 2008, these four main infections together caused 1.9 million cancers, mostly of the stomach, liver and cervix. Cervical cancer accounted for about half of infection-related cancers in women, and liver and gastric cancers accounted for more than 80 percent of infection-related cancers in men. A new study suggests that treatable infections cause cancer in 1 of 6 cases. HealthDay. + More. WEDNESDAY, May 9 (HealthDay News) -- One in six cancers worldwide is caused by preventable or treatable infections, a new study finds.
The rate of infection-related cancers was 23 percent in developing countries and 7 percent in developed countries. Rates of infection-related cancers ranged from 3 percent in Australia and New Zealand to 33 percent in sub-Saharan Africa. A new study suggests that treatable infections cause cancer in 1 of 6 cases. HealthDay. + More. WEDNESDAY, May 9 (HealthDay News) -- One in six cancers worldwide is caused by preventable or treatable infections, a new study finds.
Stomach, liver and cervical malignancies top the list. A new study suggests that treatable infections cause cancer in 1 of 6 cases. HealthDay. + More. WEDNESDAY, May 9 (HealthDay News) -- One in six cancers worldwide is caused by preventable or treatable infections, a new study finds.
Infection with the hepatitis B virus is the major cause of liver cancer. Worldwide, eighty percent of cases occur in people who carry the hepatitis B virus. This means many people have hepatitis B from birth, an important factor in developing liver cancer. It is the slow damage caused by chronic hepatitis B infection that leads the liver cells to change into cancer cells.
According to the study, 80% of infection-related cancer occurs in less developed regions. The study was published online May 9, 1012 in The Lancet Oncology. In many cases, infection-related cancer is preventable. Two prevalent cancer-causing viruses are human papillomavirus (HPV) and hepatitis-B virus (HBV). About 2 million new cancer cases a year are caused by infectious agents – viruses, bacteria, and parasites – according to a new analysis. Researchers from the International Agency for Research on Cancer in Lyon, France, reviewed data for 27 different types of cancer in 184 countries