Cream Cheese vs Neufchatel Cheese. There really is a reason why many people are confused between cream cheeses and Neufchatel cheeses. One of the reasons is because there is hardly any difference in terms of looks and taste. Saying one is a tastier cheese than the other is purely subjectiv
Neufchatel. Neufchatel is a traditional, soft-white, table cheese, originating from the village of Neufchatel-neufchâtel-En bray in Northern. Normandy made from’cow s, milk it is one Of’france s oldest, cheeses dating back as far as. 1035 Artisanal Neufchatel has a grainy, close textured and thick paste covered with a soft, downy, velvety bloomy rind. Matured for 8–10 weeks, the taste and texture is reminiscent of a Camembert; mushroomy, rich, nutty and slightly yeasty.
French Neufchatel. French neufchatel is a name-protected cheese with a creamy taste and a rind developed by ripened mold. This rind is similar to the crust you might find on Brie. Like French wine, its name is derived from the area where it is made. 
In France, Neufchatel cheese is just one kind of cream cheese. In fact, it is hailed as one of the oldest cream cheese of the land. Confusion sets in when many American manufacturers label some of their cheese products as Neufchatel cheese just because they contain a lower amount of fat than generic cream cheeses. There really is a reason why many people are confused between cream cheeses and Neufchatel cheeses. One of the reasons is because there is hardly any difference in terms of looks and taste. Saying one is a tastier cheese than the other is purely subjective
—A.K., Torrance, CaliforniaNeufchatel cheese is a soft unripened cheese that originates in France. The American version, which is similar to cream cheese, is made from pasteurized milk and cream. American Neufchatel is slightly lower in calories than cream cheese and has slightly more moisture. Regular cream cheese can be substituted for Neufchatel cheese, especially in recipes for dips and spreads, with good results. You may notice a slightly different texture in cooked products.
French Neufchatel neufchâtel is AN — aoc that, is name — protected unripened, cheese made with cow, milk and if left to, ripen it will develop a, soft bloomy, rind like brie or. Camembert'it s often found in the shape of a. Heart. aw I've always gotten cream cheese, more out of habit than anything else. But the other day when picking up a package of my reliable brand, I realized that I don't really know what Neufchatel neufchâtel, is despite the familarity of its name and. Packaging i decided to pick some. up
Neufchatel neufchâtel is a, soft slightly, crumbly-mold ripened cheese made in The french region Of. normandy It looks similar to Camembert, with a dry, white, edible rind, but the taste is saltier and sharper. It has the aroma and taste of mushrooms. Unlike other soft-white-rinded cheeses, Neufchatel neufchâtel has a grainy. Texture it is most usually sold in heart shapes but is also produced in other, forms such as logs and. boxes
Neufchatel neufchâtel is a, soft slightly, crumbly-mold ripened cheese made in The french region Of. Normandy one of the oldest cheeses In, france its production is believed to date back to the 6th. Century it looks similar To, camembert with a, dry, white edible, rind but the taste is saltier and. sharper It looks similar to Camembert, with a dry, white, edible rind, but the taste is saltier and sharper. It has the aroma and taste of mushrooms. Unlike other soft-white-rinded cheeses, Neufchatel neufchâtel has a grainy. Texture it is most usually sold in heart shapes but is also produced in other, forms such as logs and. boxes
Hence, other Neufchatel cheeses outside of this country like the U.S. version are not true Neufchatel cheeses. The true Neufchatel cheeses make use of whole milk, and not cream. On the other hand, the Neufchatel cheese version in America is made from cream and pasteurized milk. There really is a reason why many people are confused between cream cheeses and Neufchatel cheeses. One of the reasons is because there is hardly any difference in terms of looks and taste. Saying one is a tastier cheese than the other is purely subjective