Everyone speaks with an accent. You may speak English with an accent from a different region in the United States. You may speak English with an accent because English is not your first language. You may speak French with an English accent. In our world today, people move from state to state and from country to country. One thing that we take with us no matter where we move is our accent.
Accent Seasoning-A seasoning also called MSG (Monosodium Glutamate). It is commonly used in Oriental cooking. It is not a favored seasoning or enhancer in the United States as many people are allergic to it. It is an optional seasoning and can very easily be left out of recipes. 
Accent Modification. [ en Espanol ]. Español everyone speaks with an. Accent you may Speak english with an accent from a different region in The United. States you may Speak english with an accent Because english is not your first. Language you may Speak french with An english. accent You may speak English with an accent because English is not your first language. You may speak French with an English accent. In our world today, people move from state to state and from country to country. One thing that we take with us no matter where we move is our accent.
Examples and Observations (Definition #1).  1 Your accent is the way you pronounce English when you speak it--and of course everybody therefore has an accent. 2  Your dialect, on the other hand, has to do also with the grammatical forms that you use, as well, perhaps, as any regional vocabulary that you employ. 
One is a 'foreign' accent; this occurs when a person speaks one language using some of the rules or sounds of another one. For example, if a person has trouble pronouncing some of the sounds of a second language they're learning, they may substitute similar sounds that occur in their first language. 
An accent may be identified with the locality in which its speakers reside (a regional or geographical accent), the socio-economic status of its speakers, their ethnicity, their caste or social class (a social accent), or influence from their first language (a foreign accent). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Accent serves as the first point of gate keeping because we are forbidden, by law and social custom, and perhaps by a prevailing sense of what is morally and ethically right, from using race, ethnicity, homeland or economics more directly.
Full Definition of ACCENT. transitive verb. 1. a: to pronounce with accent: stress b: to mark with a written or printed accent. 2. : to give prominence to: make more prominent. See accent defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 1 Regional accents are common in the U.S. 2  She spoke with an American accent. 3  The tourist had a foreign accent. 4  He has a heavy southern accent. 5  The word “ before ” has the accent on the last syllable. 6  Put the accent on the first syllable of the word.
accent noun [C] (WAY OF PRONOUNCING). › the way in which ​people in a ​particular ​area or ​country ​pronounce words: She ​spoke with a ​slight southern accent. › An accent is also a ​mark written or ​printed over a ​letter to show how to ​pronounce it. 1 Pay ​ attention to the accents on the words, because they show you how to ​ pronounce them. 2  Francoise françoise ​ is spelled with an-accent ​ a-cedilla on 'the'. 3  C there is an accent called ​ an umlaut in ​ The german 'Word', gebauede ​ gebaüde '​ which '.  means building
In sociolinguistics, an accent (/ˈaeksɨnt/ ˈæksɨnt /-or/) ɛnt is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular, individual, location or. nation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Accent serves as the first point of gate keeping because we are forbidden, by law and social custom, and perhaps by a prevailing sense of what is morally and ethically right, from using race, ethnicity, homeland or economics more directly.
Accent. In sociolinguistics, an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual, location, or nation. An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside, the socio-economic status of its speakers, their ethnicity, their caste or social class, their first language, and so on. Accents typically differ in quality of the voice, pronunciation and distinction of vowels and consonants, stress, and prosody.