Cysticercosis: An infection caused by the pork tapeworm, Taenia solium. Infection occurs when the tapeworm larvae enter the body and form cysts called cysticerci. When cysticerci are found in the brain, the condition is called neurocysticercosis. Cysticercosis is contracted by accidentally swallowing pork tapeworm eggs.
Background. Cysticercosis (ie, infection caused by eggs of the pork tapeworm) is an increasingly common medical problem in the United States, especially in the Southwest and other areas where large populations migrated from endemic areas and among populations that often travel to these areas. Cysticercosis is caused by the metacestode, or larval, stage of Taenia solium, the pork tapeworm. The clinical syndromes caused by T solium are categorized as either cysticercosis (cysts in various tissues including the brain) or taeniasis (intestinal tapeworm infection).
Cysticercosis is an infection caused by the larvae of the parasite Taenia solium. This infection occurs after a person swallows tapeworm eggs. The larvae get into tissues such as muscle and brain, and form cysts there (these are called cysticerci). When cysts are found in the brain, the condition is called neurocysticercosis.
1 Cysticercosis is a parasitic disease caused by ingesting the eggs of the pork tapeworm, Taenia solium. 2  Humans are infected by ingesting raw or undercooked pork, and cysticercosis occurs after the ingestion of Taenia solium eggs. Cysticercosis is a systemic parasitic infestation caused by ingesting the eggs of the pork tapeworm, Taenia solium. The symptoms of this illness are caused by the development of characteristic cysts (cysticerci) which most often affect the central nervous system (neurocysticercosis), skeletal muscle, eyes, and skin
ShareCompartir. Cysticercosis is a parasitic tissue infection caused by larval cysts of the tapeworm Taenia solium. These larval cysts infect brain, muscle, or other tissue, and are a major cause of adult onset seizures in most low-income countries. 
Magnetic resonance image of a patient with neurocysticercosis demonstrating multiple cysticerci within the brain. Neurocysticercosis is a specific form of the infectious parasitic disease cysticercosis which is caused by infection with Taenia solium, a tapeworm found in pigs. 