The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. NAICS was developed under the auspices of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and adopted in 1997 to replace the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system.
These codes were developed by the federal government and are used by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as well as many other U.S. statistical agencies. In 1997, OMB adopted NAICS as its new industry classification system. Every registered Washington firm is assigned a SIC or NAICS code. Because the national standard changed from the use of SIC codes to the use of NAICS codes, in November 2004 the Department stopped assigning SIC codes and now only assigns NAICS codes. For a list of SIC codes click here.
The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is used by businesses and governments to classify and measure economic activity in Canada, Mexico, and the United States. NAICS is currently the standard used by federal statistical agencies in classifying ... more info. 
The Standard Industrial Classification SIC is a system for classifying industries by a four-digit code. Established in the United States in 1937, it is used by government agencies to classify industry areas. The SIC system is also used by agencies in other countries, e.g., by the United Kingdom 's Companies House. To look at a particular example of the hierarchy, SIC code 2024 (ice cream and frozen desserts) belongs to industry group 202 (dairy products), which is part of major group 20 (food and kindred products), which belongs to the division of manufacturing. Contents.
The SIC system arrays the economy into 11 divisions, that are divided into 83 2-digit major groups, that are further subdivided into 416 3-digit industry groups, and finally disaggregated into 1,005 4-digit industries. This number indicates a company’s primary line of business. What determines a company’s primary SIC code is the code definition that generates the highest revenue for that company at a specific location in the past year.
The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code system is used to classify a firm's primary industry based on common products, services, production processes, and delivery systems. The more digits a code contains, the more specific it is. For example, 2-digit codes are very broad while 8-digits codes can be very specific. Search by SIC Code. The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code system is used to classify a firm's primary industry. Search by Industry. An industry is the primary business activity of any firm. Industries are determined by common products, services, production and delivery system of businesse
Each and every company will have a primary SIC code. This number indicates a company’s primary line of business. What determines a company’s primary SIC code is the code definition that generates the highest revenue for that company at a specific location in the past year.
A standard series of four-digit codes created by the U.S. government in 1937 for categorizing business activities. In 1997, the use of SIC codes was replaced in most (but not all) capacities by a six-digit code called the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). Next Up. 