A travel agent makes travel arrangements for clients. Some travel agents specialize in trips to Bora Bora and other exotic places in French Polynesia. A travel agent may arrange a cruise ship vacation. Travel agents are experts at arranging honeymoons. At a minimum, a travel agent can book tickets for people who wish to travel to a particular destination; most travel agents focus on air, rail, and sea travel and the myriad options available, including varying classes and routes.
What Travel Agents Do About this section. Travel agents offer advice on destinations, plan trip itineraries, and make travel arrangements for clients. Travel agents sell transportation, lodging, and admission to entertainment activities to individuals and groups planning trips. In addition, resorts and specialty travel groups use travel agents to promote travel packages to their clients. Travel agents also may visit destinations to get firsthand experience so that they can make recommendations to clients or colleagues. They may visit hotels, resorts, and restaurants to evaluate the comfort, cleanliness, and quality of the establishment
Travel agents can help travelers choose the right beach vacation. Travel agents may help clients to find the best airline to use. Travel agents can assist clients with securing passports. At a minimum, a travel agent can book tickets for people who wish to travel to a particular destination; most travel agents focus on air, rail, and sea travel and the myriad options available, including varying classes and routes.
A travel agency is a private retailer or public service that provides travel and tourism related services to the public on behalf of suppliers such as airlines, car rentals, cruise lines, hotels, railways, and package tours. Careers [edit]. A travel agent may work for a travel agency or work freelance. With many people switching to self-service internet websites, the number of available jobs as travel agents is decreasing. Counteracting the decrease in jobs due to internet services is the increase in the number of people travelling.
Travel agents book business and leisure travel for customers. As a travel agent you will sell holiday packages and give travel advice. Your role is to make travel planning easier, and to make sure your customers have the best trip possible. For this role you’ll need to be well organised and have an eye for detail. 
Travel agents have a wide network of contacts and can provide cheaper fares, great hotel deals, cab rentals and many other travel related bookings which can be very useful for the average tourist. A travel agent may be an employee of a large travel agency or he may function independently. Further, he may be dealing in specialized areas such as vacation bookings, business travel, honeymoon travel or making exotic travel arrangements. At the basic level a travel agent make bookings to any destinations the people wish travel to. It could be traveling by train, ship or flight, the agent can suggest you the most suitable option and suggest the most convenient routes. 
Some agents specialize in a particular field of travel like business travel, exotic travel, or honeymoon arrangements. In some cases, a travel agent also provides overseas support and referrals, which can sometimes be incredibly useful. At a minimum, a travel agent can book tickets for people who wish to travel to a particular destination; most travel agents focus on air, rail, and sea travel and the myriad options available, including varying classes and routes.
What Travel Agents Do. Travel agents sell transportation, lodging, and admission to entertainment activities to individuals and groups planning trips. They offer advice on destinations, plan trip itineraries, and make travel arrangements for clients. In addition, resorts and specialty travel groups use travel agents to promote travel packages to their clients. Travel agents also may visit destinations to get firsthand experience so that they can make recommendations to clients or colleagues. They may visit hotels, resorts, and restaurants to evaluate the comfort, cleanliness, and quality of the establishment
At times, the services of a travel agent can be extremely useful; travel agents often have access to cheap fares, hotel deals, and other travel perks which average consumers cannot get on their own. A travel agent may choose to work freelance, or as part of a larger travel agency. At a minimum, a travel agent can book tickets for people who wish to travel to a particular destination; most travel agents focus on air, rail, and sea travel and the myriad options available, including varying classes and routes.