Vinegar, bleach and borax powder are some examples. Bleach -- If you want to use something stronger than vinegar, then use bleach. Bleach is best used when the rings and stains are already too tough. Pour half a cup of powder into the toilet bowl. Leave it that way for a few hours before you flush the bleach away.
Iron is one of the minerals found in hard water and, if present in large amounts, it literally turns the water red. It often stains the porcelain in your kitchen and bathroom, particularly in the toilet, where water stands for hours at a time. The unsightly rust stains are moderately difficult to remove.
Tips. 1  Add a whole-house water filter that is made to filter iron from your water supply in order to remove the source of the rust stains. 2  Begin with the least toxic rust removal method before progressing to chemical rust removers.
Don't forget to clean the toilet thoroughly. Vinegar - - Vinegar is always used to remove almost all types of stains, and cleaning your toilet with it is very effective because it can deal with lime scale and hard water deposits. To use vinegar, just pour a huge amount of it into the bowl.
Believe it or not, mineral and rust stains in your toilet or tub -- greenish stripes, a brown ring, lime scale -- aren't caused by anything you're doing wrong in your cleaning regimen. It's simply something in the water.
Remove rust stains from virtually all surfaces you'll find in your bathroom. Restore porcelain bathtubs and sinks to their original condition, plus keep your toilet rust-free by using Iron Out Automatic Toilet Bowl Cleaner. Toilet Bowl and Water Tank Rust Stains — Use 1/2 cup (125 ml).
The best way to remove rust stains from bath tubs and toilets. As long as the bathtub, sink, or toilet is porcelain, the best way to remove rust stains is to use a pumice stone. Start by cleaning the whole thing with some soap, water, and/or vinegar.
To use ZUD you just squirt or sprinkle it in the bowl on the stains and brush using a toilet cleaning brush or plastic pad. Now add more water to the bowl or sink to allow the stained areas to be covered by the ZUD solution. Add more ZUD where you can’t cover with the solution (like high on the bowl).
Rust and other stains can occur from hard water mineral deposits found especially with the use of well water having high iron content. Staining can also occur from rusty galvanized pipes leaking into a sink, rusty toilet components leaking into the back of a toilet bowl or something metal left on the sink.