The first Sourcing definition i.e. strategic sourcing is a concept that was popularized by major consultancy companies in the late 1980’s 1990’s and is now considered a standard purchasing strategy used by many blue chip companies. However, the most popular definition of sourcing is strategic sourcing. The second sourcing definition i.e. global sourcing is sourcing products and (sometimes services) irrespective of national boundaries. It is particularly popular within the EEC countries in Europe and Asia.
There are a number of different definition of sourcing but mainly there are two major definitions: strategic sourcing and global sourcing. Definition of Sourcing I – Strategic Sourcing. The second sourcing definition i.e. global sourcing is sourcing products and (sometimes services) irrespective of national boundaries. It is particularly popular within the EEC countries in Europe and Asia.
There are several processes within the strategic sourcing process and these are: 1  Evaluation of the company’s current purchasing cycles. 2  Evaluation of what is currently available in the supply market. 3  A review of the cost benefit analysis of using other suppliers. 4  A review of potential vendors. The second sourcing definition i.e. global sourcing is sourcing products and (sometimes services) irrespective of national boundaries. It is particularly popular within the EEC countries in Europe and Asia.
Strategic sourcing is an institutional procurement process that continuously improves and re-evaluates the purchasing activities of a company. The steps in a strategic sourcing process were defined, in 1994, as: 1  Assessment of a company's current spending (what is bought, where, at what prices?). 2  Assessment of the supply market (who offers what?). 3  Total cost analyses (how much does it cost to provide those goods or services?). 4  Identification of suitable suppliers. 5  Development of a 6  ... Nego
Strategic purchasing is the process of planning, implementing, evaluating, and controlling strategic and operating purchasing decisions for directing all activities of the purchasing function toward opportunities consistent with the firm's capabilities to achieve its long-term goals (Carr and Smeltzer, 1997). Tactical purchasing is typically a subset of activities and processes within the strategic purchasing approach. It focuses on operational purchasing requirements based on information from a limited environmental scan (Lysons and Farrington, 2006).
vs. Ellucian. Strategic sourcing is an approach to supply chain management that formalizes the way information is gathered and used so that an organization can leverage its consolidated purchasing power to find the best possible values in the marketplace. Strategic sourcing requires analysis of what an organization buys, from whom, at what price and at what volume. Strategic sourcing differs from conventional purchasing because it places emphasis on the entire life-cycle of a product, not just its initial purchase price.
There are numerous definitions of Strategic Sourcing. Most of these definitions are unhelpful, using either academic of management consultants pseudo-intellectual language to explain what is a straightforward, but important, concept. Without a strategic approach, no overall view of the sourcing costs and efficiency is taken and the profits of the business are effected. Strategy Sourcing is an approach to procurement whereby the business needs of the organization are matched with the supplier market.
About. Strategic sourcing is the collaborative and structured process of critically analyzing an organization’s spending and using this information to make business decisions about acquiring commodities and services more effectively and efficiently. 
In the services industry, strategic sourcing refers to a service solution, sometimes called a Strategic Partnership, that is specifically customized to meet the client's individual needs. In a production environment, it is often considered one component of supply chain management. The steps in a strategic sourcing process were defined, in 1994, as: 1  Assessment of a company's current spending (what is bought, where, at what prices?). 2  Assessment of the supply market (who offers what?). 3  Total cost analyses (how much does it cost to provide those goods or services?). 4  Identification of suitable suppliers. 5  Development of a 6  ... Nego
Strategic sourcing, which is considered a key aspect of supply chain management, involves elements such as examination of purchasing budgets, the landscape of the supply market, negotiation with suppliers, and periodic assessments of supply transactions. Definition. A method of managing procurement processes for an organization in which the procedures, methods, and sources are constantly re-evaluated to optimize value to the organization.