On May 26, 1830, the Indian Removal Act of 1830 was passed by the Twenty-First Congress of the United states of America. After four months of strong debate, Andrew Jackson signed the bill into law. Land greed was a big reason for the federal government's position on Indian removal. The Chickisaw Indians were a tribe that lived in the southern United States. Their land included western Tenessee and Kentucky, northwestern Alabama, and northern Mississippi before the Indian removal. They were relocated to Oklahoma by the government in the 1830's.
The Trail of Tears was a series of forced relocations of Native American nations in the United States following the Indian Removal Act of 1830. The phrase Trail of Tears originated from a description of the removal of the Choctaw Nation in 1831.
Answer by Quirkyquantummechanic. Confidence votes 77.4K. The forced relocation of the Cherokee People called the Trail of Tears occurred in 1838. The United States Government had a history of mistreating the Red Man, but this was one of the most despicable acts perpetrated on Native Americans. Hit the link and read about it courtesy of our friends at Wikipedia
Indian Removal Act — 1830. Signed into law in 1830 by President Andrew Jackson, the Indian Removal Act provided for the general resettlement of Native Americans from east of the Mississippi River to lands west (Indian Territory). Although the removal was supposed to be voluntary, removal became mandatory whenever the government thought necessary. The first removal treaty to follow the passage of the Indian Removal Act was with the Choctaw Nation (1830). In 1838 the Cherokee Nation was removed to reservations in what has been called “The Trail of Tears.” It is estimated that almost 8,000 Cherokee people died on the forced march or shortly thereafter.
Indian Treaties and the Removal Act of 1830. The U.S. Government used treaties as one means to displace Indians from their tribal lands, a mechanism that was strengthened with the Removal Act of 1830. To achieve his purpose, Jackson encouraged Congress to adopt the Removal Act of 1830. The Act established a process whereby the President could grant land west of the Mississippi River to Indian tribes that agreed to give up their homelands.
The Indian Removal Act was the effort of the US Government to take over Indian owned lands in the South. Mostly in Mississippi. The tribes removed from their land were the Cho … ctaw, Chickasaw, Seminole, Cherokee and Creek. The removal of the Five Civilized Tribes is called the Trail of Tears. 
“domestic dependent nations” and “their relation to the United States resembles that of a ward to his guardian.”. With the exception of a small number of Seminoles still resisting removal in Florida, by the 1840s, from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, no Indian tribes resided in the American South. To achieve his purpose, Jackson encouraged Congress to adopt the Removal Act of 1830. The Act established a process whereby the President could grant land west of the Mississippi River to Indian tribes that agreed to give up their homelands.
Milestones: 1830–1860. The U.S. Government used treaties as one means to displace Indians from their tribal lands, a mechanism that was strengthened with the Removal Act of 1830. To achieve his purpose, Jackson encouraged Congress to adopt the Removal Act of 1830. The Act established a process whereby the President could grant land west of the Mississippi River to Indian tribes that agreed to give up their homelands.
The Indian Removal Act was the key act that enforced Indian removal, and was signed into law by President Andrew Jackson on May 28, 1830. Following the Indian Removal Act, in 1832 the Creek National Council signed the Treaty of Cusseta, ceding their remaining lands east of the Mississippi to the U.S., and accepting relocation to the Indian Territory.
Overview: In 1830 Congress, urged on by President Andrew Jackson, passed the Indian Removal Act which gave the federal government the power to relocate any Native Americans in the east to territory that was west of the Mississippi River. Step Four: Think about the official and unofficial reasons that the United States Government had for not only passing the Indian Removal Act in 1830, but also forcing the removal of the Cherokee people to Indian Territory, even though it was against a Supreme Court decision.