The average of current prices across the entire spectrum of goods and services produced in the economy. In a more general sense, price level refers to any static picture of the price of a given good, service or tradable security. Price levels provide a snapshot of prices at a given time, making it possible to review changes in the broad price level over time. As prices rise (inflation), or fall (deflation), consumer demand for goods is also affected, which leads broad production measures like gross domestic product (GDP) higher or lower
inflation. A general increase in the price level of goods and services. Unexpected inflation tends to be detrimental to security prices, primarily because it forces interest rates higher. A point to keep in mind is that a certain amount of inflation is already embodied in security prices. Compare deflation. 
General level of prices for goods and services in an economy. If all prices stay fixed for a while, the price level is unchanged, too. When inflation takes place, the price level arises. Computation. If in an economy were only one good, the price level would be directly the price of that good. Already with two goods, the problem begins to be not so easy. If both goods see their prices increased by the same percentage amount, the price level can be said to be increased by that growth.
inflation. in economics, persistent and relatively large increase in the general price level of goods and services. Its opposite is deflation, a process of generally declining prices. 
The price level is usually examined through a basket of goods approach, in which a collection of consumer-based goods and services are examined in aggregate; changes in the aggregate price over time will push the index measuring the basket of goods higher. Price levels provide a snapshot of prices at a given time, making it possible to review changes in the broad price level over time. As prices rise (inflation), or fall (deflation), consumer demand for goods is also affected, which leads broad production measures like gross domestic product (GDP) higher or low
Defined. Offline Version: PDF. Term price level Definition: The average of the prices of goods and services produced in the aggregate economy. In a theoretical sense, the price level is the price of aggregate production
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The general price level is a hypothetical daily measure of overall prices for some set of goods and services (the consumer basket), in an economy or monetary union during a given interval (generally one day), normalized relative to some base set. Typically, the general price level is approximated with a daily price index, normally the Daily CPI. The general price level can change more than once per day during hyperinflation.
The price level is a measure of the average price in an economy and is measured at a point in time.. The rate of inflation is the rate of change of the price level over time. 