Lexus. While many CPO warranties simply extend the factory warranty's coverage, Lexus's program is different -- in a good way. The Lexus certified warranty lasts for three years or 100,000 miles from the date of the CPO sale. While many warranties only go back five or six years, Porsche's can apply to any vehicle up to eight years old, and with up to 100,000 miles on the odometer. That means drivers can get a used Porsche with a warranty at a lower price than they could if the program only included 4- or 5-year-old cars.
For many people, certified used cars have become affordable alternatives to new cars. By certified used or certified pre-owned, we mean used cars that are offered for sale by your local dealer and feature warranties that extend beyond the initial when new coverage. To qualify for our definition of a certified used vehicle, the warranty must be backed by the original vehicle manufacturer. 
This warranty is transferable. If you sell your pre-owned vehicle, the remaining Ford Certified Pre-Owned Comprehensive Limited Warranty coverage and the remaining Ford Certified Pre-Owned Powertrain Limited Warranty, remains in effect for the new owner.11. Warranty information. Components covered by the Ford Certified Pre-Owned Comprehensive Limited Warranty are shown on the reverse side and Powertrain Limited Warranty component coverage is shown on the reverse side in bold.5.
Ford Certified Pre-Owned Limited Warranty coverage is provided by Ford Motor Company on eligible pre-owned vehicles under the Ford. This warranty is transferable. If you sell your pre-owned vehicle, the remaining Ford Certified Pre-Owned Comprehensive Limited Warranty coverage and the remaining Ford Certified Pre-Owned Powertrain Limited Warranty, remains in effect for the new owner.11.
If you can't decide between a new and a used car, picking a certified pre-owned (CPO) vehicle might be a good compromise. Most certified cars are recent, and they're all given thorough inspections by dealerships selling them. More importantly, they include long warranties to give you peace of mind. While many warranties only go back five or six years, Porsche's can apply to any vehicle up to eight years old, and with up to 100,000 miles on the odometer. That means drivers can get a used Porsche with a warranty at a lower price than they could if the program only included 4- or 5-year-old cars.
Ford Certified Pre-Owned Limited Warranty 1 of 2 Original: Owner Copy: Dealer FCPO-LWS-12 Rev. 2/12 Ford Certified Pre-Owned Limited Warranty coverage is provided by Ford Motor Company on eligible pre-owned vehicles under the Ford Certified Pre-Owned Program. What is not covered under the Ford Certified Pre-Owned Limited Warranty is specified on the reverse. 3. Deductible. Repairs completed under any remaining Ford New-Vehicle Limited Warranty coverage (if applicable) have a $0 standard deductible per repair visit.
■ Start of Certified Limited Warranty Coverage: At expiration of the Honda New Car Limited Warranty, or from the date of sale of the Honda Certified vehicle if factory warranty has already expired. This Limited Warranty Is Given in Addition to Any Other Applicable Honda Limited Warranties. ■ Powertrain Coverage: 7 years or 100,000 miles (whichever comes first) from the new car original warranty registration date. ■ Non-Powertrain Component Coverage: Effective during the first 12 months or 12,000 miles (which-ever comes first) after the new car warranty expires.
The Certified Pre-Owned BMW Protection Plan and the BMW Certified Pre-Owned Elite Protection Plan provide specific coverage against defects in material and workmanship; the plan is not a Maintenance Program or an extension of the original 4-year/50,000 mile New Vehicle/SAV Limited Warranty. 
Your Honda Certified Used Car is covered by the following Honda Certified Used Cars Limited Warranty: ■ Eligible vehicles: Current model-year and up to 5-previous-model-years with 80,000 miles or fewer at time of certification. ■ Powertrain Coverage: 7 years or 100,000 miles (whichever comes first) from the new car original warranty registration date. ■ Non-Powertrain Component Coverage: Effective during the first 12 months or 12,000 miles (which-ever comes first) after the new car warranty expires.
Limited Warranty 1 of 2 Ford Certified Pre-Owned Limited Warranty coverage is provided by Ford Motor Company on eligible pre-owned vehicles under the Ford Certified Pre-Owned Program. This warranty is transferable. If you sell your pre-owned vehicle, the remaining Ford Certified Pre-Owned Comprehensive Limited Warranty coverage and the remaining Ford Certified Pre-Owned Powertrain Limited Warranty, remains in effect for the new owner.11.