Report Abuse. There is no official name for a group of penguins, however the delegates at the IVth International Penguin Conference in 2000 agreed that the appropriate term was a waddle of penguins. When arriving or departing the colony penguins often form a close group or raft, so at sea a group of penguins is often called a raft.
A group of penguins is called a colony, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. During breeding season, penguins come ashore to form huge colonies called rookeries, according to Sea World. Most penguins are monogamous. 
Penguins (order Sphenisciformes, family Spheniscidae) are a group of aquatic, flightless birds living almost exclusively in the Southern Hemisphere, especially in Antarctica. Highly adapted for life in the water, penguins have countershaded dark and white plumage, and their wings have evolved into flippers. Although all penguin species are native to the Southern Hemisphere, they are not found only in cold climates, such as Antarctica. In fact, only a few species of penguin live so far south. Several species are found in the temperate zone, and one species, the Galapagos galápagos, penguin lives near the. equator
Best Answer: Penguins nest in groups called rookeries. Some of these rookeries can have over a million birds! A group of penguins on land is called a waddle. A group of penguins in the water is called a raft. Sometimes the penguin chicks in a colony stay together in a large group called a creche (pronounced kresh). Source(s): http://www.dembsky.net/penguins/index.ht... Diogene's Dog · 7 years ago.
1 A group of young penguin chicks is called a “cr che.” A group of penguins in the water is called a “raft.” A group of penguins on land is called a “waddle.” c. 2  Penguins typically are not afraid of humans. 3  c. 4  Emperor Penguins are the main characters in the 2006 movie Happy Feet. 
Penguins group in a 'waddle'. How cute! But seriously, folks: That's really sweet, but a group of penguins is actually called a 'colony'. The place where they breed is call … ed a rookery. 
A group of penguins is called a colony, a rookery or a Waddle, but these terms are typically used for a group of penguins on land. The small chicks are concentrated in groups called creches, which often remain attached for warmth in the absence of a developed plumage. A group of penguins is very noisy and look chaotic, but they have the ability to recognize each other through sounds and vocalizations.
Penguins nest in groups called rookeries. Some of these rookeries can have over a million birds! A group of penguins on land is called a waddle. A group of penguins in the water is called a raft. Sometimes the penguin chicks in a colony stay together in a large group called a creche. Source(s): http://users.tellurian.com/teach/penguin... 
All you need is love, Love-Love is all you need. Penguins group in a 'waddle'. How cute! But seriously, folks: That's really sweet, but a group of penguins is actually called a 'colony'. The place where they breed is called a rookery. 
Group of Penguins. A group of penguins is called a colony, a rookery or a Waddle, but these terms are typically used for a group of penguins on land. A group of penguins floating in the ocean is called a raft. The small chicks are concentrated in groups called creches, which often remain attached for warmth in the absence of a developed plumage. A group of penguins is very noisy and look chaotic, but they have the ability to recognize each other through sounds and vocalizations.