Yes! As enzymes are made up of protein, they can be denatured by the means of physical action like due to change in pH, temp. and pressure, or by cemical procedure by ac … ting some enzymes on them they can be denatured. it happens a couple of ways; 1) temperature (they have a 'optimum temperature') … at certain temperatures enzymes are denatured 2) Ph, again, they have a 'optimum pH at which they work best, and certain pH levels where they are denatured. 3) Various chemicals..
Note 2: Denaturation can occur when proteins and nucleic acids are subjected to elevated temperature or to extremes of pH, or to nonphysiological concentrations of salt, organic solvents, urea, or other chemical agents. Note 3: An enzyme loses its catalytic activity when it is denaturized. If proteins in a living cell are denatured, this results in disruption of cell activity and possibly cell death. Denatured proteins can exhibit a wide range of characteristics, from conformational change and loss of solubility to aggregation due to the exposure of hydrophobic groups.
As the temperature is increased, the reaction rate will go faster with each increase until it reaches its optimum reaction rate. If the temperature is increased too much, the rate of reaction will diminish due to denaturing or change in shape of the enzyme. (See Diagram 2-1). 98.6 Is About Right. 
Effect of temperature on enzyme activity. The temperture of a system is to some extent a measure of the kinetic energy of the molecules in the system. Thus the lower the kinetic energy, the lower the temperature of the system and, likewise, the higher the kinetic energy, the greater the temperature of the system. In order to convert substrate into product, enzymes must collide with and bind to the substrate at the active site. Increasing the temperature of a system will increase the number of collisions of enzyne and substrate per unit time. Thus, within limits, the rate of the reaction will increse.
The shape of the active site is affected by pH. This is why enzymes will only work at a specific pH, as well as a specific temperature. Change the pH and the enzyme stops working. Increasing the temperature to 60°C will cause a permanent change to the shape of the active site. This is why enzymes stop working when they are heated. We say they have become denatured. Denaturing of enzymes. The important part of an enzyme is called the active site. This is where specific molecules bind to the enzyme and the reaction occurs. Anything that changes the shape of the active site stops the enzyme from working. This is similar to a key that opens a door lock.
Temperature Effects. Like most chemical reactions, the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction increases as the temperature is raised. A ten degree Centigrade rise in temperature will increase the activity of most enzymes by 50 to 100%. Variations in reaction temperature as small as 1 or 2 degrees may introduce changes of 10 to 20% in the results. In the case of enzymatic reactions, this is complicated by the fact that many enzymes are adversely affected by high temperatures.
If the temperature is increased then the enzyme becomes denatured. This happens at about 50-60 degrees in the human body. When enzymes are heated up too much they vibrate so vigorously that the bonds holding the protein structure in its specific shape break. it happens a couple of ways; 1) temperature (they have a 'optimum temperature') … at certain temperatures enzymes are denatured 2) Ph, again, they have a 'optimum pH at which they work best, and certain pH levels where they are denatured. 3) Various chemicals..
The rate of enzyme reactions is affected by temperature. All enzymes have an optimum temperature range in which they work most efficiently. An enzyme is most active at its optimum temperature. A temperature rise beyond this point reduces enzyme activity till it completely stops. it happens a couple of ways; 1) temperature (they have a 'optimum temperature') … at certain temperatures enzymes are denatured 2) Ph, again, they have a 'optimum pH at which they work best, and certain pH levels where they are denatured. 3) Various chemicals..
Denatured enzyme. Note: Click the image below to view a larger version. The enzyme is a protein, and at high temperatures, the shape of the protein is altered, preventing it from performing its function. It has been denatured.