brown snake a venomous elapid snake of Australia and New Guinea belonging to the genus Demansia. coral snake any of various venomous snakes of the genera Micrurus and Micruroides. venomous snakes snakes that secrete venoms capable of producing a deleterious effect on either the blood (hemotoxin) or the nervous system (neurotoxin), with the venom injected into the body of the victim by the snake's bite. viperine snake true viper.
snake-form a snake-like pattern; The river snakes through the valley. curve, wind, twist-extend in curves and turns; The road winds around the lake; the path twisted through the forest. 1 squamous, squamulose-A fish or snake can be squamous or squamulose—covered with minute scales. 2  adder-A snake, it was first a nadder, which was misanalyzed to an adder.. 3  snark-A blend of snake and shark by Lewis Carroll, it is a synonym for snore or snort.. 4  tang-The tongue of a snake.
2. charmer. a real sauve guy who knows how to talk to and get the ladies. sometimes known as a smooth pimped out player from the streets who knows how to get his. Alex started calling Kyron Charmer because he can get like any girl he wants dude.
Full Definition of SNAKE CHARMER. : an entertainer who exhibits a professed power to charm or fascinate venomous snakes. See snake charmer defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. snake charmer. noun. Tweet. : someone who appears to make snakes move by playing music to them.
Types. Aside from the traditional form of charming snakes with a flute, there are some common variations. Often the performer will kiss the top of the snake's head or put the snake's head in his mouth. Misconceptions. It is widely believed that snakes are lulled into a complacent state by the music the snake charmer plays and that they are literally dancing to the music.. This is not actually the case. Snakes have very poor hearing and cannot hear the music.
La Charmeuse de serpents [The Snake Charmer]. Rousseau, who was self-taught and began painting late in life, travelled very little. Most of his jungles were painted in the Natural History Museum and in the big greenhouse in the botanical gardens in Paris. 
Shop for Snakecharmer Merchandise. Snakecharmer's Debut Album is available to order now, click here to go to the news page and order your signed copy. Six of the UK's most highly-esteemed and experienced rock musicians have joined forces to create Snakecharmer. 