In Meteorologica Aristotle explains the forces behind water vapor (condensation, evaporation, etc), tornadoes, lightning, and many other meteorological and geological events. He also explains the early form of physics. The Debris. Aristotle is often noted as the founder of the study of Meteorology. Aristotle begins with two types of forces; one that pulled toward the center of the Earth, and one that pulled away. Remember that this idea pre-dates Newton and his understanding of Physics. Aristotle goes on to explain his five elements:
What is StrikeStar UK? StrikeStar UK is a network of Boltek lightning detectors around the UK (and a few others too!). These detectors all send their data to our central server where the StrikeStar software developed by Astrogenic Systems triangulates their data and presents the results in near realtime. 
800 CE by the Antiochene scholar Yahya ibn al-Bitriq and widely circulated among Muslim scholars, was translated into Latin by Gerard of Cremona in the 12th century and by this means during the Twelfth-century Renaissance entered the Western European world of medieval scholaticism. Some of the vapour that is formed by day does not rise high because the ratio of the fire that is raising it to the water that is being raised is small. (347a13-15). Both dew and hoar-frost are found when the sky is clear and there is no wind.
The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations. It is the UN system's authoritative voice on the state and behavior of the Earth's atmosphere, its interaction with the oceans, the climate it produces and the resulting distribution of water resources. 1 The World Meteorological Congress determines the policy of WMO and meets every four years. 2  Each Member country is represented by a Permanent Representative with WMO.
The digital Loeb Classical Library extends the founding mission of James Loeb with an interconnected, fully searchable, perpetually growing virtual library of all that is important in Greek and Latin literature. Read more about the site’s features ». Because of anti-Macedonian feeling there after Alexander’s death in 323, he withdrew to Chalcis in Euboea, where he died in 322. Nearly all the works Aristotle prepared for publication are lost; the priceless ones extant are lecture-materials, notes, and memoranda (some are spurious). They can be categorized as follows:
Meteorology (Greek: μετεωρολογικά; Latin: Meteorologica or Meteora) is all the affections we may call common to air and water, and the kinds and parts of the earth and the affections of its parts. Some of the vapour that is formed by day does not rise high because the ratio of the fire that is raising it to the water that is being raised is small. (347a13-15). Both dew and hoar-frost are found when the sky is clear and there is no wind.
Free Data and Images. We are slowly building up a variety of weather images and data that you can either refer to on this site or copy the images onto your own web site. We hope that you will find them both interesting and useful. Live lightning activity updated every minute. 
So we must treat fire and earth and the elements like them as the material causes of the events in this world (meaning by material what is subject and is affected), but must assign causality in the sense of the originating principle of motion to the influence of the eternally moving bodies. (339a27-32). Some of the vapour that is formed by day does not rise high because the ratio of the fire that is raising it to the water that is being raised is small. (347a13-15). Both dew and hoar-frost are found when the sky is clear and there is no wind.
...four bodies are fire, air, water, earth. (339a15-16). Fire occupies the highest place among them all, earth the lowest, and two elements correspond to these in their relation to one another, air being nearest to fire, water to earth. (339a16-19). Some of the vapour that is formed by day does not rise high because the ratio of the fire that is raising it to the water that is being raised is small. (347a13-15). Both dew and hoar-frost are found when the sky is clear and there is no wind.