Calcined petroleum coke (CPC) is the product from calcining petroleum coke. This coke is the product of the coker unit in a crude oil refinery. The calcined petroleum coke is used to make anodes for the aluminium, steel and titanium smelting industry. The green coke must have sufficiently low metals content in order to be used as anode material.
Uses of Petroleum Coke. Petroleum coke is typically used as a source of energy, or as a source of carbon for industrial applications. Fuel grade petcoke represents nearly 80 percent of worldwide production and is a source of fuel for cement kilns and electric power plants. · Residual fuel oil use (petcoke is used to make residual fuel oil) in the U.S. has been declining for decades because natural gas and coal are much more economical fuels to use in industrial applications and power generation. In 2012, petcoke accounted for just 0.2 percent of U.S.
· Petroleum coke (petcoke) is one of the many products manufactured during the oil refining process. Crude oil is processed into gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, lubricating oils and waxes, leaving some residual crude that usually undergoes additional processing. · Residual fuel oil use (petcoke is used to make residual fuel oil) in the U.S. has been declining for decades because natural gas and coal are much more economical fuels to use in industrial applications and power generation. In 2012, petcoke accounted for just 0.2 percent of U.S.
By Frederic Beaudry. Petroleum coke, or petcoke, is a product from the refining of crude oil. It consists mostly of carbon, with variable amounts of sulfurs and heavy metals. It has many industrial uses, including the production of batteries, steel, and aluminum. The production of petcoke in North America has increased in recent years due to the refining of crude oil originating from Canada’s tar sands region.
In the fall and winter of 2013, there were several news reports about the petroleum coke storage piles on the southeast side of Chicago. Petroleum coke, or “petcoke,” is a solid carbon material that resembles coal. Facilities that store and handle this material are required to take measures to prevent the offsite dispersion of dust. 
Petcoke is like coal, but dirtier. Petcoke looks and acts like coal, but it has even higher carbon emissions than already carbon-intensive coal. • on a per-unit of energy basis petcoke emits 5 to 10 percent more carbon dioxide than coal. • a ton of petcoke yields on average 53.6 percent more co 2 than a ton of coal. Petcoke is over 90 percent carbon and emits 5 to 10 percent more carbon dioxide (co 2) than coal on a per-unit of energy basis when it is burned. 3 as petcoke has high energy content, every ton of petcoke emits between 30 and 80 percent more co 2 than coal, depending on the quality of the coal.
Petroleum coke, also called petcoke, is a rocklike leftover of the oil refining process. Energy can be created from petroleum coke, so it is often turned into dry cells and fuels based on the type of coke it is. 
Lower grade coal is estimated to represent 75% to 80% of all petcoke produced. The production of petcoke in North America has increased in recent years due to the refining of crude oil originating from Canada’s tar sands region. If all the recoverable bitumen (the “proven reserves”) from tar sands was removed and refined, several billion tons of petcoke could b
Petroleum coke, or pet coke, has been produced since the 1930s. It serves as a valuable and essential commercial product that is used directly in a wide range of applications, including the manufacturing of aluminum, steel, glass, paint, and fertilizers. Paint and Colorings. Petcoke is used in the production of titanium dioxide (TiO2), a mineral that is used as a substitute for lead in paint. It is also a pigment in sunscreen, plastic and food coloring.
Petroleum Coke Overview. Petroleum coke (petcoke) is one of many valued consumer products produced during the oil refining process. Crude oil is processed into gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, lubricating oils and waxes, leaving some residual crude that usually undergoes additional processing. · Residual fuel oil use (petcoke is used to make residual fuel oil) in the U.S. has been declining for decades because natural gas and coal are much more economical fuels to use in industrial applications and power generation. In 2012, petcoke accounted for just 0.2 percent of U.S.