To use textile dyes, instead, you could try PRO Chemical & Dye's instructions for dyeing leather with Procion MX type dyes. Procion MX dye is an excellent fiber reactive dye for cotton, rayon, and silk, but can also be used on other fibers, given the right recipe. I'd like to dye it black or a more wearable shade, but I don't have the money to send it to a furrier or anything. Any advice would be GREAT! This is not going to be an easy beginner's project, I'm afraid. Dyeing fur is made difficult by the water-and heat-sensitivity of the skin to which the fur is attached. If you dye the fur like any other animal fiber, such as wool, by simmering it in a nearly-boiling dyebath, you will end up with hard, shrunken ruined leather behind the fur. Perhaps the most novice-friendly approach would be to try treating the fur like hair, using a dye commercially sold for use in dyeing hair. This would require many boxes of hair dye, I suppose, and results might be patchy in color
Rabbit hair (also called rabbit fur, cony, coney, comb or lapin) is the fur of the common rabbit. It is most commonly used in the making of fur hats and coats, and is considered quite valuable today, although it was once a lower-priced commodity in the fur trade. The hair of a rabbit can be divided into three types: longer, rectrix guard hairs, stiff at the base; the more numerous tectrix barbed hairs forming the major part of the coat, which share a hair follicle with the third type-the shorter hairs making up the undercoat.. Colloquially, these types are called.
This dense, medium-length fur varies in color from gray-black to slate-blue; it is the softest, plushest fur in the world. Coyote. A very hardy kind of fur. Dense and durable, it is creamy, tan or grey and often used for men’s jackets. Fisher. An unusual North American wild fur that is very durable, fisher is identified by silky guard hairs in brown to blackish tones with thick underfur. Because its underfur is very soft and plush and its fur can be dyed in a variety of shades, nutria is a popular fur for linings and trims. Opossum. Woolly and coarse, with a short, dense plush-like fur in colors ranging from yellow-grey to natural brown, New Zealand opossum is often used for liners and men’s coats.
1 These pets should never be dyed. 2  Make sure you use dye that is not harmful to your pet, and definitely do not use human hair dye. 3  There are ingredients in human hair dye that can be toxic to animals. 4  Remember that a pet's fur usually covers their entire body and is close to the surface of their skin. 1 Remember that a pet's fur usually covers their entire body and is close to the surface of their skin. 2  The ingredients in the dye will be absorbed through your pet's skin. 3  Check your pet's behavior during the dyeing practice-whether this is in a professional salon or at home.
There was also another name for this type of fur, it’s astrakhan. For a long time in the east they used to breed sheep for the meet and wool, especially in Afghanistan and former Soviet block countries. Of course you may also find this type of sheep in Namibia. It is up to the wearer. Some types of lamb hair have a lesser price value, but some of them are priceless. If years and years ago fur industry sold more Chinchilla or fox fur, today craftsmen use all types of lamb pelts that were seldom used. Each fur has its shades, colours and characteristics.
Because of the stiffness and flatness of the hair, the hair may tend to rub off easily. As a result, leather may be used for edging to protect sleeves, pockets, collars, etc., from friction. Antelope is used in coats, jackets, vests, and accessories. It is not a durable fur if worn steadily. Fur, or leather with the hair retained, has been used by man for insulation against the cold throughout our history. That’s about 200,000 years. In the late 20th century competition emerged from synthetic fibers made from fossil fuels, marketed under such exotic names as “synchilla” and “eco-fleece”.
Apply the dye to a small portion of your pet's fur and leave for at least 48 hours to test whether they develop an allergic reaction. All dyes, including food dyes, are potentially harmful to your pet and can even be fatal; consequently you should make sure you look for signs of fatigue, pain, or skin irritation/rash. 1 Remember that a pet's fur usually covers their entire body and is close to the surface of their skin. 2  The ingredients in the dye will be absorbed through your pet's skin. 3  Check your pet's behavior during the dyeing practice-whether this is in a professional salon or at home.