Contact |. Print |. A A. The thyroid is largely responsible for the body's metabolism that allows cells to create energy from food. Thyroid hormones also assist in the regulation of body temperature, blood pressure, heart rate, and the functioning of vital organs such as the liver and brain. Here are 5 vitamins and supplements that may assist with thyroid health: 1. Omega-3 fatty acids: University of Maryland Medical Center suggests omega-3 fatty acids can help decrease inflammation and help with immunity for thyroid support.
The thyroid gland requires iodine to function. Iodine taken by itself or ingested through fortified salt can be problematic. Good food sources include: meat, seafood, yogurt, milk, and eggs, but there are vegan sources as well. Selenium is required for the body to convert T3 into T4. Without enough selenium in the diet, the thyroid suffers. Seafood and meat are high in selenium, but there are also some vegan choices. A number of vitamins and minerals are critical to thyroid health, and many herbs can help boost thyroid function as well
Whole Grains. Constipation is a common symptom of hypothyroidism. Whole-grain foods such as cereal, bread, pasta, and rice are high in nutrients in addition to fiber, which can help with bowel regularity. However, fiber can interfere with synthetic thyroid hormones, cautions Turner. Along with taking your thyroid medication, you can bolster thyroid function with a well-balanced diet that includes lots of produce and protein, among other healthy foods, says Gregory B. Dodell, MD, an endocrinologist in New York City. The next time you're at the grocery store, look for these seven nutrient-rich foods.
The Best Vitamins for Thyroid Health Thyroid disorders can cause significant changes in metabolism and development in the body. There are drugs and herbs for treating thyroid disorders. However, it is possible to prevent hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism by maintaining an excellent thyroid health. Thyroid health can be improved with vitamins. 
FastFeatures. The thyroid is largely responsible for the body's metabolism that allows cells to create energy from food. Thyroid disease can cause the thyroid to malfunction. In addition to medical treatments, there are vitamins and supplements that may support thyroid health. Here are 5 vitamins and supplements that may assist with thyroid health: 1. Omega-3 fatty acids: University of Maryland Medical Center suggests omega-3 fatty acids can help decrease inflammation and help with immunity for thyroid support.
Pumpkin seeds are also one of the best sources for another important, thyroid-building nutrient, magnesium. Other food sources of magnesium include spinach, Swiss chard, sesame seeds and cashews. Finally, for Vitamin A, I feel one of the very best natural sources is fermented cod liver oil. While a serious thyroid issue needs professional help, we all need these nutrients for good health. Adding in foods rich in the above nutrients can help make us well-nourished and give our body needed nutrients for making thyroid hormones. I’d love to hear your thoughts!
Iodine. You need an adequate supply of iodine to make thyroid hormone. The recommended minimum iodine intake for most adults is 150 micrograms a day, according to the Office of Dietary Supplements. Good food sources include milk, cheese, poultry, eggs, kelp, and other seaweeds, Kellman says.
We also need vitamin A for the immune system, hormone synthesis, and the production of T3. Without enough vitamin A, thyroid hormone levels drop quickly. Bromelain is the enzyme that makes pineapple the superfood that it is. Bromelain helps reduce inflammation. Good food sources include: meat, seafood, yogurt, milk, and eggs, but there are vegan sources as well. Selenium is required for the body to convert T3 into T4. Without enough selenium in the diet, the thyroid suffers. Seafood and meat are high in selenium, but there are also some vegan choices.
Iodine combines with the amino acid tyrosine to produce thyroid hormones. Fish, dairy, oats, sesame seeds, bananas, avocados, and almonds are all good sources of tyrosine. Some goitrogenic foods such as mustard greens, soybeans, spinach, and cabbage are also high in tyrosine. The variety of vitamins and minerals involved in boosting thyroid function makes a balanced diet of whole foods particularly important for nourishing the thyroid. Debbie Whittaker, the Herb Gourmet, lives in Denver, Colorado.