Meanings and history of the name Madison : | Edit. Madison became a popular girl's name after the mermaid movie Splash, where the mermaid took her name from a Madison Ave. street sign. Madison was originally a surname meaning son of Maud.. Madison is also the capital of Wisconsin. Mad was a common pet form of Matthew (gift of God) during the Middle Ages. Madison may also be a matronymic derived from the name Maud, an old pet form of Mathilda (battle mighty): hence, son of Maud.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
In English the meaning of the name Madison is: Surname derived from Matthew 'gift of God' or from Matilda 'strong fighter. American Meaning: The name Madison is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Madison is: Surname derived from Matthew 'gift of God' or from Matilda 'strong fighter. Teutonic Meaning: The name Madison is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Madison is: Son of Maud.
Madison is a very popular first name for women (#2029 out of 4276, Top 47%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#1209 out of 150436, Top 1%). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Madison for girls. Madison entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its top position of #2 in the U.S. in the year 2002, and is currently at #9.
Notes: A surname that has become widely used as a female first name. Madison was the name chosen by the mermaid in the 1984 movie Splash, after seeing a Madison Avenue street sign. Madison Stats. 
Origin of the name Madison: Transferred use of the surname meaning Mad's son.. Mad was a common pet form of Matthew (gift of God) during the Middle Ages. Madison may also be a matronymic derived from the name Maud, an old pet form of Mathilda (battle mighty): hence, son of Maud.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
[ 3 syll. ma-di-son, mad-is-on ] The baby girl name Madison is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced as M AA Dih-SahN †. Madison is of English origin and it is also used mainly in English. Its meaning is from the word son. The first name is derived from a surname, which is either of the meaning 'son of Maud ', or else a derivative of Magdalen. The popularity of the name was boosted in the USA by the 4th US President James Madison (1751-1836), who gave his name to Madison Square and Madison Avenue in New York.
Madison is a surname of English origin, which has become a popular given name in the United States. Madison, commonly spelled Maddison in Northeastern England, is a variant of Mathieson, meaning son of Matthew, although possibly occasionally standing for son of Maddy, where Maddy is a pet form of Maud. Madison is also used as a given name. Although once almost exclusively a boy's name, it has become popular for girls in recent decades. Its rise is generally attributed to the 1984 release of the movie Splash
Madison /madi-son/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Madison) is pronounced MAD-a-son. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Madison is son of the mighty warrior. Also possibly variant of Madeline (Hebrew) woman from Magdala, or surname derived from Matthew (Hebrew) gift of the Lord or Matilda (Old German) mighty in battle. Charted below is the baby name popularity of Madison for girls. Madison entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its top position of #2 in the U.S. in the year 2002, and is currently at #9.
PRONOUNCED: MAD-i-sən [key]. Meaning & History. From an English surname meaning son of MAUD . It was not commonly used as a feminine name until after the movie 'Splash' (1984), in which the main character adopted it as her name after seeing a street sign for Madison Avenue in New York City. 