Tamoxifen is an antagonist of the estrogen receptor in breast tissue via its active metabolite, 4-hydroxytamoxifen. In other tissues such as the endometrium, it behaves as an agonist, and thus may be characterized as a selective estrogen-receptor modulator. Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator. Even though it is an antagonist in breast tissue it acts as partial agonist on the endometrium and has been linked to endometrial cancer in some women. Therefore endometrial changes, including cancer, are among tamoxifen's side effects.
NOLVADEX is used: to lower the chance of getting breast cancer in women with a higher than normal chance of getting breast cancer in the next 5 years (high-risk women). to lower the chance of getting invasive (spreading) breast cancer in women who had surgery and radiation for ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). 
Trade names: Novladex. Chemocare.com uses generic names in all descriptions of drugs. Novladex is the trade name for tamoxifen. In some cases, health care professionals may use the trade name Novladex when referring to the generic drug name tamoxifen. Drug type: Tamoxifen is a hormone therapy. 
Tamoxifen, the generic name of Nolvadex, is the oldest and most-prescribed SERM. Tamoxifen is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat: The body uses an enzyme called CYP2D6 to convert tamoxifen into its active form. Two things can interfere with the body’s ability to make this happen: a flaw in the CYP2D6 enzyme and certain medications that block the effectiveness of this enzyme.
The CYP2D6 enzyme is not needed to activate raloxifene (brand name: Evista, a sister medicine to tamoxifen, used to reduce the risk of developing hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer and treat osteoporosis in postmenopausal women). The body uses an enzyme called CYP2D6 to convert tamoxifen into its active form. Two things can interfere with the body’s ability to make this happen: a flaw in the CYP2D6 enzyme and certain medications that block the effectiveness of this enzyme.
Nolvadex is the generic name of Tamoxifen Citrate, a type of drug that is classified as a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) and originally formulated as treatment for some types of breast cancer in both men and women. 
Tamoxifen is used to treat breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic breast cancer), to treat breast cancer in certain patients after surgery and radiation therapy, and to reduce the chances of breast cancer in high-risk patients. This medication can block the growth of breast cancer. 
Tamoxifen is currently used by more women with breast cancer than any other drug. (6) Tamoxifen (brand name Nolvadex) is now the most widely prescribed cancer medication in the world. It generated revenues of US $265 million in 1992. By 1995, worldwide sales of Nolvadex reached $400 million. The higher the dose of tamoxifen and the longer it is taken, the greater the risk of changes. Women taking the standard dose of 20 mg. for two years run a risk of uterine cancer that is 2 to 3 times greater than normal.
Nolvadex (tamoxifen citrate) is a nonsteroidal antiestrogen used to treat breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic breast cancer), to treat breast cancer in certain patients after surgery and radiation therapy, and to reduce the chances of breast cancer in high-risk patients. NOLVADEX (tamoxifen citrate) is well tolerated in males with breast cancer. Reports from the literature and case reports suggest that the safety profile of NOLVADEX (tamoxifen citrate) in males is similar to that seen in women.
Tamoxifen is used to treat breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic breast cancer), to treat breast cancer in certain patients after surgery and radiation therapy, and to reduce the chances of breast cancer in high-risk patients. 