Definition. Formally drafted and written law adopted by both chambers or houses of a legislature. Statutes are enacted usually by voting following an open discussion, and signed thereafter by the head of State and included in the country's statute book. Also called act of parliament, or just act.
There are agencies at the state and federal level which adminster the law in such issues such as employment affairs and consumer and credit protection. The laws aim to protect fair business practices and due process rights for aggrieved workers and others. Business Law & Legal Definition. Business law encompasses the law governing contracts, sales, commercial paper, agency and employment law, business organizations, property, and bailments. Other popular areas include insurance, wills and estate planning, and consumer and creditor protection
Corporate law (also company or corporations law) is the study of how shareholders, directors, employees, creditors, and other stakeholders such as consumers, the community and the environment interact with one another. Corporate law is a part of a broader companies law (or law of business associations). 
Definition of Business Law. Business law encompasses all of the laws that dictate how to form and run a business. This includes all of the laws that govern how to start, buy, manage and close or sell any type of business. Business laws establish the rules that all businesses should follow. A savvy businessperson will be generally familiar with business laws and know when to seek the advice of a licensed attorney. Business law includes state and federal laws, as well as administrative regulations. Much of business law addresses the different types of business organizations. There are laws regarding how to properly form and run each type. This includes laws about entities such as corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies.
Definition. The body of law consisting of written laws adopted by a legislative body. Statute law is often contrasted with case law, which originates from decisions of the appellate courts; and with constitutional law, based on a country's written constitution.
STATUTE. A law established by an act of the legislature. Under the U.S. and state constitutions, statutes are considered the primary source of law in the U.S. -- that is, legislatures make the law (statutes) and courts interpret the law (cases). 1. A declaratory statute is one which is passed in order to put an end to a doubt as to what the common law is, and which declares what it is, and has ever been. 2. Remedial statutes are those which are made to supply such defects, and abridge such superfluities in the common law as may have been discovered.
Although the UCC controls most aspects of domestic commercial law, the Common Law of contracts, as well as other state laws, still applies to some types of transactions that arise in business, such as contracts for services. International Law is likewise an important component of this area. 
Contracts to answer for the debt or duty of another; Contracts that, by its terms, cannot be completed within one year. (Please note that the fact that a contract is not completed within one year does not mean that it is voidable under a statute of frauds. 
Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute may forbid a certain act, direct a certain act, make a declaration, or set forth governmental mechanisms to aid society.