Select items to sync automatically. Connect your iPod, iPhone, or iPad to your computer and select your device. Select the type of media you want to sync. The types of media you can sync depends on your device. For more information, see Sync and organize iOS apps and Add photos to iPod, iPhone, or iPad. You can set up your iPod, iPhone, or iPad for automatic or manual syncing. Automatic syncing: Sync your entire iTunes library or choose specific items to sync. Whenever you connect your device, iTunes updates it automatically to match any changes made to your library since the last sync.
1 Before you sync your iPad with iTunes, you need to connect your iPad to your PC or Mac using the cable provided when you purchased your device. 2  If iTunes doesn't open when you connect your iPad, launch it manually. 3  iTunes should automatically sync your iPad based on the options you have set up or the default settings. You can choose which apps to sync, and even choose to automatically sync new apps. 1  You will need to connect your iPad to your PC or Mac and launch iTunes, as explained on the previous page. 2  Inside of iTunes, choose your iPad from the Devices list in the left-side menu.
To stop iTunes from automatically syncing every time you plug your iPad into the computer, follow these steps: 1. Open iTunes on your computer. 3. Click the Devices tab. 4. Check the box next to Prevent iPods, iPhones, and iPads from syncing automatically. 
To sync your iPod, iPhone, or iPad when automatic syncing is disabled, connect your iPod, iPhone, or iPad to your computer, and then click Sync in iTunes. You can sync your device with only one iTunes library at a time. For more information, see the iPod, iPhone, or iPad User Guide or the Apple Support website. You can prevent a specific iPod, iPhone, or iPad from syncing automatically, or you can prevent automatic syncing of all iPod, iPhone, and iPad devices. To prevent automatic syncing for a specific iPod, iPhone, or iPad:
By default, contacts, calendars, and other information are automatically synced when you connect your iPod, iPhone, or iPad to your computer. You can prevent a specific iPod, iPhone, or iPad from syncing automatically, or you can prevent automatic syncing of all iPod, iPhone, and iPad devices. To prevent automatic syncing for a specific iPod, iPhone, or iPad: Connect your iPod, iPhone, or iPad to your computer. In iTunes, select your device (below Devices). Click the Summary button, and then deselect “Open iTunes when this [device] is connected.”
You can manually sync music, movies, TV shows, podcasts, and iTunes U lessons. You can’t manually sync photos and info (contacts, calendars, bookmarks, and so on). Connect your iPod, iPhone, or iPad to your computer and select your device. Click the On This Device button. Select Music on the left side of the iTunes window. Choose which songs you want to sync from the Autofill pop-up menu at the bottom of the Music pane: To adjust Autofill settings, click Settings. You can set up your iPod, iPhone, or iPad for automatic or manual syncing. Automatic syncing: Sync your entire iTunes library or choose specific items to sync. Whenever you connect your device, iTunes updates it automatically to match any changes made to your library since the last sync.
1 If iTunes does not automatically begin the sync process, you can manually start it by selecting your iPad from the devices section of the menu on the left side of iTunes. 2  With your iPad selected, choose File from the top menu and Sync iPad from the choices. You can choose which apps to sync, and even choose to automatically sync new apps. 1  You will need to connect your iPad to your PC or Mac and launch iTunes, as explained on the previous page. 2  Inside of iTunes, choose your iPad from the Devices list in the left-side menu.
1 Syncing with a computer is the only way to get a large number of photos from your collection on your iPad. 2  Syncing is how you get your music stored in iTunes onto your iPad. 3  If you have a large collection of music, you can opt to copy only a selection of it to your iPad at any one time. There are many advantages to syncing your iPad with a computer. 1  Each day you sync your iPad, iTunes stores a backup of its content. 2  You can restore all your data from these backups if you lose your iPad. 3  Syncing with a computer is the only way to get a large number of photos from your collection on your iPad.
Use Autofill to add songs. Connect your iPod, iPhone, or iPad to your computer and select your device. Click the On This Device button. Select Music on the left side of the iTunes window. Choose which songs you want to sync from the Autofill pop-up menu at the bottom of the Music pane: To adjust Autofill settings, click Settings. You can set up your iPod, iPhone, or iPad for automatic or manual syncing. Automatic syncing: Sync your entire iTunes library or choose specific items to sync. Whenever you connect your device, iTunes updates it automatically to match any changes made to your library since the last sync.