The balance of free and slave states would be destroyed. The Missouri Compromise seemed to solve the problem by admitting Missouri as a slave state and Maine as a free state, keeping the number of free and slave states equal. It also divided the rest of the Louisiana Purchase into slave and free territory. 1. In 1820 with the admission of Missouri to the Union, the issue of slavery came up again. There was already a great deal of tension between the North and the South. The South was highly agricultural. It wanted to keep slavery as a way of life on their plantations.
The Missouri Compromise of 1820 admitted Missouri as a slave state,  and Maine as a free state, to keep the balance of slave/non-slave  states equal in Congress. The Missouri Compromise was a compromise of new territory should be considered a free state or slave state. This compromise proposed whatever was north of the 36'30' line was to be a free state and whatever was south of this line was to be
In an effort to preserve the balance of power in Congress between slave and free states, the Missouri Compromise was passed in 1820 admitting Missouri as a slave state and Maine as a free state. In 1854, the Missouri Compromise was repealed by the Kansas-Nebraska Act. Three years later the Missouri Compromise was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott decision, which ruled that Congress did not have the authority to prohibit slavery in the territories.
The Missouri Compromise was an agreement between the North and the  South and passed by Congress in 1820 that allowed Missouri to be  admitted as the 24th state in 1821. In 1820, the Missouri Compromise happened because of the desire of  Northern and Southern national leaders to maintain an even balance  between slavery-supporters and slaver … y-opponents in America's  federal governing power.
March 3, 1820: Missouri Compromise. The Missouri Compromise was the first major legislative compromise passed to settle the slavery issue by drawing a line between slave and free territory. Speaker of the House Henry Clay promoted the deal, which admitted Maine to the Union as a free state and Missouri as a slave state.
First, Missouri would be admitted to the union as a slave state, but would be balanced by the admission of Maine, a free state, that had long wanted to be separated from Massachusetts. Second, slavery was to be excluded from all new states in the Louisiana Purchase north of the southern boundary of Missouri. 
The Missouri Compromise was a United States federal statute devised by Henry Clay. It regulated slavery in the country's western territories by prohibiting the practice in the former Louisiana Territory north of the parallel 36°30′ north, except within the boundaries of the proposed state of Missouri. The compromise was agreed to by both the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States Congress and passed as a law in 1820, under the presidency of James Monroe. The Missouri Compromise was effectively repealed by the Kansas–Nebraska Act, submitted to Congress by Stephen A. Douglas in January 1854
The Missouri Compromise was an agreement between the North and the South and passed by Congress in 1820 that allowed Missouri to be admitted as the 24th state in 1821. The Missouri Compromise was a compromise of new territory should be considered a free state or slave state. This compromise proposed whatever was north of the 36'30' line was to be a free state and whatever was south of this line was to be
The Missouri Compromise of 1820 admitted Missouri as a slave state,  and Maine as a free state, to keep the balance of slave/non-slave  states equal in Congress. It also est … ablished the 36-30 line, and  said that slavery would not be allowed above that line except for  in Missouri.    The Compromise of 1850 admitted California as a free state, and  gave the South stricter Fugitive Slave Laws as a way to balance  the deal. In 1820, the Missouri Compromise happened because of the desire of  Northern and Southern national leaders to maintain an even balance  between slavery-supporters and slaver … y-opponents in America's  federal governing power.