1 In Hebrew, the surname Hassan (חסן) means  cantor , or good cantor, derived from the Arabic good and the Hebrew cantor. 2  Hassan is normally an Arab first or last name; but, in the Jewish Sephardic-Mizrahi tradition, it is a Jewish surname. 1 In Arabic, the surname Hassan (حسن, Ḥasan) means handsome, manly, strong, good or benefactor. 2  In Ireland / Scotland, the surname Hassan is one of the anglicized forms of the Gaelic (Irish / Scottish) form of O hOsáin. 3  Hosain hosáin it is to be DISTINGUISHED hOisín o ó hOiseáin (Hoisín and O).  ó hoiseain hoiseáin hession and hishon
Etymology and spelling [edit]. The name Hassan in Arabic means 'handsome', 'good' or 'benefactor'. There are two different Arabic names that are both romanized with the spelling Hassan. However, they are pronounced differently, and in Arabic script spelled differently. 1  The more common name حسن Ḥasan (as in the name of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad 's grandson al-Ḥasan ibn ‘Alī) has two short vowels and a single /s/. 2  Its meaning is 'the good' or 'the handsome'.
Hassan /has-san/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced hah-SAHN. It is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Hassan is good-looking, handsome. Popular in the Arabic world. Hassan is a somewhat prominent first name for males (#1015 out of 1220, Top 83%) and an even more prominent last name for all people (#2762 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Hassan for boys.
Arabic Meaning: The name Hassan is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Hassan is: Handsome. American Meaning: The name Hassan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Hassan is: Handsome. Muslim Meaning: The name Hassan is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Hassan is: Handsome.
There are several unrelated origins for this name: 1  In Arabic, the surname Hassan (حسن, Ḥasan) means handsome, manly, strong, good or benefactor. 2  In Ireland / Scotland, the surname Hassan is one of the anglicized forms of the Gaelic (Irish / Scottish) form of O hOsáin.  hosain hosáin 1 In Arabic, the surname Hassan (حسن, Ḥasan) means handsome, manly, strong, good or benefactor. 2  In Ireland / Scotland, the surname Hassan is one of the anglicized forms of the Gaelic (Irish / Scottish) form of O hOsáin. 3  Hosain hosáin it is to be DISTINGUISHED hOisín o ó hOiseáin (Hoisín and O).  ó hoiseain hoiseáin hession and hishon
Origin of the name Hassan: Derived from the Arabic hasan (beautiful, handsome, good), which is from hasuna (to be good). The name was borne by the Prophet's grandson Al-Hasan (625-69), the son of Fatima bint-Muhammad and 'Ali ibn-Abi-Talib, the fourth rightly guided caliph.
Meaning of Hassan. Muslim name. In Muslim, the name Hassan means-One who possesses great beauty.. Other origins for the name Hassan include-Muslim, Arabian.The name Hassan is most often used as a boy name or male name. Muslim Name Meaning-One who possesses great beauty. Origin-Arabic
Meaning & History. Means handsome, derived from Arabic حسن (hasuna) to be beautiful, to be good. Hasan was the son of Ali and the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad. He was poisoned by one of his wives and is regarded as a martyr by Shiite Muslims. This was also the name of two kings of Morocco. It is sometimes transcribed as Hassan, though this is a distinct name in Arabic. 