Spiders are not insects. Insects have three body parts and six legs. Spiders have eight legs and two body parts, the abdomen and the thorax. Spiders have silk spinning glands called spinnerets, at the tip of their abdomen. Not all spiders spin webs. Spiders eat many types of harmful insects, helping to keep your garden free of pests. Spiders are creatures that have 8 legs, have no wings or antennae. They have 2 distinct body parts called the thorax or head and the abdomen.
All spiders have 8 legs, 2 body parts (cephalothorax and abdomen), fang-like chelicerae, and antenna-like pedipalps.. Click on the terms below to learn more about each body part. CEPHALOTHORAX. The cephalothorax is the first of 2 body parts on a spider. It is a combination of the head and thorax, and on it are found the legs, eyes, pedipalps, chelicerae, and other mouthparts. The cephalothorax and abdomen are connected by a thin stalk called the pedicel.. 
Spiders have two body segments. The front segment is called the Cephalothorax. The spider’s eyes, mouth fangs, stomach, brain and the glands that make the poison are on this part of the body. The legs are connected to this part, as well. Most spiders have eight eyes, but some have less. The second part of the body is called the Abdomen. The back end of the abdomen is where the spinnerets, the silk producing glands, are. The spider’s body has an oil on it to keep the spider from sticking to it’s own web. Spider’s legs are covered with many hairs.
Cephalothorax. The body of spiders is divided in two major parts. The first (anterior) part of the body is called the cephalothorax. Spiders are different from insects. The body of insects is divided in three major parts: head, thorax and abdomen. If we compare a spider with an insect, the cephalothorax is a combination of head and thorax. The cephalothorax of spiders bears in front a pair of. chelicera and a pair of palps.
The body of spiders is divided in two major parts. The first (anterior) part of the body is called the cephalothorax. Spiders are different from insects. The body of insects is divided in three major parts: head, thorax and abdomen. If we compare a spider with an insect, the cephalothorax is a combination of head and thorax. The cephalothorax of spiders bears in front a pair of. chelicera and a pair of palps.
a spiders body is made up of two mane parts the back is called abdomen which contains the spinnerets which make silk and the heart witch pumps pale blue blood the head is called cephalothorax which contains the the fangs, eyes, Brian, guts, legs and two short arms called pepalepalps. Spider body parts include the cephalothorax, the abdomen, and the  legs. In addition, you have the chelicera, the palps, and the eyes.
Spider body parts. Unlike an insect, the spider's body is in two sections. The head and thorax, bearing the eyes, mouthparts and legs, are fused together to form the cephalothorax. 
Spider bodyparts. The most visible parts of the body of a spider are: the cephalothorax, the abdomen, and the legs. If you look it bit closer you will also see the chelicera, the palps, and the eyes. To learn more about the anatomy, click on the different body parts of this spider !! Spiders are different from insects. The body of insects is divided in three major parts: head, thorax and abdomen. If we compare a spider with an insect, the cephalothorax is a combination of head and thorax. The cephalothorax of spiders bears in front a pair of. chelicera and a pair of palps.