Mechanical weathering is a process where big rocks are broken down to smaller fragments due to physical forces acting on them. Read more about what causes mechanical weathering by going through the following article. Mechanical weathering involves physical activities leading to break down of rocks and chemical weathering involves natural chemical reactions leading to decomposition of the rocks.
Any water that gets into cracks or crevices in rocks can cause mechanical weathering when it freezes on a cold morning. The water expands as it cools causing the rock around i … t to crack. A repeat if this action over and over again will eventually cause the surrounding rock to crumble. 
Physical weathering, also known as mechanical weathering, is the class of processes that causes the disintegration of rocks without chemical change. The primary process in physical weathering is abrasion (the process by which clasts and other particles are reduced in size). Thermal stress weathering (sometimes called insolation weathering) results from the expansion and contraction of rock, caused by temperature changes. For example, heating of rocks by sunlight or fires can cause expansion of their constituent minerals.
Report Abuse. mechanical or physical weathering is caused by agents of when natural processes which break down rocks or materials into sediments, or small rocks. Mechanical weathering usually only changes the shape and size of a rock. Chemical weathering is caused by changes in a rock's chemical composition. For example, in a limestone cave, when Hydrocloric acid or acid rain comes in contact with the stalagmites and stalacatites, it will break them down. Rusting is another example of chemical weathering. The process is called Oxidation.
Weathering causes the disintegration of rock near the surface of the earth. Plant and animal life, atmosphere and water are the major causes of weathering. Weathering breaks down and loosens the surface minerals of rock so they can be transported away by agents of erosion such as water, wind and ice. There are two types of weathering: mechanical and chemical. Mechanical Weathering Mechanical weathering is the disintegration of rock into smaller and smaller fragments.
If water seeps into cracks within rocks, it can freeze and expand. Frost shattering is a type of mechanical weathering where we see the breakdown of rock due to the expansion of ice. If that water contains salt, the salt crystals left behind in the cracks can expand when exposed to heat and cause additional weathering. Mechanical weathering is the physical breakdown of rock by environmental factors. This process is always at work and there are a number of different types of mechanical weathering. Thermal expansion is the tendency for minerals to expand and contract based on temperature.
Best Answer: There are various causes of both types. Mechanical weathering is associated with a change in size of particle, or a breaking apart of the rock, ice wedging, wave action, tumbling in water, wind abrasion, could all cause this. Chemical weathering is caused by changes in a rock's chemical composition. For example, in a limestone cave, when Hydrocloric acid or acid rain comes in contact with the stalagmites and stalacatites, it will break them down. Rusting is another example of chemical weathering. The process is called Oxidation.
Weathering may be caused by the action of water, air, chemicals, plants, or animals. Chemical weathering involves chemical changes in the minerals of the rock, or on the surface of the rock, that make the rock change its shape or color. Carbon dioxide, oxygen, water, and acids may all cause chemical weathering. Mechanical weathering is the process of breaking a large rock into smaller pieces without changing the minerals in the rock. Mechanical weathering may be caused by frost, ice, plant roots, running water, or heat from the sun. 
When physical agents cause the rocks to break into smaller pieces or fragments, it is called mechanical weathering. There are different causes of mechanical weathering that includes plants and animal activity (biological), fracturing and abrasion. Mechanical weathering involves physical activities leading to break down of rocks and chemical weathering involves natural chemical reactions leading to decomposition of the rocks.