Below are just a few of the important ways business property coverage can help you in the event of a loss. (Some coverages may not be available on all policies or in all states). 1  Business Income. 2  Reimburses you for your actual loss of earnings for up to 12 months resulting from a covered loss to your property.
The most common types of commercial insurance are property, liability and workers' compensation. In general, property insurance covers damages to your business property; liability insurance covers damages to third parties; and workers' compensation insurance covers on-the-job injuries to your employees.
Companies frequently purchase commercial property insurance as a part of a Business Owner’s Policy, which offers a way for low-risk companies to purchase two of the most valuable types of insurance-business property insurance and commercial general liability insurance – in a single, affordable package.
Business owners can buy commercial property insurance regardless of whether they own, rent, or lease a building. If you rent or lease a building, consider tenant coverage that will insure your on-premises property, including machinery, furniture, and merchandise.
1 If you don't tell your insurance company within the time period-usually 30 days-your policy won't cover the new building. 2  Commercial property policies usually only cover buildings named in the policy. 3  Employees' personal property coverage insures your employees' personal property if the property is on your premises.
Business property insurance policies – sometimes called commercial property insurance – protect your property, as well as inventory or assets, against loss or damage caused by theft, an accident or some other means.
Business property insurance coverage is typically packaged with additional coverages for property issued to you by a client that is temporarily in your custody and Business Interruption Insurance that pays for loss of earnings when operations are curtailed or suspended because of a covered property loss.
1 Business Personal Property Insurance (Contents) provides coverage for furniture, fixtures, merchandise, materials and all other personal property owned by you and used in your business. 2  Coverage is at replacement cost.
1 Property of Others. 2  Protects you against loss or damage to the property of others that is in your possession at a job site or on your premises. 3  This coverage would respond to claims for accidental damage to customer equipment in your care, custody or control.
Commercial property policies provide various types of coverage, either as part of the base policy or through policy endorsements. Endorsements expand or amend a policy's coverages and usually increase your premium.