Rod photoreceptors are very sensitive to light and are responsible for night vision. These are the most abundant cell type in the human retina and are located closest to the back of the eye, near the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE). Cone photoreceptors are responsible for high acuity vision (like reading) and color discrimination.
Rhegmatogenous [reg-ma-TAH-jenous]—A tear or break in the retina allows fluid to get under the retina and separate it from the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), the pigmented cell layer that nourishes the retina. These types of retinal detachments are the most common. Tractional —In this type of detachment, scar tissue on the retina’s surface contracts and causes the retina to separate from the RPE. This type of detachment is less common. Exudative —Frequently caused by retinal diseases, including inflammatory disorders and injury/trauma to the eye.
Retinoblastoma is a cancer that starts in the retina, the very back part of the eye. It is the most common type of eye cancer in children. Rarely, children can have other kinds of eye cancer, such as medulloepithelioma, which is described briefly below, or melanoma.
Retinoblastoma is a rare type of eye cancer that usually develops in early childhood, typically before the age of 5. This form of cancer develops in the retina, which is the specialized light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color.
The retina is composed of neural tissue and is located in the back of the eye, between the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the vitreous body. The retina is a highly complex tissue, and is the most accessible part of the central nervous system (CNS) (Yang, 2004).
Primary intraocular lymphoma (lymphoma of the eye) Lymphoma is a type of cancer that starts in immune system cells called lymphocytes. Most lymphomas start in lymph nodes, which are bean-sized collections of immune system cells scattered throughout the body.
Other cell types are present in the retina as well. The retina is perfused by blood vessels which form three layers (plexi). Two of the vascular plexi are deep inside the retina and one is near the inner surface of the retina (Figure 1). These vessels are made up of vascular endothelial cells and mural cells.