DNA gyrase: structure and function. Reece RJ(1), Maxwell A. Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Leicester, UK. DNA gyrase is an essential bacterial enzyme that catalyzes the ATP-dependent negative super-coiling of double-stranded closed-circular DNA. Gyrase belongs to a class of enzymes known as topoisomerases that are involved in the control of topological transitions of DNA. In addition, much attention has been focused on DNA gyrase as the intracellular target of a number of antibacterial agents as a paradigm for other DNA topoisomerases. In this review we summarize the current knowledge concerning DNA gyrase by addressing a wide range of aspects of the study of this enzyme.
RE: What does DNA Gyrase do? I&#39;ve searched around and I just couldn&#39;t find a simple explanation about the function of gyrase during DNA replication. Still confused. Can someone describe it in a nutshell when and why it is important during replication? After a certain point, you either won't be able to unwind the coils anymore, or the cord or rubber band will snap. DNA gyrase fixes this problem by moving ahead of the helicase, nicking the strands, unwinding them a little bit, and resealing them. That way, the region ahead of the helicase never gets so tightly wound that helicase stalls or the molecule breaks. Source(s): Biology major.
DNA gyrase is a type II topoisomerase that introduces negative supercoils into DNA by looping the template so as to form a crossing, then cutting one of the double helices and passing the other through it before releasing the break, changing the linking number by two in each enzymatic step. A bacterial DNA topoisomerase II that catalyzes ATP-dependent breakage of both strands of DNA, passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks, and rejoining of the broken strands. Gyrase binds to DNA as a heterotetramer consisting two A and two B subunits. In the presence of ATP, gyrase is able to convert relaxed circular DNA duplex into a superhelix. In the absence of ATP, supercoiled DNA is relaxed by DNA gyrase
Overview. (J. Champoux, 2001) (J. Champoux, 2001). DNA gyrase belongs to a class of enzymes called DNA topoisomerases, the class of DNA enzymes that are responsible for aiding the winding and unwinding of DNA supercoiled helices. Gyrase in Plasmodium falciparum DNA Replication. DNA gyrase is an important enzyme found in species that have circular strands of DNA. When the helicase enzyme separates the annealed DNA helix, due to the cyclic nature of the DNA, supercoiling occurs (stressed, “over” coiling of the DNA strands).
DNA gyrase has two subunits, which in turn have two subunits each, i.e. 2A and 2B SUBUNITS. The A and B subunits together bind to DNA, hydrolyze ATP, and introduce negative supertwists. The A subunit carries out nicking of DNA, B subunit introduces negative supercoils, and then A subunit reseals the strands. It is also known as DNA topoisomerase II. This causes negative supercoiling of the DNA. Bacterial DNA gyrase is the target of many antibiotics, including nalidixic acid, novobiocin, and ciprofloxacin.
1 Type IIA topoisomerases include the enzymes DNA gyrase, eukaryotic topoisomerase II (topo II), and bacterial topoisomerase IV (topo IV). 2  These enzymes span all domains of life and are essential for function. There are two subclasses of type II topoisomerases, type IIA and IIB. 1 
DNA gyrase, often referred to simply as gyrase, is an enzyme that relieves strain while double-strand DNA is being unwound by helicase. It is also known as DNA topoisomerase II. This causes negative supercoiling of the DNA. Bacterial DNA gyrase is the target of many antibiotics, including nalidixic acid, novobiocin, and ciprofloxacin.
DNA gyrase, often referred to simply as gyrase, is an enzyme that relieves strain while double-stranded DNA is being unwound by helicase. This causes negative supercoiling of the DNA. Bacterial DNA gyrase is the target of many antibiotics, including nalidixic acid, novobiocin, and ciprofloxacin. A bacterial DNA topoisomerase II that catalyzes ATP-dependent breakage of both strands of DNA, passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks, and rejoining of the broken strands. Gyrase binds to DNA as a heterotetramer consisting two A and two B subunits. In the presence of ATP, gyrase is able to convert relaxed circular DNA duplex into a superhelix. In the absence of ATP, supercoiled DNA is relaxed by DNA gyrase