Walls were being built in order to protect the Chinese empire as early as the 7th century BC. However, the collection of walls which have become known as The Great Wall of China were mainly built from 220 to 206 BC. Answer by Brave Fencer. Confidence votes 3.9K. The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria.
Several walls were being built as early as the 7th century BCE; these, later joined together and made bigger and stronger, are now collectively referred to as the Great Wall. Especially famous is the wall built 220–206 BCE by Qin Shi Huang, the first Emperor of China. Little of that wall remains. The Great Wall stretches from Dandong in the east, to Lop Lake in the west, along an arc that roughly delineates the southern edge of Inner Mongolia.
Fact 1: The Great Wall of China, which now stretches up to 4,160 miles, was initiated as different walls built as mere borders for four different states in the then disintegrated nation long before the famous Qin Dynasty. Article points, that “Most of the Great Wall of China was built in the Ming dynasty (1368-1644).” The article from Wikipedia states, that in 1368 was the fall of Yuan Dynasty, marking the Mongolian Empire’s final dissolution.
Let's walk through history. Advertisement. The Great Wall of China is the largest network of walls ever built by man. It is not surprising that this structure, which is approximately 5,500 miles long, and runs over plains, hills and deserts, is not the result of the efforts of a single group of Chinese people. The wall was built over 2000 years and involved a large number of imperial dynasties of China.
The Xiongnu tribe was China's main enemy at that time. The Chinese built the Great Wall to prevent them from entering and conquering China. Originally made up of shorter walls between factions, the wall was fortified and lengthened under the emperor Qin Shi Huang beginning in 221 BC. Answer by Brave Fencer. Confidence votes 3.9K. The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria.
Best Answer: The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria. 
The Great Wall of China was built from the 3rd century B.C.E to the 17th century AD, in order to prevent the Mongols from entering and invading China. *Please see the relate … d questions and link below for more information. Answer by Brave Fencer. Confidence votes 3.9K. The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria.
It's well known that Emperor Qin built the Great Wall. But the history of the Great Wall is not that simple. Emperor Qin was not the first to build the Great Wall... or the last. There are many sections in different places, built with different materials, and built in different dynasties. Most of today's Great Wall was built or restored in the Ming Dynasty. In order to consolidate the northern border, after reclaiming China from the Mongol-led Yuan Dynasty (1279–1368), Emperors of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) never stopped building