The word chaps is a clip of chaparejos or chaparreras, which are Mexican Spanish words for this garment, ultimately derived from Spanish chaparro, one sense of which is a low growing thicket—difficult to ride through without damage to clothing. In English, the word has two common pronunciations: [ʃaeps] ʃæps [and] . tʃaeps tʃæps Leather for chaps is tanned and dyed, and the hide is usually split so that the leather is supple and can be made into a garment that allows easy movement. There is a rough side, what is today called suede or roughout, and a smooth side. Chaps are made in both roughout and smooth out (smooth side out) designs.
Our CHAPS service is available for you to make those high value UK payments on the same day, if we received your request by 1pm. Find out how you can make a payment and what the limits and timescales of a CHAPS payment are. Typically it's used by companies making regular requests for high value payments. For example, a solicitor will use a CHAPS payment to transfer the purchase funds of a house between the buyer and seller. People often use it to make same day payments when buying a high value car too. There is a charge for this service.
Chaps. Since 1978 Chaps has provided classic American style for women, men and kids, as well as home decor. Find a complete collection of quality pieces for your family and home from Chaps. Enjoy cozy Chaps bedding collections and add the finishing touch to the bath with beautiful bath towels and linens. Outfit the whole family with both casual styles and elegant pieces for special events.
Pieces like Chaps men's button-down shirts and Chaps women's jeans always look great. Find classic American style with a preppy flair in menswear as well as women's clothing, shoes and accessories. Find a complete collection of quality pieces for your family and home from Chaps. Enjoy cozy Chaps bedding collections and add the finishing touch to the bath with beautiful bath towels and linens. Outfit the whole family with both casual styles and elegant pieces for special events.
But though you are likely, with the blessing, to recover, there is laa for him yet; and if you will employ lawyer Small, I darest be sworn he'll make the fellow fly the country for him; though perhaps he'll have fled the country before; for it is here to-day and gone to-morrow with such chaps. chaps. pl n. 1. (Clothing & Fashion) leather overalls without a seat, worn by cowboys.
Full Definition of CHAPS. : leather leggings joined by a belt or lacing, often having flared outer flaps, and worn over the trousers (as by western ranch hands). ADVERTISEMENT
Shotgun chaps, sometimes called stovepipes, were so named because the legs are straight and narrow. They were the earliest design used by Texas cowboys, in wide use by the late 1870s. Each leg is cut from a single piece of leather. Their fit is snug, wrapping completely around the leg. Leather for chaps is tanned and dyed, and the hide is usually split so that the leather is supple and can be made into a garment that allows easy movement. There is a rough side, what is today called suede or roughout, and a smooth side. Chaps are made in both roughout and smooth out (smooth side out) designs
CHAPS is a zwitterionic detergent used in the laboratory to solubilize biological macromolecules such as proteins. CHAPS can also be used in conjunction with nonionic detergents such as Triton X-100. CHAPS is an abbreviation for 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate.