If you are 17 or over and have a provisional licence, you can ride a motorbike with an engine capacity up to 125cc, and in Northern Ireland, the bike must not exceed 14.6bhp (brake horsepower). For a list of the types of vehicles you can drive at what age and on what licence, click here. 
You can apply for a provisional before your 17 birthday and start lessons on your 17th birthday. People get a provisional and learn to drive at 16 because they are on DLA (Disability Living Allowance) at the Higher Rate. Report Abuse. You can apply for a 'UK' driving licence at the age of 16 (disabled people can take the car test at 16) But you cannot take a 'car' driving test-nor drive on the public roads-until you are 17 years old. However you can ride a motorcycle on a provisional licence at 16... Source(s): An ex-driving examiner.
You must be 17 years old to be able to hold a provisional licence. You may apply for the licence up to 3 months before you turn 17, but you may not drive with your provisional licence until you reach that age. If you only need to your licence to drive a moped, the minimum age is 16 years old. There are a few different ways that you can apply for your provisional licence.
You can apply for a moped provisional licence when you are 16, but you have to take and pass the CBT test before you are allowed on the road. Your Provisional licence does not expire until your 70th Birthday. However, you have to renew your photo part of your licence every 10 years, so your photo can be updated. There are a lot of rumours about the driving age in the UK increasing to 18. More. If you have never held a driving licence before you will need to apply for a provisional licence
Cars. You must be 17 years old to get your provisional licence, but you can apply three months before your 17th birthday. If you've a Disability Living Allowance at the higher rate you can get your provisional licence at the age of 16. 
You can apply for a provisional driving licence when you’re 15 years and 9 months old. You can start driving when you’re: 1  17 if you want to drive a car. 2  16 if you want to ride a moped or light quad bike. 