In politics, representation describes how some individuals stand in for others or a group of others, for a certain time period. Representation usually refers to representative democracies, where elected officials nominally speak for their constituents in the legislature. Generally, only citizens are granted representation in the government in the form of voting rights; however, some democracies have extended this right further.
By representation is a term used in probate law to describe how the property of a person who dies without a will is to be divided when the descendant who would take the intestate share of the estate is also deceased. The surviving descendants take by “representation”. By Representation Law & Legal Definition. 
2. representation by means of symbols. Also symbolism. 3. any system of symbols. — symbologist, n. — symbological, adj. tachyscope. a type of kinescope that presents the effect of moving pictures by use of a rotating glass plate with images attached to it. 1. the act of representing, or the state of being represented. 2. the expression or designation by some term, character, symbol, or the like. 3. action on behalf of a person or group by an agent or deputy. 4. the state of being so represented. 5. a body of representatives, as of a constituency.
2. A representation, like a warranty, may be either affirmative, as where the insured avers the existence of some fact or circumstance which may affect the risk; or promissory, as where he engages the performance of, something executory. 3. There is a material difference between a representation and a warranty. 4. 
A representation is a type of recording in which the sensory information about a physical object is described in a medium. The degree to which an artistic representation resembles the object it represents is a function of resolution and does not bear on the denotation of the word. Mitchell says representation is an extremely elastic notion, which extends all the way from a stone representing a man to a novel representing the day in the life of several Dubliners. The term 'representation' carries a range of meanings and interpretations.
Representation is the use of signs that stand in for and take the place of something else. It is through representation that people organize the world and reality through the act of naming its elements. Mitchell says representation is an extremely elastic notion, which extends all the way from a stone representing a man to a novel representing the day in the life of several Dubliners. The term 'representation' carries a range of meanings and interpretations.
representation. n. 1. the act or an instance of representing or the state of being represented. 2. anything that represents, such as a verbal or pictorial portrait. 3. anything that is represented, such as an image brought clearly to mind. 4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the principle by which delegates act for a constituency. 1. the act of representing, or the state of being represented. 2. the expression or designation by some term, character, symbol, or the like. 3. action on behalf of a person or group by an agent or deputy. 4. the state of being so represented. 5. a body of representatives, as of
For many philosophers, both ancient and modern, man is regarded as the representational animal or homo symbolicum, the creature whose distinct character is the creation and the manipulation of signs – things that stand for or take the place of something else. Mitchell says representation is an extremely elastic notion, which extends all the way from a stone representing a man to a novel representing the day in the life of several Dubliners. The term 'representation' carries a range of meanings and interpretations.
In Contracts. A statement made by one of two contracting parties to the other, before or at the time of making the contract, in regard to some fact, circumstance, or state of facts pertinent to the contract, which is influential in bringing about the agreement. In insurance. 