Creating a dataframe from a vector of character strings. I have a vector of character strings that I would like to split in two, and place in columns of a dataframe. So for example, I start with this: and I want to end up with a data frame that looks like this: lastName=c(Lennon, McCartney, Harrison, Starr)). 
character creates a character vector of the specified length. The elements of the vector are all equal to  . as.character attempts to coerce its argument to character type; like as.vector it strips attributes including names. Details. as.character and is.character are generic: you can write methods to handle specific classes of objects, see InternalMethods. Further, for as.character the default method calls as.vector, so dispatch is first on methods for as.character and then for methods for as.vector.
1 A factor vector is a special type of vector that allows users to create 45#45 indicator variables in one vector, rather than using 45#45 dummy variables (as in Stata or SPSS). 2  R creates this special class of vector from a pre-existing vector. 1 2#2. 2  to create a 46#46 matrix from the vector by filling in the columns from left to right. 3  For example, 4  From two or more vectors of length 3#3: Use. 5  to combine 2#2 vectors vertically to form a 46#46 matrix, or. 6  to combine 2#2 vectors horizontally to form a 7#7 matrix.
Value. For vector, a vector of the given length and mode. Logical vector elements are initialized to FALSE, numeric vector elements to 0, character vector elements to  , raw vector elements to nul bytes and list/expression elements to NULL. For as.vector, a vector (atomic or of type list or expression). All attributes are removed from the result if it is of an atomic mode, but not in general for a list result. The default method handles 24 input types and 12 values of type: the details of most coercions are undocumented and subject to change.
Create a character vector with more than one element. To create a character vector with more than one element, use the combine function, c() : Notice that this time, R tells you that your vector has length 2 and that the first element has five characters and the second element has six characters. 1  Add a Comment. 2  Pri
You test whether a variable is of class character, for example, by using the is.character() function as follows: Notice that x is a character vector of length 1. To find out how many characters are in the text, use nchar : This function tells you that x has length 1 and that the single element in x has 12 characters. To create a character vector with more than one element, use the combine function, c() : Notice that this time, R tells you that your vector has length 2 and that the first element has five characters and the second element has six characters. 1  Add a Comment. 2  Print
Character quantities and character vectors are used frequently in R, for example as plot labels. Where needed they are denoted by a sequence of characters delimited by the double quote character, e.g., x-values , New iteration results . 