JB: Haibun is a Japanese word meaning 'poetry prose'. And, I don't mean poetic prose as we know it in the west. It has developed from a diary form of writing which Matsuo Basho kept as he went on pilgrimage in Japan. His most famous one is known as ' The Narrow Road To The Far North '.
By: Robert Lee Brewer |. The haibun is the combination of two poems: a prose poem and haiku. The form was popularized by the 17th century Japanese poet Matsuo Basho.
The term  haibun  was first used by the 17th-century Japanese poet Matsuo Bashō, in a letter to his disciple Kyorai in 1690. Bashō was a prominent early writer of haibun, then a new genre combining classical prototypes, Chinese prose genres and vernacular subject matter and language.
HAIBUN: POETIC JOURNEYbyDawn L. Stewart. The form of Japanese poetry known as haibun first developed from a Japanese writer taking a journey and composing a diary of his travels in a mix of brief prose, haiku and sketches. Matsuo Basho (1644-1694) is perhaps the master of haibun.
The form of Japanese poetry known as haibun first developed from a Japanese writer taking a journey and composing a diary of his travels in a mix of brief prose, haiku and sketches.
Below are examples of haibun poems. This list of poems in the haibun form of poetry is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of haibun poems or a list of haibun poetry. These examples illustrate what haibun poems look like and its form.
Haibun is a prosimetric literary form originating in Japan, combining prose and haiku. The range of haibun is broad and frequently includes autobiography, diary, essay, prose poem, short story and travel journal.
Is this a strong haibun, or: 1  Would another form, such as Haiku, Rengay, or Tanka, be more suitable? 2  Is there a meaningful contrast in prose style and poetic style, or has the prose become too poetic or the haiku too prose-like? 3  Does the prose or the poem alone conveys your meaning? 4  Does the title extend your meaning? 5  Can the piece be more concise?