Merbau/Kwila Decking. One of the most commonly used decking timbers, Merbau/Kwila (find out what the difference is between Merbau and Kwila on our Timber-Tips page!) is a tough, durable and beautiful timber that's perfect for decking. Merbau/Kwila does have an issue with tannin bleed. ...Like a cup of tea, when you mix Merbau/Kwila with water, the timber releases a huge amount of tannin. So care must be taken around pools and ponds, light coloured driveways or paths, painted, paved or tiled areas, or anywhere where there is a risk of staining.
S2dio Fine Furniture is manufactured from Kwila, one of the world’s most durable hardwood timbers. Its strength and abundance of natural oils makes it ideal for use in a diverse range of climates, it’s easy to maintain, and the rich colour will ensure that your furniture always looks good. 
The end of kwila. On this page. Feature story-April 17, 2007. The demand for high end luxury flooring and furniture in China, the US, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and other markets is driving the tree species, merbau (known in Indonesia as kwila), to commercial extinction. zoom. 83% of the forests once housing the last healthy populations of kwila on New Guinea have already been logged or are allocated for logging, and only 17% is, for the moment, not on the chopping block.
Pacific Kwila (Merbau) Care & Restoration. Pacific Kwila timber is very popular in Australia and New Zealand. The harsh coastal environment requires an extremely durable material and Merbau is a natural wood that has been used in those countries for centuries. 
The bark and leaves of the ipil are used in traditional medicines. The tree's timber, called merbau or kwila, is a very durable and termite-resistant wood, making it a highly valued material for flooring and other uses. The wood can also be used to extract a dye. Merbau can contain a gold fleck that runs through the grain, considered to be attractive by some. Intsia bijuga is a species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae, native to the Indo-Pacific. It ranges from Tanzania and Madagascar east through India and Queensland, Australia to the Pacific island of Samoa. It grows to around 50 metres (160 feet) tall with a highly buttressed trunk
Pacific Kwila Decking. Pacific Kwila (Merbau) is a hardwood ideally suited to the manufacture of outdoor decking. Not only does it have a beautiful grain and appearance, it is regarded as one of the world's most durable timbers. 
Kwila is extremely durable. In fact, due to the hardness of the wood, kwila furniture is difficult to manufacture without specialized machinery. The rich, natural oil in Kwila is the main feature of this timber, which makes it more durable than other timbers commonly used for outdoor furniture. Kwila is a natural material and as such fine cracks in the wood may appear and disappear with changes in the weather and the consequent changes in the moisture content of the wood. Such fine cracks are normal in all hardwoods and will not affect the life or serviceability of you
Kwila, also known as Merbau, is a tropical timber which naturally grows in various regions throughout the South East Pacific rim, such as Northern Queensland, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Solomon Islands, Fiji, Malaysia and Indonesia. Kwila is a natural material and as such fine cracks in the wood may appear and disappear with changes in the weather and the consequent changes in the moisture content of the wood. Such fine cracks are normal in all hardwoods and will not affect the life or serviceability of your furniture.
Kwila is a very oily timber, one of the reasons that it is successfully used in the manufacturing of outdoor furniture. The sap is the oil that occurs naturally (also known as Tannin), deep in the timber, which uniquely protects the timber from splitting and cracking. Kwila is a natural material and as such fine cracks in the wood may appear and disappear with changes in the weather and the consequent changes in the moisture content of the wood. Such fine cracks are normal in all hardwoods and will not affect the life or serviceability of you