The basal plate, the peripheral region of the placenta on the maternal side that is in contact with the uterine wall, is made up of two tissues: embryonic tissue (cytotrophoblast, syncytiotrophoblast), on the one side, and of maternal tissue (decidua basalis) on the other. The fetal part of the placenta is made up of the chorionic plate with its placental villi, the cytotrophoblast layer and the intervillous spaces.
As implantation is underway, there is much activity inside and around the blastocyst. A structure called the yolk sac forms from the cells of the hypoblast. The yolk sac is a structure that provides nutrients from the mother to the embryo before the placenta is ready to function. A membrane called the amnion forms from the epiblast. The epiblast also gives rise to the entire head and body of the embryo. 
The placenta is composed of both maternal tissue and tissue derived from the embryo. The chorion is the embryonic-derived portion of the placenta. It is composed of trophoblasts, which you may remember are the cells that made up the outer cell layer of the blastocyst. The placenta is composed of both maternal tissue and tissue derived from the embryo. The chorion is the embryonic-derived portion of the placenta. It is composed of fetal blood vessels and trophoblasts which are organized into finger-like structures called chorionic villi.
The fetal part of the placenta is known as the chorion. The maternal component of the placenta is known as the decidua basalis. Oxygen and nutrients in the maternal blood in the intervillous spaces diffuse through the walls of the villi and enter the fetal capillaries. Umbilical Cord The umbilical cord is a composite structure formed by contributions from: Fetal connecting (body) stalk Yolk sac Amnion The umbilical cord contains the right and left umbilical arteries, the left umbilical vein, and mucous connective tissue.
Maternal and fetal tissues form two units that are closely bound together at the placental level. Quiz. The fetal part of the placenta is made up of the chorionic plate with its placental villi, the cytotrophoblast layer and the intervillous spaces. The chorionic plate (great part of the placenta on the fetal side) consists of the amnion, the extra-embryonic mesenchyma, the cytotrophoblast and the syncytiotrophoblast
The placenta is a fetomaternal organ. The fetal portion of the placenta is known as the villous chorion. The maternal portion is known as the decidua basalis. The two portions are held together by anchoring villi that are anchored to the decidua basalis by the cytotrophoblastic shell. Umbilical Cord The umbilical cord is a composite structure formed by contributions from: Fetal connecting (body) stalk Yolk sac Amnion The umbilical cord contains the right and left umbilical arteries, the left umbilical vein, and mucous connective tissue.
The placenta provides oxygen and nutrients to growing babies and removes waste products from the baby's blood. The placenta attaches to the wall of the uterus, and the baby's umbilical cord develops from the placenta. The umbilical cord is what connects the mother and the baby. For the placenta of fruit, see placentation. The placenta (also known as afterbirth) is an organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to allow nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange via the mother's blood supply, fight against internal infection and produce hormones to support pregnancy.