About these ratings. One of London's top free attractions, the British Museum is both an architectural beauty and a trove of some of the world's most noted antiquities. From the Rosetta Stone to the Elgin Marbles to the Lindow Bog Man, the British Museum is a history buff's treasure trove. 
About Us. Museum London is Southwestern Ontario's leading establishment for the collection and presentation of visual art and material culture. Through public and educational programming, special events and exhibitions, Museum London strives to promote the knowledge and enjoyment of regional art, culture and history. Museum London was established in 1940, operating from the London Public Library until 1980 when architect Raymond Moriyama was commissioned to design its current home at the forks of the Thames River in downtown London, Ontario.
British Museum. One of the world's oldest museums, the British Museum is vast and its collections, only a fraction of which can be on public display at any time, comprise millions of objects. First-time visitors generally head for the mummies, the Rosetta Stone, Lindow Man, the Lewis Chessmen and the Sutton Hoo Ship Burial. Bloomsbury. On this Greenwich Park site you'll find the National Maritime Museum, the Queen's House and the Royal Observatory, founded in 1675 by Charles II.
The history of London, from prehistoric times to the present is told in the Museum of London through reconstructed interiors and street scenes, alongside displays of original artefacts found during the museum's archaeological digs. 
The museum is jointly controlled and funded by the City of London Corporation and the Greater London Authority. In March 2015, the museum announced plans to move from its Barbican site to nearby Smithfield Market. The Museum of London Docklands charts the history of London as a port, beginning 2,000 years ago with the Roman trading post set up on the banks of the Thames and following London's expansion into the biggest port the world had ever known.
The Museum of London is going from strength to strength. The number of people visiting our museums continues to grow impressively each year, with two consecutive record breaking years. 1965: The Museum of London Act amalgamates the two collections under a new Board of Governors, representing the three funding authorities: national government, the Corporation of London, and the Greater London Council. 1976: The Museum of London is opened by Queen Elizabeth II.
The museum is located on London Wall, close to the Barbican Centre as part of the striking Barbican complex of buildings created in the 1960s and 1970s as an innovative approach to re-development within a bomb-damaged area of the City of London. The Museum of London Docklands charts the history of London as a port, beginning 2,000 years ago with the Roman trading post set up on the banks of the Thames and following London's expansion into the biggest port the world had ever known.
Once part of the Museum of London, Museum of London Archaeology (MOLA) became an independent charity in November 2011, regulated by the Charity Commission for England and Wales. MOLA now has its own Board of Trustees but the Museum of London and MOLA continue to work together. The Museum of London Docklands charts the history of London as a port, beginning 2,000 years ago with the Roman trading post set up on the banks of the Thames and following London's expansion into the biggest port the world had ever known.
This is a list of museums in London, the capital city of England and the United Kingdom. It also includes university and non-profit art galleries. To use the sortable table, click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) publishes monthly visitor figures for the public sector museums and galleries which it sponsors, which include most of the leading museums in London. The most popular London museum in the private sector is The Sherlock Holmes Museum.