If you are also using another kind of eye medication (e.g., drops or ointments), wait at least 5 minutes before applying other medications. Use eye drops before eye ointments to allow the eye drops to enter the eye. If you wear contact lenses, remove them before using most kinds of eye lubricants. Place one finger at the corner of the eye near the nose and apply gentle pressure. This will prevent the medication from draining away from the eye. For an ointment, hold the tube directly over the eye and gently squeeze a small strip (one-fourth of an inch or roughly 6 millimeters) of ointment into the pouch.
Cellulose, mixture with cellulose carboxymethyl ether, sodium salt-Identification, toxicity, use, water pollution potential, ecological toxicity and regulatory information. Note: See Working with the Information on this Page section below for important notes about this data. No. Indicates high toxicity in the given toxicological category. Indicates no available weight-of-the-evidence summary assessment. For additional information on toxicity from scientific journals or registration documents, see the Additional Resources for Toxicity  section of the chemical detail page.
Details. Carboxymethyl cellulose aka CMC is actually the sodium salt of carboxymethyl cellulose. It is derived from cellulose, which is made water-soluble by a chemical reaction. 
Identifying information, including synonyms, ID numbers, use type, chemical classification, a link to a list of all products containing this chemical and a list of the top crops this pesticide is used on in California. Signs and symptoms of poisoning, first aid, and links to treatment information for this chemical. Link to information on toxicity to humans, including carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental toxicity, neurotoxicity, and acute toxicity. No. Indicates high toxicity in the given toxicological category. Indicates no available weight-of-the-evidence summary assessment. For additional information on toxicity from scientific journals or registration documents, see the Additional Resources for Toxicity  section of the chemical detail page.
sodium hydroxide. NaOH, a whitish solid, soluble in water and making a clear solution. It is an antacid and a caustic. It is used in laundry detergents and in commercial compounds to clean sink traps, toilets, and in the preparation of soap. The sodium and chlorine ions are important in maintaining the proper electrolyte balance in body fluids. The kidneys regulate retention or excretion of sodium chloride in urine; aldosterone directly increases the renal reabsorption of sodium ions.
This product may contain 1 or more of the following ingredients: carboxymethylcellulose, dextran, glycerin, hypromellose, polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400), polysorbate, polyvinyl alcohol, povidone, or propylene glycol, among others. Place one finger at the corner of the eye near the nose and apply gentle pressure. This will prevent the medication from draining away from the eye. For an ointment, hold the tube directly over the eye and gently squeeze a small strip (one-fourth of an inch or roughly 6 millimeters) of ointment into the pouch.
Tilt your head back, look up, and pull down the lower eyelid to make a pouch. For drops/gels, place the dropper directly over the eye and squeeze out 1 or 2 drops as needed. Look down and gently close your eye for 1 or 2 minutes. Place one finger at the corner of the eye near the nose and apply gentle pressure. This will prevent the medication from draining away from the eye. For an ointment, hold the tube directly over the eye and gently squeeze a small strip (one-fourth of an inch or roughly 6 millimeters) of ointment into the pouch.
Temperature: The viscosity of the Sodium Carboxymethyl Cellulose solution with increase of temperature. When cooling, the viscosity will rebound, but when the temperature rose to a certain extent, it will be in permanent lower viscosity state. The degree of substitution (D.S) is an important factor affects its water-soluble, the viscosity also affects its water-soluble greatly. Sodium Carboxymethyl Cellulose is usually alkali when viscosity between 25mPa.s-50000mPa.s, D.S is about 0.3.
Sodium Carboxymethyl Cellulose is a representative cellulose ethers, and its sodium salt are used widely in industry. Carboxymethyl Cellulose belongs to anionic polymer electrolyte, besides CMC-Na, it has other salt, such as ammonium and aluminum salt. Sodium Carboxymethyl Cellulose sometimes can change to CMC acid. The degree of substitution (D.S) is an important factor affects its water-soluble, the viscosity also affects its water-soluble greatly. Sodium Carboxymethyl Cellulose is usually alkali when viscosity between 25mPa.s-50000mPa.s, D.S is about 0.3.
However, seek immediate medical attention if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects. Place one finger at the corner of the eye near the nose and apply gentle pressure. This will prevent the medication from draining away from the eye. For an ointment, hold the tube directly over the eye and gently squeeze a small strip (one-fourth of an inch or roughly 6 millimeters) of ointment into the pouch.