Home. Functional Earth Consulting, LLC is a small business specializing in all phases of sustainable tribal housing. This site is new and under construction. Check back later.
This FAQ explains what power ground, functional ground and analogue ground does. Functional Ground is the EARTH connection through the DIN rail that the ED-5xx and ES-5xx is attached to. This Functional Ground (EARTH) on the ED-5xx is on PIN 5 of the BLACK power connector. It is directly connected to the FUNCTIONAL EARTH metal tab on the DIN rail clip.
protective earth is also called dirty earth, which is used to protect the personnel & equipment. However the functional earth is clean earth. Which is also a reference earth for the digital and analog signals. It is also required to reduce the distortion in the signals.
In contrast to the functional earth the diameter of the protective earth wire must never exceed the diameters (square area) of the neutral and line wires of the cable: for a 5x10mm² power cable with N, L1, L2, L3 and PE, all five inside wires have the same diameter and wherefore the same square area.
The functional earth is used for interference suppression. It is a low-impedance current path between the circuitry and earth and is only used to improve the equipment's performance and not (!) for protective purposes. Functional earth should be established for the low frequency and the high frequency range.
Functional earth is intended to reduce the radio frequency noise, computer filters to enhance the clarity of signals or other equipments which have always 10mA leakage current. Functional earthing must be separated from installation earthing except at the main earth terminal connection point.
Functional Earth Consulting, LLC is a small business specializing in all phases of sustainable tribal housing. This site is new and under construction.
The earth wire connects the metal frame of the electrical appliances to the ground. The convention is to have green colour for earth wires. The purpose of earthing is that in case of an insulation failure in some appliance, this wire connected to the metal body will provide a path for the current to flow on