olivine. n. 1. (Minerals) an olive-green mineral of the olivine group, found in igneous and metamorphic rocks. The clear-green variety (peridot) is used as a gemstone. Composition: magnesium iron silicate. Formula: (MgFe)2SiO4. Crystal structure: orthorhombic. Also called: chrysolite.
Olivine is one of the earth’s most abundant minerals. It shines like glass and is used in jewelry, sometimes called the evening emerald or peridot. Yet olivine is strong and is hard enough to cut glass. Olivine has been found all over the earth: Egypt, Myanmar, South Africa, Russia, Pakistan, Norway, Sweden, France, Brazil, Germany, Mexico, Ethiopia, Australia, China and the US.
Olivine is the name of a group of rock-forming minerals that are typically found in mafic and ultramafic igneous rocks such as basalt, gabbro, dunite, diabase, and peridotite. They are usually green in color and have compositions that typically range between Mg 2 SiO 4 and Fe 2 SiO 4. Olivine is a mineral that is not often used in industry. Most olivine is used in metallurgical processes as a slag conditioner. High-magnesium olivine (forsterite) is added to blast furnaces to remove impurities from steel and to form a slag. Olivine has also been used as a refractory material
An olive-green to brownish-green mineral consisting primarily of iron, magnesium, and silica. Olivine is a common mineral in the igneous rocks, such as basalt and gabbro, that make up most of the Earth's crust beneath the oceans. 1. (Minerals) an olive-green mineral of the olivine group, found in igneous and metamorphic rocks. The clear-green variety (peridot) is used as a gemstone. Composition: magnesium iron silicate. Formula: (MgFe)2SiO4. Crystal structure: orthorhombic. Also called: chrysolite.
Olivine is magnesium iron silicate with the formula (Mg, Fe) 2 SiO 4. It is one of the most common minerals on earth and has been found also on other planets and meteorites. Olivines properties vary depending on the levels of its two main components, forsterite (Fo) and fayalite (Fa). 
The mineral olivine is a magnesium iron silicate with the formula (Mg +2, Fe +2) 2 Si O 4. Thus it is a type of nesosilicate or orthosilicate. Olivine occurs in both mafic and ultramafic igneous rocks and as a primary mineral in certain metamorphic rocks. Mg-rich olivine crystallizes from magma that is rich in magnesium and low in silica. That magma crystallizes to mafic rocks such as gabbro and basalt
The olivine Mineral Series. Olivine is one of the most common minerals in the earth, and is a major rock forming mineral. Despite this, good specimens and large crystals are uncommon and sought after. Only few localities yield large examples of this mineral, although small and microscopic grains are found worldwide. The Olivine group is composed of the following primary members:Forsterite: Mg2SiO4Olivine (Chrysolite): (Mg,Fe)2SiO4Fayalite: Fe2SiO4The intermediary variety, Olivine, is not scientifically recognized as a separate mineral, but is nevertheless well-established.
Definition of OLIVINE. : a usually greenish mineral that is a complex silicate of magnesium and iron used especially in refractories — compare peridot. — ol·iv·in·ic \ˌae-ˌä-lə-ˈvi\ nik or·ol·iv·in·it \-ic-və-ˈni\ tik. Adjective see olivine defined for. KIDS. advertisement 