When a current flows through a thermistor, it will generate heat which will raise the temperature of the thermistor above that of its environment. If the thermistor is being used to measure the temperature of the environment, this electrical heating may introduce a significant error if a correction is not made. Over small changes in temperature, if the right semiconductor is used, the resistance of the material is linearly proportional to the temperature. There are many different semiconducting thermistors with a range from about 0.01 kelvin to 2,000 kelvins (−273.14 °C to 1,700 °C) .
For example, the thermistor may be used as a flow rate sensor, since the dissipation constant increases with the rate of flow of a fluid past the thermistor. The power dissipated in a thermistor is typically maintained at a very low level to ensure insignificant temperature measurement error due to self heating. Over small changes in temperature, if the right semiconductor is used, the resistance of the material is linearly proportional to the temperature. There are many different semiconducting thermistors with a range from about 0.01 kelvin to 2,000 kelvins (−273.14 °C to 1,700 °C) .
System error is calculated by adding the accuracy of the temperature sensor (thermocouple) and the accuracy of the meter used to read the voltage signal together. For example, a Type K thermocouple has an accuracy of +/- 2.2C above 0C. Let’s say the meter has an accuracy of +/- 1C. A Thermocouple is a sensor used to measure temperature. Thermocouples consist of two wire legs made from different metals. The wires legs are welded together at one end, creating a junction. This junction is where the temperature is measured.
The easiest way to connect a thermistor to a measurement device is with a two-wire connection (see Figure 3). With this method, the two wires that provide the thermistor with its excitation source are also used to measure the voltage across the sensor. 
These temperature and resistance values are used to solve for coefficients a, b, and c in the SH-H equation (Equation 13), using a least-squares fit algorithm. Figure 10 shows the residuals (the observable estimates of the unobservable statistical error) when applying the resulting SH-H equation to a thermistor. A proportional-integral controlled chiller/heater system controlled the temperature, using thermistor A1 as the feedback in the control loop. When compared to the set-point temperature, errors in temperature A1 should be the smallest and this was indeed the case, as we see in Figure 9. We solved Equation 15 for each thermistor, providing a measure of the maximum relative error in the measurements
There are three sources of error in thermistor measurements by the dataTaker. The first is due to errors in resistance measurement (excluding cable wire effects), which are ±0.1% over the logger temperature range of 10 to 40 Deg C. This systematic error can however be calibrated out. 
A thermistor is a type of resistor whose resistance is dependent on temperature, more so than in standard resistors. The word is a portmanteau of thermal and resistor. Thermistors are widely used as inrush current limiter, temperature sensors (NTC type typically), self-resetting overcurrent protectors, and self-regulating heating elements. Over small changes in temperature, if the right semiconductor is used, the resistance of the material is linearly proportional to the temperature. There are many different semiconducting thermistors with a range from about 0.01 kelvin to 2,000 kelvins (−273.14 °C to 1,700 °C) .
Firstly, the cable resist-ance will add to the thermistor resistance and causean error in the absolute accuracy of the measure-ment if not accounted for. The error is generallynegligible unless extremely long cables are used and/or the base resistance of the thermistor is low (2k orless). 