Find out where people with the family name Barira lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Find Bareera meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Bareera name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Bareera. Bareera Hazrat Ayesha(R.A) ki kaneez or Sahabiya Rasool thin or unho ny Hazrat Ayesha ki pak damni ki gawahi di thi jb unpr munafkin ny ilzam lagaya tha or us k bd Qurain pak ki 10 Ayyat bhi nazil huin thi jo k Hazrat Ayesha ki pak damni ko sabit krti han or is trha Haztat Ayesha (R.A) ki pak damni sabit hogai.
English Meaning: The name Barbara is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land. Popular in medieval Britain after the 3rd century martyr St Barbara. In Catholic custom St. Barbara is a protectress against fire and lightning. American Meaning: The name Barbara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land.
List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Barirah in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Greek Meaning: The name Barbara is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Barbara is: Stranger; Foreigner; Traveler from a foreign land.' From the Greek barbaros. In Catholic custom St. Barbara is a protectress against fire and lightning. American Meaning: The name Barbara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Barira birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Barira ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Barira ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic statu
Barira is a sweet fruit produced by the Arak tree, which is also the tree used for the making of miswak. Barira is an ancient Arab girl name and is derived from the B-R-R (“to be faithful”) root which is used in many places in the Quran, thus it is an indirect Quranic name. Anonymous on Wednesday 10th of December 2014 07:18:10 AM. Barira name meaning is pious(naik) she is a sahabia she is the servent of Hazrat Ayesha R.A. Anonymous on Monday 16th of March 2015 12:26:06 PM. Meaning of Burira is ‘good new’.Burira means a girl who would not be quetioned for her any deed at the day of judgment and will be sent to paradise
The name Tade has the following meaning: Having a heart. It is a male name, suitable for baby boys. Origins. The name Tade is very likely a(n) Hungarian variant of the name Thaddeus. See other suggested Hungarian boy baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Thaddeus. Famous persons. See the meaning of Thaddeus for names of some famous persons with the name Tade or Thaddeus (or their variants). Meaning of Names | Baby Boy Names A-Z | Baby Girl Names A-Z | Top 100 Baby Names | Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Tell Your Friends.