23. Interesting. My 19yo gelding presented with something similar this fall. Pitting ventral edema, no history of trauma, no pain, no fever, no diarrhea, appetite fine, heart sounds normal, chem panel normal, slight anemia, leukopenia and clumping platelets. Ok, so I'm a long-time-lurker but first-time-poster. I am going through a difficult situation. My 18 1/2 year old Arabian mare presented with pitting ventral edema on Saturday the 13th. Vet did an exam. Slight tachycardia and a murmur was heard on auscultation.
Necrotising vasculitis associated with purpura in horses. Purpura hemorrhagica is a noncontagious, type III immune-mediated vasculitis of horses that is characterized by subcutaneous edema of the head, ventral abdomen, and limbs and by petechial hemorrhages of the mucous membranes. The specific finding of S. equi (streptococcal spp are commensals in horses' upper airways) in a horse with ventral edema and petechiated mucous membranes is strongly suggestive of purpura hemorrhagica.
The history may include inappetance, or loss of appetite, lethargy, and fever. Severely affected horses may have a history of high fever (105 – 106° F), depression, ventral edema, weight loss, ataxia, or incoordination, and epistaxis, or nosebleed. The virus is transmitted primarily by blood-feeding horseflies and deerflies. Infection with EIAV results in recurring, cyclic episodes of fever, lethargy, thrombocytopenia, or low platelets, anemia, and in some cases, weight loss, ventral edema, petechiation, or pinpoint bleeding in the skin, hemorrhage, and death.
Customer Question. My horse has recurring ventral edema and has had since he was about 5 years old (I bought him when he was 4). He is a nine year old Lippizan that had surgery on his right rear suspensory ligament about 2 years ago. He has been pastured since the
But we know nothing of the physical exam findings or even whether this horse is currently feeling good or bad. Unfortunately ventral swelling like you describe is a very general sign and can have many causes and it is hard to figure how the colic might figure into it. Sara, There have been no changes in diet for five years. However, this is a 27 year old stallion, so he is a very senior horse, but my favorite out of nine that I have. The nearest vet hospital is 2.5 hours away from me.
Post Number: 396. I have a 9 year old mare that has been on pasture layoff for about a month. I have recently noticed a significant amount of edema under her belly on both sides of her midline. It is about 12 inches long and an inch thick. Right down the center of her midline there is no swelling. 
There are a variety of types of swelling found here. A firm doughy like swelling that settles into the lowest part of a horse’s belly is called ventral edema. Edema is fluid trapped in the tissue planes. Severe swelling of a limb or sheath or injuries elsewhere on the body can overflow or drain down to this area causing edema to develop here. Horses that have had abdominal surgery or have been recently castrated may be expected to have some edema here as healing takes place.