An OCT (Optical Coherence Tomography) camera can instantly obtain cross-section images of sub-surface layers of translucent or opaque materials such as the structure of the retina. OCT scan of a retina at 800nm with an axial resolution of 3µm. Optical Coherence Tomography, or ‘OCT’, is a technique for obtaining sub-surface images of translucent or opaque materials at a resolution equivalent to a low-power microscope. It is effectively ‘optical ultrasound’, imaging reflections from within tissue to provide cross-sectional images.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an established medical imaging technique that uses light to capture micrometer-resolution, three-dimensional images from within optical scattering media (e.g., biological tissue). Optical Coherence Tomography, or ‘OCT’, is a technique for obtaining sub-surface images of translucent or opaque materials at a resolution equivalent to a low-power microscope. It is effectively ‘optical ultrasound’, imaging reflections from within tissue to provide cross-sectional images.
Optical coherence tomography is one of a class of optical tomographic techniques. A relatively recent implementation of optical coherence tomography, frequency-domain optical coherence tomography, provides advantages in signal-to-noise ratio, permitting faster signal acquisition. Optical Coherence Tomography, or ‘OCT’, is a technique for obtaining sub-surface images of translucent or opaque materials at a resolution equivalent to a low-power microscope. It is effectively ‘optical ultrasound’, imaging reflections from within tissue to provide cross-sectional images.
Services. Optical Coherence Tomography, or OCT, is a modern, non-invasive imaging technique using laser light to provide high-resolution cross-sectional images (or tomographs) of the retina. The test is painless and does not require bright lights, and many patients don’t even have their pupils dilated. 
Optical Coherence Tomography, or OCT, is advanced technology used for retinal imaging and analysis. This technology provides highly detailed images of the retina as well as the optic nerve. These cross-sectional images are viewable in 2D and 3D, allowing for topographical mapping of the eye including macular thickness. 1 High definition images For OCT imaging, up to 50 images can be averaged and the OCT sensitivity is selectable among ultra fine, fine, and regular sensitivities based on ocular pathology. 2  The Retina Scan Duo™ has a built-in 12-megapixel CCD camera, producing high quality fundus images.
Introduction. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has evolved over the past decade as one of the most important ancillary tests in ophthalmic practice. It is a noninvasive imaging technique and provides high-resolution, cross-sectional images of the retina, the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and the optic nerve head. Figure 1. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) images obtained using Cirrus high definition OCT (HD-OCT) system, showing increasing signal quality with the technique of image averaging. (a) A single B-scan showing low signal and increased noise.
Overview [edit | edit source]. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive diagnostic technique that renders an in vivo cross sectional view of the retina. OCT utilizes a concept known as inferometry to create a cross-sectional map of the retina that is accurate to within at least 10-15 microns
Purpose of review Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has revolutionized the clinical practice of ophthalmology. It is a noninvasive imaging technique that provides high-resolution, cross-sectional images of the retina, retinal nerve fiber layer and the optic nerve head. Figure 1. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) images obtained using Cirrus high definition OCT (HD-OCT) system, showing increasing signal quality with the technique of image averaging. (a) A single B-scan showing low signal and increased noise.