Cellular Fibro Concrete is a type of cellular concrete produced from a prefabricated dry mix. It is packed in 25 kg bags (easily moved by one person) or in 500 kg big-bags.
Fibro is short for fibrous cement. If you would like to paint a fibro fence, use extreme caution. Most fibro surfaces built before 1980 contain asbestos.
Fibre Reinforced Cement (FRC), or simply fibre cement, is a popular building material developed by James Hardie in the early 1980s, when pioneering the use of alternative reinforcing materials to create asbestos-free cement-based building products.
Nowadays, fibro is reinforced with cellulose rather than asbestos. However, fibro is nowhere near as popular a material as it used to be. If your home contains fibro, there’s a strong likelihood that it is the older, asbestos-containing variety.
“Fibro” is an abbreviation for “fibrous cement sheet”. It’s a building product that uses a fibrous material-most commonly asbestos-to reinforce thin cement sheets. Although asbestos-containing fibro has been used all around the world, historically Australia manufactured most of the world’s fibro, and also had the highest rates of fibro use.
Patents. A dry raw mixture for manufacturing cellular fibro-concrete comprises components preferably in the following ratio: Portland cement 20-75%, mineralogical additives 70-20%, microsilica 2-10%', super-plastifier 0.6-3%, polypropylene fiber 0.08-0.15%, pore former 0.002-0.65%, and modifying ceolite additive...
Claims(7). 1. A raw mixture for manufacturing cellular fibro concrete, said raw mixture comprises the following components: Portland cement, a mineralogical additive, microsilica, super-plastifier, polypropylene fiber, pore former, and modifying ceolite additive.
Fibre cement is an abbreviation for Fibre Reinforced Cement (FRC), and fibre cement building materials were developed by James Hardie in the early 1980s, as a replacement for asbestos-based building products. Fibre cement is a composite material that is made up of sand, cement and cellulose fibres.