You can start feeding your baby cereal at any time of the day. To encourage your baby to eat, you can begin the meal with a few spoonfuls of cereal when your baby’s hungry, and give him breast milk or formula afterwards. Here are some tips for feeding your baby cereal : Make sure he’s sitting up to prevent choking. Once your baby can eat cereal from a spoon, he’s ready to start other pureed foods such as fruits, vegetables, and meats. For more information on this stage, read my article titled “Advancing Baby Foods: Fruits, Vegetables, and Meats.”.
Both of my children started eating baby cereal at about 1.5 - 2 months, and they did just fine. They both started sleeping through the night as well. It is your choice tho, talk to your dr and see what he says. Maybe just try it for a day or so and see how she does with it. Yes | No Thank you! I have been adding 1 TBSP of rice cereal to 4 oz formula for my 3 month old bottle at bedtime and his first bottle of the morning. He does not sleep through the night, but seems more satisfied.
1 Begin with about 1 teaspoon pureed food or cereal. 2  Mix cereal with 4 to 5 teaspoons breast milk or formula (it'll be very runny). 3  Increase to 1 tablespoon of pureed food, or 1 tablespoon of cereal mixed with breast milk or formula, twice a day. 4  If giving cereal, gradually thicken the consistency by using less liquid. 1 Mix cereal with 4 to 5 teaspoons breast milk or formula (it'll be very runny). 2  Increase to 1 tablespoon of pureed food, or 1 tablespoon of cereal mixed with breast milk or formula, twice a day.
Report Abuse. You should NEVER put cereal in your baby's bottle, it is very dangerous and a doctor would very highly discourage this. I started my daughter on cereal at 4 months--the end of her 3rd month. That is what my doc recommended along with all the baby books I have read, lol. My baby is only a month old and I have already had to start giving her a tablespoon of cereal in her 4 ounce bottles. Her formula was not holding her over so I started out increasing her formula and giving her 6 ounces then she would just spit it up. This seems to be working well, but my question is, when can I...
Your baby may be ready for single-grain cereal when he or she: 1  Is 4-6 months old (adjusted age), meaning that your original due date was 4-6 months ago. 2  Usually it’s closer to 6 months. 3  Can sit up with support from a high chair, pillow, Bumbo or Bebepod. 4  Holds his or her head up without help. 
Start Solids at 4-6 Months. That's the recommended time to introduce solid foods -- usually rice cereal mixed with breast milk or formula, to start. But it's not just about age. Before starting solids, your baby should be able to sit up (with support), turn his head away, and make chewing motions.
If you want to give your baby a taste of tofu at age 6 months, go ahead, even though it's not listed on our chart until age 8 months. And while cereal is a traditional first food in the United States, it's just fine to start with mashed fruits or vegetables instead. 1 Mix cereal with 4 to 5 teaspoons breast milk or formula (it'll be very runny). 2  Increase to 1 tablespoon of pureed food, or 1 tablespoon of cereal mixed with breast milk or formula, twice a day.
For most babies, the first solid food is baby cereal. Baby cereal is nutritious and gives your baby good practice eating from a spoon. Be sure to buy iron-fortified baby cereal, since your baby needs the extra iron to grow. Start out with rice cereal, then oatmeal and barley cereals; try wheat and mixed cereals later, since they can cause allergies. Once your baby can eat cereal from a spoon, he’s ready to start other pureed foods such as fruits, vegetables, and meats. For more information on this stage, read my article titled “Advancing Baby Foods: Fruits, Vegetables, and Meats.”.