The layer of the skin that contains the blood vessels and nerves that supply the surface of the skin is the.
The sensitive connective tissue layer of the skin located below the epidermis, containing nerve endings, sweat and sebaceous glands, and blood and lymph vessels. Also called corium, cutis vera, derma.
The integumentary system is responsible for protecting the body, its organs, muscles, and bones. It helps to regulate body temperature, controls water loss, and has receptors that respond to touch. The skin has 2 basic layers: * The outer layer of skin is the epidermis * The inner layer is called the dermis.
der·mis. A layer of skin composed of a thin layer lying under the epidermis, the stratum papillare, and the stratum reticulare; it contains blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves and nerve endings, glands, and, except for glabrous skin, hair follicles. Synonym(s): corium, cutis vera.
Dermis. The basal layer of skin; it contains blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves, glands, and hair follicles. Mentioned in: Burns, Epidermolysis Bullosa, Flesh-Eating Disease, Malignant Melanoma, Skin Grafting.
the layer of the skin just below the epidermis, consisting of papillary and reticular layers and containing blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves and nerve endings, glands, and hair follicles. Formerly called corium. dermal, adj.
The skin is the largest organ of the body, with a surface area of 18 square feet. Its two main layers are the epidermis (outer layer) and dermis (inner layer). The epidermis has several strata (layers) that contain four cell types.
A layer of skin composed of a thin layer lying under the epidermis, the stratum papillare, and the stratum reticulare; it contains blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves and nerve endings, glands, and, except for glabrous skin, hair follicles.
Dermis. The dermis, the skin's next layer, is a thick layer of fibrous and elastic tissue (made mostly of collagen, elastin, and fibrillin) that gives the skin its flexibility and strength. The dermis contains nerve endings, sweat glands and oil (sebaceous) glands, hair follicles, and blood vessels.