: to take (something, such as a machine or structure) apart so that it is in separate pieces. : to destroy (something) in an orderly way: to gradually cause (something) to come to an end. dis·man·tled dis·man·tling \-ˈmant-liŋ, -ˈman-təl-\. Full Definition of DISMANTLE. transitive verb. 1. : to take to pieces; also: to destroy the integrity or functioning of. 2. : to strip of dress or covering: divest. 3. : to strip of furniture and equipment. — dis·man·tle·ment \-ˈman-təl-mənt\ noun.
dismantle verb. › [I or T] to take a ​machine ​apart or to come ​apart into ​separate ​pieces: She dismantled the ​washing ​machine to ​see what the ​problem was, but couldn't put it back together again. The good thing about the ​bike is that it dismantles if you ​want to put it in the back of the ​car. The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States. A billion in the United States is considerably.
[+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. : to destroy (something) in an orderly way: to gradually cause (something) to come to an end. The after-school program was dismantled due to lack of funding. He accuses them of trying to dismantle the country's legal system. 
› [I or T] to take a ​machine ​apart or to come ​apart into ​separate ​pieces: She dismantled the ​washing ​machine to ​see what the ​problem was, but couldn't put it back together again. The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States. A billion in the United States is considerably.
Synonyms and Antonyms of DISMANTLE. Synonyms break down, demount, dismantle, dismember, dismount, knock down, strike, take down. Related Words detach, disengage; break up, disaggregate, disarticulate, disconnect, disjoin, disjoint, dissever, disunite, divide, separate. Near Antonyms build, erect, pitch; combine, unite. Antonyms assemble, construct
See Mantle.] 1. To strip or deprive of dress; to divest. [1913 Webster] 2. To strip of furniture and equipments, guns, etc.; to unrig; to strip of walls or outworks; to break down; as, to dismantle a fort, a town, or a ship. [1913 Webster] A dismantled house, without windows or shutters to keep out the rain. --Macaulay.
This is the British English definition of dismantle. View American English definition of dismantle. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for dismantle. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of dismantle from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
The Enterprise was, therefore, unloaded and dismantled, and Mr. Astoria or Anecdotes of an enterprise beyond the Rocky Mountains by Irving, Washington View in context. She was delighted to know that the Esplanade Street house was in a dismantled condition. 