1 Installing Electrical Boxes for Light Switches. 2  The average height for light switches is 46 inches from the floor to the center of the switch box. 3  Installing Electrical Boxes for Outlets. 4  The average height for outlets is 12 inches from the floor to the center of the outlet box. Home electrical wiring includes 110 volt outlets and 220 volt outlets and receptacles which are common place in every home. See how wiring electrical outlets for the home are done.
Measure 48 inches from the floor with a tape measure and make a mark on the wall or the stud for the center of the box, using a pencil. If the floor is unfinished, add the thickness of the floor covering. For example, if you plan to install 3/4-inch hardwood floors, add 3/4 inches to the measurement. 1 If you prefer to install the switches lower than the standard 48 inches, there's no restriction, as long as they aren't too low for someone in a wheelchair to access them. 2  The minimum allowable height, according to the Fair Housing Act, is 15 inches from the floor.
electrical outlet height above countertop. What is the proper height for the electrical outlets above the countertop. i think my contractor has put them in a little low an i dont want them to be square in the middle of the backsplash. Comment6 Bookmark Like. Email. Comments (6). Thank you for reporting this comment.
California also sets a maximum height -- 48 inches to the top of the box -- the same as required by the ADA. When installing an electrical outlet outdoors, the box must be at least 6 1/2 inches above grade, and in garages, they should be 18 inches or more above the floor, as measured from the center of each box. Although the National Electrical Code doesn't specify a minimum or maximum vertical height for receptacles, it does require them to be spaced such that no point on the wall is farther than 6 feet from a plug.
1 The average height for outlets is 12 inches from the floor to the center of the outlet box. 2  Remodeling and Upgrading Home Electrical Wiring. 3  When upgrading home electrical wiring or remodeling the actual height can be adjusted so the elevations of the switches and outlets will match other existing outlets and switches. Home electrical wiring includes 110 volt outlets and 220 volt outlets and receptacles which are common place in every home. See how wiring electrical outlets for the home are done.
Height & spacing of electrical receptacles or outlets in buildings: Requirements for electrical receptacle (outlet or wall plug) spacing, height, and clearances in buildings. In general electrical receptacles are installed along building walls such that at no point along the wall is the distance to the nearest electrical receptacle more than six feet. Short answer: garage receptacle height is a practice suggestion not an electrical code requirement. NEC 210.52(G) requires at least one receptacle, in addition to those for specific equipment, to be installed in each attached garage and in each detached garage with electric power.
up vote 2 down vote accepted. There are no set rules for the height of receptacles on walls or over counters, even in a bathroom. Good practice is to keep them at least 4 inches above a counter top or backsplash and not directly over a sink or under a window. 
There is no code on the height of electrical outlets. You have a standard height of 16 to the top of the outlet box, and a standard height of 48 to the top of the switch box. Then, there are custom heights in which different company use accordingly to the home owner or builder. Outlets can be installed at whatever height is comfortable for the intended use. The only NEC requirement is that you must be within 8 foot of an outlet along any wall. Outlets may no longer be located directly under a window. A common height for a wall outlet is between 12 to 16 inches to the bottom of the device. In rare instances, outlets are still installed in baseboards and in the floor with proper box/covers
There is no NEC standard for height. Average is 12-18 inches or match the existing ones. Stand for spacing in between is 5-6 ft depending on the room lay out. Garage should be a minimum 15 inches above the floor and have at least one GFCI circuit. If there is an electronic door opener ther should be an out let installed within about two feet of the power unit for the motor. Extension cords not allowed.