Use the FatSecret food diary to track your diet. There are thousands of foods and recipes in the FatSecret database to choose from, with detailed nutritional information including calories, fat and protein for each serving size. You may also add one of the many great recipes and food ideas submitted by our members
Nutrition in the Flatbread. The 6-inch flatbread has 220 calories, 4.5 grams of fat, 38 grams of carbohydrates and 7 grams of protein, or 14 percent of the daily value. These values are similar to those of the other 6-inch sandwich breads at Subway. The flatbread has 340 milligrams of sodium compared to 270 milligrams in the Italian and nine-grain wheat breads and 1,240 milligrams of sodium in the roasted garlic bread.
Carbs in Flatbread. The favorite choice for the term Flatbread is 1 slice of Italian Flatbread Focaccia which has about 27 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Flatbread is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins
Because flatbread pizza was apparently too long, Subway now offers new Flatizzas. The new menu item basically takes a square of flatbread (i.e. a roughly six-inch flatbread) and tops it with marinara sauce, mozzarella cheese, and one of four topping combinations. The available choices are: Cheese, Pepperoni, Spicy Italian, and Veggie. 
1 Calories Burned For Nordic Walking (with poles): 3.5 mph (17 minutes per mile). 2  Calories Burned For Nordic Walking (with poles): 4 mph (15 minutes per mile). 3  Calories Burned For Nordic Walking (with poles): 4.6 mph (13 minutes per mile). 1 Calories Burned For Nordic Walking (with poles): 2.5 mph (24 minutes per mile). 2  Calories Burned For Nordic Walking (with poles): 3.5 mph (17 minutes per mile). 3  Calories Burned For Nordic Walking (with poles): 4 mph (15 minutes per mile). 4
1 Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 6 mph (10 minutes per mile). 2  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 6.6 mph (9 minutes per mile). 3  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 7.5 mph (8 minutes per mile). 1 Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 5.45 mph (11 minutes per mile). 2  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 6 mph (10 minutes per mile). 3  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 6.6 mph (9 minutes per mile). 4  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5% Incline, 7.5 mph (8 minutes per mile).
Disclaimer. Please note that these nutrition values are estimated based on our standard serving portions. As food servings may have a slight variance each time you visit, please expect these values to be with in 10% +/- of your actual meal. If you have any questions about our nutrition calculator, please contact Nutritionix. Please select an item in Step 1. From the Blog: Nutritionix launches free iOS app!