Generally, a product manager manages one or more tangible products. However, the term may be used to describe a person who manages intangible products, such as music, information, and services. A product manager's role in tangible goods industries is similar to a program director 's role in service industries. Diverse interpretations regarding the role of the product manager are the norm. The product manager title is often used in many ways to describe drastically different duties and responsibilities. Notable individuals who have held the role of product manager in a software development company include Marissa Mayer (CEO of Yahoo!), Premal Shah (president of Kiva.org), Reid Hoffman (founder of LinkedIn), and Kevin Systrom (founder of Instagram).
The production manager job description outlines the core tasks and responsibilities of the production management role. Regardless of the industry, the production manager's main function is to ensure the efficient and timely production of goods. According to Indeed.com the average salary for job postings for a Production Manager in the US is $71,000 as of October 2015.
Production Managers organize the business, finance and employment issues in film and television productions. As a Production Manager, you would be in charge of how the production budget is spent and making sure that everything runs smoothly during filming. You could work your way up through the industry to become a Production Manager in various ways. For example you could start as a runner or an assistant or secretary in the production office, and progress to production coordinator then assistant production manager.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Production Manager in the United States is $89,731 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Production Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $89,731. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $89,731. 
A unit production manager (UPM) is the Directors Guild of America –approved title for the top below-the-line staff position responsible for the administration of a feature film or TV production. Alternate titles for this role on non-DGA signatory productions are production manager or production supervisor. A UPM is usually hired by a film producer or television producer, and is responsible for managing the production and regulating the costs of delivering the expected film or television show on budget at the end of principal photography.
However, in modern times, it's not uncommon to have a single yet highly devoted control freak to supervise scores of employees. HowTo: Be A Production Manager is the perfect guide for anyone who finds themselves thrown into this lucrative position through nepotism, extortion or influential friends. A Production Manager essentially acts as the liaison between the office staff and the dregs of society known as production workers. 
Industrial production managers oversee the daily operations of manufacturing and related plants. They coordinate, plan, and direct the activities used to create a wide range of goods, such as cars, computer equipment, or paper products. The median annual wage for industrial production managers was $89,190 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in the occupation earned more than the amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $54,250, and the top 10 percent earned more than $150,020.
Photo: Production manager consulting with the stage manager. The production manager is ultimately responsible for ensuring that all aspects of the production are completed within budget, according to the designer's and director's wishes, and in time for the first public performance. He or she oversees the cost effectiveness and planning of the entire production process. The production manager will then decide on the capitalization of the project--that is, the production budget plus a contingency fund to sustain the show until it is on its feet. In some theatres, he or she also determines how many weeks it will take to recover the production costs at varying levels of business.
Production Manager Job Profile and Description. Production manager is an individual who plans, coordinates, organizes, and controls production in an organization. A production manager’s main responsibilities are to ensure the efficient production of goods and services and are of right quantity, quality, and cost. In addition to this, it is the manager’s responsibility to produce goods on time and at right price to meet the demands of the customer. 