The adjective FIDUCIAL has 3 senses: 1. relating to or of the nature of a legal trust (i.e. the holding of something in trust for another). 2. used as a fixed standard of reference for comparison or measurement. 3. based on trust. Familiarity information: FIDUCIAL used as an adjective is uncommon. 
The CyberKnife system is a method of delivering radiotherapy, with the intention of targeting treatment more accurately than standard radiotherapy. The two main elements of the CyberKnife are: 1  the radiation produced from a small linear particle accelerator (linac). 
Image Guided Radiation Therapy. In order to ensure precise delivery of radiation therapy for the treatment of cancerous and non-cancerous tumors, doctors previously had to rely on data from previous testing that had potentially undergone change by the time treatment was initiated. 
Specific Clinical Situations Potentially Requiring Fiducial Placement. 1  Spine lesions – In cases where spine fiducials are required, we will normally recommend 3-6 Stainless Steel Screws, placed by a neurosurgeon or interventional radiologist. There may be other appropriate fiducial placement methods as well, including endoscopic or surgical approaches, if determined best by the participating physicians. To track lesions in 6 degrees (translational and rotational movements), fiducials may be recommended, depending upon the exact circumstance and lesion.
Fiducials help ensure target accuracy. Fiducial markers are gold seeds or stainless steel screws that are implanted in and/or around a soft tissue tumor, or within the bony spine, to act as a radiologic landmark, to define the target lesion's position with millimeter precision. There may be other appropriate fiducial placement methods as well, including endoscopic or surgical approaches, if determined best by the participating physicians. To track lesions in 6 degrees (translational and rotational movements), fiducials may be recommended, depending upon the exact circumstance and lesion.
IZI Medical Products provides standard and elongated gold markers to better verify localization. IZI provides various gold fiducial markers to meet your specific needs to enhance accuracy and efficiency during radiation therapy. 
The NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms features 7,842 terms related to cancer and medicine. Browse the dictionary by selecting a letter of the alphabet or by entering a cancer-related word or phrase in the search box. The search textbox has an autosuggest feature. When you enter three or more characters, a list of up to 10 suggestions will popup under the textbox. 
fiducial marks. Any marker built into an aerial camera that registers its image on an aerial photograph as a fixed reference mark in the form of an image is called a fiducial mark. These are usually four fiducial marks on a photograph and are used to define the principal point of the photograph. Their appearance on the image permits various calibrations, such as determination of the degree of enlargement needed to fit the picture to the rectification grids.
fi•du•cial. 1. accepted as a fixed basis of reference or comparison: a fiducial point. 2. based on or having trust: fiducial dependence upon God. fīdūciālis = Latin fīdūci(a) trust (akin to fīdere to trust) + -ālis-al 1 ]. fi•du′cial•ly, adv.
Coins also make good fiducial markers. A fiducial marker or fiducial is an object placed in the field of view of an imaging system which appears in the image produced, for use as a point of reference or a measure. It may be either something placed into or on the imaging subject, or a mark or set of marks in the reticle of an optical instrument. 