The health benefits of turmeric have been slowly revealing themselves over the centuries. Long known for its anti-inflammatory properties, recent research has revealed that it can be helpful in the treatment of many different health conditions from cancer to Alzheimer’s disease. Turmeric can be taken in powder or capsule form. Capsules are usually sold in 250-500 mg increments. Once you start using turmeric on a regular basis, it’s fun to find new ways to use it in recipes. My favorite way to use it is to add a pinch of it to egg salad.
The curcumin found in turmeric is effective in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, known as IBD, including ulcerative colitis and 1961286323 Chron's Disease. Research shows the anti-inflammatory properties of turmeric reduce the symptoms of these illnesses while protecting the intestinal wall. Popular in medicine throughout the centuries for its soothing properties, turmeric was taken internally for relief of stomach upset, food poisoning and as a purifier for the blood. It was also used to treat: 1  Jaundice. 2  Flatulence.
Tips on Turmeric. Botanical name: Curcuma longa. Belonging to the ginger family, turmeric has been used in East India and the Middle East for thousands of years, and is now one of the most highly-prized spices in the world. It's actually unclear whether it was first used for its peppery flavor and the unique kick it lends to foods. Turmeric has been used as a powerful anti-inflammatory in Chinese and Indian medicine for millennia. Curcumin, the primary pharmacological agent in this spice, contains proven effects in this area that are comparable to over-the-counter anti-inflammatory agents as well as some prescription medications.
Curcumin, the active ingredient in turmeric, is a powerful antioxidant. It helps to reduce and neutralize free radicals, which damage and destroy your cells and DNA. Curcumin also reduces two inflammation-promoting enzymes in your body and is therefore an effective anti-inflammatory agent. Turmeric is a spice derived from the rhizome and root of the Curcuma longa plant, which is native to India and Indonesia. People have consumed turmeric for its flavor and health-promoting properties for 4,000 years. Curcumin is the major active ingredient responsible for turmeric’s medicinal properties
Botanical name: Curcuma longa Belonging to the ginger family, turmeric has been used in East India and the Middle East for thousands of years, and is now one of the most highly-prized spices in the world. It's actually unclear whether it was first used for its peppery flavor and the unique kick it lends to foods. Turmeric has been used as a powerful anti-inflammatory in Chinese and Indian medicine for millennia. Curcumin, the primary pharmacological agent in this spice, contains proven effects in this area that are comparable to over-the-counter anti-inflammatory agents as well as some prescription medications.
One of the health benefits of turmeric that is believed to be a natural liver detoxifier. One study found that it may protect against alcohol-induced liver damage as well as damage caused by a high fat diet. PARKINSON’S DISEASE. Curcumin crosses the blood-brain barrier and is a known neuroprotective agent. Turmeric can be taken in powder or capsule form. Capsules are usually sold in 250-500 mg increments. Once you start using turmeric on a regular basis, it’s fun to find new ways to use it in recipes. My favorite way to use it is to add a pinch of it to egg salad.
Over the years, researchers have been learning more and more about the health benefits of turmeric and its active component, curcumin. It’s been eight years since we first published the 20 Health Benefits of Turmeric and I decided that it’s time for an update with links to the latest studies. Turmeric can be taken in powder or capsule form. Capsules are usually sold in 250-500 mg increments. Once you start using turmeric on a regular basis, it’s fun to find new ways to use it in recipes. My favorite way to use it is to add a pinch of it to egg salad.
It is also known to be antibacterial and antiseptic. Used as an anti-inflammatory agent, turmeric does not produce toxicity or any of the general side effects of over the counter or prescription medications. Turmeric is comparable to the following medications: 1  Hydrocortisone. 2  Phenylbutazone. 3  Motrin. Popular in medicine throughout the centuries for its soothing properties, turmeric was taken internally for relief of stomach upset, food poisoning and as a purifier for the blood. It was also used to treat: 1  Jaundice. 2  Flatulence.