Definition of:PN junction. The interface at which p-type silicon and n-type silicon make contact with each other. At this coupling point, free electrons (n-type) and holes (p-type) cancel each other and form a depletion zone that acts as a non-conductive barrier. Diodes and Thyristors. A diode (one way valve) is a PN junction with p-type on one side and n-type on the other. When a positive voltage is applied to the p-type side (forward bias), it shrinks and overcomes the depletion zone, causing the current to flow from the p-type to the n-type side.
The PN junction. In the previous tutorial we saw how to make an N-type semiconductor material by doping a silicon atom with small amounts of Antimony and also how to make a P-type semiconductor material by doping another silicon atom with Boron. PN Junction Distance. As the N-type material has lost electrons and the P-type has lost holes, the N-type material has become positive with respect to the P-type.
Depletion Region. When a p-n junction is formed, some of the free electrons in the n-region diffuse across the junction and combine with holes to form negative ions. In so doing they leave behind positive ions at the donor impurity sites. Near the junction, electrons diffuse across to combine with holes, creating a  depletion region . The energy level sketch above right is a way to visualize the equilibrium condition of the P-N junction. The upward direction in the diagram represents increasing electron energy.
A silicon p–n junction in reverse bias. Connecting the p-type region to the negative terminal of the battery and the n-type region to the positive terminal corresponds to reverse bias. If a diode is reverse-biased, the voltage at the cathode is comparatively higher than the anode. The electrons that cross the p–n junction into the p-type material (or holes that cross into the n-type material) will diffuse in the near-neutral region. Therefore, the amount of minority diffusion in the near-neutral zones determines the amount of current that may flow through the diode.
A p–n junction. The circuit symbol is shown: the triangle corresponds to the p side. See also: p–n diode and Diode § Semiconductor diodes. A p–n junction is a boundary or interface between two types of semiconductor material, p-type and n-type, inside a single crystal of semiconductor. The electrons that cross the p–n junction into the p-type material (or holes that cross into the n-type material) will diffuse in the near-neutral region. Therefore, the amount of minority diffusion in the near-neutral zones determines the amount of current that may flow through the diode.
As a result, the charge density of the P-type along the junction is filled with negatively charged acceptor ions (NA), and the charge density of the N-type along the junction becomes positive. This charge transfer of electrons and holes across the PN junction is known as diffusion. PN Junction Distance. As the N-type material has lost electrons and the P-type has lost holes, the N-type material has become positive with respect to the P-type.
Formation of a PN-Junction. 1  Joining n-type material with p-type material causes excess electrons in the n-type material to diffuse to the p-type side and excess holes from the p-type material to diffuse to the n-type side. Overview