Kaplan’s online Associate of Applied Science in Health Information Technology (HIT) degree program prepares students with the education and technical skills required to pursue positions in the health information management (HIM) industry. The Associate’s degree in Health Information Technology offers major courses, as well as a real-world, 90-hour externship/Capstone experience in an approved healthcare setting. Students need 92 credit hours to obtain the degree.
Bachelor's Degrees in Health Information Technology. Health information technology bachelor's degree programs prepare students for careers in healthcare information administration and management. For most of these higher-level career paths, a bachelor's degree is the mandatory starting point. For many careers in health information technology, an associate degree is the foundation for obtaining entry-level jobs. Associate's degree programs focus on information management, computer technology, medical procedure and billing, health insurance, and healthcare administration.
Educational requirements vary depending on the individual's career goal, but most health information technology careers require at least an associate's degree. A background in business, computer science, English, math, biology and chemistry is a good foundation. Health Information Technology Career Information. Health information technology (HIT) is the comprehensive management of electronic health records, including patient medical histories and billing information such as hospital entry and consent forms, medical charts and X-rays.
Registered health information technicians (RHITs) are custodians of one of the most important tools in modern health care—the medical record. These professionals ensure that patients’ histories are accurate, complete, up to date and properly entered into the clinical database. RHITs are experts in medical terminology, computer technology and disease process. In order to ensure the confidentiality of patient records, they adhere closely to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a set of rules governing the privacy and sharing of personal health information.
At American Career College, our Associate of Occupational Science degree in Health Information Technology is designed to provide you with the appropriate general education, didactic theory and hands-on skills required to begin and/or enhance a career in Health Information Technology. Graduates of this program may pursue entry-level positions involving health information technology in a variety of health care settings. Completion of the program is acknowledged by the awarding of an Associate of Occupational Science degree.
Health information technicians may advance to other health information positions by receiving additional education and certifications. Technicians can advance to a medical or health services manager after completing a bachelor’s or master’s degree program and taking the required certification courses. Medical records and health information technicians, commonly referred to as health information technicians, organize and manage health information data. They ensure its quality, accuracy, accessibility, and security in both paper and electronic systems.
To be eligible for RHIT certification, candidates must hold an associate's degree in health information technology from an accredited organization. High school students can prepare by taking courses in computers, math, health and biology. RHITs are experts in medical terminology, computer technology and disease process. In order to ensure the confidentiality of patient records, they adhere closely to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a set of rules governing the privacy and sharing of personal health information.
Degree Information. An associate's degree in health information technology prepares graduates for entry-level positions in this field. Coursework includes medical terminology, data analysis, clinical classification and coding systems, database security and management, anatomy and physiology. Health Information Technology Career Information. Health information technology (HIT) is the comprehensive management of electronic health records, including patient medical histories and billing information such as hospital entry and consent forms, medical charts and X-rays.
1 From Associate to Bachelor’s. 2  When you earn an associate degree in Health Information Technology, you can be prepared to take the next step in your career. 3  You’ll also be prepared to sit for the Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) exam, which when completed successfully can help increase your employability. Reach Your Career Goals with a Stackable Degree. The Health Information Technology Associate Degree program helps you earn credentials employers recognize and prepare you for a career in the growing health information field. The program is also part of a stackable degree path that allows you to earn an associate or bachelor’s degree one step at a time