The orbiter is the part of the craft that gets the lander to the other celestial body. A Rover is a mechanized transport for use on the surface. It sometimes transports humans, and sometimes it transports remotely controlled scientific equipment. This depends on the mission in question. For the Apollo missions, the orbiter, lander and rover were manned craft.
What’s the difference between Land Rover and Range Rover. The short answer to this question is simple: both are marques manufactured by the Tata Group’s Jaguar Land Rover group. Land Rovers are utilitarian SUVs, whereas Range Rovers are targeted more toward the ‘premium’ segment. One thought on “What’s the difference between Land Rover and Range Rover”. says: May 3, 2015 at 3:14 pm.
A lander is a spacecraft which descends toward and comes to rest on the surface of an astronomical body. Lander means the soft landing after that probe stays active while impact probe (as a rule, preceding the lander) just achieves the surface by hard landing with crush. 
Report Abuse. The lander is the part of the craft that breaks orbit to actually land on the body in question. It is designed to land under controlled conditions, and does not move once there. A Rover is a mechanized transport for use on the surface. It sometimes transports humans, and sometimes it transports remotely controlled scientific equipment. This depends on the mission in question. For the Apollo missions, the orbiter, lander and rover were manned craft.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Roxydylan. Confidence votes 13. the difference between a probe and a lander is a lander is a spacecraft that desends and comes to rest on the surface of a planet/space object. while a probe is a device used to collect items and run tests to collect data. 
Bosch vs GEMS Engines. Learn the differences between Bosch and GEMS V8 engines found in Land Rover Discovery I, Discovery II and Range Rover models. Jim shows how to determine whether your Land Rover is equipped with an ACE suspension.
A rover (or sometimes planetary rover) is a space exploration vehicle designed to move across the surface of a planet or other celestial body. Some rovers have been designed to transport members of a human spaceflight crew; others have been partially or fully autonomous robots. 
Spacecraft: Lander. The Lander Structure. The spacecraft lander is a protective shell that houses the rover and protects it, along with the airbags, from the forces of impact. The lander is a strong, lightweight structure, consisting of a base and three sides petals in the shape of a tetrahedron (pyramid-shaped). The Lander structure consists of beams and sheets that are made from a composite material.