Neurotransmitters and Neuroactive Peptides. Communication of information between neurons is accomplished by movement of chemicals across a small gap called the synapse. Chemicals, called neurotransmitters, are released from one neuron at the presynaptic nerve terminal. Dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine are a group of neurotransmitters called catecholamines. Norepinephrine is also called noradrenalin and epinephrine is also called adrenalin. Each of these neurotransmitters is produced in a step-by-step fashion by a different enzyme.
In a typical chemical synapse between two neurons, the neuron from which the nerve impulse arrives is called the presynaptic neuron. The neuron to which the neurotransmitters (chemical messengers) bind is called the postsynaptic neuron. GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that is very widely distributed in the neurons of the cortex. GABA contributes to motor control, vision, and many other cortical functions. It also regulates anxiety.
A neurotransmitter is a chemical or peptide in synapses usually between neurons, a neuron and muscle or a neuron and other organ which functions to transmit information to and … from and within the brain. Share to: 1  Inside the Brain: What is a Neurotransmitter? 2  Reuptake Inhibitor: A Psychological Definition Reuptake inhibitors increase the amount of available chemicals in the brain, called neurotransmitters. 3  What Chemical Causes Depression? 4  What Does Marijuana Do to the Brain? 5  What Is a Neurotransmitter? 6  Why Is Nicotine Addictive?
SYNAPSES. However, a nerve impulse can also be transmitted from a sensory receptor cell to a neuron, or from a neuron to a set of muscles to make them contract, or from a neuron to an endocrine gland to make it secrete a hormone. In these last two cases, the connection points are called neuromuscular and neuroglandular junctions. GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that is very widely distributed in the neurons of the cortex. GABA contributes to motor control, vision, and many other cortical functions. It also regulates anxiety.
A presynaptic neuron has several specialized structures that distinguish it from a postsynaptic neuron. The terminal button of the presynaptic neuron’s axon contains mitochondria as well as microtubules that transport the neurotransmitters from the cell body (where they are produced) to the tip of the axon. GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that is very widely distributed in the neurons of the cortex. GABA contributes to motor control, vision, and many other cortical functions. It also regulates anxiety.
When a neurotransmitter is released from the presynaptic cell in response to depolarization of the cell by an action potential, it diffuses across the synaptic cleft and binds a receptor or ligand-gated ion channel on the postsynaptic cell. 
The ends of the axons are clusters of terminal buttons. Terminal buttons are small knobs that secrete chemicals called the neurotransmitters. These chemicals serve as that messengers that may activate neighboring neurons. Share to: 1  Inside the Brain: What is a Neurotransmitter? 2  Reuptake Inhibitor: A Psychological Definition Reuptake inhibitors increase the amount of available chemicals in the brain, called neurotransmitters. 3  What Chemical Causes Depression? 4  What Does Marijuana Do to the Brain? 5  What Is a Neurotransmitter? 6  Why Is Nicotine Addictive?
Share to: They provide a signal to or from the brain to the neurons in the body in response to a stimulus such and being burned. The neurotransmitters send a signal to the brain that th … ere is pain and the brain sends back a signal to the muscles to move the hand away from the heat. Share to: 1  Inside the Brain: What is a Neurotransmitter? 2  Reuptake Inhibitor: A Psychological Definition Reuptake inhibitors increase the amount of available chemicals in the brain, called neurotransmitters. 3  What Chemical Causes Depression? 4  What Does Marijuana Do to the Brain? 5  What Is a Neurotransmitter? 6  Why Is Nicotine Addictive?
Acetylcholine (ACh) is a common neurotransmitter secreted by a variety of neurons. It binds to two different receptors-Ionotropic (fast) nicotinic receptors and metabotropic (slow) muscarinic receptors. 1  role in central nervous system. 2  role in peripheral nervous system. 3  receptors and signaling. 4  agonists and antagonists. 
up vote 4 down vote favorite. 1. I know that neurons communicate between each other by filling the junction between dendrites with neurotransmitters. What interests me is if a single neuron only works with one type of neurotransmitter(ex: serotonin), or if it can secrete/receive all of them (serotonin, dopamine, etc). 