1 The amount of organic carbon stored in soil is the sum of inputs to soil (plant and animal residues) and losses from soil (decomposition, erosion and offtake in plant and animal production). 2  The maximum capacity of soil to store organic carbon is determined by soil type (% clay). Total OC is the amount of carbon in the materials related to living organisms or derived from them. In Australian soils, total OC is usually less than 8 % of total soil weight (Spain et al. , 1983) and under rainfed farming it is typically 0.7 – 4 %.
Background. Recent interest in carbon sequestration has raised questions about how much organic carbon (OC) can be stored in soil. Total OC is the amount of carbon in the materials related to living organisms or derived from them. In Australian soils, total OC is usually less than 8 % of total soil weight (Spain et al. , 1983) and under rainfed farming it is typically 0.7 – 4 %.
The carbon cycle is a fundamental part of life on earth. ‘Soil organic carbon’ (SOC) – the amount of carbon stored in the soil is a component of soil organic matter – plant and animal materials in the soil that are in various stages of decay. Soil organic carbon is the basis of soil fertility. It releases nutrients for plant growth, promotes the structure, biological and physical health of soil, and is a buffer against harmful substances. The amount of soil organic carbon present in soil can vary hugely according to soil and landscape types,an and c climate an change in the same paddock over time depending on climate and farming methods.
When plant residues are returned to the soil, various organic compounds undergo decomposition. Decomposition is a biological process that includes the physical breakdown and biochemical transformation of complex organic molecules of dead material into simpler organic and inorganic molecules (Juma, 1998). 
Carbon, as it relates to the organic matter of soils, is a major component of soil and catchment health. Several factors affect the variation that exists in soil organic matter and soil carbon; the most significant has, in contemporary times, been the influence of humans and agricultural systems. Soil carbon plays a key role in the carbon cycle, and thus it is important in global climate models.
1 The maximum capacity of soil to store organic carbon is determined by soil type (% clay). 2  Management practices that maximise plant growth and minimise losses of organic carbon from soil will result in greatest organic carbon storage in soil. Total OC is the amount of carbon in the materials related to living organisms or derived from them. In Australian soils, total OC is usually less than 8 % of total soil weight (Spain et al. , 1983) and under rainfed farming it is typically 0.7 – 4 %.
Soil carbon. Carbon can also be stored in the soil itself in the form of old organic matter. Depending on the depth of soil investigated, the nutrient level of the soil and the availability of water, grassland soil can have either a similar or much lower amount of carbon than does the soil beneath forests. Since carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas, one strategy that can partially combat global warming and climate change is to increase the amount of carbon stored in plants.
Soil organic carbon is part of the natural carbon cycle, and the world’s soils holds around twice the amount of carbon that is found in the atmosphere and in vegetation. Organic material is manufactured by plants using carbon dioxide from the air and water. The amount of soil organic carbon present in soil can vary hugely according to soil and landscape types,an and c climate an change in the same paddock over time depending on climate and farming methods.
Soil carbon is the generic name for carbon held within the soil, primarily in association with its organic content. Soil carbon is the largest terrestrial pool of carbon, containing 2,200 gigatonnes (Gt) of it. Humans increasingly influence the size of this pool. Soil carbon plays a key role in the carbon cycle, and thus it is important in global climate models.
A carbon sink is a natural or artificial reservoir that accumulates and stores some carbon-containing chemical compound for an indefinite period. The process by which carbon sinks remove carbon dioxide (CO 2) from the atmosphere is known as carbon sequestration. Terra preta, an anthropogenic, high-carbon soil, is also being investigated as a sequestration mechanism. By pyrolysing biomass, about half of its carbon can be reduced to charcoal, which can persist in the soil for centuries, and makes a useful soil amendment, especially in tropical soils (biochar or agrichar).