1 Use my Google account-This will allow you to reset your Facebook password by logging in with your Google account. 2  Email me a link to reset my password-This will send an email to the address listed with a link to set a new password. 1 Email me a link to reset my password-This will send an email to the address listed with a link to set a new password. 2  Text me a code to reset my password-This will send an SMS to the phone number listed with a code that will allow you to reset your password.
1 Step 3: Type the Security code shown in the box and then click Submit. 2  This is used to prevent automatic hacking attempts. 3  Step 4: Identify your account, if the account matched your search, click This Is My Account link. 4  Step 5: Press Reset Password to require a Facebook password reset Email. 1 Step 2: Type your email, phone number or username into the screen. 2  Step 3: Type the Security code shown in the box and then click Submit. 3  This is used to prevent automatic hacking attempts. 4
To see if you have these options: 1  Go to the Facebook login page and click Forgot your password? or Can't login? in the top right. 2  Fill out the form to identify your account. 3  Select I forgot my password on the next page if prompted. 4  Look at the list of email addresses listed on your account. 5  Follow the directions provided to answer your security ... 
1 Step 5: Press Reset Password to require a Facebook password reset Email. 2  Step 6: Click the link in your Email with a six-digit Facebook reset code and answer any security questions by Facebook. 3  This brings back to the Facebook website. 4  Step 7: Enter a new password and then confirm it. 1 Step 2: Type your email, phone number or username into the screen. 2  Step 3: Type the Security code shown in the box and then click Submit. 3  This is used to prevent automatic hacking attempts. 4  Step 4: Identify your account, if the account matched your search, click This Is My Account link.
1 Step 4: Identify your account, if the account matched your search, click This Is My Account link. 2  Step 5: Press Reset Password to require a Facebook password reset Email. 3  Step 6: Click the link in your Email with a six-digit Facebook reset code and answer any security questions by Facebook. 1 Step 2: Type your email, phone number or username into the screen. 2  Step 3: Type the Security code shown in the box and then click Submit. 3  This is used to prevent automatic hacking attempts. 4 
How to Change Your Facebook Password. You may want to change your Facebook password because you're worried that someone else has been accessing your account. Even if that isn't the case, it's a good idea to change your password from time to time to stay protected. If you want to know how to change your password in just a few easy steps, follow along
This is located beneath the password field at the top of the Facebook login page. 3. Find your account. You can enter your email address, phone number, username, or full name to try to locate your account. 1  You can enter any of the emails that are associated with your account, so try each one that you can remember one at a time. 1 Email me a link to reset my password-This will send an email to the address listed with a link to set a new password. 2  Text me a code to reset my password-This will send an SMS to the phone number listed with a code that will allow you to reset your password.
1 Step 6: Click the link in your Email with a six-digit Facebook reset code and answer any security questions by Facebook. 2  This brings back to the Facebook website. 3  Step 7: Enter a new password and then confirm it. 4  Click Change Password button. 1 Step 2: Type your email, phone number or username into the screen. 2  Step 3: Type the Security code shown in the box and then click Submit. 3  This is used to prevent automatic hacking attempts. 4  Step 4: Identify your account, if the account matched your search, click This Is My Account link.
If you can't log into Facebook and need to reset your password: 1  Go to the Facebook login screen at www.facebook.com. Related topics: I'm not receiving the email to reset my password. I can’t reset my password because I can't access the email address listed on my account. I can't reset my password because I've reached a password reset limit.
Change your Facebook password regularly is necessary for the consideration of security. Here are the detailed tutorials to change Facebook login password 1  : Step 1. Click on the Account link from the Home or Profile Page. 2  Choose the Account Settings link from the drop box. 3  Step 2. 4  In the Setting tab on My Account page, click on change next to the Password category. 5  Step 3. 1 Step 1. Click on the Account link from the Home or Profile Page. 2  Choose the Account Settings link from the drop box. 3  Step 2. 4  In the Setting tab on My Account page, click on change next to the Password category. 5  Step 3. 6  The form appears to change your password.