Though the hippocampus is an essential brain structure for the proper functioning of long-term memory, it cannot be regarded as the “memory centre” in the same sense that the occipital cortex, for example, can be regarded as the centre for processing visual information. The hippocampus is a very old part of the cortex, evolutionarily, and is located in the inner fold of the temporal lobe. All of the pieces of information decoded in the various sensory areas of the cortex converge in the hippocampus, which then sends them back where they came from.
Deep inside the medial temporal lobe is the region of the brain known as the limbic system, which includes the hippocampus, the amygdala, the cingulate gyrus, the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the epithalamus, the mammillary body and other organs, many of which are of particular relevance to the processing of memory. Another sub-cortical systems (inside the cerebral cortex) which is essential to memory function is the basal ganglia system, particularly the striatum (or neostriatum) which is important in the formation and retrieval of procedural memory.
Hence it is no surprise that the part of the brain that seems most active during one of the most human of activities is located precisely in this prefrontal region that is well developed only in human beings. Human memory is a complex phenomenon, however, and of course involves other regions of the brain as well. The hippocampus is a very old part of the cortex, evolutionarily, and is located in the inner fold of the temporal lobe. All of the pieces of information decoded in the various sensory areas of the cortex converge in the hippocampus, which then sends them back where they came from.
In all vertebrates and most invertebrates, the brain is the centre of the nervous system. It allows them to collect information (sensory system), act on that information (motor system) and store the result for future reference (memory), thus effectively making life possible. 
The other two categories for memory of the human brain are long term memory and short term memory. Short term memory is just that. It holds a limited number of pieces of information. They remain in the person's mind for a short time, minutes to a few hours in some cases. We use it every single second of the day. It helps us recall, learn, study, think etc. Memory of the brain is located in the hippocampus, which processes things that happen. Memories are stored in the cerebral cortex (new or old). Memory is processed when nerves give information of what they have heard or seen this is sent to the hippocampu
Memory Retrieval. Brain Image Gallery. Brain Image Gallery. Human memory is a complex, brain-wide process that is essential to who we are. Learn about encoding, the brain, and short-and long-term memory. See more brain pictures. Publications International, Ltd. Learn More. 1  Can a person remember being born? 
The reason is that long-term memory is not located in just one specific area of the brain. The hippocampus is the catalyst for long-term memory, but the actual memory traces are encoded at various places in the cortex. The destruction of both hippocampi (as the result of a stroke, for example) has disastrous effects on long-term memory, preventing the individual from learning anything new whatsoever. The hippocampus is a very old part of the cortex, evolutionarily, and is located in the inner fold of the temporal lobe. All of the pieces of information decoded in the various sensory areas of the cortex converge in the hippocampus, which then sends them back where they came from.
Another type of memory in human brain is declarative memory. This is a very conscious form of memory. It involves the kind of learning and recall that you are very aware of and probably initiated. We use it every single second of the day. It helps us recall, learn, study, think etc. Memory of the brain is located in the hippocampus, which processes things that happen. Memories are stored in the cerebral cortex (new or old). Memory is processed when nerves give information of what they have heard or seen this is sent to the hippocampus