Pregnancy test will be most accurate no sooner than 6-8 days after implantation bleeding. But the final confirmation of pregnancy is only up to the doctor, who will need to make an ultrasound examination. Implantation is one of the first critical moments in fetal development.
This occurs about one week after your ovulation, although this may range from 6 to 12 days. It will take another 3 to 4 days (approximately 9 to 16 days post-ovulation) for your blood test to become positive. After 2 to 3 days an early urine test for pregnancy or a Home Pregnancy Test (HPT) may turn positive.
Time of Implantation. A blood or urine test for pregnancy is meant to detect if hCG, the pregnancy hormone, is present in either blood or urine. After you ovulate, your egg is fertilized by a sperm after unprotected sex and it then travels through your fallopian tube to the uterus.
A blood pregnancy test will show a positive result about 3-4 days after implantation and a urine test will show a positive result about 4-5 days after implantation. Just remember that the pregnancy hormone hCG will double every other day-so if you get a negative result don't be afraid to retest in a few days.
It takes at least 2-3 days after implantation for there to be enough HCG in your system to be detected by the most sensitive test available, First Response Early Result. If you do test and it's negative, don't fret, just wait a couple more days and test again with the First Response Early Result. Good luck!
NOT 6 DAYS after implantation, 5-6 days before a PERIOD... It is generally advised to take a pregnancy test about 14 days after sex..YOU CANNOT know when implantation takes place, but you can know when the last time you had sex was.
The timing of a positive pregnancy test depends on implantation. If you are pregnant, a urine pregnancy test is not expected to be positive until 3-4 days after implantation (at the very earliest), which is about 10 days after ovulation/fertilization and 4 days before the next period. About 51% of pregnant women have a positive pregnancy test 2 days before their next expected period.