You can write your exam directly on the internet at BOATERexam.com® . Once you pass the exam your boat operator license is mailed to your home. In the meantime, you can print a temporary license and use that while you wait for your permanent card to arrive. 1  Overview of the online Boater Exam® process. 
The Florida Boating Safety Education I.D. Card (also referred to as the Florida Boater’s License) is proof that a boater has demonstrated basic boating knowledge by passing an approved boating education course and exam. 1 No one under 14 years of age may operate any PWC on Florida waters at any time, even if such person possesses a Boating Safety Education ID Card. 2  No one under the age of 18 years may rent/lease a PWC. 3  It is also illegal for the owner of a PWC to knowingly allow a person under 14 years of age to operate a PWC
Youth 13 and 14 years of age must either complete a boating education course or be accompanied by an adult in order to operate a motorboat or PWC with a motor greater than 10 horsepower. 
But even in a possession of the boating licence, some restrictions apply. Youth under 16 years of age may not operate boats with motors over certain horsepower limits unless someone 16 years of age or older is in the boat and directly supervising them. Youth under 16 years of age may not operate a personal watercraft (PWC) under any circumstances.
You may have heard that you need the Florida Boat License to operate your boat, but what you really need is the Florida Boating Safety Education I.D. Card. You can get the Florida Boating Safety Education I.D. Card by taking this Boat License Safety course at boat-ed.com. Find out if you need the card. No one under 14 years of age may operate any PWC on Florida waters at any time, even if such person possesses a Boating Safety Education ID Card. No one under the age of 18 years may rent/lease a PWC.
There is no minimum age requirement to take a boating course. Most courses are designed for students 12 years of age and older. There is a requirement that all personal watercraft operators must be at least 12 years old in Pennsylvania. A person 12 through 15 years of age may not operate a PWC legally with any passengers 15 years of age or younger on board. The only age limit for passengers is for PWC's ONLY, this does not apply to boats. The illustrations at the PA boating handbook at http://www.fish.state.pa.us/boatcrs/03bo... shows this.
Youth between 12 years of age and under 16 years of age and not directly supervised by someone 16 years of age or older can operate a recreational vessel with no more than 40 hp (30 KW). Only persons 16 years of age or older can operate a personal watercraft (PWC) regardless of supervision. Ontario Boating License: Get your operator card online NOW in Canada. You don't need to take a class to get your Boating Exam in Ontario or any other province. Take the exam online.
The following states require a boating license 1  : Alabama: If you were at least 40 by April 28, 1994, you can skip the licensing requirement. 2  Delaware: The state requires a license if you were born after January 1, 1978. 3  Georgia: Only operators between 12 and 15 years old are required to have a license. 
Every state has its own boating rules, laws and regulations, and the requirements for obtaining either a boaters license or safety certification card will vary from state to state. You can read about your state's boating license or boater education card requirements by following the links below. Alabama Boater's License or Boater Safety Course Requirements. Alaska Boater's License or Boater Safety Course Requirements. Arizona Boater's License or Boater Safety Course Requirements