The English language owes a great debt to Shakespeare. He invented over 1700 of our common words by changing nouns into verbs, changing verbs into adjectives, connecting words never before used together, adding prefixes and suffixes, and devising words wholly original.
The history of the English language really started with the arrival of three Germanic tribes who invaded Britain during the 5th century AD. These tribes, the Angles, the Saxons and the Jutes, crossed the North Sea from what today is Denmark and northern Germany.
For more words that Shakespeare coined please see the Comprehensive Etymological Dictionary of the English Language by Dr. Ernest Klein (1966) or Shakespeare-lexicon: A Complete Dictionary of All the English Words, Phrases and Constructions in the Works of the Poet by Alexander Schmidt (1902).
The English Language was not invented. It developed over several centuries following the Norman Conquest of England, as the nobles and landowners spoke Norman French, and the … servants and artisans spoke Anglo-Saxon (also called Old English).
The English language was first spoken by the English people and after a while Australians started to speak English as well as the USA and many other countries speak English. E … nglish is the medium of communication with one another. It is the 3rd most common spoken language in the world.
It is the second most spoken language in the world. It is estimated that there are 380 million native speakers and 300 million who use English as a second language and a further 100 million use it as a foreign language.
No one can say at which point English became a separate language from the different Germanic dialects but it would have changed quickly as people of different tribes tried to communicate with each other. The waves of new languages that spread over the British Isles greatly broadened the English vocabulary.
This language is called Middle English. It was the language of the great poet Chaucer (c1340-1400), but it would still be difficult for native English speakers to understand today.
English is an Anglo-Frisian language brought to Britain in the 5th Century AD by Germanic settlers from various parts of northwest Germany. The original Old English language was subsequently influenced by two successive waves of invasion.
I don't know who really invented English language but I like English as anything. It is not just a funny..you know what Rajaji (first and the last Governor General of Free India) said about English:English is a gifted language of Goddess Saraswathi.