Observe the color of the stone you are considering. 1  Peridot is pale to grass green. 2  The gem is classified as ideochromatic, which means the color is caused by ferrous iron. 3  The most valuable stones are grass green, but peridot can also be yellowish or even have a brown tint.
T he fresh lime green of peridot is its distinctive signature. The color of most gems is caused by traces of other elements but the color of peridot is an integral part of its structure. If you love citrus tones or earth tones, you'll find that peridot is an integral part of your jewelry wardrobe. Its spring green color also is ideal with sky blue.
Peridot Color Peridot is one of the few gemstones that comes in a single color. The depth of green depends on its level of iron content. Peridot's color can vary from yellow-green and olive to brownish green and looks best under natural daylight. Its vivid green color does not change under artificial light.
When the mineral olivine is of gemstone quality, it is known as peridot.. It is a bright yellow-green to dark green gem material that can be cut into beautiful faceted stones. Arizona is the world's leader in the production of gem-quality peridot.
Peridot is one of the few gemstones that occur in only one color, an olive-green. The intensity and tint of the green, however, depends on how much iron is contained in the crystal structure, so the color of individual peridot gems can vary from yellow—to olive—to brownish-green.
Its spring green color also is ideal with sky blue. Cut. Peridot can be a difficult task for a gem cutter due to the fact that the rough crystals are quite easy to break. It is therefore cut according to its crystal structure and is most commonly found in round, emerald, antique, or oval shaped cuts.
The gem variety of the mineral Olivine, it makes a lovely light green to olive-green gemstone. The intensity of color depends on the amount of iron present in a Peridot's chemical structure; the more iron it contains the deeper green it will be.
Peridot, a green colored crystalline variety of the mineral chrysolite or olivine, is a magnesium iron silicate. The gemstone variety of olivine is known as Peridot and the shade of green can vary from a yellow-green to brown-green color, however the most valuable is considered to be the dark olive green.
1 Peridot, along with alexandrite and sardonyx, is the birthstone of August. 2  It is the planetary stone of Saturn. 3  Peridot is one of the few known gemstones that can be found only in one color, although the shades of green may vary from light yellowish to dark brownish-green.