The coat of arms of Australia is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia and its monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth. In the bottom half, from left to right: South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. Above the shield is the seven-pointed Commonwealth Star or Star of Federation above a blue and gold wreath, forming the crest.
The coat of arms is the basis of the Queen's Personal Australian Flag, and since 1973 a slightly modified version has formed the basis of the Great Seal of Australia. The coat of arms is used as badge of rank for Warrant Officers Class 1 (Army) and Warrant Officer (Navy and Air Force). In the bottom half, from left to right: South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. Above the shield is the seven-pointed Commonwealth Star or Star of Federation above a blue and gold wreath, forming the crest.
The Commonwealth of Australia came into existence with the federation of the Australian states on 1 January 1901. The creation of the Commonwealth of Australia would be the fi … rst step towards self-government in Australia. The goldrushes had made Australia a wealthy nation, and many were pushing for Australia to be independent of Britain's laws, which simply were not relevant for Australian conditions. Australia joined the Commonwealth in 1931.This was when its  independence was officially recognized under the Statute of  Westminster. Australia was one of the founding memb … ers of the  Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia that signifies Commonwealth authority and ownership. The Arms are used by Australian Government departments and agencies, statutory and non-statutory authorities, the Parliament and Commonwealth courts and tribunals. In the bottom half, from left to right: South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. Above the shield is the seven-pointed Commonwealth Star or Star of Federation above a blue and gold wreath, forming the crest.
It is designed for both computers and mobile devices such as PC, Mac, iPhone and iPad. The online Practice & Training is effective, you can go through the exam material at a much faster pace and take the Australian Citizenship Test with confidence. 
The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia and its authority and ownership. Provides history and various images of the Coat of Arms. 
14 Australian Citizenship: Our Common Bond Commonwealth Coat of Arms The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is the official symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia. It represents our national unity. It identifies the authority and property of the Commonwealth of Australia. In 1901, the colonies were united into a federation of states called the Commonwealth of Australia. At that time, Australia’s population was counted at about four million people. This number did not include the Indigenous people.Throughout the first half of the 20th century, migration levels rose and fell.
The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia. It is used to identify the authority and property of the Australian Government, the Australian Parliament and Commonwealth courts. For example, it appears on the cove r of Australian passports, government buildings and some 50 cent coins. The first Commonwealth Coat of Arms was introduced on 7 May 1908. The second was introduced on 19 September 1912 and is still used today. The Commonwealth Coat of Arms contains a shield with the symbols of the six Australian states. These symbols are enclosed in a border to represent federation in 1901, when the states united to form a nation
It is used to identify the authority and property of the Australian Government, the Australian Parliament and Commonwealth courts. For example, it appears on the cover of Australian passports, government buildings and some 50 cent coins.The first Commonwealth Coat of Arms was introduced on 7 May 1908. 