Celiac disease is a digestive disorder that occurs in reaction to gluten, a protein found in rye, barley, wheat, and hundreds of foods made with these grains. The body's immune system reacts to the gluten and causes damage to the intestine. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpetiformis. 3  Iron deficiency anemia (low blood count).
Celiac disease damages the inner lining of the small intestine, and that may lead to difficulty digesting lactose, a sugar found in milk and milk products. Following a gluten-free diet allows the intestine to recover, and people with celiac disease may discover that they are able to digest lactose once again. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpetiformis. 3  Iron deficiency anemia (low blood count).
Celiac Disease (Gluten Intolerance). The inability to digest and absorb proteins called gluten found in wheat, rye, and barley. Celiac disease causes damage to the lining of the small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients. Also called celiac sprue, gluten intolerance, and nontropical sprue. Gluten is found mainly in foods but may also be found in everyday products such as medicines, vitamins, and lip balms. When people with celiac disease eat foods or use products containing gluten, their immune system responds by damaging or destroying villi—the tiny, fingerlike protrusions lining the small intestine.
Celiac disease and wheat allergy both involve the immune system but the reaction within the body is different. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease that causes damage to the lining of the intestine. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpetiformis. 3  Iron deficiency anemia (low blood count).
People who have celiac disease cannot tolerate gluten, a protein in wheat, rye, and barley. Gluten is found mainly in foods but may also be found in everyday products such as medicines, vitamins, and lip balms. When people with celiac disease eat foods or use products containing gluten, their immune system responds by damaging or destroying villi—the tiny, fingerlike protrusions lining the small intestine. Villi normally allow nutrients from food to be absorbed through the walls of the small intestine into the bloodstream
Non-celiac gluten sensitivity is often interchanged with gluten intolerance. There are cases where symptoms are less severe, which may be considered gluten sensitivity, whereas severe cases would be labeled as gluten intolerance due to the intensity and length of time symptoms last. Hi. My wife has been diagnosed with gluten intolerance / celiac disease (it was done in the 80s). Since then she has been on the diet (on and off really-allowing herself to eat gluten stuff every now and then). She had always had some of the listed symptoms after she had eaten gluten.
Celiac disease, also known as gluten intolerance, is a genetic disorder that affects at least 1 in 133 Americans. Symptoms of celiac disease can range from the classic features, such as diarrhea, weight loss, and malnutrition, to latent symptoms such as isolated nutrient deficiencies but no gastrointestinal symptoms. 
Get Tested for Celiac Disease. If you've noticed that you react badly to gluten -- with symptoms like diarrhea, stomach upset, abdominal pain, and bloating -- see a doctor to get tested for celiac disease. Do that before you start any gluten-free diet. If you have celiac disease and you eat gluten, the lining of your small intestine becomes inflamed and gets damaged, making it harder for your body to absorb nutrients. That can lead to malnutrition and weight loss. Getting diagnosed involves taking a blood test. 
Signs and symptoms of celiac disease may range from severe to mild. It is also possible to have celiac disease without any symptoms at all. Many adults with subtle disease only have fatigue and anemia, or may have only vague abdominal discomfort such as bloating, abdominal distension and excess gas.
Celiac disease can affect genetically predisposed people of all ages, but often begins in middle infancy. Symptoms include chronic diarrhea, weight loss and fatigue, but in some cases the disorder can be asymptomatic (no symptoms). Celiac disease is caused by a reaction to gliadin-a gluten protein found in wheat, barley, rye, and sometimes oats. The inflammation and destruction of the inner lining of the small intestine in celiac disease is caused by an allergic reaction to gluten in the diet. It is also possible to have celiac disease without any symptoms at all. Many adults with subtle disease only have fatigue and anemia, or may have only vague abdominal discomfort such as bloating, abdominal distension and excess gas.