New Federal Legislation and the Forgotten Promises of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, 3 Scholar: St. Mary's Law Review on Minority Issues 231-264, 232-236 (Spring 2001)(221 footnotes omitted). The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was ratified in 1848, ending the war between Mexico and the United States and effectively handing over control of the modern Southwest from Mexico to the United States.
The Treaty of Canandaigua is one of the first treaties signed between Native American nations and the U.S. Also known as the Pickering Treaty, the agreement was signed in 1794 between the federal government and the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, or the Six Nations, based in New York. The Treaty of Canandaigua is one of the first treaties signed between Native American nations and the U.S. Courtesy of the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration hide caption.
The Fort Laramie Treaty of 1851 was signed on September 17 between United States treaty commissioners and representatives of the Cheyenne, Sioux, Arapaho, Crow, Assiniboine, Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara nations. 
A rare exhibit of such treaties at the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian in Washington, D.C., looks back at this history. It currently features one of the first compacts between the U.S. and Native American nations – the Treaty of Canandaigua. i. The Treaty of Canandaigua is one of the first treaties signed between Native American nations and the U.S. Courtesy of the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration hide caption.
Treaties with Aboriginal people in Canada. The Government of Canada and the courts understand treaties between the Crown and Aboriginal people to be solemn agreements that set out promises, obligations and benefits for both parties.
The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the U.S.-Mexican War. Signed on 2 February 1848, it is the oldest treaty still in force between the United States and Mexico. As a result of the treaty, the United States acquired more than 500,000 square miles of valuable territory and emerged as a world power in the late nineteenth century. The signing of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo marked the end of a war and the beginning of a lengthy U.S. political debate over slavery in the acquired territories, as well as continued conflict with Mexico over boundaries.
When the War of 1812 ended in 1815, tribal chiefs were forced to sign treaties with the U. S. government giving up significant amounts of land. These treaties promised to return those parts of Native American land that had been seized during the war. However, America broke this treaty, and no land was ever returned. Many conflicts over land stemmed from very different ideas about how land should be used. 
The document will be on display in 2016 at the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian for an exhibit on treaties curated by Harjo. James Clark/NPR hide caption. James Clark/NPR. Suzan Shown Harjo points to a signature on Treaty K at the National Archives. The Treaty of Canandaigua is one of the first treaties signed between Native American nations and the U.S. Courtesy of the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration hide caption.
Treaties: Promises between governments. Treaties are legally binding contracts between sovereign nations that establish those nations’ political and property relations. Article Six of the United States Constitution holds that treaties “are the supreme law of the land.”. In most of these treaties, the tribes gave vast amounts of land to the United States in exchange for protection, services, and in some cases cash payments, but reserved certain lands (reservations) and rights for themselves and their future generations.