ASCAP and SESAC have similar licensing fees for businesses that make use of their artists' music. If business operators refuse to pay for licenses, the fines can be steep: anywhere from $750 to $150,000 per song. You could follow the International Hotel & Restaurant Association’s example: The IH&RA recently partnered with music distributor Jamendo PRO to license thousands of Creative Commons-licensed songs for just $144 a year per establishment.
These agents will monitor whether such venues make use of radios, recorded music, live music, or karaoke machines, and will determine licensing fees according to the venue’s capacity. Yes, you read that right: You are supposed to pay royalties for playing the radio in your bar. Devon Baker, a BMI copyright enforcer recently profiled in a New York Times Magazine article, travels cross-country monitoring whether businesses owe money to BMI, and collecting the payments from those that do. You could follow the International Hotel & Restaurant Association’s example: The IH&RA recently partnered with music distributor Jamendo PRO to license thousands of Creative Commons-licensed songs for just $144 a year per establishment.
A small business that makes little use of copyrighted music may owe $300 for an annual licensing fee, but for large operators like stadiums, the fee could be as much as $9,000. You could follow the International Hotel & Restaurant Association’s example: The IH&RA recently partnered with music distributor Jamendo PRO to license thousands of Creative Commons-licensed songs for just $144 a year per establishment.
The schedule of fees is right on the form. If you own a rink that has 15,000 square feet of skating area and you charge customers $5.00 to skate, you own a class 6B establishment and you need to pay BMI $205 every year. You would need to do the same thing for ASCAP. Technically, anyone performing music publicly anywhere has to pay: 1  If you are in a marching band playing in a parade and the song you are playing is an ASCAP or BMI song, the band or the parade organizers have to pay. 1 If you are in a marching band playing in a parade and the song you are playing is an ASCAP or BMI song, the band or the parade organizers have to pay. 2  If you are an aerobics instructor using music in a class, you have to pay.
How much is an annual license? The owner of a store that is more than 2000 square feet (or any food service or drinking establishment with more than 3,750 square feet) will pay approximately $500 a year to the three performing rights organizations. 1 If your store is more than 2,000 square feet and you’re playing the radio or television with six or fewer speakers (and with no more than four speakers in any one room), you are also exempt from paying fees. 2  Play classical music. 3  You only have to play performance fees for compositions written after 1922.
Workplaces with 4 or less employees will now pay just £44 a year for a license to play music after a consultation between the licensing authority the PRS for music and the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB). 
RE: How much does an ASCAP or BMI music on hold license cost? How much does an ASCAP or BMI music on hold license cost? My company is opening a new office and needs a new &#39;music service&#39; for our hold music.How much does ASCAP/BMI charge? They both refuse to say on their website-as far as I can tell its &quot;Open your wallet so I can see how much I... Typically, charges will be around $200 per year per licensing organization. For example, BMI fees are based on the number of trunk lines you have coming into your business. A trunk line is the main telephone connection to the phone company and can contain many phone numbers.
ASCAP does not license the right to record music... on a CD, tape, or as part of an audio-visual work such as a motion picture, video or TV program. Those rights, known as mechanical and synchronization (synch) rights, are licensed by writers or publishers. 
A. If you’re playing licensable music, it’s a better business decision to license than not to. While some business owners may avoid paying licensing fees for a while, it can be much more expensive than the cost of a music license in the long run. Federal penalties for using music without permission, which are set forth by the judge presiding over the litigation and not the PRO, can be high, with each musical composition used without authorization entitling copyright owners to damages between $750 to $30,000, or more if the infringement is found to be willful.