Apples are high in pectin, a natural occurring fiber which helps bulk up the stool to treat constipation. Apple with skin provides 3.3 grams of fiber. It contains sorbital, a naturally occurring sugar alcohol which acts as natural osmotic laxative which softening the stools
As mentioned earlier, one of the best natural laxative foods is raw apple cider vinegar. Apple cider vinegar may help improve bowel irregularity, thereby removing toxins from the body at a faster rate. Beneficial ingredients in raw apple cider vinegar include potassium, pectin, malic acid, calcium, ash, and acetic acid.
These are natural laxatives because of the high fiber content. To detoxify your body, eat more blue green algae, bitter gourd, barley, wheatgrass, kale, dandelion greens, spinach, spirulina, chard, alfalfa, mustard greens, arugula, chicory, or other leafy greens.
Natural laxatives generally include any food that has a high fiber or water content, such as whole grains and fruits. Another category of natural laxatives contains foods such as yogurt that promote the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestinal tract.
Berries provide big fiber benefits and make good afternoon snacks. The fiber in these fruits have natural laxative effects, and they provide your body with an antioxidant boost from vitamin C, magnesium, potassium and phytochemicals. Cranberries and blueberries may even help prevent bladder infections, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Yogurt is considered a natural laxative, as it promotes the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestinal tract. Foods high in water content, such as lettuce, are considered good natural laxatives. Eating grapefruit can increase hydration levels and work as a natural laxative. Celery is a high-fiber food.
1. Raw Fruits. Fruits like bananas, apples, melons and a variety of berries are extremely high in liquid-content, which helps the body wash out toxins. They are also very easy to digest and high in antioxidants, nutrients, fiber and many important vitamins like vitamin C. 1  Bananas: High in fiber and a natural bulk-producing laxative, bananas are great for promoting easy digestion.