In addition, bowel disorders in the intestines can cause abdominal issues like stomach spasms. Irritable bowel syndrome serves as one such example. Changes in bowel habits — namely diarrhea or constipation — enlarge and irritate the intestinal tract, which in turn puts similar pressures on the connective stomach area. 
Abdominal Muscle Spasm-Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments. Normal daily exercise, such as crunches or sit-ups can come to a screeching halt when severe abdominal muscle spasms take over. These can be a very sharp, squeezing pain, or may even feel like a Charlie horse.. Your abdominal muscle spasms may accompany one or both of these bowel abnormalities. Heartburn: This is a sensation in your chest that resembles burning. It most commonly affects the chest area, but can also manifest in the neck, throat, and even face.
Irritable bowel syndrome is most commonly associated with the specific condition of intestinal spasms. IBS has many causes, including an abnormal functioning of the digestive muscles and a limited ability to move or stretch the intestines. Intestinal spasms can occur in the colon, leading to bloating and abdominal pain. Patients with IBS may experience worsening intestinal spasms if they are also under a lot of stress. An individual suffering from intestinal spasms should consult with a doctor.
Causes of Abdominal Muscle Spasms. Overworked muscles: Unfamiliar exercise or frequent strenuous activity can cause the abdominal muscles to spasm. This happens because the muscle is being overused, resulting in the muscle's energy loss. This loss of energy causes it to contract suddenly, resulting in muscle spasms. Your abdominal muscle spasms may accompany one or both of these bowel abnormalities. Heartburn: This is a sensation in your chest that resembles burning. It most commonly affects the chest area, but can also manifest in the neck, throat, and even face.
Like any other muscles in the body, your abdominal muscles can have spasms that occur as a result of muscle strain during heavy use or overuse, fatigue, dehydration, and alcohol or drug use. Abdominal muscle strain is a common injury among athletes and can cause muscle spasms. Abdominal muscle spasm, also known as abdominal rigidity, is a powerful, involuntary contraction of the muscles of the abdomen.
Although, some that have a normal digestive tract may experience them. The first cause of bowel spasms is irritable bowel syndrome. Symptoms include: abdominal pain, bloating, constipation and diarrhea. Some may experience abdominal pain so severe that they are immobile during an episode. IBS affects the large intestine. There are many triggers, such as stress, anxiety and some foods. 
Some Common Causes. Sometimes a muscle spasm in the stomach will occur when one is constipated. Once the constipation has been successfully dealt with, the spasms will cease. Pressure is one of the possible causes of a stomach spasm or cramp. Remove the pressure, or the source of the pressure, and the stomach muscles will stop misbehaving. 
Exercise may cause intestinal spasms. Certain drugs may cause intestinal spasms. Intestinal spasms occur when the muscle of the gut contracts in an uncoordinated manner. Irritable bowel syndrome is a common cause of intestinal spasms. Indigestion may cause intestinal spasms. Stress and Irritable bowel syndrome can both lead to intestinal spasms. Severe constipation may lead to intestinal spasms. Emotional factors, such as anxiety and stress can affect intestinal spasms.
Like any other muscle in the human body, your abdominal muscles can have spasms as a result of muscle strain during heavy use or overuse, fatigue, dehydration, and alcohol or drug use. Abdominal muscle strain is a common injury among athletes and can cause muscle spasms. 
Upper abdominal spasm: Introduction. Upper abdominal spasm: Sudden involuntary contraction of the upper abdominal muscles. See detailed information below for a list of 6 causes of Upper abdominal spasm, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes.