About us: The Port of Fishguard is operated by Stena Line Ports Ltd, who are the statutory Harbour Authority. This website aims to provide commercial and leisure information to present and future port users. Location. Fishguard Port is located in the coastal town of Fishguard,, Pembrokeshire, south-west Wales. 1  From the East use the M4 route direct to Fishguard, following the A40 from Carmarthen. 2  From the South follow the A40 fromHaverfordwest which is linked via the A40 & A48 to the M4 near Swansea. The Port of Fishguard is operated by Stena Line Ports Ltd, who are the statutory Harbour Authority. This website aims to provide commercial and leisure information to present and future port users. Location.
Fishguard Ferries. The charming harbour town of Fishguard lies nestled at the base of the rolling green hills of west Wales and offers one of the quickest routes to the Republic of Ireland by ferry.
Fishguard ferry port in Wales connects you with Rosslare in Ireland with a choice of up to 14 ferry crossings per week. The duration of the Fishguard to Rosslare crossing is from 3 hours 30 minutes and the crossing is operated by Stena Line. From the East use the M4 route direct to Fishguard, following the A40 from Carmarthen. From the South follow the A40 from Haverfordwest which is linked via the A40 & A48 to the M4 near Swansea. From the North follow the A487 via Aberystwyth and Cardigan. Fishguard is located at the junction of the A40 & the A487.
Fishguard ferries dock at the harbour in Goodwick and connect with the Irish port of Rosslare, a link that has been in place for more than 100 years. The ferry port itself is run by Stena Line. If you're passing through then be sure to visit the Last Invasion Tapestry, which has been compared to the Bayeux Tapestry, at Fishguard Town Hall. The tapestry is 30 metres long and 53 centre metres deep and took four years to complete by seventy-seven local people. From the East use the M4 route direct to Fishguard, following the A40 from Carmarthen. From the South follow the A40 from Haverfordwest which is linked via the A40 & A48 to the M4 near Swansea. From the North follow the A487 via Aberystwyth and Cardigan. Fishguard is located at the junction of the A40 & the A487.
Book ferries to Fishguard from Rosslare in Ireland with AFerry.co.uk. Ferries from Fishguard in Pembrokeshire, Wales go to Rosslare in Ireland and are operated by Stena Line. Using the board below, you can find all the latest departure times and sailing durations. You can also find AFerry.co.uk's best price.
Compare prices and book cheap Fishguard ferry tickets to Ireland with Ferryonline. Stena Line operate ferries from Fishguard to Rosslare. The Stena Europe crosses the Irish sea twice daily and takes 3 hours, 30 minutes. During the high season the high speed Stena Lynx lll is also in service from July to September. 
Fishguard port information. Fishguard ferry port is located in Pembrokeshire in South Wales overlooking the Fishguard Bay to the west of the town centre. Fishguard ferry port has excellent road links to a major motorway A40 directly connecting Wales to the South of England.
Ferrybooker offers Fishguard ferry crossings which can be booked securely online; here you can find information about all the ferries from Fishguard to Ireland, including Fishguard ferry times and prices. Ferries from Fishguard include crossings to Rosslare in Ireland. Fishguard ferry port has excellent road links to a major motorway A40 directly connecting Wales to the South of England.
Fishguard Ferry Port by Bus. Richards Bros operate a town service with bus stops at Fishguard town centre and Goodwick arriving at the port for the 14:30 sailing. Journey time is approximately 8 minutes from Fishguard. From the East use the M4 route direct to Fishguard, following the A40 from Carmarthen. From the South follow the A40 from Haverfordwest which is linked via the A40 & A48 to the M4 near Swansea. From the North follow the A487 via Aberystwyth and Cardigan. Fishguard is located at the junction of the A40 & the A487.