Etymology & Historical Origin-Jacques. Jacques is the French form of Jacob and James, both of which are ultimately derived from the Hebrew Biblical name יַעֲקֹב (Ya'aqobh) which literally translates to at the heel or “one that takes by the heel” (derivative of 'aqebh meaning “heel”). Given Jacob's Biblical story, this etymology makes perfect sense.
Jacques is a somewhat popular first name for males (#763 out of 1220, Top 63%) and an even more popular surname for both adults and children (#2572 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Jacques for boys.t is of French and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jacques is he who supplants. Variant of James via Jacob. Familiar from the well-known song Fr re Jacques. Undersea explorer Jacques Cousteau.
[ʒak]. , Quebec French pronunciation : [ʒɑɔ̯k]. ) is the French equivalent of James, ultimately originating from the name Jacob. Jacques is derived from the Late Latin Iacobus, from the Greek ἰακώβος (Septuagintal Greek ἰακώβ), from the Hebrew name Jacob יַעֲקֹב ‎.(See Jacob .) James is derived from Iacomus, a variant of Iacobus. As a first name, Jacques is often phonetically converted to English as Jacob, Jake (from Jacob), or Jack, but the last is not an accurate translation. (Jack, from Jankin, is strictly a diminutive of John.
Jacques /jac-ques/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced zhahk. It is of French and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jacques is he who supplants. Variant of James via Jacob. Familiar from the well-known song Fr re Jacques. Undersea explorer Jacques Cousteau.
Jacques Name Meaning. French and English: from the Old French personal name Jacques, the usual French form of Latin Jacobus (see Jacob). The English surname is either a late introduction from France or a Frenchification of Jakes. In English this surname is traditionally pronounced as two syllables, jay-kwez.
French and English: from the Old French personal name Jacques, the usual French form of Latin Jacobus (see Jacob). The English surname is either a late introduction from France or a Frenchification of Jakes.
Meaning of Jacques. French name. In French, the name Jacques means-one who supplants. Other origins for the name Jacques include-French, Hebrew. The name Jacques is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-one who supplants. Origin-France. Alternate Origins-Hebrew.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Jacques is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jacques is: He grasps the heel. Supplanter. American Meaning: The name Jacques is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jacques is: He grasps the heel. Supplanter. French Meaning: The name Jacques is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Jacques is: Supplanter. He grasps the heel
Jacques was the usual French form of Jacobus and the earliest known recording in England is probably that of Jakes Amadur, in the Hundred Rolls of the city of London in 1275. Other forms of the modern surname are Jacquet, Jaques (French) and Jaquest and Jaquiss (English).