An example of matespritship. The one most like human love/romance. Matesprits have a strong feeling of affection for one another-though troll psychology being what it is, courtship can be just as violent as that between kismeses, and indeed it can flail between one and the other. As Karkat puts it, THE POSITIVE QUALITIES YOU SEE DEEP DOWN IN A KISMESIS ALSO SERVE AS THE BASIS FOR RED FEELINGS TOWARD THAT PERSON. Possible matesprit/kismesis double reacharound pairs include: 1  Sollux 's two-colored crush on Gamzee.
Knismesis and gargalesis are the scientific terms, coined in 1897 by psychologists G. Stanley Hall and Arthur Allin, used to describe the two types of tickling. Knismesis refers to the light, feather-like type of tickling. This type of tickling generally does not induce laughter and is often accompanied by an itching sensation. Gargalesis refers to harder, laughter-inducing tickling, and involves the repeated application of high pressure to sensitive areas.
Top Definition. Kismesis. A Kismesis is the term used to describe deep, deep hatred for someone. This is the person that you could, and will likely, hate for all your life, no matter what they do. This, however, is a romantic hate, usually involving many hate-snogs and other violent, but romantic, acts such as that. 2. Kismesis. This is a mash-up of the words 'Kismet' meaning 'fated' or 'destined' and 'Nemesis', which i hope we all know means 'rival' etc. so together, a Kismesis, (or plural, as in 'a pair of Kismeses' taking after the plural of nemesis) is your fated rival; or even, some would say, your Serendipitous Rival.
Matesprit. A Matespritship is a term in the webcomic Homestuck by Andrew Hussie. It is one of four quadrants in Troll Romances, others being Kismesis, Auspistice, and Moirail. It is entirely based on love and attraction towards the partner, as it is in the Redrom half of Troll Romances. It is sometimes known to flail between Kismesis and Matesprit, causing a rocky relationship for young Trolls.
Quadrants are a complicated system of four types of romance. Trolls naturally experience all four types of romance, while humans only experience a single type, cherubs experience another, and carapacians apparently experience at least two of them. However, it has been implied that humans may also be able to feel emotions from at least two quadrants. As Karkat puts it, THE POSITIVE QUALITIES YOU SEE DEEP DOWN IN A KISMESIS ALSO SERVE AS THE BASIS FOR RED FEELINGS TOWARD THAT PERSON. Possible matesprit/kismesis double reacharound pairs include: 1  Sollux 's two-colored crush on Gamzee.