Hieroglyphic is the adjectival form of the word hieroglyph, but hieroglyphic writing is really redundant, so we speak of the Egyptian hieroglyphs rather than the Egyptian hieroglyphics or -- at least most of the time -- the Egyptian hieroglyphic writing. We call the sacred picture writing of the ancient Egypt ians hieroglyphs. Hieroglyph is formed from two ancient Greek words: hieros 'holy' + glyphe 'carvings' which described the ancient holy writing of the Egyptians.
Glyphs: viper, owl, 'bread bun' , folded cloth. A hieroglyph (Greek for  sacred writing ) is a character of the ancient Egyptian writing system. Logographic scripts that are pictographic in form in a way reminiscent of ancient Egyptian are also sometimes called hieroglyphs
Hieroglyphics Hieroglyphics was (or 'were') the method of writing used in ancient Egypt. (Sometimes, people refer to other people's bad handwriting as Hieroglyphics). It is a form of picture writing, or, as the answer below says, Egyptian writing through symbols. Each symbol is an hieroglyph. Each cluster of symbols represented a word or idea rather than simple sounds like the symbols in an alphabet. Some hieroglyphs were alphabetic sounds. Hieroglyphics are ancient symbols used by Ancient Egyptions to show/write what had happened in a deceased emperor's life, which was used in the celebration of a leader passing … on. They are found in temples in which emperors were buried with their belongings. In airtight caskets so they wouldn't disintigrate.
Hieroglyphics is a system of writing which uses logograms, rather than an alphabet, to record a language. Logograms are single characters which may represent an idea, a subject, or a word; several modern languages use logograms including Chinese and Japanese. Ad. In hieroglyphics, a large family of characters is used to represent a language. A hieroglyph can represent language in several ways. The most common is as an ideogram or pictogram, or a representation of a subject or idea. Many Chinese characters, for example, are ideograms.
Ancient Egypt, Hieroglyphics An Explanation of Hieroglyphics Hieroglyphs, characters in any system of writing in which symbols represent objects (such as tools, animals, or boats) and ideas (such as motion, time, and joy). An Explanation of Hieroglyphics. Hieroglyphs, characters in any system of writing in which symbols represent objects (such as tools, animals, or boats) and ideas (such as motion, time, and joy).
hieroglyphics (ˌhaɪərəˈɡlɪfɪks). 1  a form of writing, esp as used in ancient Egypt, in which pictures or symbols are used to represent objects, concepts, or sounds. 1
Definition of HIEROGLYPHIC. 1. : hieroglyph. 2. : a system of hieroglyphic writing; specifically: the picture script of the ancient Egyptian priesthood —often used in plural but singular or plural in construction. 3. : something that resembles a hieroglyph especially in difficulty of decipherment. See hieroglyphic defined for English-language learners.
[ See Maya Hieroglyphs .]. Egyptians also wrote in a cursive Egyptian script known as demotic. Hieroglyphic writing was deciphered by means of the Rosetta Stone on which the same information was repeated in Greek, hieroglyphs, and demotic writing. We call the sacred picture writing of the ancient Egypt ians hieroglyphs. Hieroglyph is formed from two ancient Greek words: hieros 'holy' + glyphe 'carvings' which described the ancient holy writing of the Egyptians.