Origin of CLART. akin to Middle English bi clarten to soil. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. Definition of CLART. 1. dialectal, British: a clot or daub of mud or other sticky substance. 2
Clart About Ltd added 28 new photos to the album: Clart About Messy Play Consett Tesco — with Emma Law Hodgson and Amanda Tinnion. Clart About Ltd added 20 new photos to the album: Clart About Messy Play Leadgate Community Centre Surestart.
From Middle English *clart, found in the verb biclarten ‎(“ to cover or smear with dirt ”). Further origin uncertain. clart ‎(third-person singular simple present clarts, present participle clarting, simple past and past participle clarted). ( 1 transitive, now Scotland, Northern England) To daub, smear, or spread, especially with mud, etc.; to dirty. 2  1932, Lewis Grassic Gibbon, Sunset Song, Polygon 2006 (A Scots Quair), p. 43:
A Bordeaux wine is any wine produced in the Bordeaux region of France, centred on the city of Bordeaux and covering the whole area of the Gironde department, with a total vineyard area of over 120,000 hectares, making it the largest wine growing area in France. Plan Bordeaux is an initiative introduced in 2005 by ONIVINS, the French vintners association, designed to reduce France's wine glut and improve sales. Part of the plan is to uproot 17,000 hectares of the 124,000 hectares of vineyards in Bordeaux.
haha rass clot is a curse word from jamaica. the lady you saw was probably jamaican or west indian of some sort. take the R of RASS and that is the meaning. adding clot to the end or claat makes it a curse word. you can add rass to anything to make it bad and it is worse with the clot. someone must have upset her.... lol.... Source(s): my family is west indian and i hear it a lot =]. bajinay · 8 years ago.
PRODUCTS-CLART ® SeptiBac. CLART® SeptiBac is an in vitro diagnostics product used for the detection and typing of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria and fungi causing septicemia. Simultaneous detection is performed by multiplex PCR and subsequent visualization in low-density arrays, based on CLART ® Technology. Analysis Information. CLART® SeptiBac guarantees the quality of the results by including several controls in each test: 1  in each amplification tube: avoids false negative results. : 2  certifies the effectiveness of the extraction process and the presence of sample in the test.
Definition of CLART. : to daub or smear especially with mud or dirt. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. Definition of CLART. 1. dialectal, British: a clot or daub of mud or other sticky substance. 2
Taken from West Indian patois 'blood clot'. Blad was on the streets for years but a mate in Newport is now refered to as a clart thanks to the GLC. Someone who's in the know about the GLC. (Goldie Lookin Chain).
Verb [edit]. clart ‎(third-person singular simple present clarts, present participle clarting, simple past and past participle clarted). ( 1 transitive, now Scotland, Northern England) To daub, smear, or spread, especially with mud, etc.; to dirty. 2  1932, Lewis Grassic Gibbon, Sunset Song, Polygon 2006 (A Scots Quair), p. 43: