American Horror Story premiered its fifth season starring Lady Gaga with a jaw-dropping episode called Checking In on Wednesday night! Written by Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuck, the highly-anticipated season premiere was everything you hoped it would be and more, with brilliant acting, stunning visuals, and, of course, Lady Gaga in all her bloody glory.
Lady Gaga gave the first glimpse at her character in American Horror Story: Hotel on Monday-and it was a very fleeting one. 
American Horror Story ‘s next tale will feature the mother of all monsters. TVLine has learned that Lady Gaga is set to headline the forthcoming fifth season — titled American Horror Story: Hotel — of Ryan Murphy’s FX anthology series. RELATED Ben Woolf, Who Played Horror Story: Freak Show‘s Meep, Dead at 34.
Make your reservation now. #GagaAHSHotel https://t.co/o9ixi5TaFy — Lady Gaga (@ladygaga) February 25, 2015. Fresh off her show-stealing turn at the Academy Awards, Lady Gaga has inked a deal for her next project: starring in the upcoming fifth season of “ American Horror Story .”. The hit FX anthology series from executive producer Ryan Murphy marks the superstar’s first major TV gig
#GagaAHSHotel.' Lady Gaga announces she will be in the new season of 'American Horror Story: Hotel' via Twitter on Wednesday. Lady Gaga is checking in for an extended stay with “American Horror Story.”. “Make your reservation now #GagaAHSHotel,” she tweeted, along with a link to a black-and-white video of herself making the announcement. View Gallery Lady Gaga's latest style makeover. “‘American Horror Story’ season 5,” she says while wearing a sparkly cover over her head.
Lady Gaga has joined the cast for the next season of American Horror Story , FX confirmed on Wednesday. Gaga also announced the news in a video on Twitter, which revealed next season's theme: American Horror Story: Hotel.. This will be her first starring role on TV. Make your reservation now. 
After blowing away Academy Award audiences with her Sound of Music medley, Lady Gaga will return to the small screen in a much more terrifying role this October: The singer announced on Twitter that she will appear in the fifth season of FX's American Horror Story.
Becoming the first confirmed casting for the fifth season of the anthology from Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk. Updated 8:50 a.m.: Looks like season five has a theme and subtitle. Gaga has tweeted a short teaser video previewing American Horror Story: Hotel. Previous, 8:30 a.m.: Lady Gaga is joining the American Horror Story family. The Grammy-winning pop culture icon has been tapped to star in Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk 's FX anthology, The Hollywood Reporter has learned. 
Lady Gaga, the chameleon-like rock star who has boosted her career by crooning with Tony Bennett, will star in the fifth installment of FX's American Horror Story, producers announced Wednesday. Prepare yourself, Little Monsters. Lady Gaga is to star in the fifth installment of FX's hit American Horror Story. Prepare yourself, Little Monsters. Your leader is about to bring her special brand of scary to prime time. Lady Gaga, the chameleon-like rock star who has boosted her career by crooning with Tony Bennett, will star in the fifth installment of FX's American Horror Story, producers announced Wednesday. Show Tracker.