Cats To dream of a cat symbolizes an illusion, delusion, or feeling good about something that can't be proven. A false belief that you've convinced yourself is true or a need to feel good that lacks objectivity. A belief in something that's unprovable. Lying to others so that they will like you. Negatively, a cat could symbolize an irrational belief that you're unable to do something that you've never been proven incapable of. Feeling safer telling yourself that you aren't good enough.
There is no symbolic meaning to finding a cat, unless you are a part of a culture which attaches some kind of meaning to it. Meanings are attributes of a decision making proce … ss. So if you decide that you want something to mean something it can do that. CAts were not a symbol of ancient rome,they were symbols in ancient Egypt Actually the cat did have a symbol in Ancient Rome, the cat was the symbol of liberty Sorry I mea … nt to type down that it was a symbol of liberty. 2 people found this useful.
Cat. To see a cat in your dream symbolizes an independent spirit, feminine sexuality, creativity, and power. It also represents misfortune and bad luck. The dream symbol has different significance depending on whether you are a cat lover or not. 
Animal Symbolism: Meaning of the Cat. A Look at the Symbolic Meaning of Cats. As an ancient symbolic Celtic animal, the cat represents the guardian of the Otherworld (or Underworld, depending which texts you read from various regions). Stoic, silent and mysterious, cats fit the bill of Otherworld guardians quite well. Here the cat was also considered a guardian of homes and a symbol of domestic goodness. In Muslim lore, the cat is honored for saving Mohammad from an attack by a fierce snake. Here it is believed the M marking on the forehead of many tabby cats is the mark of the prophet (M for Mohammad).
Cat Symbol Cat is a symbol for spiritual power, freedom, love of liberty and bad luck in Japan. On the contrary the black cat is linked to evil cunning in the Celtic world and with harmful djins in Islamic world. 
Here are the true meanings of Cats, Cats have many symbols, ranging from the devillish to godly. Often times, many people think that cats represent sin and the devil, but it's not true. Cats symbolize a deeper understanding of our natural world, as if they posess a psychic mind, as in the Black Panther. Cats are very treasured animals. Due to their beauty and gracefulness, they were once worshipped as gods (i.e. the female Egyptian god Bastet).
Cat Symbolism. Share |. Cats are an image of wholeness-a merging of the physical and spiritual, the psychic and the sensual. For a cat, these are not separate worlds, but one. They have been tagged with a variety of traits, including curiosity, nine lives, independence, cleverness, unpredictability, and healing. 
Cat Symbolism... by Presley Love Cat is fanciful and ever so independent. Cat is a powerful totem when you are in need of independence and self confidence. One of the most powerful and ancient symbols and influences of the Cat is it's association with magic. Cat has many magical abilities... heightened awareness and senses, mind-reading, a significant spiritual meaning of the Cat is being a familiar to those who practice magic... spellcasting and ritual work.
A lot of people think cats bring bad luck black paticulary. I think cats symbolize love. They show love when you pet them. They are cuddly. I have 12 so i think they symbolize love. Some people think they simbolize strength they have the power to kill and eat it fast! They are fast runners and are also defensive. Somtimes cats simbolize love. Cats also symbolize energy. CAts were not a symbol of ancient rome,they were symbols in ancient Egypt Actually the cat did have a symbol in Ancient Rome, the cat was the symbol of liberty Sorry I mea … nt to type down that it was a symbol of liberty. 2 people found this useful.