CHICKEN TREATS. This is a list of everything you can feed a chicken. However, everybody's chickens have their own tiny brains full of likes and dislikes, so while one person's chickens may come running for grapes or watermelon, another person's chickens may turn up their pointy little beaks at it. Only feed your chickens that which is still considered edible by humans, don't feed anything spoiled, moldy, oily, salty or unidentifiable. Lettuce / Kale. Any leafy greens, spinach collards, chickweed included. A big treat, depending on how much other greenery they have access to.
Typically, backyard and small farm chickens also eat food scraps from the farm household-basically anything besides beans, garlic, raw potatoes, onions, and citrus. You can feed them beans, garlic and onions but the eggs might taste funky. Raw potatoes can be poisonous to chickens. 
Here is the long answer for inquiring minds: Chickens love table scraps and can eat almost anything you eat and are a wonderful addition to a self-reliant, self sufficient lifestyle taking care of table and garden scraps throughout the year. 
There are some limitations, but here’s what you can and can’t feed your chicken. As a rule, don’t make a habit of feeding your flock exclusively off of table scraps. Just because they can eat a lot of your waste doesn’t mean that it’s anywhere near the best thing for them. However, there are a handful of scraps to avoid completely as they can be toxic or even fatal. Potato and avocado skins are strong poisons for your flock, as are avocado pits. Chocolate, as with most animals, will definitely make them sick, and rotten food will do the same.
Your chickens become a renewable garbage disposal. You give them table scraps, which in your eyes are just unusable food, and you get eggs, and the best fertilizer in the world. That sounds like a great deal to me. The more chicken scraps you give them the less feed they will eat, which will save you money. Don’t overdo it on the table scraps though; a little every day is great
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Chickens will eat almost any kitchen scraps! They are omnivorous, eating a wide range of both plant and animal foods. If you ever watch free-range chickens, they will scratch up bugs and worms to eat, as well as eating grass, weeds, flowers, veggies, etc
I have day old chicks in a brooder and as this is my first time owning chickens I am not sure at what age they can (either safely or most recommended) eat green food scraps like leftover lettuce and hand picked grass. I have had experience taking care of adult chickens but never babies. 
If you have access to grain then you can feed that to them. Whenever you make food with lots of scraps (peelings and bits of vegetables that humans shouldn't eat) then feed those to them. Chickens can be trained so well if they see a small bucket (for carrying chicken scraps) they get excited because a treat is coming. For everyday food you can feed your chickens either chicken food (found at feed stores) or pig food. In Alberta the UFA Hog Grower is the same as the chick starter except the pellets are bigger, and the hog grower contains less antibiotics.
You can your wean your chickens off grain and produce more nutritious eggs by feeding your chickens on food scraps and compost. This video talks you through the things to think about in order to feed food scraps to your chickens effectively. 