Under extreme climatic conditions, a biennial plant may complete its life cycle rapidly (e.g. three months instead of two years). This is quite common in vegetable or flower seedlings that were exposed to cold conditions, or vernalized, before they were planted in the ground. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures), then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization, before they will flower.
Examples of biennial plants are members of the onion family including leek, some members of the cabbage family, common mullein, parsley, fennel, Lunaria, silverbeet, Black-eyed Susan, Sweet William, colic weed, carrot, and some hollyhocks. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures), then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization, before they will flower.
Definition of Biennial Plants. All plants need time to grow and successfully reproduce. They also need light to undergo the process of photosynthesis. Biennial plants require two years to complete their life cycle. Typically, in the first year the plants grow roots, stems, and leaves during the spring and summer months. However, in the wild and in order to fully cultivate them they require two years. Foxgloves are popular plants sold in greenhouses today. Wild foxgloves are biennial plants. They grow from a bud in their first year and produce stems and leaves. In the fall of the year the leaves and stem die back.
From a gardener's perspective, a plant's status as annual, biennial, or perennial often varies based on location or purpose. Biennials grown for flowers, fruits, or seeds need to be grown for two years. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures), then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization, before they will flower.
Annual, Perennial, and Biennial Flowers. Flowers are plants known for their aesthetic values. They are useful for very important occasions such as meetings, weddings and condolence visits. When used as gifts, they usually send more heart warming messages to the recipients than other valuables such as money and jewelry. Biennial Flowers. Biennial flowers are plants that take two years to complete their life cycle. They usually grow from the seeds and die within two seasons, leaving only their seeds to be replanted. In the first season, the biennial flowers grow from their seeds to become small plants
Annuals are plants that go through their entire lifecycle in one growing season. Hardy annuals are plants that go through their entire life cycle in one season and that can be sown outside in the open garden in spring where it is to flower, for example, Centaurea cyanus – cornflower.
Biennial are plants whose lifecycle spans two years, so they flower and produce seeds in their second year. A familiar biennial is foxglove, Digitalis purpurea. Some plants grown as biennials are, botanically speaking, short-lived perennials, for example, sweet william and wallflower. Hardy annuals are plants that go through their entire life cycle in one season and that can be sown outside in the open garden in spring where it is to flower, for example, Centaurea cyanus – cornflower.
A biennial plant is a flowering plant that takes two years to complete its biological lifecycle. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures), then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization, before they will flower.