(United States). An Assistant Director, Non-Profit Organization earns an average salary of $48,571 per year. A skill in Event Management is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. $32,787 - $74,406. 
Consistent with the mission and vision of the UVA Career Center, the Assistant Director develops and maintains collaborative relationships with primary... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all University of Virginia jobs in Charlottesville, VA-Charlottesville jobs. 
What Preschool and Childcare Center Directors Do. Preschool and childcare center directors direct and lead staffs, oversee daily activities, and prepare plans and budgets. They are responsible for all aspects of their center’s program. Working parents will continue to need help caring for their children. The number of children who are of preschool age is increasing, leading to a greater need for childcare and increasing the demand for preschool and childcare center directors.
Education. The minimum education required to work as an assistant director of a day care center is a high school diploma or equivalent. Candidates with a four-year degree in early childhood development, accounting or another related subject area will have a competitive edge. Back Office Responsibilities. The assistant director of a day care is also tasked with a number of necessary behind-the-scenes duties to keep the day care center running smoothly. He must constantly monitor the facility, ensuring that it is a safe and healthy place for children, and adhere to proper state codes
The median annual wage for preschool and childcare center directors was $43,950 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $27,930, and the top 10 percent earned more than $84,340. Working parents will continue to need help caring for their children. The number of children who are of preschool age is increasing, leading to a greater need for childcare and increasing the demand for preschool and childcare center directors.
An assistant director for a day care ensures the facility is a safe and fun place for children to learn. He is tasked with a wide variety of responsibilities, including managing staff, interacting with parents, and marketing and financial duties. Back Office Responsibilities. The assistant director of a day care is also tasked with a number of necessary behind-the-scenes duties to keep the day care center running smoothly. He must constantly monitor the facility, ensuring that it is a safe and healthy place for children, and adhere to proper state cod
It is more common now for an Assistant to the Director to transition to a production management or producer role than to directing. In America, an Assistant to the Director is not a unionized role, but Assistant Directors of every level require membership to the Director's Guild of America. The Assistant to the Director manages all of the Director's in development, pre-production, while on set, through post-production and is often involved in both personal management as well as creative aspects of the production process.
If you have leadership skills and like working with children, consider a career as an assistant day care director. Responsible for the day-to-day operations of the day care, an assistant director supervises staff, plans curriculum and lends a helping hand with children as needed. Pay is typically hourly, and full-time employees receive health insurance benefits and are eligible for overtime. Job Outlook. The BLS predicts job growth for day care service directors, including assistant day care directors, to grow by 30 percent through 2020, which compares to a projection of 14 percent for all occupations.