The Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child and Dependent Care Credit help millions of families every year. There are also a number of credits for small and large businesses. You may have taken deductions when you prepared your annual tax return.
Maximum deduction allowed is 10% of salary (in case of taxpayer being an employee) or 10% of gross total income (in case of tax payer being self employed) or Rs 1,00,000 whichever is less. The limit of Rs 1,00,000 has been increased to Rs 1,50,000 for financial year 2015-16 (assessments year 2016-17).
Often, these deductions are limited if your modified adjusted gross income amount is too high. In 2014 for example, you can deduct up to $2,500 of student loan interest payments if your MAGI is less than $75,000. Your MAGI equals the AGI you report on your tax return increased by the amount of your student loan interest deduction.
A tax deduction reduces your taxable income. Your total deductions are subtracted from your taxable income in order to determine your total tax bill for the year. Tax credits are similar to tax deductions, but they reduce your tax bill dollar for dollar. Learn more about tax credits.
If the interest you paid on your mortgage is larger than your standard tax deduction, you definitely benefit by itemizing -- and all the rest of your deductible expenses (including real estate taxes, state and local income taxes, and charitable donations) are frosting on the cake.
1 Deductions that are required of the employer by federal or state law, such as income taxes or garnishments. 2  Deductions expressly authorized in writing by the employee to cover insurance premiums, hospital or medical dues or other deductions not amounting to a rebate or deduction from the wage paid to the employee.
Updated for Tax Year 2014. OVERVIEW. Tax deductions allow you to reduce the amount of your income that is subject to income tax. These deductions are based on a variety of factors. Some relate to expenses you pay during the year while others are fixed by the government and have no relation to any costs you incur.
The deduction is limited to the sales or excise tax applicable to the first $49,500 in the vehicles purchase price, and the deduction phases out at an adjusted gross income of $125,000 (or $250,000 for joint filers).