Being a yellow dwarf, the sun is 1,412,000,000,000,000,000 cubic kilometers big and has a size that is more or less 1,989,100,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 kilograms. The sun is more than a million times bigger than the Earth and is 332,900 times weightier. A perfect example of a yellow dwarf would be the sun. A yellow dwarf has a mass almost like the mass of the sun. Its color ranges from white to a lighter yellow.
According to their system of classification, the Sun is known as a yellow dwarf star. This group of stars are relatively small, containing between 80% and 100% the mass of the Sun. So the Sun is at the higher end of this group. 
The sun is considered a yellow dwarf, although this is a complete misnomer, as it is larger and brighter than over 3/4 of the stars in the galaxy and is fated to become a red … giant after this part of it's life cycle. A yellow dwarf star, is a star on the main sequence that has a temperature range of between 5,200 to 6,000 Kelvin. It has a spectral class of G or possibly F. Our Sun is a yellow dwarf-much as you may not believe it, it is a dwarf compared to other stars!!
Yellow Dwarf. A yellow dwarf is a star and is often referred to as a G-type main sequence star. A perfect example of a yellow dwarf would be the sun. A yellow dwarf has a mass almost like the mass of the sun. Its color ranges from white to a lighter yellow. Among the stars in the galaxy, yellow dwarf stars are bigger than most of the stars although giant stars are the biggest of all
Sol, a typical yellow dwarf. A yellow dwarf is a classification of star which is undergoing hydrogen-helium conversion. Sol was a well-known yellow dwarf star. Yellow dwarf-an ordinary star such as the sun at a comparatively stable and long-lived stage of evolution. Zenith-the point on the celestial sphere directly overhead ... YELLOW DWARF. Yellow dwarf s are small, main sequence stars. The Sun is a yellow dwarf. yellow dwarf. Hydrogen. Sausages are vegetables and other anecdotes about vegetarian diet ... Yellow Dwarf. An ordinary star such as the Sun at a stable point in its evolution. Z. Zenith. A point directly overhead from an observe
1 Yellow dwarfs are main-sequence (dwarf) stars with masses comparable to that of the Sun. 2  Orange dwarfs are K-type main-sequence stars. 3  A blue dwarf is a hypothesized class of very-low-mass stars that increase in temperature as they near the end of their main-sequence lifetime. 1 Dwarf star alone generally refers to any main-sequence star, a star of luminosity class V. 2  Red dwarfs are low-mass main-sequence stars. 3  Yellow dwarfs are main-sequence (dwarf) stars with masses comparable to that of the Sun. 4  Orange dwarfs are K-type main-sequence stars.
Yellow dwarf. Yellow dwarfs are stars of medium size. A yellow dwarf is a star belonging to the main sequence of spectral type G and weighing between 0.7 and 1 times the solar mass. About 10% of stars in the Milky Way are dwarf yellow. The Sun is a typical yellow dwarf. The red giant phase signals the end of life of a yellow dwarf. Stars reach this stage when the heart has exhausted its primary fuel, hydrogen. Fusion reactions of helium then trip, and while the center of the star contracts, its outer layers swell, redden and cool.