About the Group. The last of the p block families we will be looking at is the boron family -- Group 13. This group includes the elements boron, aluminum, gallium, indium, and thallium. All five have three electrons in their outer energy level. Only one member of this family is a metalloid -- boron. The others are classified as metals, forming positive ions by giving up their three outermost electrons. In the Real World. Boron is most commonly found as borax and boric acid, which are used in cleaning compounds.
The aluminum family consists of elements in Group 13 of the periodic table: boron (B), aluminum (Al), gallium (Ga), indium (In), and thallium (Tl). The family is usually named after the second element, aluminum, rather than the first, boron, because boron is less typical of the family members than is aluminum. 
Boron is classified as a metalloid while the rest, with the possible exception of ununtrium, are considered post-transition metals. Ununtrium has not yet been confirmed to be post-transition, due to relativistic effects, might not turn out to be one. The elements in group 13 are also capable of forming stable compounds with the halogens, usually with the formula MX 3 (where M is a boron-group element and X is a halogen.) The only exception to this is thallium(III) iodide.
Boron, B belongs to the semiconductors(metalloids) family. Semiconductors are located toward the right side of the periodic table. The Boron family is classified as Metals and Metalloids. They are Group 13 and have 3 valence electrons. The Boron family are solids at room temperature and they are reactive. … But, the most reactive are the Alkali Metals. They have a violent reaction with water. Hope this helps!
The electronic configuration of the boron family is ns2np1. The element of this group are boron, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium. On moving down the group following characteristic are seen. These are also called elements of boron family. Out of all these elements Boron is a non metal while all others are metals. These elements do not occur free in nature, rather they are generally found as oxides in many locations around the earth.
Boron family of elements contains five elements namely boron, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium. Except boron which is classified as a non metal all other elements of this group are metals. The general electronic configuration of these elements is ns 2 np 1. These elements belong to p block of the periodic table. These are also called elements of boron family. Out of all these elements Boron is a non metal while all others are metals. These elements do not occur free in nature, rather they are generally found as oxides in many locations around the earth.
The boron group are the chemical elements in group 13 of the periodic table, comprising boron (B), aluminium (Al), gallium (Ga), indium (In), thallium (Tl), and ununtrium (Uut). The elements in the boron group are characterized by having three electrons in their outer energy levels (valence layers). The elements in group 13 are also capable of forming stable compounds with the halogens, usually with the formula MX 3 (where M is a boron-group element and X is a halogen.) The only exception to this is thallium(III) iodide.