Symbiosis in lichens is the mutually helpful symbiotic relationship of green algae and/or blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) living among filaments of a fungus. The fungus benefits from the algae or cyanobacteria because they produce food by photosynthesis. Further, the same algal species can occur in association with different fungal partners. Lichens are known in which there is one fungus associated with two or even three algal species. Rarely, the reverse can occur, and two or more fungal species can interact to form the same lichen.
A lichen is a composite organism that arises from algae or cyanobacteria (or both) living among filaments of a fungus in a symbiotic relationship. The combined life form has properties that are very different from the properties of its component organisms. Lichens come in many colors, sizes, and forms. Lichens are said to be species, but what is meant by species is different from what is meant for plants, animals, and fungi, for which species implies a common ancestral lineage. Lichens are really combinations of species from two or three different biological kingdoms, so there is no common lineage.
Like the slime molds, lichens are a hybrid; a symbiotic relationship between an algae and a fungus. There is a terrible joke in the naturalist community, and it goes something like this: a lichen is a fungus and an algae, and they’re likin’ one another. Most of the fungi in this relationship are not able to survive without an algal partner. Plants have a superpower that animals and fungi do not have: they can make their own food through photosynthesis.
This is because a lichen is not a separate organism in the sense of being one type of individual. It is actually a close partnership between a fungus and an alga. (Algae are very simple plants). The two types of organisms in the partnership are so closely interwoven that they appear as a single individual. In lichens where the partner is a species of Nostoc, organic nitrogen is also supplied to the fungus, because Nostoc is able to fix atmospheric nitrogen. In return, the water, nutrients and gases absorbed from the environment by the fungus are shared with the algae.
Lichens are another such partnership for fungi to gain nutrients from another organism. The algal partner photosynthesizes and provides food for the fungus, so it can grow and spread. Lichens are bizarre organisms and no two are alike. Lichens are a complex life form that is a symbiotic partnership of two separate organisms, a fungus and an alga. The dominant partner is the fungus, which gives the lichen the majority of its characteristics, from its thallus shape to its fruiting bodies. The alga can be either a green alga or a blue-green alga, otherwise known as cyanobacteria. Many lichens will have both types of algae
Lichens are Fungi! The plant-like appearance of lichens hides their true identity. A lichen is not a single organism, but the result of a partnership (mutualistic symbiosis) between a fungus and an alga or cyanobacteria. Some lichens are formed of three or more partners. The body of a lichen consists of fungal filaments (hyphae) surrounding cells of green algae and/or blue-green cyanobacteria.
The lichen combination of fungus with algae and/or cyanobacteria has a very different form (morphology), physiology, and biochemistry to the component parts growing by themselves. Lichens are said to be species, but what is meant by species is different from what is meant for plants, animals, and fungi, for which species implies a common ancestral lineage. Lichens are really combinations of species from two or three different biological kingdoms, so there is no common lineage.
20% (one in five) of fungal species live in lichens. Lichen fungi belong to several different groups of fungi. Most common (over 40%) are Ascomycetes, which produce spores in a sac-shaped container, the ascus. Only a few types of alga occur within lichens; these algae also have their own names. 