I eat 1 pretty much everyday. The 2 best times to eat a banana are before your workout or right afterwards. Before will give you energy to fuel your workout. I like to eat a banana with a little peanut butter on a slice of whole wheat toast or English muffin. Afterwards if I eat a banana I like to eat in mixed in a fresh smoothie. Just some ideas.
One Methods: Alternate Methods. For those of us who've eaten bananas all our lives, it may seem ridiculous to provide a tutorial on how to eat one. But to one of the many people who haven't, it's sometimes as puzzling to them as eating a prickly pear, pomegranate, artichoke or durian for the first time might be to you. 
Report Abuse. Bananas are a superfood. All vegetarians should eat them. I suggest eating one everyday because they are a superfood. The best time of day to eat them depends. When you feel heartburn coming eat one. Bananas have a natural antiacid in them. When you feel dehydrated eat one. It really doesn't matter when you eat it but since it is a healthy fruit, breakfast would be a good time so you can get a good headstart on your day. Also for a snack between lunch and dinner would be good so you can get some more energy.
Arnav Sarkar: Breakfast is a great time to have a piece of fruit, and banana is a great option. For a good and complete breakfast pair the banana with some oats, almonds, milk and egg. Vinata Shetty: Bananas can be had as breakfast. They can be paired with skimmed milk as in a milkshake or yoghurt. 
The Best Time To Eat A Banana-Is it healthier to eat a banana while it’s fresh or when it’s ripe? Many people are wondering about when it’s the best time to eat a banana. Interestingly, the nutritional profile of bananas changes as they ripen. You may have noticed that the more ripe your banana is, the sweeter it tastes. 
Yes, you can still eat bananas — even if you have diabetes. Bananas are a good source of fiber, potassium, and vitamin C, but they do contain carbohydrates. In fact, all fruit has some carbohydrate, so you need to count them in your diabetes meal plan. If you want to include bananas in your meal plan, become familiar with portion sizes and the number of carbohydrates in each.
For breakfast, you will eat bananas and drink room-temperature water. The bananas must be raw, never cooked or frozen. You may substitute other fruit, but only one type per meal. If you are still hungry, wait 15 to 30 minutes and you can eat something else. Get ready to go bananas! But that's not all you'll eat on this plan. The Morning Banana Diet, also known as Asa-Banana Diet, comes from a husband and wife in Japan: Sumiko Watanabe is a pharmacist and preventive medicine expert.
Summary. The “why they’re so healthy” list is a long one – good thing bananas are so easy to eat! Potassium, vitamins A, C, and B6, fiber, flavonoids, and antioxidants – it’s all there, wrapped in a convenient, protective package. 
Interestingly enough, there is a “right” time to eat a banana. First, it is important to understand some of the health benefits bananas have to offer. One medium banana (about 126 grams) is considered to be one serving. One serving of banana contains 110 calories, 30 grams of carbohydrate and 1 gram of protein. However, it is important to make sure you are eating the banana at the right time to ensure that you are getting all of these benefits. Many people are wondering about when it’s the best time to eat a banana. Interestingly, the nutritional profile of bananas changes as they ripen. You may have noticed that the more ripe your banana is, the sweeter it tastes