How does one make the best Gyro Meat? Is it made from ground lamb and beef mixed or is it made from Leg or Lamb and Beef Roast. I have heard so many different variations that I am confused as to how it is actually done, insight is appreciated.
Flavor Fix. The Kronos website indicates that the classic Greek-American gyro meat is made with a mixture of 85% beef and 15% lamb. I don't know about you, but I prefer to keep my shopping list as minimal as possible. Since I love lamb, I saw no reason not to make my own gyros our of 100% lamb meat
This Greek/Lebanese style meat loaf is sliced and served with pita bread, tzatziki, and tomatoes for a delicious gyro that is the closest I've come to emulating my favorite Mediterranean restaurant. 1 Bake until the gyro meat is no longer pink in the center, and the internal temperature registers 165 degrees F (75 degrees C) on a meat thermometer, 45 minutes to 1 hour. 2  Pour off any accumulated fat, and allow to cool slightly before slicing thinly and serving.
For Greek version, see Gyro (food) . Not to be confused with Kebab. Doener döner (/kebab ˈdɒnər/ , /kəˈbaeb/ ; Kəˈbæb: ˈdoʊnər turkish doener döner, [or doener]) döner kebap Doeˈnɛɾ̝̊ døˈnɛɾ̝̊ ceˈbap is a turkish dish made of meat, cooked on a vertical rotisserie, normally lamb. but sometimes beef or chicken 
Shawarma is made by stacking strips of meat on the skewer. Like spokes on a bicycle wheel, where the skewer is the hub. One end of a strip goes on the skewer, the other hangs out. The meat is prepared by slicing it raw from the carcase into 10 to 20 cm long strips, about 1 cm thick. He actually had 2 options one was 100% that was the preferred (according to him) meat for gyros and the 80% which some people (like me) preferred. When ever i visit a new restaurant that serves gyro's I ask what their lamb content is. It is rare more than 10% and usually 0.
For the times I've done gyros as such, you basically make a 'paste' out of it in the food processor. Throw ground lamb in and give it a whirl, mix your spices and such in, put it on a spit, fridge to give a bit hard, and then on the spit. It comes out with a texture like that. He actually had 2 options one was 100% that was the preferred (according to him) meat for gyros and the 80% which some people (like me) preferred. When ever i visit a new restaurant that serves gyro's I ask what their lamb content is. It is rare more than 10% and usually 0.
Report Abuse. Gyros or gyro (giros) (pronounced /ˈjɪəroʊ/ or /ˈdʒaɪroʊ/, Greek: γύρος turn) is a Greek dish consisting of meat (typically lamb and/or beef), tomato, onion, and tzatziki sauce, and is served with pita bread. Chicken and pork meat can be used too. In the United States, gyros are usually made from sliced lamb, minced beef or possibly a combination of the two. Chicken is a common alternative in many restaurants serving gyros. The pita resembles a Greek 'plain' pita. The most common fillings are generally tomato and onion