Gram flour is beneficial for the skin as well. Indulge in a homemade body scrub that is free from all the harsh chemicals found in soaps/body wash. Mix 3 teaspoons of besan, 1 teaspoon of grounded oats and 2 teaspoons of corn flour along with a little raw milk. Apply the mixture on your body and gently scrub. This is an excellent body scrub which removes dead cells, excess sebum and dirt quite effectively. It gives you a clean and smooth skin. Mix 4 teaspoons of besan, 1 teaspoon of lemon, 1 teaspoon of yogurt and a pinch of turmeric to form a smooth paste. Apply it all over your face and neck. Wash it off with cool water after it dries. It makes your skin smooth and radiant.
Made from a grounded mixture of chickpeas, chickpea or gram flour is a chief condiment in Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi cuisines. The flour is powdery yellow and has an earthy flavor adding savour to various dishes. Chickpea flour makes a tasty and crispy coating for deep-fried vegetable pakoras. One can use either raw or roasted chickpeas. Roasted chickpea flour is more characterized; while raw flour has a slightly bitter taste. Also known as besan, it is used in gravies, batters, etc. When made into a paste with water or yogurt, it is used popularly as a face cleanser in the Indian subcontinent. Also it is commonly used as a replacement for egg in vegetarian cooking. Chila, a very popular fast food and snack is made from gram flour batter
Chickpea flour is flour made from dried chickpeas (garbanzo beans). Also known as garbanzo flour, gram flour and besan, chickpea flour is a staple of Indian, Pakistani and Bangladesh cuisines. In Morocco, garbanzo flour from unroasted chickpeas is used to make Kalinti, a quiche-like dish often sold as a street food. 
A pancake type bread made from besan. A bowl of besan flour. Dried chickpeas, which are used to make flour for besan. In addition to being gluten free, besan is far more nutritious than standard white flour. Some Indian cooks use besan to thicken curries. Besan is used as a thickener in soups and sauces of all types, and may be used as Westerners might use eggs to bind ingredients together. Besan is finely ground, not coarse as is the chickpea flour used to make falafels. Some varieties are made from dried roasted chickpeas, which gives the flour a rich and nutty taste.
Besan or gram flour has been traditionally used extensively for its beauty and health benefits. It is mainly used to cleanse and exfoliate the skin. It can also be used as a hair pack. Mix 4 teaspoons of besan, 1 teaspoon of lemon, 1 teaspoon of yogurt and a pinch of turmeric to form a smooth paste. Apply it all over your face and neck. Wash it off with cool water after it dries. It makes your skin smooth and radiant.
Not to be confused with graham flour. Gram flour, also known as garbanzo bean flour, or besan, is a pulse flour made from ground chickpeas known in a number of Asian countries as gram. It is a staple ingredient in Indian, Pakistani, Nepali and Bangladeshi cuisines. Gram flour can be made from either raw or roasted gram beans. The roasted variety is more flavorful, while the raw variety has a slightly bitter taste.
To fight pimples naturally, try the anti-pimples besan face mask. Mix 2 teaspoons of gram flour, 2 teaspoons of sandalwood powder, 1 teaspoon of milk and a pinch of turmeric powder to make a paste. Apply it all over the face. Wash off with cool water after it dries. Mix 4 teaspoons of besan, 1 teaspoon of lemon, 1 teaspoon of yogurt and a pinch of turmeric to form a smooth paste. Apply it all over your face and neck. Wash it off with cool water after it dries. It makes your skin smooth and radiant.
Besan, also called gram flour, is made from ground, dried chickpeas and is a staple ingredient in many Indian and Pakistani foods. Some people may be more familiar with the name garbanzo beans for chickpeas, and further, others may confuse besan with graham flour. Besan is used as a thickener in soups and sauces of all types, and may be used as Westerners might use eggs to bind ingredients together. Besan is finely ground, not coarse as is the chickpea flour used to make falafels. Some varieties are made from dried roasted chickpeas, which gives the flour a rich and nutty taste.