There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together. Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes.
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (abbreviated SER) has functions in several metabolic processes. It synthesizes lipids, phospholipids, and steroids. Cells which secrete these products, such as those in the testes, ovaries, and sebaceous glands have an abundance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
There are tow types of Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER): Smooth ER and Rough ERSmooth ER-Breaks down carbohydrates; synthesis of lipids, phospholipids, steroids; helps to detoxify … blood; stores Calcium ionsRough ER-Helps with protein synthesis; has ribosomes it acts as an intracellular highway through the cell. Two patterns are found in the cell, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum packages proteins for transport, synthesizes membrane phosolipids, and releases calcium.
Two patterns are found in the cell, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum packages proteins for transport, synthesizes membrane phosolipids, and releases calcium. 
Layman's Answer: The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), has two different sections. The Rough ER and the Smooth ER, both of which have different jobs. The Rough ER makes things for the cell to use, or to ship to other cells. The smooth ER takes bad things out of the body.. Two patterns are found in the cell, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum packages proteins for transport, synthesizes membrane phosolipids, and releases calcium.
The smooth endoplasmic reticulum has functions in several metabolic processes, including synthesis of lipids, metabolism of carbohydrates and calcium concentration, drug detoxification, and attachment of receptors on cell membrane proteins. It is connected to the nuclear envelope. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant) and it serves different functions in each. The Smooth ER also contains the enzyme Glucose-6-phosphatase which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. Smooth ER consists of tubules and vesicles that branch forming a network. In some cells there are dilated areas like the sacs of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The network of smooth endoplasmic reticulum allows increased surface area for the action or storage of key enzymes and the products of these enzymes
The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (abbreviated SER) has functions in several metabolic processes. It synthesizes lipids, phospholipids, and steroids. Cells which secrete these products, such as those in the testes, ovaries, and sebaceous glands have an abundance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
ER consists of a communicating network of tubules, cisternae, and vesicles and can be seen in eukaryotic types of cells. A eukaryotic cell is enclosed by a membrane and has a definite bound nucleus. It has two types, the Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum, or SER, and Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum or RER. Both share the same importance in the cell’s function. The main disparity between SER and RER is in their structure. The subtype of ER is the Sarcoplasmic Reticulum. It is a type of Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum that is located in the striated and smooth muscle. SER, on the other hand, has the ability to transport the manufactured proteins to other parts of the cell and even outside the cell.
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (abbreviated SER) has functions in several metabolic processes. It synthesizes lipids, phospholipids, and steroids. Cells which secrete these products, such as those in the testes, ovaries, and sebaceous glands have an abundance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. In liver cells the smooth ER produces enzymes that help to detoxify certain compounds. In muscles the smooth ER assists in the contraction of muscle cells, and in brain cells it synthesizes male and female hormones. The endoplasmic reticulum is only one component of a cell.