Swimming is one of those exercises that tones your whole body. Since you will be using all of your muscles during this workout, it can tone your upper and lower body efficiently. It is not like other types of exercises or sports that only focus on a particular part of the body. Freestyle, backstroke and breaststroke are the most effective strokes to use in toning your entire body. Unlike other types of workout, there is a lower risk for injuries while engaged in this sport. This is because swimming does not put stress on your joints, bones or connective tissues
1 Different swimming strokes challenge different muscles within the body so you can choose where you tone up. 2  The pressure of water causes a shift of blood volume from the periphery of the body to the thorax. 3  This increases venal pressure and so leads to a decrease in heart rate of up to 20bpm lower in water than on land. 1 Swimming can support up to 90% of the body’s weight in the water, meaning that those with disabilities, injuries or illnesses such as arthritis can take part in a comfortable and safe environment.
Swim training workouts are great for your health. These exercises work the entire body, increasing muscle strength, conditioning the cardiovascular system, improving flexibility and more. Not only are these workouts beneficial to your body, they are also very enjoyable to perform. It is not like other types of exercises or sports that only focus on a particular part of the body. Freestyle, backstroke and breaststroke are the most effective strokes to use in toning your entire body. Unlike other types of workout, there is a lower risk for injuries while engaged in this sport.
swimming is not good for your skin. it dries it out, overproducing oil. when you kick, you just break the surface, and your body should float on top of your water. i'm a swim teamer and i know this because i have been to countless swim camps, and swimming on a team for 8 years, as well as lessons since i was 2. Best Answer: After you swim shower and shampoo following with a conditioner. Treat your skin to a good body lotion. Swimming in general is a total body exercise and is a great cardio vascular workout. It is easy on the joints and muscular tissue stress is at a minimum. The initial jump in the cold water is a stimulant to epidermal tissue as well and makes for a good skin treatment
Swimming as a form of exercise has many advantages. Whether or not swimming is the best workout for your particular body depends on your unique needs and preferences. One of the often repeated comments about swimming is that it exercises your entire body. The truth of this really depends on how you approach swimming
All in all, swimming is a great workout for your body. It works your lungs, heart and the muscles of your entire body. It is not the ideal activity if your goal is to bulk up or strengthen your bones. Whether or not swimming is the best workout for your particular body depends on your unique needs and preferences. One of the often repeated comments about swimming is that it exercises
For exercise purposes, the best stroke to use in the pool is freestyle, where your arms are moving in a windmill motion while your body is pivoting and you’re breathing on the side of the arm that’s out of the water. 
Swimming is good exercise (that's obvious). Swimming is a lifetime sport that benefits the body and the whole person! But what is it that makes swimming good, specifically? That depends on what you are trying to accomplish as a swimmer. Before a dryland workout, you can use the pool for a warm-up session. Swimming with increasing effort to gradually increase your heart rate and stimulate your muscle activity is easily accomplished in the water.