3 Contributions. the flow of blood through the nephron is: enters through the afferent arteriole, then flows through the glomerulus and into the efferent arteriole. 
Blood Vessels Associated with the Nephrons. Each nephron is supplied with blood by an afferent arteriole, a branch of the renal artery that subdivides into the capillaries of the glomerulus. The capillaries converge as they leave the glomerulus, forming an efferent arteriole.
Confidence votes 10.2K. Nephrons are NOT blood vessels in the kidneys. The nephron is a three-stage unit, located in the kidney, responsible for filtering and absorbing substances. There are about one million of these structures per kidney. 1  The filter unit is the primary part. 2  Small molecules diffuse into the nephron from the capillaries. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In the kidney, the loop of Henle (or Henle's loop, nephron loop or its Latin counterpart ansa nephroni) is the portion of a nephron that leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule. 
These run through the medullary pyramids and open into the renal pelvis. Mammalian Nephron Section through Kidney. The nephron or uriniferous tubule is the functional unit of the kidney. A nephron consists of a twisted tubule closed at one end, open at the other with a network of associated blood vessels. Each kidney of man is formed of about one million nephrons. Each nephron has a length of about 3 cm
The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
Nephron. o The nephron is the structural and functional unit of the kidney. It consists of a specialized tubular structure and closely associated blood vessels. Responsible for the formation of urine. o Each kidney contains 1,000,000 nephrons that filter the blood and form urine
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney. Each nephron consists of one renal corpuscle and its associated tubule. The kidney as a whole consists of many nephrons (millions) with their associated blood vessels. Together, the renal corpuscle and its associated tubule is called a nephron. In this cartoon, orange color represents renal corpuscles, blue color indicates tubules of each nephron, whose function is analogous to that of striated ducts, and lavendar color indicates collecting ducts, whose function is more passive.