Let the chicken soak in the brining solution for several hours. For small pieces, 1 or 2 hours is sufficient, while 8 to12 hours is ideal for a whole chicken. If you can't spare that much time, a brine will still impart flavor and improve tenderness if used for only a short period of time, at least 2 hours. You can also work with dry brines, which lead to crispy skin and keep the natural moisture in the bird without the hassle of a wet brine. 1  Prep time (Wet): 30 minutes. 2  Cook time: 8-12 hours (active cooking: 10 minutes). 3  Total time: 8-12 hours.
Directions. 1  Mix brine together well with a whisk. 2  Place 1 whole chicken (thawed or frozen-you may also use chicken parts.) in brine for 2 hours up to over night. 3  Remove chicken from brine and rinse chicken well. 4  NOTES: You can do this with turkey, as well. 1 Mix brine together well with a whisk. 2  Place 1 whole chicken (thawed or frozen-you may also use chicken parts.) in brine for 2 hours up to over night. 3  Cover and store in the refrigerator. 4  Remove chicken from brine and rinse chicken well. 5  You are now ready to make a tender juicy chicken dish of your choosing
Directions. 1  Mix brine together well with a whisk. 2  Place 1 whole chicken (thawed or frozen-you may also use chicken parts.) in brine for 2 hours up to over night. 3  Cover and store in the refrigerator. 4  Remove chicken from brine and rinse chicken well. 5  You are now ready to make a tender juicy chicken dish of your choosing. 1 Mix brine together well with a whisk. 2  Place 1 whole chicken (thawed or frozen-you may also use chicken parts.) in brine for 2 hours up to over night. 3  Cover and store in the refrigerator.
Keep the brine and chicken COLD during brining, between 36-40 degrees Fahrenheit. If there's room, place the brining chicken in the fridge. If not, brine in an insulated cooler, and place a sealed bag of ice in the brine with the chicken. Don't put loose ice in the brine...when it melts, the brine will be diluted and it won't do its job. Use the following brining time chart for chicken as a guide. Add the remaining 1/2 gallon of water. Refrigerate to below 40 degrees Fahrenheit before adding chicken. You can cut the recipe in half, or double it as needed, depending on how much chicken you'll be brining.
My standard brining solution is 1/4 cup of kosher salt dissolved in 1 quart (4 cups) of warm water. I combine the salt and water in a shallow baking dish and stir it gently until the salt is dissolved before adding the meat. This is enough to brine 4 chicken breasts or pork chops, about 1 1/2 pounds of meat. 
If a recipe calls for brining 4 chicken breasts in 2 quarts of water with 1/4 cup of salt, there's no problem increasing to 6 or 8 chicken breasts as long as all the meat is submerged in the brine solution. It's the ratio of salt to water that matters, not the amount of meat being brined. The amount of time needed to brine meat depends on the cut of meat and its thickness. Thin cuts like pork chops and chicken pieces may need only 30-60 minutes of brine time, while a whole turkey can brine for 6-12 hours, with some recipes going as long as 24-48 hours.
1 Place 1 whole chicken (thawed or frozen-you may also use chicken parts.) in brine for 2 hours up to over night. 2  Cover and store in the refrigerator. 3  Remove chicken from brine and rinse chicken well. 4  You are now ready to make a tender juicy chicken dish of your choosing. 5  NOTES: You can do this with turkey, as well. 1 Mix brine together well with a whisk. 2  Place 1 whole chicken (thawed or frozen-you may also use chicken parts.) in brine for 2 hours up to over night. 3  Cover and store in the refrigerator. 4  Remove chicken from brine and rinse chicken well. 5  You are now ready to make a tender juicy chicken dish of your choosing
How long you can brine depends on the concentration of the brine. The longer you want/need to brine the weaker the concentration needs to be. How long and how weak will be a matter of personal preference, but you might try taking your 4 hour brine and cut the amount in half (same amount of water). 
Soak the chicken in the brine for about an hour per pound of meat. The chicken should soak for at least an hour, but not much more than 12 hours. If you have several smaller pieces of chicken, the weight of each piece determines how long it should soak for. Sugar. Sugar is a pretty common ingredient in a chicken brine. It can help moderate how salty the brine tastes, and it also helps the meat caramelize, which will give you a nicely browned chicken. Use at most 1/8 of a cup per quart (liter) of water.