With appropriate treatment, the outlook for someone with bipolar disorder is favorable. Most people respond to a medication and or combination of medications. Approximately 50 percent of people will respond to lithium alone. An additional 20 to 30 percent will respond to another medication or combination of medications. The types of treatment that are commonly prescribed for bipolar disorder include: 1  Mood stabilizers. 2  Older medications, such as lithium, which are reliable and well-tolerated by most. 3  Once the first-line treatment for bipolar disorder, they have largely been supplanted by atypical antipsychotics. 4  A
Treatment for bipolar mania may include lithium, anticonvulsants, antipsychotics, and benzodiazepines. Many people who have bipolar disorder keep taking these medications for years or decades after their last manic episode to stay healthy. This is called maintenance therapy for bipolar disorder. During a period of bipolar depression, you might need other medications. Lithium and other mood stabilizers, certain antipsychotic drugs that treat bipolar depression, and sometimes antidepressants are used to treat bipolar depression. 
1 Medications. 2  Children and teens with bipolar disorder are often prescribed the same types of medications as those used in adults. 3  There's less research on the safety and effectiveness of bipolar medications in children than in adults, so treatment decisions are often based on adult research. 4  Psychotherapy. Psychotherapy. Psychotherapy is a vital part of bipolar disorder treatment and can be provided in individual, family or group settings. Several types of therapy may be helpful. These include: 1  Cognitive behavioral therapy.
A number of medications are used to treat bipolar disorder. The types and doses of medications prescribed are based on your particular symptoms. Medications may include: 1  Mood stabilizers. Psychotherapy. Psychotherapy is a vital part of bipolar disorder treatment and can be provided in individual, family or group settings. Several types of therapy may be helpful. These include: 1  Cognitive behavioral therapy.
1 Whether you have bipolar I or II disorder, you'll typically need mood-stabilizing medication to control manic or hypomanic episodes. 2  Examples of mood stabilizers include lithium (Lithobid), valproic acid (Depakene), divalproex sodium (Depakote), carbamazepine (Tegretol, Equetro, others) and lamotrigine (Lamictal). Psychotherapy. Psychotherapy is a vital part of bipolar disorder treatment and can be provided in individual, family or group settings. Several types of therapy may be helpful. These include: 1  Cognitive behavioral therapy.
In the UK, lithium carbonate (often referred to as just lithium) is the medication most commonly used to treat bipolar disorder. Lithium is a long-term method of treatment for episodes of mania, hypomania and depression. It is usually prescribed for at least six months. Episodes of depression tend to last longer, for between 6 and 12 months. However, with effective treatment, episodes usually improve within about three months. Most people with bipolar disorder can be treated using a combination of different treatments.
A. A. The best treatment for bipolar disorder is a combination of medication and counseling. Doctors often treat the mania symptoms associated with bipolar disorder with one set of drugs, and use other drugs to treat depression. Certain drugs are also used for maintenance -- to maintain a steady mood over time. Treatment for bipolar disorder most often includes a combination of a mood-stabilizing drug and psychotherapy. Although drug treatment is primary, ongoing psychotherapy is important to help patients better cope with the condition. Medications. If you have bipolar disorder, you will probably need medication.
Treatment options for bipolar disorder. If a person is not treated, episodes of bipolar-related mania can last for between three and six months. Episodes of depression tend to last longer, for between 6 and 12 months. However, with effective treatment, episodes usually improve within about three months. Most people with bipolar disorder can be treated using a combination of different treatments.