The nuclei of human cells contain 22 autosomes and 2 sex chromosomes. In females, the sex chromosomes are the 2 X chromosomes. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. The presence of the Y chromosome is decisive for unleashing the developmental program that leads to a baby boy. During interphase, chromosomes are too tenuous to be stained and seen by light microscopy. However, a dense, stainable structure, called a Barr body (after its discoverer) is seen in the interphase nuclei of female mammals. The Barr body is one of the
A Barr body is the inactivated X chromosome that is usually found in the nuclei of female somatic cells. It can also occur in males when there is an abnormality and the male … is XXY instead of the normal XY, a condition known as Klinefelter's syndrome. Once an embryonic cell has inactivated one of its X chromosomes, all the cells derived from it will inactivate the same X chromosome. As the cells develop, the inactivated X chromosome is compacted into an inert bundle called a Barr body.
The number of Barr bodies is thus one less than the number of X-chromosomes. Barr bodies are commonly referred to as sex chromatin. The human abnormalities called Kleinefelter's syndrome and Turner's syndrome both result from an unnatural presence or absence of a Barr body. A female has one Barr body, one less than the number of X chromosomes and a male has none since he is XY.
So a normal female(XX)would have 1 Barr body. In your example the female had 2 Barr bodies, so she has 2 inactivated X chromosomes. She has one functional X chromosome and 2 chromosomes that are turned off. In other words, all females with 2 X chromosomes have one X chromosome inactivated in every single cell (one X chromosome has all the necessary genes so the other one is not needed and thus is inactivated).
This Site Might Help You. RE: Barr body question? a female w/ two Barr bodies in her cells would have what combination of sex chromosomes? a. XXY b. XXXY c. XXX d. XX e. None of the choices are correct. I read online that the answer is c XXX. In other words, all females with 2 X chromosomes have one X chromosome inactivated in every single cell (one X chromosome has all the necessary genes so the other one is not needed and thus is inactivated).
Both Male and Female have the barr body, but in different chromosones. The above statement is INCORRECT. Barr bodies are formed mainly in females due to females having two … X chromosomes while males normally have only one X chromosome (and a Y chromosome). The Barr body is formed from the inactive X chromosome. Once an embryonic cell has inactivated one of its X chromosomes, all the cells derived from it will inactivate the same X chromosome. As the cells develop, the inactivated X chromosome is compacted into an inert bundle called a Barr body.
Barr body-The condensed, single X-chromosome, appearing as a densely staining mass, that is found in the nuclei of somatic cells of female mammals. It is named after its discoverer, Murray Barr, and is derived from one of the two X-chromosomes which becomes inactivated. A female has one Barr body, one less than the number of X chromosomes and a male has none since he is XY.
Best Answer: Barr body The condensed, single X-chromosome, appearing as a densely staining mass, that is found in the nuclei of somatic cells of female mammals. It is named after its discoverer, Murray Barr, and is derived from one of the two X-chromosomes which becomes inactivated. A female has one Barr body, one less than the number of X chromosomes and a male has none since he is XY.