Kananaskis Country is a park system situated to the west of Calgary, Alberta, Canada in the foothills and front ranges of the Canadian Rockies. The Canmore Nordic Centre was the venue for cross-country skiing events during the 1988 Winter Olympics. Most of the development is within Peter Lougheed Provincial Park and along the highway 40 corridor that parallels the Kananaskis River. Kananaskis has many kilometres of hiking, cross-country ski, and horse trails.
Welcome to Kananaskis! Alberta's Kananaskis is surrounded by the towering Canadian Rockies and home to grassy meadows, swift mountain rivers and streams, and fascinating wildlife. Situated just west of Calgary and southeast of Banff, Kananaskis Country is both a stunning and convenient location full of vacation activities for everyone. Come summertime, golfing, camping, hiking, biking, kayaking, rafting and horseback riding are all possible in this picturesque corner of the Canadian Rockies. Known for its pristine natural setting and outdoor lifestyle, Alberta's Kananaskis is also a prime destination for relaxing and just taking some time out.
Kananaskis.com brings you local and up-to-date knowledge about Kananaskis Country and Canmore-the Gateway to the Mountain Parks. It is our hope that this website will assist you finding activities, attractions, accommodations and vacation planning information to help you get the most of your adventures. Hotels & Lodging. Most hotels and motels are located in Canmore, just outside of Kananaskis Country.
Kananaskis Country. K ananaskis Country is located on the eastern slopes of the Canadian Rockies, west and south of the Olympic city of Calgary, Alberta. Its western border is the Continental Divide south of the resort towns of Banff and Canmore. The map shows the five major divisions of Kananaskis Country. Popular Day Hikes has a selection of trails from all of the areas. The five detailed Kananaskis Country Trail Guides contain all the trails in each of the major divisions.
Kananaskis Whitewater Rafting conducts safe, guided white water Rafting Adventures and riverboarding in Kananaskis Country. Located close to Banff, Canmore and Calgary we are easy to get to and provide everything needed. All you bring is a smile. We run float trips to level 3 thrills and spills-fun for everyone. 
Canmore & Kananaskis Country. Canmore is located literally just outside the south boundaries of Banff National Park-and is only a 15 minute drive from the town of Banff. Walking and cycling paths meander throughout the town-and a resident group of ducks stay year round. Kananaskis Country-the best kept secret in the Canadian Rockies-is a provincial park network-and is the outdoor playground for many of us.
We can't tell you how much we appreciate your kind words and stories about how important the future of our courses are to you and your families. In the heart of the Canadian Rockies, less than an hour’s drive from either Calgary or Banff, visitors find a golfing paradise. Kananaskis Country Golf Course is one of the premier golf destinations in the Canadian Rockies and second to none as a spectacular location for a golf vacation. Forming an unforgettable landscape, the rugged surrounding mountains tower 10,000 feet (3,000 metres) above sea level, the courses themselves are at almost 5,000 feet (1,500 metres).
Easter Seals Camp Horizon is also located within Kananaskis along Highway 66. The area is named for the Kananaskis River, which was named by John Palliser in 1858 after a Cree acquaintance. The Canmore Nordic Centre was the venue for cross-country skiing events during the 1988 Winter Olympics. Most of the development is within Peter Lougheed Provincial Park and along the highway 40 corridor that parallels the Kananaskis River. Kananaskis has many kilometres of hiking, cross-country ski, and horse trails.
For more information about planning a vacation to Alberta's Kananaskis in the Canadian Rockies, please browse the pages of our website, including the Contact and Business Directory page, where you can obtain local contact information. Come summertime, golfing, camping, hiking, biking, kayaking, rafting and horseback riding are all possible in this picturesque corner of the Canadian Rockies. Known for its pristine natural setting and outdoor lifestyle, Alberta's Kananaskis is also a prime destination for relaxing and just taking some time out.
Alberta's Mountain Playground. Imagine over 4,000 square kilometers of mountain parks and foothills yours to discover right at your doorstep. Kananaskis Country is located West & SouthWest of Calgary and borders the town of Canmore and Banff National Park. It is our hope that this website will assist you finding activities, attractions, accommodations and vacation planning information to help you get the most of your adventures. Hotels & Lodging. Most hotels and motels are located in Canmore, just outside of Kananaskis Country.