The serotonin system is an actor in the control of behavioral, perceptual, and regulatory systems, many of which are affected by hallucinogens. PCP, on the other hand, acts through a glutamate receptor that is important for pain perception, responses to the environment, learning and memory. 
Mescaline comes from the cactus plant, peyote -- Lophophora williamsii. Peyote has been used ceremonially for three thousand years by native peoples in Texas and Mexico, where it grows. Mescaline is structurally similar to the catecholamine neurotransmitters, dopamine and norepinephrine. Predictably, it has some effect on the function of these neurotransmitters, as well as having an effect on the neurotransmitter serotonin. Peyote was first banned by Europeans in the early 16 th Century because of the frightening behavior it caused in users. Its use spread to native tribes in other parts of the U.S. in the late 19 th Century.
A psychoactive drug, psychopharmaceutical, or psychotropic is a chemical substance that changes brain function and results in alterations in perception, mood, or consciousness. 
Glutamate. Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory. Curiously, glutamate is actually toxic to neurons, and an excess will kill them.
Answers. Best Answer: Very good question. As it turns out, Mescaline is, in fact, an amphetamine. However, unlike most amphetamines, it stimulates the peripheral nervous system. (most amphetamines stimulate the central nervous system) It belongs to a family of compounds called the phenethylamines. Ecstasy is a classic example of this group. The exact mechanism of action for mescaline is unknown. Mescaline's chemical formula is very similar to the neurotransmitters dopamine and norepinephrine. It is theorized that mescaline affects the way that these neurotransmitters interact in the brain.
Classic hallucinogens are thought to produce their perception-altering effects by acting on neural circuits in the brain that use the neurotransmitter serotonin (Passie, 2008; Nichols, 2004; Schindler, 2012; Lee, 2012). Like LSD and psilocybin, DMT produces its effects through action at serotonin (5-HT) receptors in the brain (Strassman, 1996).
PCP (Phencyclidine), which is not a true hallucinogen, can affect many neurotransmitter systems. It interferes with the functioning of the neurotransmitter, glutamate, which is found in neurons throughout the brain. Like many other drugs, it also causes dopamine to be released from neurons into the synapse. They include natural substances, such as mescaline and psilocybin that come from plants (cactus and mushrooms), and chemically manufactured ones, such as LSD and MDMA (Ecstasy). LSD is manufactured from lysergic acid, which is found in ergot, a fungus that grows on rye and other grains.
Use of hallucinogenic drugs also produces tolerance to other drugs in this class, including psilocybin and peyote. Use of classic hallucinogens does not, however, produce tolerance to drugs that do not act directly on the same brain cell receptors. In other words, there is no cross-tolerance to drugs that act on other neurotransmitter systems, such as marijuana, amphetamines, or PCP, among others. Like LSD and psilocybin, DMT produces its effects through action at serotonin (5-HT) receptors in the brain (Strassman, 1996).
Peyote is typically found in the Southwestern United States and in Mexico. Peyote is a cactus that barely grows an inch above the surface. On the crown of the cactus there are round buttons shaped like disks that contain an ingredient called mescaline. When peyote is in a user’s system the effects of the drug can last up to twelve hours and if a user is experiencing bad hallucinations from the drug, this can be an extremely stressful experience for their body to undergo for multiple hours.