DeLand is the county seat of Volusia County, Florida. In 2006, the U.S. Census Bureau estimated DeLand's population to be 24,375. It is part of the Deltona-Daytona Beach-Ormond Beach, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area, which had an estimated population of 436,575 in 2006. In 1883, Henry A. DeLand established DeLand Academy. Later, DeLand entrusted the academy to his friend John B. Stetson, a wealthy hat manufacturer from Philadelphia and a founding trustee. In 1889, it was renamed John B. Stetson University after its new patron.
With a population of 27,000 DeLand is a thriving City. Located only 25 minutes from Daytona Beach and about 40 minutes from Orlando, DeLand delights visitors with all the possibilities and hospitality a small Southern town can offer. Click here for more information about history. DeLand's economy is founded on a diverse base that includes tourism, agriculture, education, finance, health care, government, manufacturing, and the DeLand airport. Contributing to the success of our community is the way businesses, City government, and citizens work together to make DeLand a great place to live.
The city is named for Henry A. DeLand. It was founded in 1876, and incorporated in 1882. In 1883, Henry A. DeLand established DeLand Academy. Later, DeLand entrusted the academy to his friend John B. Stetson, a wealthy hat manufacturer from Philadelphia and a founding trustee. In 1889, it was renamed John B. Stetson University after its new patron.
It is a part of the Deltona–Daytona Beach–Ormond Beach, FL metropolitan statistical area, which was home to 590,289 people as of the 2010 census. The city was founded in 1876, and was named for its founder, Henry Addison DeLand. Downtown DeLand's main street, Woodland Boulevard, has a number of notable 19th century buildings. It is officially known as Downtown DeLand Historic District. The Garden District is a mixed-use neighborhood adjacent to downtown DeLand, which is officially known as Downtown DeLand's Historic Garden District.
It was the first city in Florida to have electricity. In 1877 Henry A. DeLand built a public school for the town. To enhance the community's stature and culture, and to enhance the value of his local real estate holdings, in 1883 Henry A. DeLand established DeLand Academy, Florida's first private college. However, in 1885, a freeze destroyed the orange crop. Downtown DeLand's main street, Woodland Boulevard, has a number of notable 19th century buildings. It is officially known as Downtown DeLand Historic District. The Garden District is a mixed-use neighborhood adjacent to downtown DeLand, which is officially known as Downtown DeLand's Historic Garden District.
Printer-Friendly Version. DeLand, located in Volusia County, Florida, is one of the state’s small town treasures. DeLand is the county seat as well as a college town, with Stetson University’s campus classified as a National Historic District. DeLand's economy is founded on a diverse base that includes tourism, agriculture, education, finance, health care, government, manufacturing, and the DeLand airport. Contributing to the success of our community is the way businesses, City government, and citizens work together to make DeLand a great place to live.
DeLand is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Volusia County. The city sits approximately 34 miles (55 km) north of the central business district of Orlando, and approximately 23 miles (37 km) west of the central business district of Daytona Beach. Downtown DeLand's main street, Woodland Boulevard, has a number of notable 19th century buildings. It is officially known as Downtown DeLand Historic District. The Garden District is a mixed-use neighborhood adjacent to downtown DeLand, which is officially known as Downtown DeLand's Historic Garden District.
DeLand. Nicknamed The Athens of Florida, the city of DeLand was founded in 1876. Located in Central Florida between Orlando and Daytona Beach, DeLand is home to Stetson University, Florida's oldest college. 