Stomach. The stomach is a muscular, J-shaped organ in the abdomen. Part of the digestive system, the stomach stores and digests food through gastric juices and a specialized churning action created by folds on its inside. The stomach is located in the upper-left area of the abdomen below the liver and next to the spleen. It’s main function is store and breakdown foods and liquids that we consume before those contents travel to other organs to be further digested. When the stomach is empty, the inside has small folds called ruga
The stomach is an organ of digestion. It has a saclike shape and is located between the esophagus and the intestines. Almost every animal has a stomach. The human stomach is a muscular, elastic, pear-shaped bag, lying crosswise in the abdominal cavity beneath the diaphragm. It changes size and shape according to is position of the body and the amount of food inside. The stomach is about 12 inches (30.5 cm) long and is 6 inches. (15.2 cm) wide at its widest point. 
In most vertebrates, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called proteases and gastric acid to aid in food digestion, through smooth muscular contractions before sending partially digested food (chyme) to the small intestines. In adult humans, the stomach has a relaxed, near empty volume of about 45 to 75 milliliters. Because it is a distensible organ, it normally expands to hold about one litre of food. The stomach of a newborn human baby will only be able to retain about 30
The stomach lies between the esophagus and the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. Lying behind the stomach is the pancreas. A large double fold of visceral peritoneum called the greater omentum hangs down from the greater curvature of the stomach. In adult humans, the stomach has a relaxed, near empty volume of about 45 to 75 milliliters. Because it is a distensible organ, it normally expands to hold about one litre of food. The stomach of a newborn human baby will only be able to retain about 30
Your stomach resides in the left part of your abdomen just below the heart and left lung. It is surrounded by the heart and lung to the top, the liver to the right, the … spleen to the left and the left kidney to the bottom. To find it on the outside of the body follow your ribcage down from the sternum to the left. 
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestive system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in many animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects (mid-gut), and molluscs. In adult humans, the stomach has a relaxed, near empty volume of about 45 to 75 milliliters. Because it is a distensible organ, it normally expands to hold about one litre of food. The stomach of a newborn human baby will only be able to retain about 30
Your stomach resides in the left part of your abdomen just below the heart and left lung. It is surrounded by the heart and lung to the top, the liver to the right, the … spleen to the left and the left kidney to the bottom. To find it on the outside of the body follow your ribcage down from the sternum to the left. The mouth is located at the beginning of the human body's digestive tract. It is bound by the lips and cheeks. it is on your face, below the nose.
All rights reserved. The stomach is a muscular organ located on the left side of the upper abdomen. The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food. Ridges of muscle tissue called rugae line the stomach.