Ethernet. Ethernet, pronounced E-thernet (with a long e), is the standard way to connect computers on a network over a wired connection. It provides a simple interface and for connecting multiple devices, such computers, routers, and switches. A standard Ethernet cable is slightly thicker than a phone cable and has an RJ45 connector on each end. Ethernet ports look similar to telephone jacks, but are slightly wider.
An Ethernet port is for you to plug in an Ethernet cable. You have your Ethernet cable plug into your Ethernet port and your Modem or Router to give you access to the internet … . The Ethernet Port Obviously is used for the Ethernet cable which often connects computers to a router.
Ethernet is the most common type of connection computers use in a local area network (LAN). An Ethernet port looks much like a regular phone jack, but it is slightly wider. This port can be used to connect your computer to another computer, a local network, or an external DSL or cable modem. Two widely-used forms of Ethernet are 10BaseT and 100BaseT. In a 10BaseT Ethernet connection, data transfer speeds can reach 10 mbps (megabits per second) through a copper cable
An Ethernet port is for you to plug in an Ethernet cable. You have your Ethernet cable plug into your Ethernet port and your Modem or Router to give you access to the internet … . Answer by Futurephysics. Confidence votes 24. The Ethernet Port Obviously is used for the Ethernet cable which often connects computers to a router. A router is a device that gets the Internet or from the phone/Internet port and routes it to your computer routers are required for ADSL and ADSL2+ to work.
Information about the Ethernet Management Port. The Ethernet management port, also referred to as the Fa0 or fastethernet0 port, is a Layer 3 host port to which you can connect a PC. You can use the Ethernet management port instead of the switch console port for network management. When managing a switch stack, connect the PC to the Ethernet management port on a stack member. 1  Ethernet Management Port Direct Connection to a Switch. 2  Ethernet Management Port Connection to Stack Switches using a Hub.
EtherChannel is a port link aggregation technology or port-channel architecture used primarily on Cisco switches. It allows grouping of several physical Ethernet links to create one logical Ethernet link for the purpose of providing fault-tolerance and high-speed links between switches, routers and servers. 
Answer: An Ethernet port is an opening on computer network equipment that Ethernet cables plug into. These ports are alternatively called jacks or sockets. Ethernet ports accept cables with RJ-45 connectors. 