Along with road structure and accessibility, accommodation and availability of farmland for parking and ploughing scored high in deciding Ratheniska, Stradbally, Co Laois, as the 2013 venue. It is near the N80 from Portlaoise to Carlow, and the M7 from the southwest to Dublin. The trade arena will cover up to 100 acres of the Carter farm, and 50 fresh acres are needed for each day of ploughing. Mr Carter is a tillage farmer (with drystock in the winter also), but his land will be laid down with grass for the next year. Silage may be cut next summer, and it could be grazed by sheep.
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
It's like Forrest Gump said, 'Life is like a box of chocolates.' Your career is like a box of chocolates-you never know what you're going to get. But everything you get is going to teach you something along the way and make you the person you are today. That's the exciting part-it's an adventure in itself. Nick Carter. 
to continue to do something that may involve problems or that other people are opposing. Their decision to plough ahead before safety checks had been made was strongly criticized. Synonyms and related words. To continue something, or to continue to do something: continue, go on, follow through... Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
A plough (UK) or plow (US; both /ˈplaʊ/) is a tool (or machine) used in farming for initial cultivation of soil in preparation for sowing seed or planting to loosen or turn the soil. Use of the plough has decreased in some areas, often those significantly threatened by soil damage and erosion, in favour of shallower ploughing and other less invasive conservation tillage techniques.
Ploughing. The influence of the plough on the soil is relatively slight. It is not necessary to lower the groundwater table when this method is used. This procedure is therefore extremely environmentally friendly, due not least of all to the only slight ground damage caused.
This event has become a very lucrative opportunity for a county, as it has the potential to give a great financial injection through accommodation and food providers, hardware suppliers, local machinery contractors, fencing contractors, petrol stations, supermarkets and much more. The trade arena will cover up to 100 acres of the Carter farm, and 50 fresh acres are needed for each day of ploughing. Mr Carter is a tillage farmer (with drystock in the winter also), but his land will be laid down with grass for the next year. Silage may be cut next summer, and it could be grazed by sheep.
1 Or do plough pose with a wall behind you and touch your feet to the wall. 2  Or do plough pose in front of a chair or stack of books (or a sofa.) Rest your feet on your chosen yoga prop. 3  You can reduce the height of your prop as your halasana opens up. In plough pose (or plow pose, also called Halasana in sanskrit) you lay on your back with your toes touching the floor behind your head. Your arms are clasped behind your body with your shoulder blades squeezed together to help lift your ribcage up off of the floor..
The plough represents one of the major advances in agriculture. The primary purpose of ploughing is to turn over the upper layer of the soil, bringing fresh nutrients to the surface, while burying weeds and the remains of previous crops and allowing them to break down. As the plough is drawn through the soil it creates long trenches of fertile soil called furrows. In modern use, a ploughed field is typically left to dry out, and is then harrowed before planting. Use of the plough has decreased in some areas, often those significantly threatened by soil damage and erosion, in favour of shallower ploughing and other less invasive conservation tillage techniques.