Most Thanksgiving leftovers will stay fresh and tasty for at least a few days in the refrigerator and a month or more in the freezer. Some general tips: • Refrigerate leftover Thanksgiving turkey, stuffing, gravy and other cooked side dishes within two hours of serving. It's okay to place warm food in the refrigerator. • Carve leftover turkey meat off the bones before refrigerating. 1 -2 days. 2-3 months. *Freezer time shown is for best quality only — foods kept constantly frozen at 0° F will keep safe indefinitely. Sources: For details about data sources used for storage information, please see here.
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. 
Depends on the fridge temp. Reheat it to a boil every 4 days to kill the germs and you can keep it going for weeks.     Another Answer   Do not plan to keep turke … y soup for weeks in the fridge. If you are not going to use it up within 2 or 3 days, freeze it. Cooked turkey, if it has been handled, packaged and stored properly should stay reasonably good up to 4 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer if you
1 Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer).
Wrap leftovers well in airtight packaging or storage containers to keep bacteria out and prevent leftovers from drying out. And don’t overstuff your fridge. Cold air needs to circulate above and beneath food to keep it properly chilled. Most leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the fridge. If you have more food than you plan to eat within four days, freeze within two hours after it’s cooked. When you’re ready to eat your leftovers, reheat them to an internal temperature of 74 C (165 F), measured by a digital food thermometer
Thawed raw turkey--1-2 days. Cooked turkey--3-4 days in the refrigerator. In the freezer, up to 3 months Foods that are left out in room temperature for more than an hour c … an begin bacteria growth. Our stomach acids can kill some of these bacterias but not all and some can make you very sick. Cooked turkey, if it has been handled, packaged and stored properly should stay reasonably good up to 4 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer if you freeze it.
1 4 Days in the refrigerator–otherwise freeze it: Use your leftovers that are stored in the fridge within 4 days. 2  The exceptions are stuffing and gravy. 3  Both should be used within 2 days. 4  Reheat solid leftovers to 165 degrees F and liquid leftovers to a rolling boil. 5  Toss what you don’t finish. According to the USDA the mantra is: 2 Hours–2 Inches–4 Days. 1  2 Hours from oven to refrigerator: Refrigerate or freeze your leftovers within 2 hours of cooking. 2  Throw them away if they are out longer than that. 3  2 Inches thick to cool it quick: Store your food at a shallow depth–about 2 inches–to speed chilling.
Meats and Poultry. 1  Raw sausage (pork, beef, or turkey): 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 3  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer).