Tiova is prescribed for long term, once daily use to improve the symptoms of bronchospasm (airway tightening) in patients having Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Tiotropium Bromide is a long-acting, anticholinergic bronchodilator with specificity for muscarinic receptors. It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors, M 1 to M 5. Tiotropium Bromide Inhaler is not for use as a rescue medication. In case of hypersensitivity reactions, discontinue Tiova Inhaler and consider alternatives. Use with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins.Discontinue and consider other treatments if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs.
INDICATIONS. Spiriva ® HandiHaler ® (tiotropium bromide inhalation powder) and SPIRIVA ® RESPIMAT ® (tiotropium bromide) Inhalation Spray are prescription medicines used once daily (maintenance medicines) to control symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) by relaxing your airways and keeping them open. SPIRIVA HandiHaler or SPIRIVA RESPIMAT are not rescue medicines and should not be used for treating sudden breathing problems. Your doctor may give you other medicine to use for
OBJECTIVES: To compare the relative effects of tiotropium to ipratropium bromide on markers of quality of life, exacerbations, symptoms, lung function and serious adverse events in patients with COPD using available randomised controlled trial (RCT) data. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: This review shows that tiotropium treatment, when compared with ipratropium bromide, was associated with improved lung function, fewer hospital admissions (including those for exacerbations of COPD), fewer exacerbations of COPD and improved quality of life.
Each light green, hard gelatin SPIRIVA capsule contains 18 mcg tiotropium (equivalent to 22.5 mcg tiotropium bromide monohydrate) blended with lactose monohydrate (which may contain milk proteins) as the carrier. The dry powder formulation within the SPIRIVA capsule is intended for oral inhalation only. The active component of SPIRIVA HandiHaler is tiotropium. The drug substance, tiotropium bromide monohydrate, is an anticholinergic with specificity for muscarinic receptors. It is chemically described as (1α, 2β, 4 β, 5α, ... It is sparingly soluble in water and soluble in methanol. The structural formula is: Tiotropium bromide (monohydrate) has a molecular mass of 490.4 and a molecular formula of C 19 H 22 NO 4 S 2 Br •H 2 O. The HandiHaler device is an inhalation device used to inhale the dry powder contained in the SPIRIVA capsule. The dry powder is delivered from the HandiHaler device at flow rates as low as 20 L/min
Tiotropium bromide (INN) is a long-acting, 24-hour, anticholinergic bronchodilator used in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Adverse effects are mainly related to its antimuscarinic effects. Common adverse drug reactions urinary retention, constipation, acute angle closure glaucoma, palpitations (notably supraventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation) and/or allergy (rash, angioedema, anaphylaxis).
BACKGROUND: Tiotropium and ipratropium bromide are both recognised treatments in the management of people with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). There are new studies which have compared tiotropium with ipratropium bromide, making an update necessary. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: This review shows that tiotropium treatment, when compared with ipratropium bromide, was associated with improved lung function, fewer hospital admissions (including those for exacerbations of COPD), fewer exacerbations of COPD and improved quality of life.
Tiotropium inhalation is used to prevent bronchospasm (narrowing of the airways in the lungs) in people with bronchitis, emphysema, or COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). Tiotropium inhalation may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  wheezing, chest pain or tightness, trouble breathing; 2  pain or burning when you urinate;
Tiotropium Bromide Monohydrate is a long-acting, antimuscarinic agent, which is often referred to as an anticholinergic with similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors, M 1 to M 5. Tiotropium Bromide Inhaler is not for use as a rescue medication. In case of hypersensitivity reactions, discontinue Tiova Inhaler and consider alternatives. Use with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins.Discontinue and consider other treatments if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs.
TIOTROPIUM-INHALATION. TIOTROPIUM POWDER IN CAPSULE-INHALATION. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection.