Precautions. Before taking this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to bisoprolol or hydrochlorothiazide; or to other beta blockers (e.g., metoprolol, atenolol); or to other thiazide diuretics (e.g., chlorothiazide); or if you have any other allergies. If you are also taking cholestyramine or colestipol, take bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before or at least 4 to 6 hours after either of those drugs. Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
Before taking this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to bisoprolol or hydrochlorothiazide; or to other beta blockers (e.g., metoprolol, atenolol); or to other thiazide diuretics (e.g., chlorothiazide); or if you have any other allergies. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic (water pill) that helps prevent your body from absorbing too much salt, which can cause fluid retention. Bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins). Your insulin or diabetic medication needs may change while you are taking hydrochlorothiazide and bisoprolol. Talk with your doctor before changing any doses. If you need surgery or medical tests, tell the doctor ahead of time that you are taking medication that contains hydrochlorothiazide.
Bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide combination is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. It works by affecting the response to some nerve impulses in certain parts of the body, like the heart. As a result, the heart beats slower and decreases the blood pressure. When the blood pressure is lowered, the amount of blood and oxygen is increased to
High blood pressure may also increase the risk of heart attacks. These problems may be less likely to occur if blood pressure is controlled. Bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. It works by affecting the response to some nerve impulses in certain parts of the body, like the heart. As a result, the heart beats slower and decreases the blood pressure. Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic (water pill). It reduces the amount of water in the body by increasing the flow of urine, which helps lower the blood pressure. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide combination is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic (water pill). It reduces the amount of water in the body by increasing the flow of urine, which helps lower the blood pressure. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
To make sure you can safely take hydrochlorothiazide and bisoprolol, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  congestive heart failure; 2  blood circulation problems; 3  kidney disease; 4  liver disease (or cirrhosis); 5  glaucoma; 6  asthma, or bronchospastic lung disease; 7  a thyroid disorder; Your insulin or diabetic medication needs may change while you are taking hydrochlorothiazide and bisoprolol. Talk with your doctor before changing any doses. If you need surgery or medical tests, tell the doctor ahead of time that you are taking medication that contains hydrochlorothiazide.
Side effects for combined hydrochlorothiazide in a dosage of 6.5 mg per day and bisoprolol in all dosages included fatigue (9 percent of recipients), dizziness (6 percent), somnolence (3 percent), impotence (2 percent) and diarrhea (4 percent). When used in combination with bisoprolol, hydrochlorothiazide (6.25 mg) did not cause hypokalemia or any adverse effects on the lipid profile. Side effects increased with the use of higher dosages of bisoprolol or hydrochlorothiazide.
High blood pressure may also increase the risk of heart attacks. These problems may be less likely to occur if blood pressure is controlled. Bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. It works by affecting the response to some nerve impulses in certain parts of the body, like the heart. As a result, the heart beats slower and decreases the blood pressure. When the blood pressure is lowered, the amount of blood and oxygen is increased to the heart.
You should not use this medication if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or bisoprolol, or if you have: 1  severe or uncontrolled heart failure; 2  a heart condition called sick sinus syndrome or AV block (2nd or 3rd degree); 3  slow heartbeats; 4  if you are unable to urinate; 5  if you are allergic to sulfa drugs; or. Your insulin or diabetic medication needs may change while you are taking hydrochlorothiazide and bisoprolol. Talk with your doctor before changing any doses. If you need surgery or medical tests, tell the doctor ahead of time that you are taking medication that contains hydrochlorothiazide.