Political posturing aside, birthright citizenship has served the country well. The 14th Amendment to the Constitution speaks in unusually emphatic language: All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States.. Not most persons or only those who are white or who are born to citizens. All persons. Keeping the 14th Amendment. The 14th Amendment to the Constitution speaks in unusually emphatic language: All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States..
This Site Might Help You. RE: Should the 14th Amendment be changed? This is from a CNN report: One of about every 12 babies born in the United States in 2008 was the offspring of unauthorized immigrants, a Pew Hispanic Center study released Wednesday concluded. The 14th Amendment to the Constitution stipulates that those children automatically become U.S. citizens, but some members of Congress are pushing to change that provision.
I do not think the 14th amendment should be changed. I think that to even think it is ridiculous. The 14th amendment insures that every citizen in America is given equal rights. The 14th Amendment should not be changed. It is my belief that all men and women are created equal. There should absolutely be no legal restrictions based on your involvement in a certain ethnic group.
14th Amendment should not change. The 14th amendment gave blacks the right to vote just like white citizens and it should not be changed. I do not believe any amendment should be changed because they were carefully written and thought through by our founding fathers. The 14th amendment needs to stay in place most definitely. Report Post. The 14th Amendment should not be changed. It is my belief that all men and women are created equal. There should absolutely be no legal restrictions based on your involvement in a certain ethnic group.
The 14th Amendment Should Change Essay. Below is a free essay on The 14th Amendment Should Change from Anti Essays, your source for free research papers, essays, and term paper examples. The 14th Amendment should be changed to disallow the practice of birthright citizenship. Only babies with mothers that are in the United States as citizens should be allowed to be a U.S. citizen
The 14th Amendment overturned the Dred Scott decision, and extended citizenship to “all persons” born in the United States and subject to its jurisdiction. John F. McManus, president, The John Birch Society: Preventing children of illegal immigrants from immediate citizenship at birth is an absolute necessity. But there's no need to change the 14th Amendment (which could only be done by another amendment). What needs to be done can be accomplished by congressional action.
Legislation, they say, is all that’s needed to change the situation. The drafters of the 14th Amendment never intended that it should apply to the children of foreigners present in the US, they say. It was meant to extend citizenship to African-Americans. Legislation could clarify this situation, say some conservatives. 14th Amendment: why birthright citizenship change 'can't be done'. A new amendment to address citizenship issues would be tough in today’s polarized environment. Some say that legislation related to the 14th Amendment is the answer, but that would be hard, too