The Diocese of Victoria was established on May 29, 1982, with the Most Rev. Charles V. Grahmann being installed as the first bishop of the newly created diocese. The first diocesan offices were known as The Catholic Center and were located at 2007-A North DeLeon Street in Victoria, Texas. He was ordained and installed as bishop of the Diocese of Victoria on May 28, 1990. Bishop Fellhauer came to Victoria from the Diocese of Dallas where he was ordained to the priesthood in 1965 and had served most recently as judicial vicar of the Dallas Diocese.
The Diocese of Victoria, Texas, was established on May 29, 1982. It was taken from territory previously in the Catholic Archdiocese of San Antonio, the Diocese of Galveston-Houston, and the Diocese of Corpus Christi qv. 
Houston priest named Bishop of Victoria. Bishop-elect Brendan Cahill celebrates mass at his farewell mass on Monday, June 22nd at the Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart in Houston. Cahill has been named Bishop of the Diocese of Victoria. Houston priest named Bishop of Victoria. Bishop-elect Brendan Cahill celebrates the mass at his farewell mass on June,
Photo courtesy of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston. by Elise Harris. Follow. Vatican City, Apr 23, 2015 / 05:23 am (CNA/EWTN News) .- The Vatican announced Thursday that Fr. Brendan Cahill, Vicar for Clergy in the archdiocese of Galveston-Houston, has been named bishop for the diocese of Victoria, Texas. Bishop Fellhauer will make a formal announcement on Fr. Cahill’s appointment alongside the bishop-elect during a news conference scheduled to take place at 10a.m. local time in Victoria, Texas, according to the Galveston-Houston diocese’s website.
Fr. Cahill, 51, will succeed Bishop David Eugene Fellhauer as the third shepherd of the Victoria diocese upon the bishops’ retirement, having reached the age limit of 75. Born in Coral Gables, Florida in 1963, Fr. Cahill was ordained a priest for the diocese of Galveston-Houston May 19, 1990. Bishop Fellhauer will make a formal announcement on Fr. Cahill’s appointment alongside the bishop-elect during a news conference scheduled to take place at 10a.m. local time in Victoria, Texas, according to the Galveston-Houston diocese’s website.
The Texas Catholic Conference is the association of the Roman Catholic Bishops of Texas. We accredit the state's Catholic Schools, maintain records that reflect the work of the Church in Texas, and represent the Bishops in the public policy sphere. Phone: (512) 339-9882 • Fax: (512) 339-8670. 
Houston priest named Bishop of Victoria. Cardinal Daniel Dinardo, Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston bids farewell to Bishop-elect Brendan Cahill on Monday, June 22nd at the Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart. Houston priest named Bishop of Victoria. Bishop-elect Brendan Cahill celebrates the mass at his farewell mass on June, 22nd at the Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart in Houston.
Father Brendan Cahill '81 of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston has been named by Pope Francis as the new bishop of the Diocese of Victoria, Texas. Fr. Cahill, 51, will succeed the retiring Bishop David Eugene Fellhauer. Here's a statement from Daniel Cardinal DiNardo concerning Bishop-elect Brendan J. Cahill: We in the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston rejoice that Pope Francis has chosen to honor this local Church by selecting one of her priests to serve as the third bishop of the Diocese of Victoria in Texas.
Father Cahill named bishop of Victoria Diocese. Submitted by shelley-metcalf on May 11, 2015 - 1:24pm. By Catholic News Service. Pope Francis has accepted the resignation of Bishop David E. Fellhauer of Victoria, and named Father Brendan Cahill, a priest of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston, to succeed him. Bishop Fellhauer is 75, the age at which canon law requires bishops to turn in their resignation to the pope. 