Data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics show adjusters earned a mean annual salary of $58,780 in 2009. Entry-level adjusters handle small, less complex claims under the supervision of an experienced adjuster before they handle claims on their own.
In the U.S., a claims adjuster I, or entry-level claims adjuster, earns a median salary of $40,224 per year, according to Salary.com website.
(United States). A large fraction of take-home pay for Entry-Level Insurance Claims Adjusters comes from commissions — close to 100 percent on average, in fact. The median overall income in this field is approximately $43K. Total cash earnings of Entry-Level Insurance Claims Adjusters range from $32K on the low end to $58K on the high end; the final amount can include bonuses and profit sharing proceeds that occasionally exceed $5K and $6K, respectively.
The salary of an entry-level claims adjuster varies widely based on several factors. Often, adjusters get a base salary plus bonuses and benefits which, together, determine the overall pay package. Your employer's size, your industry and your years of experience affect your starting pay.
Depending on the type of claims adjuster position, entry-level salaries may differ. The median claims adjuster salary, including claims adjusters with some experience, ranges from $39,000 to $65,000 per year, according to the College Grad website. Popular Employers by Minimum Salary Range.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Claims Adjuster I in the United States is $41,713 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Claims Adjuster I in the United States are expected to make less than $41,713. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $41,713. 1  Salary.
Indianapolis is home to an above-average pay rate for Entry-Level Insurance Claims Adjusters, 20 percent higher than the national average. Entry-Level Insurance Claims Adjusters will also find cushy salaries in New York (+17 percent), Raleigh (+12 percent), Los Angeles (+10 percent), and San Diego (+7 percent). In Des Moines, salaries are 10 percent below the national average and represent the lowest-paying market.