Counting Seven Years When it comes to your credit report, negative information typically stays on your report for seven years. This means that late credit card payments stay on your credit report for seven years from the date the payment was missed. 
Late payments are black marks that normally stay on a credit report for 7 years. That's true of most negative information like foreclosures, Chapter 13 bankruptcies, charge-offs and paid tax liens; a Chapter 7 bankruptcy stays around for 10 years and unpaid tax liens can linger indefinitely. Creditors usually report late payments to credit bureaus when you run 30 days or more past due. Late payments seriously damage your credit score and make it difficult to get credit, as well as saddle you with high interest rates.
‎03-24-2008 01:18 PM. I have read on the Fico site that late payments stay on your report for 2 years....collections and bankruptcies stay on for 7 years. My impression was that a negative, late payment or otherwise stay on for 7 years
As for late payments, your credit report will only reflect the late payment if that payment was made 30 days or more past the due date. So, if you are one day late, you may incur late fees, but this will not be reported to the credit bureaus. 
Time Frame. A 30-day late payment notation is a negative item for your credit. Like most negative items, the 30-day late payment will only remain on your credit report for seven years. After seven years, the Fair Credit Reporting Act dictates that the credit bureaus must delete it from your record. Considerations. A 30-day late payment will remain on your credit record for seven years, but the negative impact it has on your credit rating will decrease over time. The most recent information on your credit report has the greatest impact on your scores.
‎03-24-2008 09:44 PM. fico-newbie33 wrote: I have read on the Fico site that late payments stay on your report for 2 years....collections and bankruptcies stay on for 7 years. My impression was that a negative, late payment or otherwise stay on for 7 years.
A late payment can stay on your credit report for up to seven years. This is the standard time limit for most items. Only a bankruptcy can stay longer -- up to 10 years in some cases. But for late payments, seven is the magic number. You can think of your credit reports as a record of your previous debt payments. In your case, the creditor is Macy's. Once it has been reported, a late payment can stay on your credit reports for up to seven years. After that they must be removed in accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA. Derogatory entries can do a lot of damage to your FICO credit score.
1 If your payment is more than 30 days late, the three major credit bureaus are usually notified, meaning the late payment will show up on your credit reports. 2  A late payment on your credit report could stay on your credit report for seven years. 3  It might decrease your credit score. 1 A late payment on your credit report could stay on your credit report for seven years. 2  It might decrease your credit score. 3  Payment history information typically accounts for nearly 35% of your credit score, making it one of the single most important factors in calculating your score.