DEFINITION of 'Dealer'. A person or firm in the business of buying and selling securities for their own account, whether through a broker or otherwise. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Broker-Dealer'. Broker-dealers fulfill several important functions in the financial industry; these include providing investment advice to customers, supplying liquidity through market-making activities, facilitating trading activities, publishing investment research and raising capital for companies. DEFINITION of 'Broker-Dealer'. A person or firm in the business of buying and selling securities, operating as both a broker and a dealer, depending on the transaction.
deal·er. n. 1. One that is engaged in buying and selling: a used-car dealer; a drug dealer. 2. Games The one who distributes cards. (ˈdiːlə). ˈdealerˌship n. dealer. n. 1. (Commerce) a person or firm engaged in commercial purchase and sale; trader: a car dealer. 2. (Card Games) cards the person who distributes the cards.
Definition. Any individual or firm in the business of buying and selling securities for itself and others. Broker/dealers must register with the SEC. When acting as a broker, a broker/dealer executes orders on behalf of his/her client. 
How to become a Casino Dealer. Casino dealers are employed in the traveler accommodation and gaming industries. Positions are eclectic, varying by locale: dealers may work in commercial casinos, pari-mutuel racetracks--known as racinos--or be employed on riverboats and hotels. 
dealer. 1. A person engaged in buying and selling: businessperson, merchandiser, merchant, speculator, trader, tradesman, trafficker. dealer. n. 1. (Commerce) a person or firm engaged in commercial purchase and sale; trader: a car dealer. 2. (Card Games) cards the person who distributes the cards.
Real people like you are writing reviews about car dealers and service centers. techguy. Today. Thank you very much Peter. You went the extra mile to remove the old phone charger and repair the paint chips on the front hood. 
Car price is important in both buying and leasing. In order to understand what price you might expect to pay for your next car, you must first understand how new car pricing really works. As you know, pricing is very important whether you lease or buy. 