If there's one dish guaranteed to be on every Indian restaurant menu, it's chicken tikka masala, which is composed of grilled chunks of chicken enveloped in a creamy spiced tomato sauce. 
Preparation. active: 1 hrs total: 5½ hrs. Combine garlic, ginger, turmeric, garam masala, coriander, and cumin in a small bowl. Whisk yogurt, salt, and half of spice mixture in a medium bowl; add chicken and turn to coat. Cover and chill 4-6 hours. Cover and chill remaining spice mixture. Heat ghee in a large heavy pot over medium heat. Add onion, tomato paste, cardamom, and chiles and cook, stirring often, until tomato paste has darkened and onion is soft, about 5 minutes. Add remaining half of spice mixture and cook, stirring often, until bottom of pot begins to brown, about 4 minutes. 
Chicken tikka masala is a dish of roasted chunks of chicken tikka in a spicy sauce. The sauce is usually creamy, spiced and orange-coloured. He went on to explain that Chicken Tikka is an Indian dish. The Masala sauce was added to satisfy the desire of British people to have their meat served in gravy.. The claim that Chicken Tikka Masala is a British  National dish , however met with both acclamation and skeptical opposition.
Chicken tikka masala is chicken tikka, chunks of chicken marinated in spices and yogurt, that is then baked in a tandoor oven, and served in a masala (spice mix) sauce. He went on to explain that Chicken Tikka is an Indian dish. The Masala sauce was added to satisfy the desire of British people to have their meat served in gravy.. The claim that Chicken Tikka Masala is a British  National dish , however met with both acclamation and skeptical opposition.
1 For sauce, melt butter on medium heat. 2  Add garlic & jalapeno; cook 1 minute. 3  Stir in coriander, cumin, paprika, garam masala & salt. 4  Stir in tomato sauce. 5  Simmer 15 minutes. 6  Stir in cream; simmer to thicken-about 5 minutes. 7  Grill or broil chicken, turning occasionally, to cook through-about 8 minutes. 1 Thread chicken on skewers, and marinate (in the refrigerator) for an hour or so. 2  Discard marinade. 3  For sauce, melt butter on medium heat. 4  Add garlic & jalapeno; cook 1 minute. 5
1 In a large bowl, combine yogurt, lemon juice, 2 teaspoons cumin, cinnamon, cayenne, black pepper, ginger, and 4 teaspoons salt. 2  Stir in chicken, cover, and refrigerate for 1 hour. 3  Preheat a grill for high heat. 4  Lightly oil the grill grate. 5  Thread chicken onto skewers, and discard marinade. Cook. Ready In. 1 
A tomato and coriander sauce is common, but there is no standard recipe for chicken tikka masala; a survey found that of 48 different recipes, the only common ingredient was chicken. The sauce usually includes tomatoes (frequently as puree), purée, cream coconut cream and various. spices He went on to explain that Chicken Tikka is an Indian dish. The Masala sauce was added to satisfy the desire of British people to have their meat served in gravy.. The claim that Chicken Tikka Masala is a British  National dish , however met with both acclamation and skeptical opposition.
Chicken tikka masala is one of the most popular Indian dishes in Britain and has become something of a national favourite. Usually, the dish contains diced and roasted chicken in a mildly spiced masala sauce. The sauce is usually creamy and slightly reddish, orange in colour. 
Although Chicken Tikka Masala as we know it today is a fairly modern invention (c. 1950’s), its humble origins date back roughly 5,000 years to the appearance of the tandoor oven in Indian culture. The origin of the word tandoor is said to come from various ancient languages such as Persian, Babylonian and Sanskrit. 
Total Time: Makes: 3 to 4 servings. Chicken tikka masala—grilled boneless chicken in a spiced, creamy tomato sauce—is the quintessential Anglo-Indian comfort dish (read about the speculation swirling around its origins, and its similarity to the dish known as butter chicken, here). 