Depending on the services offered by the Internet Service Provider, it could be considered an information service provider, storage service provider, Internet Network Service Provider (INSP), or a combination of the three. Information, including content such as news articles or online banking, is hosted on networks around the world, and ultimately linked to the end-user by Internet Network Service Providers. In this sense, an Internet Service Provider can link end-users to other end-users.
DEFINITION of 'ISP (Internet Service Provider)'. A company that provides consumers and businesses access to the Internet. Depending on the services offered by the Internet Service Provider, it could be considered an information service provider, storage service provider, Internet Network Service Provider (INSP), or a combination of the three. Next Up. Information, including content such as news articles or online banking, is hosted on networks around the world, and ultimately linked to the end-user by Internet Network Service Providers. In this sense, an Internet Service Provider can link end-users to other end-users.
An incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC), is a local telephone company which held the regional monopoly on landline service before the market was opened to competitive local exchange carriers, or the corporate successor of such a firm. In the United States, these were companies in existence at the time of the breakup of AT&T into the Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs), also known as the Baby Bells.. GTE was the second largest ILEC after the Bells, but it has since been absorbed into Verizon, and RBOC.
incumbent. adj. 1. (often: postpositive and foll by on or upon and an infinitive) morally binding or necessary; obligatory: it is incumbent on me to attend. 2. (usually: postpositive and foll by on) resting or lying (on). n. incumbent-currently holding an office; the incumbent governor. current-occurring in or belonging to the present time; current events; the current topic; current negotiations; current psychoanalytic theories; the ship's current position.
A form used by a CLEC (Competitive Local Exchange Carrier) to request local service form an ILEC (Incumbent LEC). LSR Definition: A term that was spawned by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which formalized competition in the local exchange domain. A LSR is a form, or series of forms, used by the CLEC (Competitive Local Exchange Carrier) to request local service from the ILEC (Incumbent LEC).
Incumbent telco. An incumbent telecommunications company is a former monopoly that still has a dominant market share. For example,the incumbent telco in Britain is BT, the former British Telecom. Incumbent telecoms companies are in a very strong position. 
The three categories of ISP service together link content and information with the end-user. Information, including content such as news articles or online banking, is hosted on networks around the world, and ultimately linked to the end-user by Internet Network Service Providers. In this sense, an Internet Service Provider can link end-users to other end-users.
incumbent. adj. 1. (often: postpositive and foll by on or upon and an infinitive) morally binding or necessary; obligatory: it is incumbent on me to attend. 
It’s tempting, though mistaken, to conclude that the incumbent is a slam dunk to win the work. In fact, the incumbent’s advantage is often a castle of sand. Research shows that many clients are willing to switch professional service providers with the slightest provocation. The freebie’s ugly cousin is the “discounted fee” project. To overcome an incumbent’s advantage, some service providers offer to complete short, well-defined projects for a reduced fee. Theoretically, once you complete the introductory project, then you raise fees to a profitable level.