Some people say a bacterial cell is just a simple bag of enzymes. This couldn't be further from the truth! Learn about the structure and function of the bacterial cell membrane, what's in the cytoplasm, and how membrane surface area impacts bacterial size. Second, we learned that the gelatinous material inside of the cell is called the cytoplasm and is a water-based fluid called cytosol that contains all the important vitamins, nutrients, and machinery of the cell.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division.
The genome is the most important feature in the cytoplasm. It is located in a central region of the cell called the nuclioid. The genome is a clump or coil of DNA that controls all the functions of the bacterial cell and produces the proteins that the bacterium needs to survive. 
In gram-negative bacteria, the cell wall is thin and releases the dye readily when washed with an alcohol or acetone solution. Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm.
The cytoplasm (of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes) is where the functions for cell expansion, growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. Word origin: Gk kyto-, comb. form of kýtos container, receptacle, body + Gk plasma. plásma noun. (Science: Cell Biology). In eukaryotic cells, the cytoplasm is that part of the cell between the cell membrane and the nuclear envelope. It is the jelly-like substance in a cell that contains the cytosol, organelles, and inclusions, but not including the nucleus.
Cell Membrane. The answer is the cell membrane. The cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer that completely surrounds a bacterial cell. The word 'completely' is important here because any break in the bilayer will lead to the death of the bacteria. Second, we learned that the gelatinous material inside of the cell is called the cytoplasm and is a water-based fluid called cytosol that contains all the important vitamins, nutrients, and machinery of the cell.
The cell envelope encases the cytoplasm and all its components. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm.
Fundamental Statements for this Learning Object: 1. In bacteria, the cytoplasm refers to anything enclosed by the cytoplasmic membrane. 2. The liquid portion of the cytoplasm is called the cytosol. 3. The cytoplasm is the site of most bacterial metabolism. 4. 
The cytoplasm (of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes) is where the functions for cell expansion, growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. Word origin: Gk kyto-, comb. form of kýtos container, receptacle, body + Gk plasma. Plásma related: forms (cytoplasmic). adjective noun. (Science: Cell Biology). In eukaryotic cells, the cytoplasm is that part of the cell between the cell membrane and the nuclear envelope. It is the jelly-like substance in a cell that contains the cytosol, organelles, and inclusions, but not including the nucleus.
The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cyt … oplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. It also is the site where m … ost of the cell's cellular activities take place such as the metabolic pathways. It also makes helps the animal by making its eyes bluer at night. Cell division also occurs in the cytoplasm. YOUR WELCOME! ;D The main function of the cytoplasm is to hold the cell organelles of the cell.