The Permanent Fund Dividend is a dividend paid to Alaska residents that have lived within the state for a full calendar year (January 1 – December 31), and intend to remain an Alaska resident indefinitely. This means if residency is taken on January 2, the calendar year wouldn't start until next January 1. The Alaska Permanent Fund is a constitutionally established permanent fund managed by a state-owned corporation, the Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation (APFC). The fund was established in Alaska in 1976 by Article 9, Section 15 of the Alaska State Constitution under Governor Jay Hammond.
Also, since the fund does not pay out any dividends the NAV is much higher than that of the dividend option for the same fund-however it is to be noted that this difference is only due to the payment of dividends and not due to a substantial variation in the fund performance. Dividend Option. 
Ex-Dividend. AAA |. A classification of trading shares when a declared dividend belongs to the seller rather than the buyer. A stock will be given ex-dividend status if a person has been confirmed by the company to receive the dividend payment. A stock trades ex-dividend on or after the ex-dividend date (ex-date).
The Fund may also invest in securities of other issuers, including investment companies, ETFs and REITs, deemed by the Investment Manager not to be Income Generating Equity Securities based on the issuer's income generation, objectives, policies, holdings, or similar criteria. Welcome to Dividend and Income Fund. 2015 Dividend and Income Fund Rights Offering Material. Dividend and Income Fund (NYSE: DNI) is a closed end fund with the primary investment objective of providing its shareholders a high level of income. Capital appreciation is a secondary objective
Summary. The Vanguard Dividend Growth fund is designed to provide income through investments in dividend-focused companies across all industries. It concentrates on high-quality companies that can grow dividends over time. All stocks funds have risk. One of the fund’s particular risks is that returns from dividend-payers will lag the overall market in any given period.
BREAKING DOWN 'Dividend'. The dividend rate may be quoted in terms of the dollar amount each share receives (dividends per share, or DPS), or It can also be quoted in terms of a percent of the current market price, which is referred to as the dividend yield. A company's net profits can be allocated to shareholders via a dividend, or kept within the company as retained earnings. A company may also choose to use net profits to repurchase their own shares in the open markets in a share buyback.
DEFINITION of 'Dividend'. A dividend is a distribution of a portion of a company's earnings, decided by the board of directors, to a class of its shareholders. Dividends can be issued as cash payments, as shares of stock, or other property. A company's net profits can be allocated to shareholders via a dividend, or kept within the company as retained earnings. A company may also choose to use net profits to repurchase their own shares in the open markets in a share buyback.