In order to become an ACCA it is necessary to pass 14 examinations (although if you an accountancy or business related degree from university you are likely to be exempt from some of the examinations). You can study in any way you like – you can attend courses, study at home with books, or study on-line. 3. You can take up to 4 exams each session, and you have 10 years to do it! Normally it takes 2 or 3 years to qualify. 4. ACCA professional qualification covers all areas of business, from financial statements, management accounting, business taxation & law to audit and also business ethics!
It depends on what qualifications you have before you register with us. The quickest way to become qualified is to work and study at the same time. If you do, you could become an ACCA member in three or four years. How you study for our qualification is very flexible and you can progress at your own pace. Flexible study is subject to certain rules at the Professional level. Find out more about our flexibility at the Professional level
Benefits of the ACCA qualification. * enables you to become a Chartered Certified Accountant, use the designatory letters ACCA, and work in any aspect of finance or management in any business. * better employment prospects as a result of having shown an ability in all areas of business. 3. You can take up to 4 exams each session, and you have 10 years to do it! Normally it takes 2 or 3 years to qualify. 4. ACCA professional qualification covers all areas of business, from financial statements, management accounting, business taxation & law to audit and also business ethics!
ACCA. To qualify as a chartered certified accountant through the ACCA Professional Scheme, you must pass nine exams at Fundamentals Level and five at Professional Level. You can study full-time or part-time at local colleges and private training centres, or through distance learning.
BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance. Alternatively you can choose to study on our BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance programme. This degree gives you the opportunity to gain a professional accounting degree alongside exemptions from the ACCA Fundamental Level Papers (F1–F9). Give yourself the best chance of career progression or open up new career opportunities by qualifying as an ACCA chartered certified accountant. A senior qualified accountant can earn up to 67% more per year than an assistant non-qual
1 For example, a holder of the ACCA or Chartered Certified Accountant qualification could practice as an accountant in all member countries of the European Union, European Economic Area and Switzerland, describing him/herself as ACCA or Chartered Certified Accountant. 1 1996: Chartered Association of Certified Accountants renamed Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. 2  Members become entitled to use the title Chartered Certified Accountant (Designatory letters ACCA or FCCA). 3  The Association of Authorised Public Accountants became a subsidiary of ACCA
Achieve qualifications along the way. On your way to ACCA membership, there are lots of qualifications you can achieve along the way. This is a great way to show your knowledge and skills to employers and helps keep you on track and motivated. You can achieve: 1  a Diploma in Accounting and Business. 2  an Advanced Diploma in Accounting and Business. It is also a main part of the practical experience you must complete to qualify. To qualify as an ACCA member, you will need to complete: 1  exams-a minimum of five of 14 exams (nine are eligible for exemption*). 2  experience-record 36 months' experience in a relevant role. 3  ethics-the Professional Ethics module
Alternatively you can choose to study our BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance programme, which gives you exemptions from the Fundamentals Level Papers, then study towards sitting the rest of the papers through our 'Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Professional Level Papers' programme. Give yourself the best chance of career progression or open up new career opportunities by qualifying as an ACCA chartered certified accountant. A senior qualified accountant can earn up to 67% more per year than an assistant non-qual