Everythingbirds, rodents, small mammals, even snakes, lizards, and fish will feed heavily on cicadas when they are out, said Keith Clay, a biologist and periodical-cicada expert at Indiana University in Bloomington. By the time the cicada-killer wasps emerge from the ground in July and seek out Tibicen species, the Brood X Magicicada will be gone, not to be heard from again for 17 years. Besides, there is no point in trying to control the cicadas.
Groups, or broods, of the periodical, Magicicada cicadas emerge en masse in 13- or 17-year cycles in May and June. Brood X, which last appeared above ground in 1987 and reemerged this month, is the largest cicada brood of all. By the time the cicada-killer wasps emerge from the ground in July and seek out Tibicen species, the Brood X Magicicada will be gone, not to be heard from again for 17 years. Besides, there is no point in trying to control the cicadas.
Magicicada is the genus of the 13-year and 17-year periodical cicadas of eastern North America. Although they are sometimes called  locusts , this is a misnomer as cicadas belong to the taxonomic order Hemiptera, suborder Auchenorrhyncha, while locusts belong to Orthoptera. Generally, the 17-year cicadas are distributed more in the northern states of the eastern United States, while the 13-year cicadas occur in the southern states, but some may overlap slightly. For example, Broods IV (17 year cycle) and XIX (13 year cycle) overlap in western Missouri and eastern Oklahoma.
They typically live in trees, feeding on sap, and laying their eggs in a slit in the bark. Most cicadas are cryptic, singing at night to avoid predators. The periodic cicadas spend most of their lives as underground nymphs, only emerging after 13 or 17 years, most likely to reduce losses by satiating their predators. Cicadas have been featured in literature since the time of Homer's Iliad, and as motifs in art from the Chinese Shang dynasty. Most cicadas go through a life cycle that lasts from two to five years. Some species have much longer life cycles, such as the North American genus, Magicicada, which has a number of distinct  broods  that go through either a 17-year or, in some parts of the world, a 13-year life cycle.
Transcript. Why cicadas come out in their prime. I'm Bob Hirshon and this is Science Update. 2004 is the year of Brood X—a group of cicadas that emerge from the soil every 17 years to molt and mate. Other types come out every 13 years. This prompted one listener from Washington, D.C., to wonder why these insects have such odd-numbered life cycles. We asked biologist Keith Clay of Indiana University. 
for National Geographic News. A female thumb-size wasp known as a cicada killer might sound like the perfect predator to combat the billions of periodical cicadas swarming much of the eastern U.S. this May and June. By the time the cicada-killer wasps emerge from the ground in July and seek out Tibicen species, the Brood X Magicicada will be gone, not to be heard from again for 17 years. Besides, there is no point in trying to control the cicadas.
“It’s a garish beast.”. In its ecosystem role, the cicada invasion is like a Las Vegas smorgasbord for animal and bird predators. “Everybody eats 17-year cicadas. One evolutionary advantage of being underground for 16 years is that no above-ground predator can specialize in eating the periodical cicadas,” says Gilbert. For cicadas, the best defense simply may be predator satiation. “There are so many cicadas, that predators get full, and they can’t eat another bite.
The Cicadoidea, cicadas (/sɪˈkɑːdə/ or /sɪˈkeɪdə/), are a superfamily of insects in the order Hemiptera, suborder Auchenorrhyncha (formerly part of the obsolete Homoptera), along with smaller jumping bugs such as leafhoppers and froghoppers. Most cicadas go through a life cycle that lasts from two to five years. Some species have much longer life cycles, such as the North American genus, Magicicada, which has a number of distinct  broods  that go through either a 17-year or, in some parts of the world, a 13-year life cycle.
3) predators are not accustomed to these cicadas because they only emerge every 13 years. some predators probably are eager to avoid the “insanity” of a cicada emergence. I know a lot of people would not blame them. 
One of the answers is: Predator Satiation. A predator is any animal that would eat a periodical cicada, i.e., birds, raccoons, squirrels, dogs, snakes, etc. Satiation, in the case of cicadas, means to supply predators with enough cicadas to eat until they are weary of eating and thus avoid them completely. Predator satiation works like this: 1) Periodical cicadas emerge in tremendous numbers. 2) Adult cicadas are often timid, even after having scleritized. The research paper Emergence of 13-Yr Periodical Cicadas (Cicadidae: Magicicada): Phenology, Mortality, and Predator Satiation by Kathy S. Williams, Kimberly G. Smith, and Frederick M. Stephen (Ecology, Volume 74, Issue 4 (Jun., 1993), 1143-1152) is worth reading if you are interested in this topic.