The meaning of Sanaa has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Sanaa are: 1  Arabic meaning: Brilliance. 2  Swahili meaning: Art. This doesn't mean that the name Sanaa is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Sanaa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Sanaa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Sanaa is fascinating, learn more about it. This doesn't mean that the name Sanaa is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Sanaa. Sanaa is the Swahili word for “art” or more specifically a “work of beauty”. Sana’a is also the capital city of Yemen on the Arabian Peninsula. The ancient city was purportedly founded by Shem, son of Noah and the name is thought to be derived from a Southern Arabian word meaning “well-fortified”. Sanaa is a highly original name and a true “work of beauty”. Popularity of the Girl Name Sanaa. You need Adobe Flash Player 6 (or above) to view the charts. It is a free and lightweight installation from Adobe.com.
Meaning of Sanaa. Sanaa is an indirect Quranic name for girls that has meanings of glory and honor. It shouldn’t be confused with the Quranic name Sana, both of which are derived from the same root. The content on this site does not constitute any type of legal or religious advice. Always consult your local imam or other knowledgeable individuals before making a decision about choosing a baby name.
The name Sanaa is of Arabic origin, and it means Brightness, radiance . It's a name commonly given to girls. The highest recorded use of the name Sanaa was in 2006 with a total of 482 babies. According to the 2009 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Sanaa is not a popular baby girl's name in Connecticut. Imagine that, only 6 babies in Connecticut have the same name as you in 2009.
Personal experiences with the name Sanaa: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Sanaa: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Sanaa: | Edit. Swahili name meaning art. 
Simple-yet-exotic name with a creative meaning. Actress Sanaa Lathan introduced it to most people, and it's been on the U.S. popularity list since 2003. Sanne, a popular name in the Netherlands, has a similar feel, as does Sana. 
Sanaa is true to the “artistic” etymology of her name! As a high-profile and beautiful Black woman in theatre and film, Sanaa’s name has appealed to African-Americans across the country. It’s still a pretty uncommon name and most people are unfamiliar with its root meaning. Sanaa is a highly original name and a true “work of beauty”. Popularity of the Girl Name Sanaa. You need Adobe Flash Player 6 (or above) to view the charts. It is a free and lightweight installation from Adobe.com.
The flash of its lightening almost takes away the eyesight. The difference between Sanaa and Sana is that Sanaa has a “hamza” letter at the end, which cannot be pronounced in English. For this reason when pronounced, both names sound the same and you are free which name you wish to mean by it. The content on this site does not constitute any type of legal or religious advice. Always consult your local imam or other knowledgeable individuals before making a decision about choosing a baby name.