The features of an estuary are determined by a region's geology, and influenced by physical, chemical, and climatic conditions. For example, movements in the Earths crust elevate or lower the coastline, changing the amount of seawater that enters an estuary from the ocean. The amounts of seawater and fresh water flowing into an estuary are never constant. The quantity of seawater in an estuary changes with the changing tides, and the quantity of fresh water flowing into an estuary increases and decreases with rainfall and snowmelt.
Estuaries Classified by Geologic Features. Estuaries can be described by how they were formed or by the characteristics of their circulation. This classification of estuaries is based on geologic features. Classifications include coastal plain estuaries, tectonic estuaries, bar-built estuaries, and fjords.
Estuary Landforms and Features. Preparing for an Earth Science Scavenger Hunt! Estuary Landforms and Features barrier beach — a linear strip of beach that separates the ocean from marshes and other habitat behind it bay — an area of water bounded on three sides by land. Large bays are called gulf
An estuary is a partly enclosed coastal body of brackish water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it, and with a free connection to the open sea. Estuaries form a transition zone between river environments and maritime environments. Most existing estuaries formed during the Holocene epoch with the flooding of river-eroded or glacially scoured valleys when the sea level began to rise about 10,000–12,000 years ago. Estuaries are typically classified according to their geomorphological features or to water-circulation patterns.
Estuaries are bodies of water along our coasts that are formed when fresh water from rivers flows into and mixes with salt water from the ocean. In estuaries, the fresh river water is blocked from streaming into the open ocean by either surrounding mainland, peninsulas, barrier islands, or fringing salt marshes. 
Estuaries are partially enclosed bodies of water along coastlines where fresh water and salt water meet and mix. They act as a transition zone between oceans and continents. An estuary has a free connection with the ocean. Fresh water input from land sources (usually rivers) dilutes the estuary's salt content. 
An estuary is a partially enclosed body of water formed where freshwater from rivers and streams flows into the ocean, mixing with the salty sea water. Estuaries and the lands surrounding them are places of transition from land to sea, and from fresh to salt water. 
Bar-built estuaries are characterized by barrier beaches or islands that form parallel to the coastline and separate the estuary from the ocean. Barrier beaches and islands are formed by the accumulation of sand or sediments deposited by ocean waves. Mouse over the image to see how a tectonic estuary is formed. The amounts of seawater and fresh water flowing into an estuary are never constant. The quantity of seawater in an estuary changes with the changing tides, and the quantity of fresh water flowing into an estuary increases and decreases with rainfall and snowmelt.
Estuary Landforms and Features Preparing for an Earth Science Scavenger Hunt! Estuary Landforms and Features barrier beach — a linear strip of beach that separates the ocean from marshes and other habitat behind it bay — an area of water bounded on three sides by land. Large bays are called gulfs.