Connective Tissue A really diverse group of tissues: Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone.
The types of connective tissue include loose connective tissue, adipose tissue, dense fibrous connective tissue, elastic connective tissue, cartilage, osseous tissue (bone), and blood.
Photo by: Alila. The human body is composed of just four basic kinds of tissue: nervous, muscular, epithelial, and connective tissue. Connective tissue is the most abundant, widely distributed, and varied type. It includes fibrous tissues, fat, cartilage, bone, bone marrow, and blood.
SPECIALISED CONNECTIVE TISSUES. 1  dense regular connective tissue which is found in tendons and ligaments, and is shown below. 2  The other specialised types of connective tissue are covered in other topics. 3  cartilage - (see the topic on bone and cartilage). 4  adipose tissue (see adipose cells).
In contrast to loose connective tissue types where protein fibers are small and less abundant, dense connective tissues possess large, robust fibers that impart to these tissues considerable strength. Fibers are so numerous the extracellular matrix contains few if any open spaces where ground substance is visible.
Loose connective tissue is found in all parts of the body and is responsible for binding various structures together, such as muscle fibers to muscle fibers, and skin to underlying tissues. Various membranes and mesenteries are also composed of loose connective tissue. Study the slide of areolar tissue to the right.
The most abundant fiber in connective tissues is a tough protein called collagen. Tendons, ligaments, and the white stringy tissue (fascia) seen in some cuts of meat are composed almost entirely of collagen, as is leather, which consists of the connective tissue layer (dermis) of animal skins.
In any body locale where strength of interconnection is a requirement, dense connective tissues are found. Forces transmitted across tissues determine how the protein fibers are placed within each tissue type. For example, tendons and ligaments are cords of the body that must resist linear forces along their lengths.