Learn More. Discover a few of the many features that make LG vented tumble dryers popular options in stylish homes: Rack Dry: With a vented tumbler dryer, you can dry heat-sensitive fabrics, sweaters, lingerie, sneakers, and even stuffed animals, on a flat rack and at a low setting. Programmed Cycles: Ultra-efficient drying programmes with optimised air-flow systems dry loads faster, more quietly, and can help you save money. Child Lock: Many of our vented tumble dryers feature child locks that will help keep kids from operating the dryer without supervision.
Check the water container-if you’re buying a condenser tumble dryer, make sure the water container is easy to access and remove. Some dryers have the container at the bottom of the machine, which can make it difficult to remove when it’s full of water. Vented tumble dryers. This is the traditional type of dryer and is generally the cheapest. Vented dryers pump out the warm damp air from the drum through a hose, which has to be connected to a wall or window vent. Find out more about vented tumble dryers.
Tumble Dryers. Browse our handpicked range of tumble dryers. Most of these come with FREE rapid delivery, we can also take your old tumble dryer away with us upon delivery. We receive excellent customer feedback online, so you can buy with confidence at The Co-operative Electrical
Take care of large drying loads with the Indesit IDV75 Vented Tumble Dryer. Practical drying The IDV 75 has a 7 kg capacity and a selection of specialised drying programmes to care for your laundry. Drying your washing outside on the line is a marvellous idea but unfortunately the reality of the great British weather often means we end up draping our damp laundry over radiators and indoor airers. Tumble dryers can be a godsend and a very worthy investment.
Heat pump condenser tumble dryers. Condenser dryers that have a heat pump can be called heat pump condenser dryers or just heat pump dryers. They are a lot more expensive to buy than normal condenser dryers-but they're so energy efficient that running costs will halve compared to other electric dryers. Vented tumble dryers. This is the traditional type of dryer and is generally the cheapest. Vented dryers pump out the warm damp air from the drum through a hose, which has to be connected to a wall or window vent. Find out more about vented tumble dryers.
Check your dryer connections. All dryers use an electric motor to tumble clothes and an electric fan to distribute heated air. The difference is the source of heat generation with natural gas or electricity. The decision to purchase gas versus electric depends on whether you have a gas line in your laundry area. If space is at a premium, go vertical with your washer and dryer. There are many viable compact laundry centers. And don’t forget that some front-loading washers and dryers stack for space savings; 2-in-1 options are also available, meaning you can wash and dry in the same unit.
Dryer Buying Guide. Here's how to compare different kinds of dryers, such as gas and electric, and prioritize your laundry preferences. With a little research, you'll find the best dryer for your home. If space is at a premium, go vertical with your washer and dryer. There are many viable compact laundry centers. And don’t forget that some front-loading washers and dryers stack for space savings; 2-in-1 options are also available, meaning you can wash and dry in the same unit.