How to Use These Numbers. You can use these numbers to determine whether a dining plan is right for you. Take a look at our Walt Disney World restaurant menus and ask yourself whether you’d spend between $14.75 and $18.07 for a quick-service meal, or $4.24 to $4.50 for a snack, or around $33 to $37 for a sit-down meal.
Disney's standard dining plan provides, for each member of your group, for each night of your stay, one counter-service meal, one full-service meal, and one snack at participating Disney dining locations and restaurants, including room service at some Disney resorts.
Disney’s Magic Your Way Quick Service Dining Plan is perfect for guests who may be spending a lot of time in the parks, but don’t want to spend a lot of time at table service restaurants. For 2015, the price of the Quick Service Plan is per person per night.
A less expensive version of the standard dining plan, this plan includes meals, snacks, and nonalcoholic drinks at most counter-service eateries in Walt Disney World, but no meals at sit-down restaurants.
If you're dining at a buffet, the full-service meal includes the full buffet and a nonalcoholic drink. Tax is included in all parts of the dining plan's prices, but a gratuity is generally not. If you opt for the dining plan, assume you'll pay another 15 to 20% of the cost of your sit-down meals and buffets in tips.
Character meals are among the most expensive dining options at Walt Disney World. These meals offer a wide range of cuisine served family-style or buffet-style, while Disney characters circulate throughout the dining room. Each person must pay for a full meal, since sharing is not possible due to the nature of the service. As of 2010, character meal prices range from $25 to $60 per person.
The average breakfast entree costs around $12 in Disney World, and the average breakfast drink is around $3. Thus, using a sit-down dining credit for a typical Disney breakfast means paying $33-36 for food everyone else buys for $15.
1 A gratuity of 18% is added to the cost of all TS meals. 2  There is an average Quick Service (QS) restaurant for breakfast, lunch, and dinner to allow you to be more flexible in where you plan to eat a QS meal.