Agriculture in Mexico has been an important sector of the country’s economy historically and politically even though now it accounts for a very small percentage of Mexico’s GDP. Mexico’s growing population has made the country a net importer of grains. Under NAFTA, the US has an advantage in the production of corn but Mexico has the advantage in the production of vegetables, fruits and beverages.
Unfortunately, there are far too many misconceptions and misunderstandings about Mexican grown produce – even when it’s raised organically. The most important line that I will write in this article is the following: organic imports from Mexico must meet USDA organic standards. Mexico is estimated to have more than 110,000 organic farmers, considered the greatest number in any country of the world. More than 90 percent of these growers farm on less than 9 acres and sell their products collectively.
Mexico’s main crops include grains such as corn and wheat, tropical fruits and various vegetables. Agricultural exports are important, especially coffee, tropical fruits and winter fruits and vegetables. Sixty percent of Mexico’s agricultural exports go to the United States. Mexico’s growing population has made the country a net importer of grains. Under NAFTA, the US has an advantage in the production of corn but Mexico has the advantage in the production of vegetables, fruits and beverages.
Depending on your area of the state, growing seasons and crop availability from your immediate locality will vary. Northern New Mexico has a shorter growing season than do Central and Southern New Mexico, although cool weather crops like arugula and lettuce are available for longer periods in the north. 
In 1999, agriculture employed 23 percent of Mexico's labor force but accounted for only 5 percent of Mexico's GDP. Crop production was and continues to be the most important agricultural activity in Mexico, accounting for fully 50 percent of agricultural output. 
The growing of crops is the most important aspect of Mexico’s agriculture, accounting for fifty percent of agricultural output. Main crops include corn, sugarcane, sorghum, wheat, tomatoes, bananas, chili peppers, oranges, lemons, limes, mangos, other tropical fruits, beans, barley, avocados, blue agave and coffee. Mexico’s growing population has made the country a net importer of grains. Under NAFTA, the US has an advantage in the production of corn but Mexico has the advantage in the production of vegetables, fruits and beverages.
Fruit and vegetable crops are mainly grown in Mexico s northern states whose drier climates are conducive to the growing of citrus fruits and winter vegetables. Mexico produces less than 2 million tons of citrus, and is the fourth largest producer of citrus fruits in the world. The majority of Mexico s coffee is grown in the southern states. Chiapas, Oaxaca, Puebla and Veracruz produce as much as 90% of all coffee crops, pumping a little economic life into some of the country s poorest states. As with corn, the government has subsidized the growing of coffee and Mexico has become one of the world s largest producers of organic coffee beans
Mexico grows many different varieties of crops. For example they grow coffee, sugar cane, corn, and beans. That is only a few of the crops they grow. There are plenty of small fruit crops in NM, but some of the main (grossing) crops are Hay, Pecans, Cotton, Wheat, Corn for Grain, Peanuts, Potatoes, Peppers, Chile's, and Oni … ons.
Mexico is one of the cradles of human agriculture with the Mesoamericans developing domesticated plants such as maize, beans, chili peppers, tomatoes, squash, avocados, cacao various kinds of spices and more. Turkeys were the only domesticated fowl in the prehispanic period and small dogs were raised for food. Mexico’s growing population has made the country a net importer of grains. Under NAFTA, the US has an advantage in the production of corn but Mexico has the advantage in the production of vegetables, fruits and beverages.