WASHINGTON — By the end of February, more than 48 million tax refunds had been issued the IRS today announced – an increase of 5.6 percent compared to the same time last year. As of Feb. 28, the average refund this year is $3,034, up 3 percent compared to the average refund amount for the same time last year. Almost 88 percent of refunds to date have been directly deposited into the accounts of taxpayers, saving them time and a trip to the bank. The number of returns filed electronically is up slightly from the same time last year however, the number of taxpayers filing from home computers is up 7.5 percent. At the end of the fourth week of the filing season, the IRS had received almost 40 percent of the returns it expects to receive during 2014.
Millions of people call the IRS each year. Last tax season, the average wait time to speak to a live representative was 17 minutes, up from 12 minutes in 2011, the G.A.O. found. And the percentage of callers seeking live assistance who actually received it was 68 percent, down from 72 percent the year before.
Wait times when calling the agency have been growing, according to a recent report from the Government Accountability Office. Millions of people call the IRS each year. Last tax season, the average wait time to speak to a live representative was 17 minutes, up from 12 minutes in 2011, the G.A.O. found. And the percentage of callers seeking live assistance who actually received it was 68 percent, down from 72 percent the year before. 
During this time IRS had more than 2.4 million inquiries at its walk-in facilities and on the average, taxpayers had to wait 9.4 minutes before being assisted. Waiting time can vary, depending on the type of service requested, the hour of the day, and the district office visited. 
24.6 minutes: average time waiting on IRS toll-free hotline. Wait times for taxpayers who called the Internal Revenue Service's toll-free hotline more than doubled to nearly 25 minutes over the past year, according to a federal watchdog report released Thursday. The report said the average speed of answer for taxpayers calling the IRS was 24.6 minutes in 2015, as of early March. That compares with 11.7 minutes in 2014 and 14.1 minutes in 2013. Budget cuts have been cited as a factor for the increase in wait times.
In other words, Olson said, The IRS is planning to be unable to answer about three of every 10 calls it receives.. The IRS also has estimated that callers who get through will have to wait an average of 12 minutes. Olson recommended that the IRS increase staffing at its toll-free lines so that 85% of calls are answered with an average wait time of five minutes. 
Read More: Skip the Stamps, File Electronically. Last year, 109 million people called the IRS. Forty percent of calls trying to reach an agent went unanswered by the IRS, according to a January report. Those who got through experienced an average wait time of 18 minutes. Nina Olson, the national taxpayer advocate, said she'd never seen service so bad. I'm outraged, you know.
Don’t panic, but consider calling from your cell and grabbing lunch while you’re on hold. The IRS’ service “goal” this year is for just 71% of callers to get through–after an average wait of nearly 12 minutes. By contrast, it takes less than three minutes, on average, to get served at a drive-through at. , , or. Taco Bell, according to a survey by QSR Magazine, which tracks the fast-food industry. 
In fact, you’re in the majority. According to a new report from the Taxpayer Advocate Service, only 37% of the calls made to IRS customer service from January 1 to April 18, 2015, were actually answered. The average wait time for those who did manage to get through to customer service was 23 minutes. “This level of service represents a sharp drop-off from the 2014 filing season, when the IRS answered 71 percent of its calls and hold times averaged about 14 minutes,” the report states. 