1 An upgraded Amazon Prime membership will get you free grocery delivery for 30 days. 2  The trial access service to Amazon Fresh deliveries is free to Amazon Prime members for 90 days with no delivery charges. 3  Also, orders of groceries and qualifying items which total more than $35 are not charged a delivery fee. 1 Also, orders of groceries and qualifying items which total more than $35 are not charged a delivery fee. 2  Be sure to weigh the pros and cons to make sure its something worth joining. 3  While there is a yearly membership fee, groceries and fresh items through Amazon Fresh are much cheaper than you can get them in the store.
The launch in San Francisco, which comes six months after Amazon Fresh arrived in Los Angeles, offers the same options as customers in L.A. have: After a 30-day trial, those in San Francisco will need to pay for a $299 per year “ Prime Fresh ” membership to use the service. However, all Prime Fresh orders will come with no delivery charges on orders of at least $35. Like in Los Angeles, the Prime Fresh program in the Bay Area also comes with the benefits of the regular Amazon Prime membership, including free two-day shipping, video streaming and Kindle book rentals.
Amazon has a grocery delivery service, Prime Fresh, in the Los Angeles and San Francisco areas. The service includes Prime membership and will continue to cost $299 a year. Amazon (AMZN) announced the annual membership will now cost $99 a year, up from $79. A student membership will cost $49 annually. In February, Amazon said it was considering raising the price to $119 a year. Prime members get two-day shipping on a large number of Amazon items at no extra cost, plus the ability to borrow Kindle books and stream movies and television shows. The company said blamed the increase on increase fuel and shipping costs
1 This is billed to your Amazon Fresh account. 2  Clients must order prior to 10 a.m. to obtain their groceries on the same day. 3  The customer also pays for the grocery items the order from Amazon Fresh. 4  If you have a Prime membership, it will cost an additional $109 a year. 1 Also, orders of groceries and qualifying items which total more than $35 are not charged a delivery fee. 2  Be sure to weigh the pros and cons to make sure its something worth joining. 3  While there is a yearly membership fee, groceries and fresh items through Amazon Fresh are much cheaper than you can get them in the store.
1 There is a delivery charge of $7.99 for orders under $35. 2  Items ordered through Amazon Fresh are available for home delivery either on the same day or next day, depending upon time of the order, as well as the availability of trucks as well as your availability for delivery. 1 Also, orders of groceries and qualifying items which total more than $35 are not charged a delivery fee. 2  Be sure to weigh the pros and cons to make sure its something worth joining. 3  While there is a yearly membership fee, groceries and fresh items through Amazon Fresh are much cheaper than you can get them in the store.
1 If you have a Prime membership, it will cost an additional $109 a year. 2  CNET.com notes that the annual fee is $299 per year, and if you join, will include a Prime membership. 3  Amazon Fresh is a subsidiary of Amazon.com, the American eCommerce company based in Seattle, Washington. 1 Also, orders of groceries and qualifying items which total more than $35 are not charged a delivery fee. 2  Be sure to weigh the pros and cons to make sure its something worth joining. 3  While there is a yearly membership fee, groceries and fresh items through Amazon Fresh are much cheaper than you can get them in the store.
About Amazon Prime Fresh. Amazon Prime Fresh members get the benefits of both Amazon Prime and AmazonFresh for an annual membership fee of $299. Prime Fresh membership is available in select cities. The benefits of a Prime Fresh membership include: 1  Free delivery on orders over $50 including fresh groceries, everyday essentials, and more on AmazonFresh.com. To manage your Prime Fresh membership settings go to Manage Your Prime Membership. For additional questions, please see AmazonFresh.com or contact Amazon Fresh customer service.