Periventricular white matter disease. This condition is also referred as periventricular leukomalacia that is a form of white-matter brain lesion or disease. This form of white matter disease is due to the necrosis of white matter near the brain’s lateral ventricles. Vanishing white matter disease. Vanishing white matter disease is also known as the condition childhood ataxia. It has also been reported as the most common type of inherited childhood leucoencephalopathy. This involves the central nervous system hypomyelination which is a chronic
Periventricular white matter has two primary duties. It functions as a connecting unit between areas of grey matter within the brain. Grey matter is another vital component of the central nervous system and consists largely of neural cell bodies, which are important to the production of nerve impulses. PVWM is positioned along the side of the brain's lateral ventricles. Multiple sclerosis is the most prevalent condition to affect PVWM. Periventricular white matter functions as a connecting unit between areas of grey matter within the brain. The presence of PVWM may be confirmed through brain imaging scans.
Brain injury – Damage to the white matter brain tissue. Periventricular leukomalacia, or PVL, is a type of brain damage that involves the periventricular white matter of the brain. Damage to the white matter results in the death and decay of injured cells, leaving empty areas in the brain — called lateral ventricles, which fill with fluid (a condition called leukomalacia). 
(May 2012). Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) is a form of white-matter brain injury, characterized by the necrosis (more often coagulation) of white matter near the lateral ventricles. It can affect newborns and (less commonly) fetuses; premature infants are at the greatest risk of the disorder. Periventricular leukomalacia involves death of the white matter surrounding the lateral ventricles in fetuses and infants.
Periventricular White Matter Disease is not actually a disease. This misnomer comes from health practitioners referring to it as such, but periventricular white matter is commonly occurring on the brain, and changes in this matter are common as people age. Subcortical and periventricular white matter-These are locations within the brain. Regions of the brain are categorized by color (white matter or grey matter) and location (cortical, or related to the cortex, subcortical, or below the cortex, etc).
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Periventricular white matter (PVWM) is a type of brain matter comprised of nerve fibers that generate nerve impulses at a fast rate. It is positioned along the side of the brain's lateral ventricles. PVWM is positioned along the side of the brain's lateral ventricles. Multiple sclerosis is the most prevalent condition to affect PVWM. Periventricular white matter functions as a connecting unit between areas of grey matter within the brain. The presence of PVWM may be confirmed through brain imaging scans.
Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) is characterized by the death of the white matter of the brain due to softening of the brain tissue. It can affect fetuses or newborns; premature babies are at the greatest risk of the disorder. 
Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) is characterized by the death or damage and softening of the white matter, the inner part of the brain that transmits information between the nerve cells and the spinal cord, as well as from one part of the brain to another. 
Causes of periventricular white matter lesions: Casues of periventricular white matter (PWM) lesions include normal senescent changes (then they are called UBO's, for unidentified bright objects), small strokes, and disorders related to multiple sclerosis (MS). PWM are correlated with vitamen B6 (pyridoxine) deficiency. 
In fact, the most common cause of periventricular white matter. changes is normal aging that is not associated with a disease process. In premature infants (babies born too early), however, the periventricular white matter is a common area. of damage when an event happens that causes a lack of oxygen to the brain. Periventricular white matter. changes in premature infants typically occurs near the collateral trigone. 