Causes of myocardial ischemia. Myocardial ischemia occurs when blood flow to your heart is reduced, preventing it from receiving enough oxygen. The reduced blood flow is usually the result of a partial or complete blockage of your heart's arteries (coronary arteries). Myocardial ischemia, also called cardiac ischemia, can damage your heart muscle, reducing its ability to pump efficiently. A sudden, severe blockage of a coronary artery can lead to a heart attack. Myocardial ischemia might also cause serious abnormal heart rhythms
Ischemia is the medical term for what happens when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen. Ischemia usually happens because of a shortage of blood and oxygen to the heart muscle. It is usually caused by a narrowing or blockage of one or more of the coronary arteries (which supply blood to the heart muscle). 
Ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischaemia (/ischæmia/), ɪˈskiːmiə is a restriction in blood supply to, tissues causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular (metabolism to keep tissue). alive Ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischaemia (/ischæmia/), ɪˈskiːmiə is a restriction in blood supply to, tissues causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular (metabolism to keep tissue). Alive ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood, vessels with resultant damage to or dysfunction of. tissue
Myocardial ischemia occurs when the blood flow through one or more of your coronary arteries is decreased. The low blood flow decreases the amount of oxygen your heart muscle receives. Myocardial ischemia can develop slowly as arteries become blocked over time. Or it can occur quickly when an artery becomes blocked suddenly. Conditions that can cause myocardial ischemia include: 1  Coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis).
Confidence votes 5.2K. Myocardial Ischemia It is the loss or reduced blood supply to a part of the muscular tissue of the heart. Myo means muscle, cardial means heart, and ischemia means death. Therefore, picking the word apart, it would mean that part of the heart muscle dies from that lack of blood. Acute myocardial ischemia happens when the coronary artery gets blocked. As a result the blood and the oxygen supply to the heart reduces and the heart muscles can not work … properly. This means heart fails to pump efficiently leading to a cardiac arrest.
Treatment for myocardial ischemia involves improving blood flow to the heart muscle. Treatment may include medications, a procedure to open blocked arteries or bypass surgery. Myocardial ischemia, also called cardiac ischemia, can damage your heart muscle, reducing its ability to pump efficiently. A sudden, severe blockage of a coronary artery can lead to a heart attack. Myocardial ischemia might also cause serious abnormal heart rhythms
Ischemia is any reduction in blood flow resulting in decreased oxygen and nutrient supplies to a tissue. Ischemia may be reversible, in which case the affected tissue will recover if blood flow is restored, or it may be irreversible, resulting in tissue death. 
myocardial ischemia, a condition of insufficient blood flow to the heart muscle via the coronary arteries, often resulting in chest pain (angina pectoris). In diagnostic imaging, thallium-201 or other substances are injected into the blood to reveal areas of myocardial ischemia. cerebral ischemia. brain anoxia. myocardial ischemia. deficiency of blood supply to the heart muscle, due to obstruction or constriction of the coronary arteries. renal ischemia. severe or prolonged ischemia causes irreversible renal failure and death from uremia.