Certainly there is a strong English flavor in the 13th-century Trondheim cathedral (Norway). High Gothic. During the period from about 1250 to 1300 European art was dominated for the first time by the art and architecture of France. Paris --for much of this period the home of a powerful and artistically enlightened court--played an especially important role in the history of Gothic art. Three successive phases of Gothic architecture can be distinguished, respectively called Early, High, and late Gothic. Early Gothic
Although modern scholars have long realized that Gothic art has nothing in truth to do with the Goths, the term Gothic remains a standard one in the study of art history. Architecture was the most important and original art form during the Gothic period. The principal structural characteristics of Gothic architecture arose out of medieval masons' efforts to solve the problems associated with supporting heavy masonry ceiling vaults over wide spans. Paris --for much of this period the home of a powerful and artistically enlightened court--played an especially important role in the history of Gothic art. Three successive phases of Gothic architecture can be distinguished, respectively called Early, High, and late Gothic. Early Gothic
Gothic architecture is a style of architecture that flourished during the high and late medieval period. By the 12th century, Romanesque architecture (termed Norman architecture in England because of its association with the Norman invasion), was established throughout Europe and provided the basic architectural forms and units that were to remain in evolution throughout the M
MedievalPlus.com. The Middle Ages is a period in European history which, along with its adjective ‘Medieval’, was first referred to by italian scholars and academics of the late fifteenth century. 
Another well known novel in this genre, dating from the late Victorian era, is Bram Stoker ’s Dracula. The name Gothic refers to the (pseudo)-medieval buildings, emulating Gothic architecture, in which many of these stories take place. This extreme form of romanticism was very popular in England and Germany. The English Gothic novel also led to new novel types such as the German Schauerroman and the French ¨Georgia¨. 
It evolved from Romanesque architecture and was succeeded by Renaissance architecture. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance. Its characteristics include the pointed arch, the ribbed vault and the flying buttress. By the 12th century, Romanesque architecture (termed Norman architecture in England because of its association with the Norman invasion), was established throughout Europe and provided the basic architectural forms and units that were to remain in evolution throughout the Medieval period.
Romanesque was the style of architecture in Europe before the Gothic style. Gothic architecture grew out of Romanesque architecture. There was not a clean break between the two styles. Many of the features of Gothic architecture did not begin in the Gothic period. They were already there in Romanesque architecture, and slowly changed to become Gothic. The main changes were the pointed arch and the flying buttress. 
The style of art known as Gothic developed in Europe during the Middle Ages. It was mainly a method of building: Gothic characteristics appeared first in architecture. Many of the world's great cathedrals and churches were built in the Gothic style between the 12th and 16th centuries. The term Gothic was first used during the Renaissance period, which followed the Middle Ages. For some time the Gothic style was described as modern, in contrast to the classical Roman, which was called antique.
The early Dark Ages (ca. 500-750) witnessed the Germanic adoption of Roman architecture. The transition to medieval architecture (i.e. the transformation of Roman architecture with intricacy and verticality) made little headway during this period. At any rate, very few buildings survive from the early Dark Ages, and those that did were generally significantly modified in later periods. 