Language is tied up with our psyche, as individuals and as a society. Language is a component of thought. Thus language is integral to worldview. Differences in worldview involve differences in thought and language. Yes, language is the primary component of ethnicity. What is known and recorded in the Ethnologue, or other language analysis sources, varies in details and clarity, or even accuracy, from one case to another (usually in groupings of regional or ethnic clusters). Also speech forms are always changing -- some die, new ones develop, all change.
The distinction between race and ethnicity is considered highly problematic. Ethnicity is often assumed to be the cultural identity of a group, often based on language and tradition, while race is assumed to be a biological classification, based on DNA and bone structure. Race is a more controversial subject than ethnicity, due to its common political use. The term ethnic group was first recorded in 1935 and entered the Oxford English Dictionary in 1972. The term nationality depending on context may either be used synonymously with ethnicity, or synonymously with citizenship (in a sovereign state).
By way of language shift, acculturation, adoption and religious conversion, it is possible for some individuals or groups to leave one ethnic group and become part of another (except for ethnic groups emphasizing racial purity as a key membership criterion). The term ethnic group was first recorded in 1935 and entered the Oxford English Dictionary in 1972. The term nationality depending on context may either be used synonymously with ethnicity, or synonymously with citizenship (in a sovereign state).
Trending on kff Medicare & Medicaid at 50 Individual Market Medicaid Expansion. How Race/Ethnicity, Immigration Status, and Language Affect Health Insurance Coverage, Access to and Quality of Care Among the Low-Income Population « » The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. The findings demonstrates that citizenship status and language proficiency have a significant impact on insurance coverage, access to care and the quality of care received among the low-income population. Report (.pdf).
Thus language is only one factor in the ethnolinguistic description of a people, or an ethnic group. Language is a primary characteristic and an always present characteristic of ethnicity. Without language you would have an incomplete description of ethnicity. Language is the primary component of ethnicity. What is known and recorded in the Ethnologue, or other language analysis sources, varies in details and clarity, or even accuracy, from one case to another (usually in groupings of regional or ethnic clusters). Also speech forms are always changing -- some die, new ones develop, all change.
An ethnic group or ethnicity is a socially defined category of people who identify with each other based on common ancestral, social, cultural or national experience. The term ethnic group was first recorded in 1935 and entered the Oxford English Dictionary in 1972. The term nationality depending on context may either be used synonymously with ethnicity, or synonymously with citizenship (in a sovereign state).
Language barriers can affect the attainment of a child from an ethnic background because the communication between a child and teacher can be hindered. In conclusion, the extent of ethnicity affecting educational attainment is major. There are many factors as to why some ethnicities do better than others. Ethnicity can have a major affect on your achievement but other things like-social class, gender and location can also play a part in how well you do. ...read more. Middle. Teachers can be unintentionally racist as they may have stereotypical view about an ethnic community
This essay will be discussing the correlation between ethnicity and educational attainment. Whether your race affects your life chances or if other factors are involved as well. It will be looking at different ethnic minorities and how well they are doing in school. There are many factors as to why some ethnicities do better than others. Ethnicity can have a major affect on your achievement but other things like-social class, gender and location can also play a part in how well you do. ...read more. Middle. Teachers can be unintentionally racist as they may have stereotypical view about an ethnic community