1 After your Fitbit syncs, the sleep will appear on your dashboard and sleep page on the website. 2  It will appear on the day that you woke up (recording last night's sleep shows up on today's page). 3  If you forgot to Start and Stop your Tracker, you can enter the times manually on the Track My Sleep page. 1 Most Tracker-related problems can be solved by restarting the Tracker. 2  To do this: 3  Place your Tracker on the base station (with it plugged in and the computer on). 4  Using a pen tip or a paper clip, push the button on the bottom of the base station.
Updating One on a computer You can update your One using a Mac or PC using Fitbit Connect. To update using this method: 1. Make sure your Wireless Sync Dongle is plugged into your computer. 2. Click the Fitbit Connect icon near the time on your computer. 3. Select Open Main Menu, and then select Check for device update. Pairing to a computer Once Fitbit Connect is installed on your computer, you can pair your One to your Fitbit account. This will allow you to sync your data and manage your tracker’s device settings. Pairing to a Mac 1.
NOTE: If your device is not compatible, you can still use the Fitbit App to view your data and track your progress. Before you begin Before you can setup your One on a mobile device, do the following: 1. Download and install the Fitbit App from the App Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android). Pairing to a computer Once Fitbit Connect is installed on your computer, you can pair your One to your Fitbit account. This will allow you to sync your data and manage your tracker’s device settings. Pairing to a Mac 1.
1 To do this: 2  Place your Tracker on the base station (with it plugged in and the computer on). 3  Using a pen tip or a paper clip, push the button on the bottom of the base station. 4  The Tracker should restart and display the firmware version (ex. 1 Most Tracker-related problems can be solved by restarting the Tracker. 2  To do this: 3  Place your Tracker on the base station (with it plugged in and the computer on). 4
Other benefits to the Fitbit is that it’s not just a pedometer. It’s also an activity tracker. You can track not just your steps, but floors climbed. You can get over 10,000 steps a day and still be considered lightly active, so this little thing reminds you to get up off your boo-tay and MOVE. You can also track your sleep with it.
If you already have the Fitbit App installed, make sure that you have the latest version. 2. Plug your charging cable into a USB port and insert your tracker into the charging cable. 3. Enable Bluetooth on your mobile device and within the Fitbit app. 4. Make sure your mobile device is connected to the Internet. Pairing to a computer Once Fitbit Connect is installed on your computer, you can pair your One to your Fitbit account. This will allow you to sync your data and manage your tracker’s device settings. Pairing to a Mac 1.
Wireless sync to a computer Wireless syncing to Fitbit.com is automatic, as long as: · Your computer is powered on, awake, and connected to the internet. · The Wireless Sync Dongle is plugged in and your tracker is within 15 feet of it. Pairing to a computer Once Fitbit Connect is installed on your computer, you can pair your One to your Fitbit account. This will allow you to sync your data and manage your tracker’s device settings. Pairing to a Mac 1.