Alpers' disease a rare disease of young children, characterized by neuronal deterioration of the cerebral cortex and elsewhere, progressive mental deterioration, motor disturbances, seizures, and early death. Wolman's disease a lysosomal storage disease due to deficiency of the lysosomal sterol esterase, occurring in infants, and associated with hepatosplenomegaly, adrenal steatorrhea, calcification, abdominal distention, anemia, and inanition.
A chronic disease is one lasting 3 months or more, by the definition of the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics. Chronic diseases generally cannot be prevented by vaccines or cured by medication, nor do they just disappear. 
disease(s) (dizēz´) , n a definite deviation from the normal state characterized by a series of symptoms. Disease may be caused by developmental disturbances, genetic factors, metabolic factors, living agents, or physical, chemical, or radiant energy, or the cause may be unknown. Wolman's disease a lysosomal storage disease due to deficiency of the lysosomal sterol esterase, occurring in infants, and associated with hepatosplenomegaly, adrenal steatorrhea, calcification, abdominal distention, anemia, and inanition.
Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.. The Definition has not been amended since 1948. During the Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion in 1986, the WHO said that health is: a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living. Neither is it merely the absence of disease or infirmity . The article says the WHO definitions of health will not do in an era marked by new understandings of disease at molecular, individual, and societal levels.
A disease is a particular abnormal condition, a disorder of a structure or function, that affects part or all of an organism. The causal study of disease is called pathology. In humans, disease is often used more broadly to refer to any condition that causes pain, dysfunction, distress, social problems, or death to the person afflicted, or similar problems for those in contact with the person.
Medical Definition of COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. : an infectious disease transmissible (as from person to person) by direct contact with an affected individual or the individual's discharges or by indirect means (as by a vector)—compare contagious disease. 
WHO definition of Health. Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. The correct bibliographic citation for the definition is:
Crohn's disease A type of inflammatory, chronic bowel disease characterized by granulomatous inflammation of the bowel wall causing fever, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and weight loss. The ocular manifestations include acute iridocyclitis, scleritis, conjunctivitis and corneal infiltrates. Wolman's disease a lysosomal storage disease due to deficiency of the lysosomal sterol esterase, occurring in infants, and associated with hepatosplenomegaly, adrenal steatorrhea, calcification, abdominal distention, anemia, and inanition.
The Lancet questions WHO's definition of health. An article in The Lancet states that health is not a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being . Neither is it merely the absence of disease or infirmity . The article says the WHO definitions of health will not do in an era marked by new understandings of disease at molecular, individual, and societal levels.
Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. Visit the grant opportunities page in the TDR (Tropical Disease Research) web site or the capacity strengthening page in the RHR (Reproductive Health and Research) web site. Also, you may wish to consult the web site of the WHO Regional Office where your country is a Member State.