California is projected to be one of the fastest growing States in the nation in total population. In 1990, California comprised 12 percent of the nation's population and is expected to have 14 percent of the nation's population by 2020 (an increase of 15.7 million people).
Back to Gallery. The Bay Area is the fastest-growing region in the state, with San Jose's population surpassing 1 million and home construction placing Dublin among the fastest-growing cities in California, according to population estimates released Wednesday by state officials.
Four Southern California suburbs are among the 10 fastest-growing cities in the nation, according to a new Census Bureau study released today. Irvine, Rancho Cucamonga, Chula Vista and Fontana all recorded population increases of more than 11% between July 2000 and July 2002, the study found.
Lincoln is the fastest growing small city in America, according to a new census bureau report, which indicates that the population increased by 282 percent between 2000 and 2010. With a population of about 44,000, City Manager Matt Brower says the Lincoln has a lot of space other cities don't have.
Three of the five fastest-growing counties in the state were in the Bay Area — San Francisco, Alameda and Contra Costa, while Dublin was one of the fastest-growing cities in California.
3 Bay Area counties among fastest growing in state. Back to Gallery. SACRAMENTO — The Bay Area’s nine counties added 85,000 residents last year as California saw modest 1 percent growth statewide, according to new estimates released Friday.
Contra Costa County grew by 0.8 percent -- the same as the state overall. Santa Clarita in Los Angeles County was California's fastest-growing city, largely because it annexed surrounding areas. Dublin in Alameda County ranked second with 6.8 percent growth.
10 fastest growing cities in California. Photo: Leah Millis, San Francisco Chronicle. Dublin, which now has more than 53,000 residents, added 1,100 new housing units last year, helping it become the third-fastest-growing city in California. Campbell and Rio Vista were the other Bay Area cities in the top 10.