Transformation in economics refers to a long-term change in dominant economic activity in terms of prevailing relative engagement or employment of able individuals. 1). Accelerating productivity growth rates speed up the transformations, from millennia, through centuries, to decades of the recent era. It is this acceleration which makes transformation relevant economic category of today, more fundamental in its impact than any recession, crisis or depression.
1 The response to social transformation may not entail adaptation to globalisation but rather resistance. 2  This may involve mobilisation of traditional cultural and social resources, but can also take new forms of 'globalisation from below' through trans-national civil society organisations. 2. 1 The study of social transformation refers to the different ways in which globalising forces impact upon local communities and national societies with highly diverse historical experiences, economic and social patterns, political institutions and cultures.
economic change: ... a transformation that occurs within an economy that either increases, sustains, or depletes its vitality. Efforts to measure transformations (economic fluctuations) range over periods of stability (economic stability), growth (expansion), and contraction (recession). Economic changes are typically observed as cycles.
This new “transformation” is different from all preceding sector transformations: it does not usher in a new sector but completes the secular cycle of localization→globalization→re-localization. A new economic paradigm is emerging, with a new structure, behavior, institutions and values. 1). Accelerating productivity growth rates speed up the transformations, from millennia, through centuries, to decades of the recent era. It is this acceleration which makes transformation relevant economic category of today, more fundamental in its impact than any recession, crisis or depression.
transformation. In an organizational context, a process of profound and radical change that orients an organization in a new direction and takes it to an entirely different level of effectiveness. Defini
If this new definition of transformation sounds complex and obscure, it is. Unless you have been steeped in neo-evangelical doctrines, this will sound like mish-mash. To aid the reader, below is a nutshell synopsis of the new doctrines of transformation. 1. In the church, this is characterized by increased holiness of life, accelerated conversion growth, reconciliation in relationships, mobilization of gifts and callings, and an increased relevance to and participation in greater society.
For other uses, see Economy (disambiguation) . An economy (Greek οίκος-household and νέμoμαι - manage) or economic system consists of the production, distribution or trade, and consumption of limited goods and services by different agents in a given geographical location. A command-based economy is where a central political agent commands what is produced and how it is sold and distributed. Shortages are common problems with a command-based economy, as there is no mechanism to manage the information (prices) about the systems natural supply and demand dynamics.
Transformation is a unidirectional and irreversible change in dominant human economic activity (economic sector). Such change is driven by slower or faster continuous improvement in sector productivity growth rate. 1). Accelerating productivity growth rates speed up the transformations, from millennia, through centuries, to decades of the recent era. It is this acceleration which makes transformation relevant economic category of today, more fundamental in its impact than any recession, crisis or depression.