San Francisco de Quito, most often called Quito, is the capital city of Ecuador in northwestern South America. It is located in north-central Ecuador in the Guayllabamba river basin, on the eastern slopes of Pichincha,[1] an active stratovolcano in the Andes mountains. Quito’s history of earthquakes in modern times began with a monster tremor on February 4, 1797. Not only did an estimated 40,000 people in the city perish, but the quake activated the Cotopaxi volcano. This led, in turn, to lava raining down on the town of Ambato
Update 16:39 UTC: USGS has now listed the Quito earthquake as a M 4.0 at a depth of 3 km and 18 km of Quito. We Earthquake-Report.com do trust on the local agencies as they have instruments closest to the epicenter. Important Update 14:47 UTC: One of our readers has send us the full printout of this earthquake. I Have Felt It reports as received by Earthquake-Report.com. Quito: Good morning-- Felt a sustained tremor on the northside of Quito, Ecuador in Carcelen between 8:50 - 9:00 a.m. Quito: light shaking indicated. Quito: Whole house shook in Cumbaya valley below Quito. Quito: lasted about 20 sec.
The 1906 Ecuador–Colombia earthquake occurred at 15:36 UTC on January 31, off the coast of Ecuador, near Esmeraldas. The earthquake had a moment magnitude of 8.8 and triggered a destructive tsunami that caused at least 500 casualties on the coast of Colombia. The earthquake occurred along the boundary between the Nazca Plate and the South American Plate. The earthquake is likely to be a result of thrust-faulting, caused by the subduction of the Nazca plate beneath the South American plate.
Ecuador is a land of volcanoes and geological faults so Ecuador does have earthquakes. Here is an excerpt from a full report just emailed to our Ecuador Living subscribers. The recent earthquake in Haiti sent many readers scuttling to their keyboards so they could ask about earthquakes in Ecuador. Quito’s history of earthquakes in modern times began with a monster tremor on February 4, 1797. Not only did an estimated 40,000 people in the city perish, but the quake activated the Cotopaxi volcano. This led, in turn, to lava raining down on the town of Ambato
From Lander and Lockridge, 1989, Tsunami in Hawaii A magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia. It was recorded at San Diego and San Francisco.. Share this page: 1  Facebook. 8.8M. N.B: The magnitude for this earthquake has been recalculated since the following articles were written. Magnitude 8.8 is a better determination of the size of this earthquake. A catastrophic magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador and Colombia generated a strong tsunami that killed 500 to 1500 there. It was observed all along the coast of Central America and as far north as San Francisco and west to Japan.....The wave arrived in Hilo at about 12.5 hours after the earthquake
Publisher. A+E Networks. Quito, Ecuador, the site of many powerful earthquakes through the years, suffers one of its worst when a tremor kills 5,000 people and destroys some of the most famous buildings in South America, on this day in 1859. Quito’s history of earthquakes in modern times began with a monster tremor on February 4, 1797. Not only did an estimated 40,000 people in the city perish, but the quake activated the Cotopaxi volcano.
An article at History.com entitled “ Earthquake destroys landmarks in Quito ” provides more details: Quito, Ecuador, the site of many powerful earthquakes through the years, suffers one of its worst when a tremor kills 5,000 people and destroys some of the most famous buildings in South America, on this day in 1859. Quito’s history of earthquakes in modern times began with a monster tremor on February 4, 1797. Not only did an estimated 40,000 people in the city perish, but the quake activated the Cotopaxi volcano. This led, in turn, to lava raining down on the town of Ambato