Slide show: Exercises to improve your core strength. Previous Next 1 of 13 Core exercises build abs and other core muscles Core strength exercises strengthen your core muscles, including your abdominal muscles, back muscles and the muscles around the pelvis. Strong core muscles make it easier to do many physical activities. If you have back problems, osteoporosis or other health concerns, talk to your doctor before doing these core strength exercises. Core strength exercises strengthen your core muscles, including your abdominal muscles, back muscles and the muscles around the pelvis.
Abdominal muscles: A large group of muscles in the front of the abdomen that assists in the regular breathing movement and supports the muscles of the spine while lifting and keeping abdominal organs such as the intestines in place. 
Like any other muscles in the body, your abdominal muscles can have spasms that occur as a result of muscle strain during heavy use or overuse, fatigue, dehydration, and alcohol or drug use. Abdominal muscle strain is a common injury among athletes and can cause muscle spasms. Abdominal muscle spasm, also known as abdominal rigidity, is a powerful, involuntary contraction of the muscles of the abdomen.
The abdominal muscles provide postural support, protect internal organs in the abdominal and pelvic regions, and perform other functions. In Depth: Muscles. The rectus abdominis is the large muscle in the mid-section of the abdomen. It enables the tilt of the pelvis and the curvature of the lower spine. Next to it on both sides of the body is the internal oblique
abdominal muscles, the muscles of the abdominal wall. The muscles that reinforce the posterior aspect of the wall are the quadratus lumborum, the psoas major, and the iliacus. The abdominal muscles are made up of the cremaster, external abdominal oblique, iliacus, psoas major, pyramidalis, quadratus lumborum, rectus abdominis, and transversus abdominis muscles. See also: muscle.
Symptoms. Symptoms include tenderness and inflammation over an area of the rectus abdominis, usually at the bottom of the muscle where it inserts into the pelvis. The athlete may have felt a sudden sharp pain in the abdominal muscles which would indicate a rupture. 
Muscles of the Abdomen, Lower Back and Pelvis. The muscles of the abdomen, lower back, and pelvis are separated from those of the chest by the muscular wall of the diaphragm, the critical breathing muscle. Attached to the pelvis are muscles of the buttocks, the lower back, and the thighs. These muscles, including the gluteus maximus and the hamstrings, extend the thigh at the hip in support of the body's weight and propulsion.
Although you are regularly bombarded with exercises claiming to tone and strengthen the abdominal muscles, many of these exercises are inadequate and ineffective. Some exercises may actually lead to lower back pain, and do little to strengthen the abdominals. 