Coleman fuel is a petroleum naphtha product marketed by The Coleman Company. Historically called white gas (not white spirit), it is a liquid petroleum fuel (100% light hydrotreated distillate) usually sold in one gallon cans. It is used primarily for fueling lanterns and camp stoves. Additionally, it is a popular fuel for fire dancing. Originally, it was simply casing-head gas or drip gas which has similar properties. Drip gas was sold commercially at gas stations and hardware stores in North America until the early 1950s.
The last thing you want on a camping trip is to find out you brought the wrong camping stove for the job. The type of fuel a Coleman stove uses is very important to consider depending on the condition and climate of your destination. Every fuel has strengths and weaknesses, so be sure to take note of their uses before you choose the right camping stove for you. The gas flow is reliable regardless of how much fuel is left in the canister. For a Coleman stove you can depend on in nearly any situation, a Powermax fuel-friendly camping stove is an excellent choice. Propane: Propane is a widely used and easily available fuel for camping stoves.
Please try again later. Distilling unleaded gasoline to get the heavy additives out so you can use it as a substitute for coleman fuel for lanterns or stoves. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Coleman fuel: Coleman fuel, also known as white gas or camping fuel, is a very inexpensive, reliable way to fuel your Coleman camping stove. The fuel canisters are reusable and lightweight, and the fuel will burn well even at high altitudes and subzero temperatures. The gas flow is reliable regardless of how much fuel is left in the canister. For a Coleman stove you can depend on in nearly any situation, a Powermax fuel-friendly camping stove is an excellent choice. Propane: Propane is a widely used and easily available fuel for camping stoves.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Quirkyquantummechanic. Confidence votes 77.7K. Coleman fuel is actually a complex mixture of light hydrocarbons that is distilled from petroleum. Here's a little tidbit from the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) right from Coleman: That's what is in the stuff. 1  Solvent naphtha (CAS #64742-89-8) 45-50%. I tipped a dribble of Coleman Fuel on the bottom of an upturned coffee mug and lit … it. It burned beautifully with NO smoke. I tried it with proper Swan lighter fluid and it burned exactly the same but with plenty of smoke. My zippo is currently in bits on a radiator drying out so I can try it with pure Coleman fuel.
I’ve heard the shelf life of Coleman fuel is in the range of 5 to 7 years, but I have both a lantern and a single burner stove and both were stored with fuel left in them for the last 12 or 13 years. 
The lantern on the right is in Scott Wickham's collection. Coleman in Wichita made this Model 237A lantern which is date stamped Jan. 1973. This lantern, in Tim Treutler's collection, is a 500 cp kerosene fueled model as were the earlier 237 and 237B versions. Coleman in Wichita made Model 237 lanterns for a number of years. This 237, in John Stendahl's collection, is date stamped May, 1961.
It is an upgrade of earlier 285 lanterns in its fuel selection, but is made from different parts to allow it to burn ethanol. The corn symbol on its sticker and ethanol burner led to its nickname. This Coleman U.S.A. lantern, dated April 2006, has never been lit. 
Coleman Fuel is a particular brand of the more generic product, white gas. White gas is gasoline without the additives in it yet, and may or maynot be a broad cut like regular gasoline. They all have some very nice properties as a storage fuel. They also have some profound differences. White gas is not as clean a cut as Coleman Fuel, but I've not done long duration storage tests on it. It might, or might not, store as well. I've used several year old Coleman fuel with no problems at all. Gasoline more than 1 year old is marginal.
The Coleman Lantern is a line of pressure lamps first introduced by the Coleman Company in 1914. This led to a series of lamps that were originally made to burn kerosene or gasoline. Current models use kerosene, gasoline, Coleman fuel (White gas) or propane and use one or two mantles to produce an intense white light. Over the years more than 50 million of the lanterns have been sold throughout the world. There are also electric lanterns sold under the Coleman brand name.