Pesto alla genovese is made with Genovese basil, salt, garlic, Ligurian extra virgin olive oil (Taggiasco), European pine nuts (sometimes toasted) and a grated cheese like Parmigiano Reggiano or Grana Padano and pecorino Sardo or pecorino romano. Pesto alla siciliana, sometimes called pesto rosso (red pesto), is a sauce from Sicily similar to pesto genovese but with the addition of tomato, almonds instead of pine nuts, and much less basil.
Pesto is full of nutrients, including healthy fats. Pesto sauce is made with a few simple ingredients: olive oil, basil, garlic and Parmesan cheese. Some varieties also have ground pine nuts or other types of nuts for added flavor and texture. 
: a sauce made especially of fresh basil, garlic, oil, pine nuts, and grated cheese. See pesto defined for English-language learners. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Pesto is usually a blend of olive oil, pine nuts and basil along with salt and pepper and maybe some other spices. At my grocery store it is in the pasta isle with the refrigerated soft pastas. You can usually find it also by the cheese in the refrigerated section of your grocery store. Source(s): In fact, some pesto sauces are made with arugula instead of basil. Pesto is a very versatile sauce and can be used as a bruschetta topping, on pasta, on cooked meats, and even in soups. A lovely way to explore pesto sauces is to buy a few different kinds, and make a platter of pesto bruschetta using each sauce.
Over the course of the last few decades the term pesto has come to refer to many different recipes, but they all have a basic set of ingredients and techniques. The classic pesto is customarily made with crushed pine nuts, garlic, basil, olive oil and Parmigiano-Reggiano. It seems so simple, but these five ingredients go so well together. You can use a mortar and pestle but a blender, food processor or even a mini-chopper is much easier. Pesto. The term pesto likely has its origins from from two Italian words. One is the Italian verb pestare which means to pound or crush as one does with the garlic and pine nuts. Pestos were traditionally made in a mortar and pestle, the pestle being the heavy tool used for grinding and crushing.
[ˈpesto]) is a sauce originating in Genoa in the Liguria region of northern Italy (pesto alla genovese), and traditionally consists of crushed garlic, basil, and European pine nuts blended with olive oil, Parmigiano-Reggiano (Parmesan cheese), and Fiore Sardo (cheese made from sheep's milk). Pesto alla siciliana, sometimes called pesto rosso (red pesto), is a sauce from Sicily similar to pesto genovese but with the addition of tomato, almonds instead of pine nuts, and much less basil.
In addition to the two basic pesto recipes, others include red bell peppers, sun dried tomatoes, pine nuts, walnuts, parmesan cheese, and ricotta cheese. In fact, some pesto sauces are made with arugula instead of basil. Pesto is a very versatile sauce and can be used as a bruschetta topping, on pasta, on cooked meats, and even in soups. A lovely way to explore pesto sauces is to buy a few different kinds, and make a platter of pesto bruschetta using each sauce.
Recipe by: ANDERVAL. Basic pesto, made with basil, olive oil, pine nuts, and Parmesan cheese. This recipe differs from the classic preparation by the addition of parsley. You can add a little extra Parmesan to the mixture if you like.
Pesto is a versatile sauce that can be used to make soup. Garlic is often used in making pesto. Olive oil is typically used to make pesto. Chopped tomatoes can be added to basil and olive oil in a variation on traditional pesto. Red bell peppers can be used as a base to make a red pesto. Pesto alla siciliana comes from Sicily.