Manitoba Hydro is the electric power and natural gas utility in the province of Manitoba, Canada. Founded in 1961, it is a provincial Crown Corporation, governed by the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board and the Manitoba Hydro Act. The first public electric lighting installation in Manitoba was demonstrated at the Davis House hotel on Main Street, Winnipeg, March 12, 1873. In 1880, the Manitoba Electric and Gas Light Company was incorporated to provide public lighting and power, and a year later absorbed the Winnipeg Gas Company.
The Churchill Diversion diverts part of the Churchill at South Indian Lake south into the Rat River branch of the Burntwood River. The Nelson River Hydroelectric Project refers to the construction of a series of dams and hydroelectric power plants on the Nelson River in Northern Manitoba, Canada. The stations at Kelsey, Kettle, Long Spruce and Limestone were built on the lower Nelson River to support both Manitoba load growth and export plans. Limestone, the largest generating station in Manitoba, is located on the Lower Nelson only 90 km from Hudson Bay.
The Wuskwatim Generating Station is located on the Burntwood River, in the Nelson House Resource Management Area, approximately 45 km southwest of Thompson and 35 km southeast of Nelson House. Wuskwatim Generating Station. 1  Construction started in 2006; 2  Construction completed in 2012; 3  Capacity 200. ; 4  Powerhouse & service bay: 5  Length 118 m; 6  Three turbine generators (vertical propeller type); 7  Transmission lines: 8  One 230-. 9  line from Wuskwatim to Birchtree Station (Thompson); 10  Two 230-kV lines from Wuskwatim to Herblet Lake Station.
Wuskwatim* Project. The Wuskwatim Generating Station is a 200-megawatt, hydroelectric generating station constructed between 2006 and 2012 on the Burntwood River in the Nelson House Resource Management Area. (Click here or on photo to enlarge.). 
The station was developed and is owned by the Wuskwatim Power Limited Partnership (WPLP), a legal entity involving Nisichawayasihk Cree Nation (NCN) and Manitoba Hydro. Manitoba Hydro operates the station as part of the Manitoba power grid on behalf of WPLP. Wuskwatim represents the first time Manitoba Hydro has entered into a partnership with a First Nations community on a generating station project. Wuskwatim Generating Station. 1  Construction started in 2006; 2  Construction completed in 2012; 3  Capacity 200. ; 4  Powerhouse & service bay: 5  Length 118 m; 6  Three turbine generators (vertical propeller type); 7  Transmission lines: 8  One 230-. 9  line from Wuskwatim to Birchtree Station (Thompson); 10  Two 230-kV lines from Wuskwatim to Herblet Lake Station.
A construction update on the Wuskwatim Generating Station, located on the Burntwood River in northern Manitoba. This program highlights the major construction activities and milestones that have taken place over the past 2 seasons as work on Manitoba's newest hydro project moves into the final phases. 
Expertise: Energy. The Wuskwatim Project is a 200-megawatt run-of-river hydroelectric generating station being developed on the Burntwood River at Taskinigup Falls, located in the Nelson House Resource Management Area about 45 kilometers southwest of Thompson. Contributing quality control expertise, construction know-how and management experience, O-N-E G.P. bid on the Wuskwatim Project and, in November 2008, was awarded the $241 million General Civil Works Contract.
Generating Station. Wuskwatim is a 200-megawatt, run-of-river hydroelectric generating station on the Burntwood River at Taskinigup Falls. It is located in the Nelson House Resource Management Area about 45 kilometres southwest of Thompson and 35 kilometres southeast of Nelson House. (Enlarge Map) . (Enlarge Map) . Primary Wuskwatim components include the generating station and dam, a transmission line to the provincial power grid and an access road. Construction of the generating station was completed in late 2012 at a cost of $1.3 billion.
Watch the results of the groundbreaking partnership between the Nisichawayasihk Cree Nation (NCN) and Manitoba Hydro to develop the 200-megawatt Wuskwatim Generating Station. NCN was involved in all aspects of development, from planning, to construction, to the project's ongoing environmental monitoring activities. Wuskwatim Generating Station. 1  Construction started in 2006; 2  Construction completed in 2012; 3  Capacity 200. ; 4  Powerhouse & service bay: 5  Length 118 m; 6  Three turbine generators (vertical propeller type); 7  Transmission lines: 8  One 230-. 9  line from Wuskwatim to Birchtree Station (Thompson); 10  Two 230-kV lines from Wuskwatim to Herblet Lake Station.