Moral hazard and the health insurance mandate. Supporters of health care reform rally in front of the Supreme Court in Washington, Wednesday, March 28, 2012, on the final day of arguments regarding the health care law signed by President Barack Obama. All society is doing with a mandate is asking people to pay for the health insurance services they receive rather than relying on others to pay the bill for them. © 2012 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.
Definition of 'Moral Hazard'. Tweet. Moral hazard is a situation in which one party gets involved in a risky event knowing that it is protected against the risk and the other party will incur the cost. Definition: Moral hazard is a situation in which one party gets involved in a risky event knowing that it is protected against the risk and the other party will incur the cost. It arises when both the parties have incomplete information about each other.
moral hazard. n. 1. (Insurance) insurance a risk incurred by an insurance company with respect to the possible lack of honesty or prudence among policyholders. Noun. 1. moral hazard - (economics) the lack of any incentive to guard against a risk when you are protected against it (as by insurance); insurance companies are exposed to a moral hazard if the insured party is not honest.
BREAKING DOWN 'Moral Hazard'. Moral hazard can be present any time two parties come into agreement with one another. Each party in a contract may have the opportunity to gain from acting contrary to the principles laid out by the agreement. 
Definition. Circumstance that increases the probability of occurrence of a loss, or a larger than normal loss, because of an insurance-policy applicant's indifferent attitude after the issuance of policy. For example, he or she might be careless in locking the doors and windows when leaving home. 
Definition of MORAL HAZARD. : the possibility of loss to an insurance company arising from the character or circumstances of the insured. 
Definition of Moral Hazard: The risk that a person has the incentive to take greater risks before the completion of the contract. “any situation in which one person makes the decision about how much risk to take, while someone else bears the cost if things go badly.” [1]. Moral Hazard is the idea that, under certain circumstances, individuals will alter their behaviour and take more risks. Moral hazard can occur if. 1  There is information asymmetry. 2  Where one party holds more information than another. 3  For example, a firm selling sub-prime loans may know that the people taking out the loan are liable to default
Moral hazard. A hazard resulting from the indifferent or dishonest attitude of an individual in relation to insured property. FAQs: Follow moneycontrol. Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.