Many of the signs and symptoms of Moebius syndrome result from the absence or underdevelopment of cranial nerves VI and VII. These nerves, which emerge from the brainstem at the back of the brain, control back-and-forth eye movement and facial expressions. The disorder can also affect other cranial nerves that are important for speech, chewing, and swallowing. Abnormal development of cranial nerves leads to the facial muscle weakness or paralysis that is characteristic of Moebius syndrome.
Moebius syndrome is a rare neurological condition that primarily affects the muscles that control facial expression and eye movement. The signs and symptoms of this condition are present from birth. Weakness or paralysis of the facial muscles is one of the most common features of Moebius syndrome. The disorder can also affect other cranial nerves that are important for speech, chewing, and swallowing. Abnormal development of cranial nerves leads to the facial muscle weakness or paralysis that is characteristic of Moebius syndrome.
Moebius syndrome is a rare birth defect caused by the absence or underdevelopment of the 6th and 7th cranial nerves, which control eye movements and facial expression. Many of the other cranial nerves may also be affected, including the 3rd, 5th, 8th, 9th, 11th and 12th. 
Moebius Syndrome is an extremely rare condition which typically affects the sixth and seventh cranial nerves. These nerves affect the face and eye muscles and cause facial paralysis. Characteristics of Moebius Syndrome include: 1  Impaired ability in infants to suck. 
Moebius syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by weakness or paralysis (palsy) of multiple cranial nerves, most often the 6th (abducens) and 7th (facial) nerves. Other cranial nerves are sometimes affected. The disorder is present at birth (congenital). The abnormalities and severity of Moebius syndrome can vary greatly from one person to another. Facial paralysis or weakness usually affects both sides of the face (diplegia). The 7th cranial nerve, which controls facial movements, is affected in all cases.
Moebius syndrome is a rare neurological condition that primarily affects the muscles that control facial expression and eye movement. Moebius syndrome is caused by the absence or underdevelopment of the 6th and 7th cranial nerves, which control eye movement and facial expression. Other cranial nerves may also be affected. There is no cure for Moebius syndrome, but proper care and treatment give many individuals a normal life expectancy
A girl aged 2 1/2 years with Moebius syndrome was found to have a deletion of band q12.2 in chromosome 13 (46,XX,del(13)(q12.2]. This is the second report concerning involvement of chromosome 13q and Moebius syndrome. The observation raises the possibility that a gene responsible for Moebius syndrome is located in this region of chromosome 13.
Other features of Moebius syndrome can include bone abnormalities in the hands and feet, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and hearing loss. Affected children often experience delayed development of motor skills (such as crawling and walking), although most eventually acquire these skills. The disorder can also affect other cranial nerves that are important for speech, chewing, and swallowing. Abnormal development of cranial nerves leads to the facial muscle weakness or paralysis that is characteristic of Moebius syndrome.