Not to be confused with Paruresis. Paresis is a condition typified by a weakness of voluntary movement, or partial loss of voluntary movement or by impaired movement. When used without qualifiers, it usually refers to the limbs, but it can also be used to describe the muscles of the eyes (ophthalmoparesis), the stomach (gastroparesis), and also the vocal cords (Vocal cord paresis).
quadriplegia. see paraplegia paraplegia, paralysis of the lower part of the body, commonly affecting both legs and often internal organs below the waist. When both legs and arms are affected, the condition is called quadriplegia...... Click the link for more information. Circovirus in tissues of dogs with vasculitis and hemorrhage by Li, Linlin; McGraw, Sabrina; Zhu, Kevin; Leutenegger, Christian M.; Marks, Stanley L.; Kubiski, Stev / Emerging Infectious Diseases.
Quadriparesis, also known as tetraparesis, is a weakness in all four limbs. It is related to quadriplegia or tetraplegia, in which all four limbs are paralyzed. There are a number of things which can cause this condition, and several treatment options are available.
Medical Definition of PARAPARESIS. : partial paralysis affecting the lower limbs. What made you want to look up paraparesis? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible). View Seen & Heard Highlights from Around the Site. Test Your Vocabulary! Test Your Vocabulary! 
Circovirus in tissues of dogs with vasculitis and hemorrhage by Li, Linlin; McGraw, Sabrina; Zhu, Kevin; Leutenegger, Christian M.; Marks, Stanley L.; Kubiski, Stev / Emerging Infectious Diseases. 
Medical Definition of QUADRIPARESIS. : muscle weakness affecting all four limbs—called also tetraparesis. What made you want to look up quadriparesis? 
Not to be confused with Spastic quadriplegia. Tetraplegia, also known as quadriplegia, is paralysis caused by illness or injury that results in the partial or total loss of use of all their limbs and torso; paraplegia is similar but does not affect the arms. The loss is usually sensory and motor, which means that both sensation and control are lost. Tetraparesis or quadriparesis, on the other hand, means muscle weakness affecting all four limbs. It may be flaccid or spastic. This can mean a loss or impairment in controlling bowel and bladder, sexual function, digestion, breathing and other autonomic functions. Furthermore, sensation is usually impaired in affected areas. This can manifest as numbness, reduced sensation or burning neuropathic pain.
Neurologists use the term paresis to describe weakness, and plegia to describe paralysis in which all voluntary movement is lost. The term paresis comes from the Ancient Greek: πάρεσις letting go or paralysis from παρίημι to let go, to let fall.. When used without qualifiers, it usually refers to the limbs, but it can also be used to describe the muscles of the eyes (ophthalmoparesis), the stomach (gastroparesis), and also the vocal cords (Vocal cord paresis).
1. Weakness of all four extremities. Synonyms: quadriparesis. The definition information for tetraparesis is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.