Average Canada Post hourly pay ranges from approximately $10.25 per hour for Postal Clerk to $26.5 per hour for Mail Carrier. Salary information comes from 248 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. The average Canada Post salary ranges from approximately $20,480 per year for Adjoint to $61,373 per year for Customer Service Representative.
This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The indeed salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional indeed salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Indeed Salary. Indeed average salary is $60,923, median salary is $47,195 with a salary range from $31,999 to $161,283. Indeed salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Indeed salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. Indeed average salary is $60,923, median salary is $47,195 with a salary range from $31,999 to $161,283. Indeed salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
Jobs by Salary Range. Browse jobs by salary rates and pay scales as compiled by the Salary.com salary experts. Compensation ranges and salary levels, are determined for the best job salary comparison. Different job salary info is available for all payscales. Job pay structure for: base pay salary information, job market salary level.
The average The Range salary ranges from approximately £9,000 per year for Customer Service Representative to £34,714 per year for Store Manager. 
Indeed.com Launches Job Search by Salary. Indeed estimates salaries for millions of jobs so job seekers can find all jobs meeting their salary requirements. STAMFORD, CT – April 15, 2008 – Indeed, the most comprehensive search engine for jobs, announced today the launch of Job Search by Salary. This unique feature enables job seekers to find all jobs meeting their salary needs – even when salaries are not advertised by employers. Job seekers can enter any annual salary into the search box on Indeed, returning all jobs estimated to pay at least that much. They can also set up an email job alert to be notified when jobs matching their salary requirements are found.
Average Indeed Salaries. The average salary for indeed jobs is $62,000. Average indeed salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term indeed anywhere in the job listing. The indeed salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional indeed salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.