There are four species of Shigella: S. boydii, S. dysenteriae, S. flexneri, and S. sonnei. Figure 1. This photograph depicts the colonial morphology displayed by Shigella boydii bacteria cultivated on a Hektoen enteric agar surface. Shigellosis is spread by fecal-oral contamination, and primates are the hosts. The Shigella toxin affects the small intestine, causing a transduction of fluid into the intestinal lumen and subsequent diarrhea. The diarrhea causes destruction of the epithelial cells of the intestinal mucosa.
Shigella dysenteriae is a Gram (-), non-spore forming bacillus that survives as a facultative anaerobe. It is part of the family Enterobacteriaceae. When testing for it in the laboratory, you can help identify it by the fact that it is non-motile, and lactose and lysine (-). 
Acute diarrhea can develop within 1 – 2 days. Symptoms and shigellosis may occur within 12 – 50 hours. COMMUNICABILITY: Agents begin to be shed in feces 4 weeks after infection, and it is communicable as long as the organisms are present in excrement. Although rare, asymptomatic carriers can also spread the infection for up to some months.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella (shih-GEHL-uh). Most who are infected with Shigella develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after they are exposed to the bacteria. 
Shigellosis is a diarrheal disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella. Shigella causes about 500,000 cases of diarrhea in the United States annually 1. There are four different species of Shigella 1  : Shigella sonnei (the most common species in the United States). Symptoms of shigellosis typically start 1–2 days after exposure and include: 1  Diarrhea (sometimes bloody). 2  Fever. 3  Abdominal pain. 4  Tenesmus (a painful sensation of needing to pass stools even when bowels are empty).
Shigella species have a large virulence plasmid that carries the genes necessary for invasion and colonization of the epithelial cell layer of the human gut resulting in dysentery (bloody diarrhea) (Dorman, 2009). Shigellosis is spread by fecal-oral contamination, and primates are the hosts. The Shigella toxin affects the small intestine, causing a transduction of fluid into the intestinal lumen and subsequent diarrhea. The diarrhea causes destruction of the epithelial cells of the intestinal mucosa.
For the disease, see shigellosis. For the toxin that is produced by certain strains of Shigella and E. coli bacteria, see Shiga toxin. Shigella (/ʃɪˈɡɛlə/) is a genus of Gram-negative, facultative anaerobic, non-spore-forming, non-motile, rod-shaped bacteria closely related to Salmonella. The genus is named after Kiyoshi Shiga, who first discovered it in 1897. Shigella species are classified by four serogroups 1  : Serogroup A: S. dysenteriae (15 serotypes). 2  Serogroup B: S. flexneri (six serotypes). 3  Serogroup C: S. boydii (19
Definition. Shigella infection (shigellosis) is an intestinal disease caused by a family of bacteria known as shigella. The main sign of shigella infection is diarrhea, which often is bloody. Shigella can be passed through direct contact with the bacteria in the stool. For example, this can happen in a child care setting when staff members don't wash their hands well enough after changing diapers or helping toddlers with toilet training.
Severity of infection depends on the host, dose, and serotype. S. dysenteriae is the most pathogenic species, with a fatality rate up to 20%, whereas S. sonnei usually cause mild forms of shigellosis. EPIDEMIOLOGY: Worldwide distribution. Symptoms and shigellosis may occur within 12 – 50 hours. COMMUNICABILITY: Agents begin to be shed in feces 4 weeks after infection, and it is communicable as long as the organisms are present in excrement. Although rare, asymptomatic carriers can also spread the infection for up to some months.
The feces of infected individuals (1) and waters contaminated by infected feces (2) are also reservoirs of the pathogenic agent. General Characteristics. Shigella are gram-negative rods that are non-motile and non-sporeforming (2). The bacteria is primarily a human disease, but has been found in some primates (2). Shigella are facultative anaerobes, similar to enterics such as E. coli (3). Neutrophils in the stool are an easily identifiable sign of Shigella infection (3). In the medical laboratory, identification of individual Shigella species is often accomplished through slide agglutination using absorbed rabbit antisera (3).