This article will give you insights on how to effectively use target heart rate for weight loss. Target heart rate for weight loss applies mainly to cardiovascular exercises. You will first learn that strength training is the most effective workout for weight loss, irrespective of whether you are a male or female. It is for this reason that you get tremendous fat loss. An unfit person should give himself a 12 to 18 month target to move to HIITs. Target heart rate for weight loss can be effectively used for moving an unfit person into the anaerobic range within this period of 12 to 18 months.
Fitness Zone. Exercise in the fitness zone is consistent with a heart rate of 60 to 70 percent of your maximum heart rate. This zone also is a fat-burning zone, with 85 percent of your calories being burned from fat stores. The higher the heart rate, the more calories you will burn. 
But don’t worry—that part is easy too. Your target heart rate range for weight loss is 65%–75% of your maximum heart rate. And your max heart rate is easily estimated with a simple equation. If you’re male, subtract your age from 220. If you’re female, use 226. So for a 35-year old male: 220-35 = 185. His estimated max heart rate is 185 beats per minute, and his target heart rate range for weight loss is 120-139 BPM (65–75%).
Exercise intensity is the percentage of the maximum heart rate at which you are working and should be between 60 and 85 percent. So, for a 40 year old person with a resting heart rate of 80 beats per minute, exercising at 70 percent intensity, the target heart rate would be: (220 – 40– 80) x 0.70 + 80 = 150. Before you calculate your target heart rate, you will first need to determine your resting heart rate by taking your pulse. Your heart rate is the number of times your heart beats in one minute. You should take your pulse in the morning before you get out of bed to get the most accurate reading.
Target Heart Rate for Weight Loss = [(HR max − HR rest) × % intensity] + HR rest. Target Heart Rate for Weight Loss = [(180 – 65) x 65% ] + 65 = 140 beats per minute. Download the target heart rate calculator in excel format. It is for this reason that you get tremendous fat loss. An unfit person should give himself a 12 to 18 month target to move to HIITs. Target heart rate for weight loss can be effectively used for moving an unfit person into the anaerobic range within this period of 12 to 18 months.
Keywords: heart rate, calculator, weight loss, fat burning, endurance, strength, fitness, heart rate calculator. This tool will take into account your sex and age and calculate your heart rate zones. Find out which is the appropriate zone for your training. Heart Rate Zone Calculator. Calculate your heart rate zones! Using this tool you can calculate your target heart rate zone and exercise accordingly to what your goal is – weight loss, fat burning, endurance or strength training.
Now you can hang out on the couch and lose a bunch of fat. I hope you are starting to smell something fishy with this idea of a fat burning zone. At 50% of your max heart rate, your body burns a ratio of 60% fat to 40% glycogen. At 75% of your max heart rate, the ratio is 35% to 65%, and at even higher intensities, the ratio is even lower.
Your target heart rate is the heart rate at which you achieve the maximum benefits from aerobic exercise. According to the Cleveland Clinic, your target heart rate should be 60 percent to 85 percent of your predicted maximum heart rate. Before you calculate your target heart rate, you will first need to determine your resting heart rate by taking your pulse. Your heart rate is the number of times your heart beats in one minute. You should take your pulse in the morning before you get out of bed to get the most accurate reading.
Energy Zones™: The heart rate range for weight loss is what we call the Endurance Energy Zone. There are five zones in all, each with different benefits: Recovery Energy Zone (50%–65% of MHR) Gives your body a chance to heal, prevents burnout and reduces the risk of injury. And your max heart rate is easily estimated with a simple equation. If you’re male, subtract your age from 220. If you’re female, use 226. So for a 35-year old male: 220-35 = 185. His estimated max heart rate is 185 beats per minute, and his target heart rate range for weight loss is 120-139 BPM (65–75%).
Method 1 – Simplistic Method. Target heart rate for weight loss = 180 x 65% = 117 beats per minute. Method 2 – Karvonen Method. This method may have an increased level of accuracy as it also considers your resting heart rate (HR rest). It is for this reason that you get tremendous fat loss. An unfit person should give himself a 12 to 18 month target to move to HIITs. Target heart rate for weight loss can be effectively used for moving an unfit person into the anaerobic range within this period of 12 to 18 months.