A typical dose for treating insomnia is 0.3 milligrams (mg) to 5 mg of melatonin at bedtime. Different medical conditions, and people of different ages, will require different dosages of the medicine. Use the lowest dose when you first start taking this supplement.
Melatonin is a hormone that's naturally found in the body. A synthetic version of melatonin is available as a supplement that's used to treat sleep disorders and other problems. It's not known whether melatonin is effective in treating any specific medical condition.
From talking with passengers, to eating, to turning around to check on fidgety toddlers, distracted driving endangers you, your passengers, pedestrians and others. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention describes three main types of distractions while driving.
It is unusual for the thigh bone to break in healthy people, but people who have osteoporosis may break this bone even if they do not receive denosumab injection. Denosumab injection may also cause broken bones to heal slowly and may impair bone growth and prevent teeth from coming in properly in children.
As a wife, mom and professional making my way through the world with ADD I am always looking for an online community that gets me. I look for groups with a minimum of drama – and good moderators. This is a roundup of 6 Fabulous Facebook Groups that I have participated in and enjoyed immensely.
Studies show that animals can reduce tension and improve mood. Along with treatment, pets can help some people with mild to moderate depression feel better. If you're depressed, here's a rundown of how pets could help.
Hey mommas! I know things have been slow on here. I have been working on some projects to improve this website for all of us. In the next week or so you can expect to see “A Dose of Healthy Distraction” as a community on Facebook.
I went to a funeral this weekend. It was for my step-grandmother, Delores. Though we were not biological relatives she always treated me as her own. My biological grandparents are aging – so this is just the beginning of a string of sad times for me.
Posted by Liz Aug 26, 2015 Healthy Distractions. I have recently become totally obsessed with the website founded by Susan Cain called Quiet Rev. Every single article and blog post on this website speaks to me.