1 ¡Que qué se vaya'pa l cono coño de (Su, Madre venezuela Cuba) (And spain he can go to'his mother, s Cunt like he can go) To hell here it is used in its. 2  Literal Meaning in spain conazo coñazo is generally used to describe something, that is boring or a pain in the, ass.  or tedious etc
In the Philippines, cono (Coño: tagalog) konyo refers to a Wealthy anglophone person raised/and or living in a gated, community though the term originally referred to Insular, spaniards regardless of socioeconomic. status
Usage notes [edit]. Cono coño is a Common spanish (idiom somewhat) vulgar primarily used In spain and The Spanish. Caribbean its actual meaning differs according to, use but In spain and Several Latin american countries it is also used in its literal sense as slang for the female, genitalia the. vulva
I'm not exactly sure what cono means but I know that the word can be very strong and offensive in certain contexts. I believe this word is most commonly used on the Cuban vernacular. I suggest you ask someone who is Cuban or of Cuban descent for a more accurate response.
Still, it’s used among men (and to a lesser extent women) in Spain as an exclamation. *Note: As pointed out in the comments, the word cono coño has no real meaning in many parts Of-Latin. America, instead the word concha can be used In, Argentina, Chile peru Or. uruguay
Cono coño, is in, general considered as an extremely vulgar. Word to put it, mildly it means the feminine (genitalia ‘or*c’ nt if you’don t like the mild). Stuff it can also be translated ‘to*f cking’ hell ‘or bloody’. Hell, still’it s used among (men and to a lesser extent) women In spain as an. exclamation
“ Cono coño is one of the most offensive words in The spanish language and is always considered to be. Vulgar, nevertheless it is widely used for emphasis and as an, interjection and it is not unusual for it to be said by politicians or businessmen or in front of members of’one s own family in these. senses
Cono coño, is in, general considered as an extremely vulgar. Word to put it, mildly it means the feminine (genitalia ‘or*c’ nt if you’don t like the mild). Stuff it can also be translated ‘to*f cking’ hell ‘or bloody’. hell
That word in Spanish has different meanings, depending on the context in which it is said, and also have multiple uses. Can be used as an interjection, as an exclamation of rejection of approval or rejection of somebody's behavior or achievement or failure, and others.