Hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children at age 1 year, for persons who are at increased risk for infection, for persons who are at increased risk for complications from Hepatitis A, and for any person wishing to obtain immunity. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
The results show that people between the ages of 18-50 after the second dose develop antibodies after 2 weeks and most after 1 month. And almost all the people develop the antibodies in one month of the final dosage to protect against the infection for as long as the hepatitis vaccine last. Hepatitis B virus causes the infection of liver and spreads out in the entire body later through the saliva, blood, semen or vaginal fluids. Some of the people infected with this virus become chronic carriers. Out of the chronic carriers 15% to 20% people die of either cirrhosis or liver cancer.
All children at age 1 year (i.e., 12–23 months). Children who have not been vaccinated by age 2 can be vaccinated at subsequent visits. Children and adolescents ages 2–18 who live in states or communities where routine Hepatitis A vaccination has been implemented because of high disease incidence. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
A booster dose, given six to 12 months after the first dose, will protect you for at least 20 years. The type of vaccine that is best for you will depend on your individual circumstances. The combined vaccines will need to be given four to six weeks before you travel. Your GP can give you a vaccination for hepatitis A on the NHS. Travel health clinics can also give this vaccination, but there may be a charge. The hepatitis A vaccine cannot be given to babies under the age of one.
A vaccination for both hepatitis A and B can be given to those ages 18 and older; however, this vaccination is administered in three doses over six months. A hepatitis A vaccination consists of inactive virus; people 1 year old or older can receive the vaccine. It is highly effective. The first dose protects your body (for the short-term) in an estimated two to four weeks.
Diptheria, Tetanus and Polio would normally be booster doses, which last 10 years. Hepatitis A (as viatim, hepatyrix or havrix mono) gives for protection for up to 1 year. If a booster dose is given 6 months to 1 year after the 1st dose, protection will last 10 years. Hepatitis B vaccination, if given over 6 months, lasts about 5 years. If given in a shorter period (2 months or 3 weeks), cover will only last 1 year and a booster is needed at 1 year for 5 year protection. Meningitis A+C (meningivac) last between 3 and 5
A. I took the Hep A vaccine and then six months later took a booster and it supposedly lasts for life. But you have to get the booster. I read that Hep B vaccine is similar. Here's some more info that I pulled out of an article: Both the vaccines for hepatitis A and the vaccines for hepatitis B are highly effective. In studies of the four vaccines used for hepatitis A, nearly 100% of all adults who receive one develop protective levels of antibodies within one month of receiving a single dose
Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
1 IG is indicated for persons at increased risk of severe or fatal hepatitis A infection. 2  These persons include adults older than 40 years of age, particularly adults 75 years and older, persons with chronic liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis), and those who are immunocompromised. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.