The howler monkey group contains 15 different species of howler monkeys, all of which are native to the forests of Central and South America. Howler monkeys live within groups of five to fifteen individuals with usually about three males and the rest all females. How Many: Non Threatened Howler monkeys are on the largest new world primates and are recognized as the loudest land animal in the world. They’ve earned both this reputation and this name from the unique enlarged hyoid bone in the throats of howler monkeys, that are the keys to their characteristic “howling”.
The mantled howler (Alouatta palliata), or golden-mantled howling monkey, is a species of howler monkey, a type of New World monkey, from Central and South America. It is one of the monkey species most often seen and heard in the wild in Central America. It takes its mantled name from the long guard hairs on its sides. The mantled howler is one of the largest Central American monkeys, and males can weigh up to 9.8 kg (22 lb). The mantled howler belongs to the New World monkey family Atelidae, the family that contains the howler monkeys, spider monkeys, woolly monkeys and muriquis. It is a member of the subfamily Alouattinae and genus Alouatta, the subfamily and genus containing all the howler monkeys.
1 Social animals: Red Howler Monkeys usually live in a group of 10 to 15 individuals that includes a few males, several females, and young monkeys. 2  Vegetarian: Howler monkeys are the only New World primates with a diet that mostly consists of leaves. 3  They also eat nuts, some fruits, and occasionally take bird eggs. 
Howler Monkeys are some of Costa Rica’s loudest inhabitants. It is said that the call of a howler monkey can be heard for 3-4 miles even through the thick tropical forest. Howlers live in small groups of about 12 individuals. 
Range and Habitat. Howler monkeys are native to the central parts of South America, and can be found in Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay. They spend almost all of their time in the trees, and thus require a heavily-forested habitat with wide range of plant life. Howler monkeys (Alouatta caraya) are large New World monkeys native to the savannas and forests of South America. They are named for their distinctive loud call, which can be heard up to three miles away, even through their densely-forested habitat.