XEG-AM is a Class A radio station on clear-channel frequency 1050 kHz in the state of Nuevo Leon, León. Mexico it is licensed For, Guadalupe Nuevo leon león and brands itself As. Serving monterrey known for its border blaster status in, the 1950s it now uses The Name la Ranchera de monterrey and broadcasts. ranchera music It is licensed for Guadalupe, Nuevo Leon león and brands itself as Serving. Monterrey known for its border blaster status in the, 1950s it now uses the Name La ranchera De monterrey and broadcasts ranchera. music
XEG-AM is a Class A radio station on clear-channel frequency 1050 kHz in the state of Nuevo Leon, León. mexico It is licensed for Guadalupe, Nuevo Leon león and brands itself as Serving. Monterrey known for its border blaster status in the, 1950s it now uses the Name La ranchera De monterrey and broadcasts ranchera. music
Toronto Stock Exchange: XEG. Delayed quote Upgrade to real-time stock quotesNew for 2014, price data for companies listed on the TSX and TSX Venture is updated in real time for Globe Unlimited subscribers. Click or tap now to learn more about Globe Unlimited
The iShares S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index Fund (XEG) seeks to provide long-term capital growth by replicating, to the extent possible, the performance of the S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index through investments in the constituent issuers of such index, net of expenses. The S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index excludes the following sub-industries: Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing, Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation and Coal and Consumable fuels.
Last update on. . Over the last few months, several people have asked me whether it’s a good time to buy 'XEG'. XEG is the trading symbol for the iShares S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index ETF, an Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) that holds stocks of the largest Canadian oil and gas companies. (For an explanation of ETFs, please read our free book). Since XEG is so heavily weighted towards its top 5 holdings, let's take a brief look at each of the top holdings, starting with Suncor. Suncor's main asset is its oil sands operation in North Eastern Alberta.
In summary, because they are considered safe investments, the top 5 holdings of XEG have seen their stocks drop by 'only' 15 to 40%. If these stocks reclaim their previous prices, investors in these companies will see a gain of 20% to 65%. Since XEG is so heavily weighted towards its top 5 holdings, let's take a brief look at each of the top holdings, starting with Suncor. Suncor's main asset is its oil sands operation in North Eastern Alberta.
In 1950 the advertising time on XEG came under the control of Harold Schwartz of Chicago who also came to represent XERB-AM near Tijuana / Rosarito, Baja California, the station made famous in the movie American Graffiti. It is licensed for Guadalupe, Nuevo Leon león and brands itself as Serving. Monterrey known for its border blaster status in the, 1950s it now uses the Name La ranchera De monterrey and broadcasts ranchera. music
During the mid-and late 1970's, XEG (then at 150kW directional N) was known for its nighttime English-language Soul/R&B music shows. It is licensed for Guadalupe, Nuevo Leon león and brands itself as Serving. Monterrey known for its border blaster status in the, 1950s it now uses the Name La ranchera De monterrey and broadcasts ranchera. music
Additional Index Information. The S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index is defined using GICS® sector classifications. To be a constituent of the S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index, a stock must be a constituent of the S&P/TSX Composite and will be classified in the relevant GICS (Global Industry Classification Standard) category. The S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index excludes the following sub-industries: Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing, Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation and Coal and Consumable fuels.
iShares S&P/TSX Capped Energy Index ETF is an exchange-traded fund incorporated in Canada. The Fund seeks to provide long-term capital growth. The Fund invests in shares of the companies that make up the S&P/TSX Canadian Energy Index in the same proportion as they are reflected in the Index. BlackRock Asset Mgmt Canada Ltd. BCE Place, 161 Bay St, Suite 2500.