As of January 2010, the use of probiotics for constipation was considered to be investigational, meaning that it showed promise, but the required large-scale clinical trials to define which ones and in what amounts had not been completed yet. However, new research is occurring which may change that status.
You may have seen commercials about probiotics for constipation. Usually, however, other constipation treatments, including drugs like laxatives, are almost always mentioned in mainstream sources to provide relief
You don't necessarily need probiotics — a type of good bacteria — to be healthy. However, these microorganisms may help with digestion and offer protection from harmful bacteria, just as the existing good bacteria in your body already do. Prebiotics are nondigestible carbohydrates that act as food for probiotics.
Since Bifidobacterium live predominantly in the colon, and since constipation is predominantly a problem that occurs in the colon, Bifidobacterium species like B. bifidum, B. longum, B. animalis, B. infantis and B. lactis (which is part of B. animalis) are a good place to start for probiotics for constipation.
Probiotics for constipation are the newest thing to hit the marketing scene for constipation in a long time. But the fact is, that many in the natural health care community, have known for some time that probiotics can be of tremendous help for relief from constipation.
Perhaps the strongest evidence for probiotics is in treating diarrhea caused by a viral infection or from taking antibiotics. Both infection and antibiotics disrupt the natural balance of bacteria in your digestive system, which probiotics can help restore. But the opposite problem — constipation — is more common than diarrhea. It affects about 14% of adults and accounts for about 3.2 million medical visits in the United States each year.
So to sum it up, taking acidophilus will not give you constipation and it might help cure constipation but there are other probiotics that do that better. Check out Probiotics For Constipation for the supplements that are proven to treat constipation.
Probiotics can help restore this balance. But the opposite problem — constipation — is more common than diarrhea. Yet many over-the-counter remedies for constipation, such as laxatives and stool softeners, aren’t all that helpful. Researchers set out to determine whether probiotics work against constipation.