[ 2 syll. mo-ni-que, mon-iq-ue ] The baby girl name Monique is pronounced as MowN IY-K †. Monique is used chiefly in French and its origin is Old Greek. Monique is a variant of the name Monica (English, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish) in the French language. Monique has 15 variants. Variants include Moeneek, Moneake, Moneaqua, Moneaque, Moneeke, Moneequa, Moneeque, Moneke, Monica (used in Italian and Spanish too), Moniek, Moniqua, and Munique. 
Greek Meaning: The name Monique is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Monique is: Alone. Advisor. American Meaning: The name Monique is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Monique is: Alone. Advisor.
Monique is a female given name, the original form of Monica. It has also been regularly used in English speaking countries since at least the 1950s. 
The meaning of Monique has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Monique are: 1  Latin meaning: Uncertain, perhaps counsellor. 2  French meaning: Uncertain, perhaps counsellor.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Monique is a baby girl name. The name Monique comes from the French origin. In French The meaning of the name Monique is: Variant of Mona: madonna. Wise.
The name Monique is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Monique is: To advise. Counselor. French Meaning: The name Monique is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Monique is: madonna. Wise. The name Monique is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Monique is: Alone. Advisor. American Meaning: The name Monique is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Monique is: Alone. Advisor
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Monique and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Monique and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Monique are: 1  Latin meaning: Uncertain, perhaps counsellor. 2  French
Monique /mo-ni-que/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin origin, and the name Monique means advisor. Monique is an alternate form of Monica (Latin): of uncertain origin. Compare last name Monize. See also Unique. Kreatif forms: Manique, Minnique, Minque. Monique is a very popular first name for females (#334 out of 4276, Top 8%) and a slightly less popular last name for both adults and children (#144908 out of 150436, Top 96%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Monique for girls.