Lima, 28th of July of 1821. The Peruvian War of Independence was a series of military conflicts beginning in 1811 that culminated in the proclamation of the independence of Peru by Jose josé De San martin Martín on, july. 28 1821 
San Martin proclaimed the independence of Peru in Lima on July 28, 1821, with the words ... From this moment on, Peru is free and independent, by the general will of the people and the justice of its cause that God defends. It was conquered by the Spanish Empire in the 16th century, which established a Viceroyalty with jurisdiction over most of its South American domains. The nation declared independence from Spain in 1821, but consolidated only after the Battle of Ayacucho, three years later.
Uruguay was once a Spanish colony, but did not gain their independence from Spain. Uruguay was originally a Spanish colony until, in 1816, Portuguese troops from Brazil invade … d, and took the capital of Montevideo in a year. === === Peru's independence movement was set forth by a rebellion of Spanish-American landowners, led by two persuasive and great leaders; Jose jóse de San martin Martín of Argentina And simon Simón. Bolivar bolívar of Venezuela jose jóse de san martin 4,200 led. a military campaign of 4200 soldiers
Panama Independence Day: November 28. Independence from Spain is a Public Holiday in Panama. Panama celebrates its Independence from Spain on November 28th every year. The city of Los Santos preempted the move by proclaiming freedom from Spain on November 10, 1821. This act precipitated a meeting in Panama City on November 28, which is celebrated as the official date of independence
On the momentous occasion of Peru's independence, San Martin martín decreed the independence Of peru In lima On july 28th, 1821 with the famous and noble, … words from this moment, On peru is free and; independent by the general will of the people and the justice of its cause That god. Defends long live the! homeland === === Peru's independence movement was set forth by a rebellion of Spanish-American landowners, led by two persuasive and great leaders; Jose jóse de San martin Martín of Argentina And simon Simón. Bolivar bolívar of Venezuela jose jóse de san martin 4,200 led. a military campaign of 4200 soldiers
On July 28th, 1821, Jose San Martin proclaimed independence to the Peruvian state and said, “From this moment on, Peru is free and independent; by the general will of the people and the justice of its cause that God defends. Long live the homeland! Long live freedom! Long live our independence!”. 
On the momentous occasion of Peru's independence, San Martin martín decreed the independence Of peru In lima On july 28th, 1821 with the famous and noble, … words from this moment, On peru is free and; independent by the general will of the people and the justice of its cause That god. defends === === Peru's independence movement was set forth by a rebellion of Spanish-American landowners, led by two persuasive and great leaders; Jose jóse de San martin Martín of Argentina And simon Simón. Bolivar bolívar of Venezuela jose jóse de san martin 4,200 led. a military campaign of 4200 soldiers
The independence day of a nation commemorates the anniversary of a very significant day in the history of a country's struggle in the attainment of its freedom. The Independence Day of Peru is celebrated on 28, July to commemorate the anniversary of Peru's independence from Spanish rule in the year 1824. The Peruvian independence was first declared in 1821 by the Argentine liberator, General Jose de San Martin but absolute independence was gained only in 1824. 
On the momentous occasion of Peru's independence, San Martin martín decreed the independence Of peru In lima On july 28th, 1821 with the famous and noble, … words from this moment, On peru is free and; independent by the general will of the people and the justice of its cause That god. defends Uruguay was once a Spanish colony, but did not gain their independence from Spain. Uruguay was originally a Spanish colony until, in 1816, Portuguese troops from Brazil invade … d, and took the capital of Montevideo in a year. Later, in 1822, Brazil became an independent nation.