INDICATIONS. Valium is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. Depending upon severity of symptoms—2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily. Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal. 10 mg, 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours, reducing to 5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm.
Potency, Purity and Dose: Commonly prescribed doses of Valium® are 5-40 mg daily. For anxiety, 2-10 mg is taken twice to four times daily; for alcohol withdrawal symptoms 10 mg is taken three to four times daily. Performance Effects: Laboratory studies have shown that single doses of diazepam (5-20 mg) are capable of causing significant performance decrements, with maximal effect occurring at approximately 2 hour post dose, and lasting up to at least 3-4 hours.
The typical dose of diazepam used to treat anxiety or seizures in healthy adults ranges from a total of 6 milligrams (mg) to 40 mg per day given in three or four doses. For acute treatment of seizures, a higher dose of diazepam is given intravenously (directly into the vein) only in a controlled medical setting such as a hospital or emergency room. For alcohol withdrawal, the typical dose is a total of 30–
The usual Valium dosage of this anti anxiety medicine is 10 mg, three or four times during the first 24 hours, and then 5 mg. three or four times daily as needed. Valium dosage for relief of muscle spasms: The usual dose of this anti anxiety medicine for relief of muscle spasms is 2 mg to 10 mg three or four times daily. Convulsive disorders: The usual valium dosage for convulsive disorders is 2 milligrams to 10 mg two to four times daily. 
Sources: Diazepam is a Schedule IV controlled substance and is available by prescription in tablet, gel and injectable form. Valium® tablets are white (2 mg), yellow (5 mg) or blue (10 mg) round tabs with a cut out “V” design. Valium® Injectable is available in 5 mg/mL strength liquid. Performance Effects: Laboratory studies have shown that single doses of diazepam (5-20 mg) are capable of causing significant performance decrements, with maximal effect occurring at approximately 2 hour post dose, and lasting up to at least 3-4 hours.
1 A typical adult dose of Valium to treat muscle spasms may range from 2 to 10 mg three to four times a day. 2  A typical adult dose of Valium to treat seizures may range from 2 to 10 mg two to four times a day. 3  Older people or people with a chronic illness may take 2 to 2.5 mg once or twice a day. For the symptomatic relief in anxiety disorders, the typical adult dose is 2 mg to 10 mg two to four times daily. The instructions for taking diazepam as an adjunctive treatment for muscle spasm are 2 mg to 10 mg three to four times daily.
1 A typical adult dose of Valium to treat anxiety may range from 2 to 10 mg two to four times a day. 2  A typical adult dose of Valium to treat alcohol withdrawal may be 10 mg three to four times a day for 24 hours followed by 5 mg taken three to four times a day as needed. For the symptomatic relief in anxiety disorders, the typical adult dose is 2 mg to 10 mg two to four times daily. The instructions for taking diazepam as an adjunctive treatment for muscle spasm are 2 mg to 10 mg three to four times daily.
1 A typical adult dose of Valium to treat alcohol withdrawal may be 10 mg three to four times a day for 24 hours followed by 5 mg taken three to four times a day as needed. 2  A typical adult dose of Valium to treat muscle spasms may range from 2 to 10 mg three to four times a day. For the symptomatic relief in anxiety disorders, the typical adult dose is 2 mg to 10 mg two to four times daily. The instructions for taking diazepam as an adjunctive treatment for muscle spasm are 2 mg to 10 mg three to four times daily.
Recommended dosage. The typical dose of diazepam used to treat anxiety or seizures in healthy adults ranges from a total of 6 milligrams (mg) to 40 mg per day given in three or four doses. Elderly people (over age 60) are usually given lower doses in the range of 4–10 mg per day to treat anxiety or nervous tension. For acute treatment of seizures, a higher dose of diazepam is given intravenously (directly into the vein) only in a controlled medical setting such as a hospital or emergency room. For alcohol withdrawal, the typical dose is a total of 30–