Mini Bio (1). Tom Jones was born Thomas Jones Woodward in Pontypridd, South Wales, to a traditional coal-mining family, the son of Freda (Jones) and Thomas Woodward. His father was of English descent and his mother was of Welsh and English ancestry. He began singing at an early age in church and in the school choir. Tom Jones was born Thomas Jones Woodward in Pontypridd, South Wales, to a traditional coal-mining family, the son of Freda (Jones) and Thomas Woodward. His father was of English descent and his mother was of Welsh and English ancestry
Name at birth: Thomas Jones Woodward. Tom Jones's 1965 single It's Not Unusual shot to #1 and made him a player in the swinging music scene of the 1960s. Jones shares a name with the rascally title character of the 1749 Henry Fielding novel Tom Jones ... Jones performed as Tommy Scott early in his career, then returned to his own birth name minus the 'Woodward'...
Early Life. Born Thomas John Woodward, Jones entered the world on June 7, 1940, in Pontypridd, Wales. The son of Thomas Woodward and Freda Jones, from an early age Jones loved to sing at gatherings and in the school choir. 'This Is Tom Jones'. From 1969 to 1971, Jones starred in his own TV show, This Is Tom Jones, which aired in both the United States and Great Britain. He spent much of the 1970s touring internationally, releasing albums, hanging out with Elvis Presley and launching a record label, MAM Records, with his manager.
Tom Jones biography part one. Tiger Tom the Twisting Vocalist. Sex Bomb. Little Tommy Woodward from Treforest. In his time he's tried his hand at styles including pop, rock, country, big band, dance and jazz, and he's still going strong today. Born Thomas John Woodward on 7 June 1940, Tom began singing at an early age. It wasn't unusual in the valleys towns of South Wales. But the boy was clearly something special: he'd regularly sing at family gatherings, weddings and his mother's Women's Guild meetings.
Synopsis. Tom Jones is a Welsh singer born on June 7, 1940, in Pontypridd, Wales. Influenced as a child by American blues, R&B and rock 'n' roll, over the past five decades the singing legend has produced hits in both the United States. and the United Kingdom. 'This Is Tom Jones'. From 1969 to 1971, Jones starred in his own TV show, This Is Tom Jones, which aired in both the United States and Great Britain. He spent much of the 1970s touring internationally, releasing albums, hanging out with Elvis Presley and launching a record label, MAM Records, with his manager.
read more. Sir Thomas Jones Woodward, KBE (born 7 June 1940), best known by his stage name, Tom Jones, is a Welsh pop singer particularly noted for his powerful voice. He was born in Treforest, near Pontypridd in South Wales. 
Tom Jones (I). Soundtrack | Actor. Tom Jones was born Thomas Jones Woodward in Pontypridd, South Wales, to a traditional coal-mining family, the son of Freda (Jones) and Thomas Woodward. His father was of English descent and his mother was of Welsh and English ancestry. He began singing at an early age in church and in the school choir. 
Like father, like son: Mark heads to the car as Tom stops and signs autographs. Mark is Tom's son with wife Linda and was born a month after the couple got married in March 1957 when Tom-who was born Tom Jones Woodward but dropped his surname for his stage name, was just 17. Mark became his manager in 1986 after Tom's long-term manager Gordon Mills died of cancer. 