Use the calculator below to compare the cost of living in two cities. Simply enter your current income, select your current city, as well as the city you are relocating to and click calculate. The cost of living calculator will provide you with the equivalent income needed to maintain your current standard of living. Change the values below and refresh listing to view the comparison. 1  City you are moving from: 2  City you are moving to: 3  Enter your current income:$. 4  Equivalent income in the city you are moving to: $46324.32. 5  You may take a 7.35% decrease and still maintain your standard of living. 6  Product. 7  Abilene TX Metro. 8  Amarillo TX Metro
This chart compares the overall cost of living in Austin, Texas to the cost of living in six other major cities in the United States. Overall, the cost of living for Austin is very reasonable. At three percent below the national average cost of living, moving to Austin may be an economical choice for you. One of the most interesting factors in the cost of living for Austin is that the cost of housing is 15 percent below the national average.
Missouri had the 11th lowest cost of living in the United States for the second quarter of 2015. In general, the most expensive areas to live were the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and the Northeast and West Coast. The least expensive areas were the Midwest and Southern States. Missouri’s cost of living for the second quarter of 2015 index was 91.6, down from the second quarter of 2014 index of 93.4. Cities across the nation participate in ACCRA's survey on a volunteer basis. Price information in the survey is governed by ACCRA collection guidelines which strive for uniformity.
Assisted Living Costs in Beaumont, TX. Cost for a single bedroom in Beaumont runs between $1,075 to $4,300 a month. Availability is almost guaranteed but you can request information online by filling out the form to the right or call us at (866) 333-8391 for a no-cost, in-depth assessment of your senior care needs.
Mar. 2013 cost of living index in Jefferson County: 83.5 (less than average, U.S. average is 100). We are giving away a $200 prize-enter simply by sending us your own pictures of this county! Click here to upload your Jefferson County photos (outside city limits). Fair market rent in 2006 for a 1-bedroom apartment in Jefferson County is $477 a month. Fair market rent for a 2-bedroom apartment is $570 a month. Fair market rent for a 3-bedroom apartment is $707 a month.
Cost of Living for Austin, Texas If you are looking to live in an affordable city, look no further than Austin, Texas. Austin is home to the capital building of Texas, many high tech companies and the University of Texas. Overall, the cost of living for Austin is very reasonable. At three percent below the national average cost of living, moving to Austin may be an economical choice for you. One of the most interesting factors in the cost of living for Austin is that the cost of housing is 15 percent below the national average.
Whether you're considering relocation to Austin, Texas or just curious about the cost of living in Austin, Texas, the PayScale Cost of Living Calculator is the place to begin your research. Overall, the cost of living for Austin is very reasonable. At three percent below the national average cost of living, moving to Austin may be an economical choice for you. One of the most interesting factors in the cost of living for Austin is that the cost of housing is 15 percent below the national average.
Living Wage Calculation for Jefferson County, Texas. The living wage shown is the hourly rate that an individual must earn to support their family, if they are the sole provider and are working full-time (2080 hours per year). All values are per adult in a family unless otherwise noted. 
The median cost of Assisted Living in Beaumont for a single-occupancy apartment is $4,025/month (Genworth - 2013). This monthly cost typically includes rent, utilities, dining, housekeeping and transportation. Beaumont is the seat of Jefferson County, Texas and is located about 80 miles northeast of Houston near the Texas-Louisiana state border.