The Berlin Conference of 1884–85, also known as the Congo Conference (German: Kongokonferenz) or West Africa Conference (Westafrika-Konferenz), regulated European colonisation and trade in Africa during the New Imperialism period, and coincided with Germany’s sudden emergence as an imperial power. 
This fact inspired the Great Act of the Berlin Conference, and Africa was split into 50 countries across boundaries that split natural allies and joined warring enemies. Using military and economic savvy, the main countries that benefited from this coup were France, Germany, Great Britain, and Portugal. 
The Berlin Conference of 1884–85, also known as the Congo Conference (German: Kongokonferenz) or West Africa Conference (Westafrika-Konferenz), regulated European colonization and trade in Africa during the New Imperialism period, and coincided with Germany's sudden emergence as an imperial power. Before the conference, European diplomacy treated African indigenous people in the same manner as the New World natives, forming trading relationships with the indigenous chiefs. By the mid-19th century, Europeans considered Africa to be disputed territory ripe for exploration, trade, and settlement by their colonists.
Share to:   The countries that attended the Berlin Conference (1884-1885) were Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Danmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, R … ussia, Spain, Sweden-Norway (unified from 1814-1905), the Ottomn Empire (Turkey), and the United States of America. 63 people found this useful. Berlin, Conference of, 1884-85, international meeting aimed at settling the problems connected with European colonies in Africa.
The Berlin Conference of 1884–85 was a meeting between European nations to create rules on how to peacefully divide Africa among them for colonization. The conference was convened by Portugal but led by Otto von Bismarck, chancellor of the newly united Germany. Though invited, the U.S. declined to participate. 
Share to:   The countries that attended the Berlin Conference (1884-1885) were Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Danmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, R … ussia, Spain, Sweden-Norway (unified from 1814-1905), the Ottomn Empire (Turkey), and the United States of America. 63 people found this useful.
The Conference met at Berlin from November 1884 through Februart 1885 and resulted in the following agreement--The Berlin Act of 1885. It was attended by representatives of Great Britain, Austria-Hungary, France, Germany, Russia, U.S.A., Portugal, Denmark, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Belgium and Turkey. The Berlin Conference The General Act of 26th February 1885. It was not until after the mid-nineteenth century that the imperialist great powers of Europe showed renewed interest in the continent of Africa, particularly in the hitherto unexplored central regions comprising modern-day Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe.