According to a fascinating infographic entitled “How Social Media is Ruining Our Minds,” over the course of the last ten years the average attention span has dropped from 12 minutes to a staggeringly short 5 minutes [ Editor: Updated to 5 minutes; the infographic has an incorrect statistic ]. 
“Attention span refers to the amount of time we can focus on a task before we start to ‘zone out’. Although a distracting background or a really boring lecture/meeting can definitely make anyone’s attention span run thin, for some people focusing on even the simplest of tasks for a few moments can be torture.”. Share. A survey conducted in 2012 in the UK indicates that the attention spans of children are getting shorter. The survey polled 410 English teachers and 2000 parents of children aged between two and 11.
While there may be no long-term research on the impact of digital technology on children's attention spans and persistence, there is enough evidence to take this issue quite seriously. And I agree with Ms. Molina-Porter that the answer is not mimicking the fast pace of digital media. 
To conclude, there are ways to be a technology user and still maintain a decent attention span. As Albert Einstein said, “I fear the day that technology will surpass our human interaction. The world will have a generation of idiots.” Let’s not be that generation. It has been suggested that the sharp increase in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) could be due to the rise in the use of technology. A Pew Internet Study in the US found that attention span and in depth analysis is being diminished by instant access to computers and online platforms. The type of reading that’s done on the internet is shallow; there is no deep thinking involved
A weaker attention span could be the side effect of the brain having to adapt and change over time in the presence of technology. However, there are ways to improve our attention span amid the ongoing texts, tweets, and other interruptions. The findings revealed human attention span has fallen from an average of 12 seconds in the year 2000 to just eight seconds today. Humans now have less of an attention span than a goldfish (nine seconds average). The decrease was seen across all age groups and genders in the study
Proof that shorter attention span is linked to technology. A survey conducted in 2012 in the UK indicates that the attention spans of children are getting shorter. The survey polled 410 English teachers and 2000 parents of children aged between two and 11.
This conflicting data is a reminder that the world is changing. It's convenient for those of us who can remember a time when there were no distracting digital devices clamoring for our attention to place the blame for shortened attention spans squarely on the shoulders of technology. Because when it comes to teaching today's kids, the alternative -- lighting your hair or anything else on fire -- is no long term solution to the challenges and opportunities of shortened attention spans. Follow Diana Graber on Twitter: www.twitter.com/dianagraber.