Foreign direct investment is distinguished from portfolio foreign investment, a passive investment in the securities of another country such as public stocks and bonds, by the element of control. 1 Horizontal FDI arises when a firm duplicates its home country-based activities at the same value chain stage in a host country through FDI. 2  Platform FDI Foreign direct investment from a source country into a destination country for the purpose of exporting to a third country.
Drivers of foreign direct investment in the United States The U.S. is increasingly attractive as a destination for business investment, including FDI, for many reasons and companies and experts from around the world agree. In A.T. Foreign direct investment benefits the U.S. Economy  In 2011, value-added by majority-owned U.S. affiliates of foreign companies accounted for 4.7 percent of total U.S. private output.  These firms employed 5.6 million people in the United States, or 4.1 percent of private-sector employment.
The purpose of a direct investment is to gain enough control of a company to exercise control over future decisions. This can be accomplished by gaining a majority interest or a significant minority interest. Direct investments can involve management participation, joint-venture or the sharing of technology and skills. 
1 There are two main categories of international investment: portfolio investment and foreign direct investment (FDI). 2  Portfolio investment refers to the investment in a company’s stocks, bonds, or assets, but not for the purpose of controlling or directing the firm’s operations or management. This chapter will provide an introduction to the concept and role of foreign direct investment, which can take many forms of incentives, regulations, and policies. Companies react to these business incentives and regulations as they evaluate with which countries to do business and in which to invest.
Reciprocal distribution agreements. Actually, this type of strategic alliance is more trade-based, but in a very real sense it does in fact represent a type of direct investment. Basically, two companies, usually within the same or affiliated industries, agree to act as a national distributor for each other s products. Foreign direct investment (FDI) plays an extraordinary and growing role in global business. It can provide a firm with new markets and marketing channels, cheaper production facilities, access to new technology, products, skills and financing.
BREAKING DOWN 'Foreign Direct Investment-FDI'. The investing company may make its overseas investment in a number of ways-either by setting up a subsidiary or associate company in the foreign country, by acquiring shares of an overseas company, or through a merger or joint venture. That is, the foreign investor must own at least 10% or more of the voting stock or ordinary shares of the investee company. An example of foreign direct investment would be an American company taking a majority stake in a company in China.
This is “International Trade and Foreign Direct Investment”, chapter 2 from the book Challenges and Opportunities in International Business (v. 1.0). For details on it (including licensing), click here. This book is licensed under a Creative Commons by-nc-sa 3.0 license. This chapter will provide an introduction to the concept and role of foreign direct investment, which can take many forms of incentives, regulations, and policies. Companies react to these business incentives and regulations as they evaluate with which countries to do business and in which to invest.
A 2010 meta-analysis of the effects of foreign direct investment on local firms in developing and transition countries suggests that foreign investment robustly increases local productivity growth. The Commitment to Development Index ranks the development-friendliness of rich country investment policies. 1 Horizontal FDI arises when a firm duplicates its home country-based activities at the same value chain stage in a host country through FDI. 2  Platform FDI Foreign direct investment from a source country into a destination country for the purpose of exporting to a third country.
Foreign direct investment (FDI)The acquisition of foreign assets with the intent to control and manage them. refers to an investment in or the acquisition of foreign assets with the intent to control and manage them. This chapter will provide an introduction to the concept and role of foreign direct investment, which can take many forms of incentives, regulations, and policies. Companies react to these business incentives and regulations as they evaluate with which countries to do business and in which to invest.