For inguinal, femoral, umbilical, and incisional hernias, symptoms may include: 1  An obvious swelling beneath the skin of the abdomen or the groin; it may disappear when you lie down and may be tender. 2  A heavy feeling in the abdomen that is sometimes accompanied by constipation or blood in the stool.
A bulge is typically the only symptom of an umbilical hernia. Other common symptoms of an inguinal hernia include: 1  pain or discomfort in the affected area (usually the lower abdomen), especially when bending over, coughing, or lifting. 2  weakness, pressure, or a feeling of heaviness in the abdomen. 3  a burning, gurgling, or aching sensation at the site of the bulge.
For inguinal, femoral, umbilical, and incisional hernias, symptoms could include: 1  An obvious swelling beneath the skin of the abdomen or the groin; it may disappear when you lie down, and may be tender. 2  A heavy feeling in the abdomen that is sometimes accompanied by constipation or blood in the stool.
Symptoms of an inguinal hernia may include: 1  A bulge in the groin or scrotum. 2  The bulge may appear gradually over a period of several weeks or months. 3  Or it may form suddenly after you have been lifting heavy weights, coughing, bending, straining, or laughing. 4  Many hernias flatten when you lie down.
A hernia can occur in any part of the body. However, the most common areas of the body inflicted are the inner groin (inguinal hernia), outer groin (femoral hernia) near the navel (umbilical hernia), upper abdomen (hiatal hernia), or at the site of a recent surgical scar (incisional hernia).
The signs and symptoms of a hernia can range from noticing a painless lump to the severely painful, tender, swollen protrusion of tissue that you are unable to push back into the abdomen (an incarcerated strangulated hernia). 1  Reducible hernia.
Other symptoms of a hernia include: 1  Heaviness, swelling, and a tugging or burning sensation in the area of the hernia, scrotum, or inner thigh. 2  Males may have a swollen scrotum, and females may have a bulge in the large fold of skin (labia) surrounding the vagina.