5. As with insects, so we can find a lot of examples of mimicry in fish and other sea creatures. Some organisms can fully look like rocks, stones, sand, grass, algae…. 6. One of the ways for sea creatures to camouflage theirselves is digging themselves in the sand. 10. In addition to insects, reptiles, fish and birds can be excellent examples of mimicry. Their feathers can take the colors of their surrounding so much that the animals who come across their menu barely stand a chance to survive if they get near them. This owl would be difficult to see in nature.
1. Insects are common examples of mimicry. Insects can be so blend with their surroundings that sometimes we can not recognize them. Some insects can have the appearance of twigs, leaf, bark, wood and some may simply be the same color as their habitat. 10. In addition to insects, reptiles, fish and birds can be excellent examples of mimicry. Their feathers can take the colors of their surrounding so much that the animals who come across their menu barely stand a chance to survive if they get near them. This owl would be difficult to see in nature.
1 Peckhamian mimicry, aka 'aggressive mimicry,' is when a predator mimics its prey in order to catch it. 2  An example of this is the cuckoo bee, which lays its eggs in the nest of bumble bees, which they closely resemble and prey upon. 3  When the eggs hatch, they basically invade the bumble bee nest and eat their hosts. Living things have evolved some very unique and fascinating ways to trick predators and competitors. Mimicry is one such tactic, and the animal kingdom champions this strategy in some incredible ways. Here we will define mimicry and explore some of the more wild and interesting examples of it.
Numerous examples of Batesian mimicry in insects are known. Many insects mimic bees, including certain flies, beetles, and even moths. Few predators will take the chance of getting stung by a bee, and most will avoid eating anything that looks like a bee. 
In evolutionary biology, mimicry is a similarity of one species to another that protects one or both. In the case of prey species, it is a class of antipredator adaptation. This similarity can be in appearance, behaviour, sound or scent. Mimics occur in the same areas as their models. Mimicry is related to camouflage, in which a species resembles its surroundings or is otherwise difficult to detect. In particular, mimesis, in which the mimic takes on the properties of a specific object or organism, but one to which the dupe is indifferent, is an area of overlap between camouflage and mimicry.
Examples. There are three excellent examples of Batesian mimicry that illustrate this concept well and explain a couple different scenarios when mimicry is helpful to the organism. The first focuses on two butterflies. The monarch butterfly is poisonous when eaten, and the viceroy butterfly, the mimic, is not
This form of mimicry refers to two unpalatable species that are mimics of each other with conspicuous warning coloration (also known as aposematic coloration). Thus all mimics share the benefits of the coloration since the predator will recognize the coloration of an unpalatable group after a few bad experiences. One of the most interesting examples of self-mimicry is the so-called two-headed snake of Central Africa which has a tail that resembles a head and a head that resembles a tail. The snake even moves its tail in the way most snakes move their heads.
Batesian mimicry is the most commonly known and widely studied of mimicry complexes, such that the word mimicry is often treated as synonymous with Batesian mimicry. There are many other forms however, some very similar in principle, others far separated. Batesian mimicry is a form of mimicry typified by a situation where a harmless species has evolved to imitate the warning signals of a harmful species directed at a common predator. It is named after the English naturalist Henry Walter Bates, after his work in the rainforests of Brazil.
Mimicry: Examples of mimics, fakes and frauds are numerous in nature and new ones are still being discovered. To look like someone or something else provided it is of some advantage to the deceiver is the name of the game. An example of Mullerian mimicry is the distasteful queen butterfly that is orange and black like the equally unpalat able monarch. Speed mimicry occurs when a sluggish, easy to catch prey species resembles fast moving or hard to catch species that predators have given up trying to catch.