Best Answer: You don't have to but if you pay off the balance each month then you don't incur any fees, such as interest etc. on the American Express card. Source(s): Persephone · 5 years ago. This Site Might Help You. RE: do you have to pay off your balance every month with an american express card? If you have an (any) american express credit card do you have to pay your balance off every month?
I have read where there are charge cards and credit cards through American Express. I am under the impression that the Costco Rewards card is a credit card, but would like some more clarification before signing up for it. Are there going to be any extra fees or anything if it is not paid off in full every month... American Express credit cards should be treated like charge cards, and be paid in full every month. There are dozens of reports of adverse action by AmEx in the forum below, and most of them involve carrying a balance.
Best Answer: American Express will even allow charge cards, like Gold and Platinum to carry a balance, and not be paid in full. Credit cards like the Costco TrueEarnings do not have to be paid in full. HOWEVER, NOT paying in full is a red flag to AmEx, and may result in the credit limit being severlely reduced, or the card being cancelled. American Express credit cards should be treated like charge cards, and be paid in full every month. There are dozens of reports of adverse action by AmEx in the forum below, and most of them involve carrying a balance.
There is no credit limit with Amex and I can't leave a balance. Amex MUST be paid off in full every month. That's how AMEX works. If I want to charge 10k in a month, they let me and then I have to pay 10k off at the end of the month. I charge anywhere from 2k to 5k in a given month and pay it off the minute the bill comes in. 
With Amex I have up to 6 weeks to retain the money and earn interest on it for myself. Mr. Slant. 04-23-2011, 01:51 PM. I am looking to get my first credit card; I noticed that American Express's normal cards (with yearly fees) all have no interest rates but require you to pay balance in full every month. The point of a credit card is not to enable you to buy things you can't afford, it is so that you don't have to carry lots of cash around. You can pay for things with plastic and then make a single (automatic) payment each month to pay the balance in full.
It depends on which American Express card you use. For example, with the Blue, Blue Cash, Blue Sky, and Clear cards you do not have to pay off the entire balance every month. While traditional charge cards from American Express such as the Green, Gold, and Platinum must be paid in full every month. This Site Might Help You. RE: do you have to pay off your balance every month with an american express card? If you have an (any) american express credit card do you have to pay your balance off every month?
04-21-2011, 09:22 PM. I am looking to get my first credit card; I noticed that American Express's normal cards (with yearly fees) all have no interest rates but require you to pay balance in full every month. The point of a credit card is not to enable you to buy things you can't afford, it is so that you don't have to carry lots of cash around. You can pay for things with plastic and then make a single (automatic) payment each month to pay the balance in full.
Report Abuse. It dpends on what type of AMex you have-read the statement they sent you, if the balance is 1,000 and the payment due is 1,000 then you have the type that needs to be paid off in full each month-AMEX green or gold cards etc. Best Answer: If your card is NOT an AMEX Blue, AMEX Clear, or an AMEX Optima card, then it is a charge card (not a credit card) that you must pay it in full every month. Source(s): Amex Website-https://www124.americanexpress.com/cards... asreid14 · 9 years ago.
2.97%. Find personalized rates: Say you pay $2,000 a month on your mortgage and typically charge $1,000 for other expenses. If you charge the full $3,000 on, say, an American Express Blue Cash card, that could give you a cash rebate worth over $400 a year. NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- You pay hundreds, sometimes thousands, of dollars on your mortgage every month. Just imagine how many rewards points that could earn on your plastic. Now, American Express is aiming to make that a reality for its cardholders.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If your card is NOT an AMEX Blue, AMEX Clear, or an AMEX Optima card, then it is a charge card (not a credit card) that you must pay it in full every month. Source(s): Amex Website-https://www124.americanexpress.com/cards... asreid14 · 9 years ago.