BRAND NAME: Zoloft. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Sertraline belongs to a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Other drugs in this class are fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Paxil CR, Pexeva), citalopram (Celexa) and fluvoxamine (Luvox CR) . 
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and social anxiety disorder. A: Zoloft (sertraline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/zoloft) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) that works on the chemical in the brain, called serotonin, when it becomes unbalanced.
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Do not take sertraline if you have used an MAO inhibitor such as furazolidone (Furoxone), isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), rasagiline (Azilect), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate) in the last 14 days. A dangerous drug interaction could occur, leading to serious side effects.
Sertraline is a type of antidepressant called a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) . Serotonin is a neurotransmitter — a chemical that relays signals between the cells in your brain. SSRIs increase the amount of serotonin in your brain, and this is how sertraline is thought to improve the symptoms of depression.
Zoloft is the brand name of sertraline, an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorders. Zoloft is in a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). They work by controlling levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain. A: Zoloft (sertraline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/zoloft) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) that works on the chemical in the brain, called serotonin, when it becomes unbalanced.
Sertraline is used to treat depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and social anxiety disorder (SAD). Sertraline belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). It is commonly used to treat depression, social anxiety disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). A: Zoloft (sertraline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/zoloft) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) that works on the chemical in the brain, called serotonin, when it becomes unbalanced.
Sertraline is part of a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs for short. SSRIs act on a specific chemical within the brain known as serotonin. Serotonin is one of several chemicals used to send messages from one nerve cell to another. As a message travels down a nerve, it causes the end of the cell to release serotonin. Normally, this process works without any problems. But when the levels of serotonin become unbalanced, it can cause a variety of conditions, including depression and panic disorder. Sertraline helps to block the reuptake of serotonin so that more remains in the space between the brain's nerve cells.
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. It is in a group of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) that work to balance out the chemical, serotonin, in the brain that causes depression symptoms when there is too little to go around. A: Zoloft (sertraline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/zoloft) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) that works on the chemical in the brain, called serotonin, when it becomes unbalanced.