Abnormal build-up of glucose Pre-diabetes and type 2 are similar in that both are known for an abnormal build-up of glucose in the bloodstream. However, different degrees of build-up are present for type 2. Type 2 diabetes is also known for its insulin resistance.. This impacts the body's ability to properly utilize the hormone insulin, making it difficult to move the circulating glucose out of the bloodstream and into the cells for our energy needs. As a result, glucose levels rise to abnormally high levels.
Risk factors While anyone is at risk for pre-diabetes or type 2, there are factors that increase the likelihood for one of these conditions to occur. For some, an early warning sign may arrive in the form of a slightly elevated blood sugar level. Type 2 diabetes is also known for its insulin resistance.. This impacts the body's ability to properly utilize the hormone insulin, making it difficult to move the circulating glucose out of the bloodstream and into the cells for our energy needs. As a result, glucose levels rise to abnormally high levels.
1 Blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes starts at 126 mg/dl and above. 2  There is very thin line between pre-diabetes and diabetes, just 1mg of glucose per deciliter of blood. Pre-Diabetes is the state before actually having type 2 diabetes, where sugar levels are already higher than normal but not high enough to be classified as full-blown diabetes. According to statistics, without intervention it can lead to type 2 diabetes within a period of 10 years.
A result of 70–100 mg/dl is considered normal. Levels above 100 and up to 125 mg/dl indicate impaired fasting glucose, or pre-diabetes. If levels are 126 mg/dl and above on two separate testing dates, the diagnosis would be diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is also known for its insulin resistance.. This impacts the body's ability to properly utilize the hormone insulin, making it difficult to move the circulating glucose out of the bloodstream and into the cells for our energy needs. As a result, glucose levels rise to abnormally high levels.
Difference between Diabetes and Pre-Diabetes. Metabolism is the process through which the nutrients from the food are transformed into energy which fuels the body so it can perform its functions. Not all of the produced energy is used; extra resources are stored in the tissues, fat, liver and muscles. 
If the two-hour result is less than 140 mg/dl it is considered normal. For levels that range from 140 to 199 mg/dl, impaired glucose tolerance and pre-diabetes are indicated. Type 2 diabetes is also known for its insulin resistance.. This impacts the body's ability to properly utilize the hormone insulin, making it difficult to move the circulating glucose out of the bloodstream and into the cells for our energy needs. As a result, glucose levels rise to abnormally high levels.
A person with pre-diabetes has a fasting blood glucose level between 100 and 125 mg/dl. A person with a fasting blood glucose level above 125 mg/dl has diabetes. Normal blood sugar levels for the oral glucose tolerance test are below 140 mg/dl. A person with blood sugar levels between 140 and 199 mg/dl has pre-diabetes. A person with a blood sugar level above 199 mg/dl has diabetes. 
1 Remember that normal blood sugar is 70-80 mg/dl without meals and 120 mg/dl one or two hours after meals. 2  Blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes starts at 126 mg/dl and above. 3  There is very thin line between pre-diabetes and diabetes, just 1mg of glucose per deciliter of blood. 4  Signs and Symptoms. Pre-Diabetes is the state before actually having type 2 diabetes, where sugar levels are already higher than normal but not high enough to be classified as full-blown diabetes. According to statistics, without intervention it can lead to type 2 diabetes within a period of 10 years.
Doctors will typically use either the fasting plasma glucose test (FPG) or the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). These tests require the patient to fast overnight. A normal fasting blood glucose level is below 100 mg/dl-between 100 and 125 mg/dl a person has pre-diabetes. If the blood glucose level rises to 126 mg/dl or above, a person has diabetes. When it comes to the OGTT test, a person's blood glucose is measured after a fast and 2 hours after a drink rich in glucose. 
1 The Importance of Monitoring Blood Sugar Levels. 2  Sugar levels in pre-diabetics is higher than normal of up to 125 mg/dl. 3  Remember that normal blood sugar is 70-80 mg/dl without meals and 120 mg/dl one or two hours after meals. 4  Blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes starts at 126 mg/dl and above. Pre-Diabetes is the state before actually having type 2 diabetes, where sugar levels are already higher than normal but not high enough to be classified as full-blown diabetes. According to statistics, without intervention it can lead to type 2 diabetes within a period of 10 years.