The surname dates back to the early 15th Century (see below), and further recordings include the christening of Thomas, son of Andrew Kyle, on June 3rd 1635, at St. Margaret's, Westminster, London.
Scottish and northern Irish: regional name from a district in Ayrshire called Kyle, named for the British chieftains who ruled it in the 5th century, the Coel Hen.Scottish and northern Irish: habitational name from any of the numerous Scottish places named Kyle from Gaelic caol ‘narrow’, also caolas ‘narrows’, ‘strait’.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Margaret Kile, which was dated 1428, recorded at Glasgow, Scotland, during the reign of King James 1 of Scotland, 1406 - 1437. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax.
Kyle /kyle/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Kyle) is pronounced kyl. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kyle is narrow, straight. Place name that refers either to a narrow body of water between two land masses, or to a peninsula or isthmus. Actor Kyle MacLachlan.
Origin of the name Kyle: Transferred use of the surname originating from the region of the same name in southwestern Scotland. Kyle, a topographical term referring to a narrow, straight, channel, is derived from the Gaelic caol (narrow, a sound, a strait). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Scottish and northern Irish: regional name from a district in Ayrshire called Kyle, named for the British chieftains who ruled it in the 5th century, the Coel Hen.Scottish and northern Irish: habitational name from any of the numerous Scottish places named Kyle from Gaelic caol ‘narrow’, also caolas ‘narrows’, ‘strait’.
This interesting surname, of Scottish and Northern Irish origin, derives from a regional name from the district of Kyle in the former county of Ayshire in South West Scotland. This is so called from the name of the British Chieftains who ruled it in the 5th Century, the Coel Hen.
Kyle at RootsWeb databases. Search for your genealogy in multiple RootsWeb genealogy databases including the Social Security Death Index (SSDI), RootsWeb Surname List, World Connect, vital records, cemetery listings, census records, church records. The oldest and largest free genealogy site on the internet.