Ultrasound Technician Salary. In 2013, the median salary for medical sonographers was $66,410/year, according to the BLS. The BLS adds that the bottom 10% of ultrasound technologists made $44,8400/year, whereas the top 10% made $92,070/year*. Numerous factors contribute to an ultrasound tech’s salary. Most employers require an associates degree in sonography, which is typically a two-year program. Some ultrasound technician programs, however, offer certificates that can be obtained in 12-18 months.
Ultra sound tech education. It takes two years to become an ultrasound technician. You will need an associate’s degree and then will need a certification or license depending on your state. You do not have to study sonography to get this job, though. Many sonographers graduate with nursing degrees or start as radiologic technologists. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported an average income of $65,800 per year for sonographers, as of May 2011. The lowest-earning 25 percent reported incomes of up to $58,830 per year, while the highest-earning 25 percent earned $76,060 a year or more. Graduates from an accredited sonography program can write a certification exam through the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists or the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers, both of which test the candidate's theoretical and practical understanding of ultrasound technology.
Some of the most appealing careers in health care can be found in diagnostic imaging. Radiographers, CT and MRI techs, and mammographers all earn very good wages, and spend their days in a clean, well-lit work environment. This is also true for ultrasound technicians, or sonographers. Graduates from an accredited sonography program can write a certification exam through the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists or the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers, both of which test the candidate's theoretical and practical understanding of ultrasound technology.
The length of your education depends on your career goals. To get started in a career as an ultrasound tech, you need a minimum of two years at an accredited allied health educational institution. There are schools available both online and offline that are able to provide you with this associate’s degree in sonography. If you’re looking at how long it takes to become a working, professional ultrasound technician, you have to include job search time in the equation.The graph below indicates how long most people search for a job before either finding one or dropping out of the workforce entirely.
1 You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 2  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 3  Not only do they not prepare you adequately for a career as an ultrasound technician, but it will hardly matter as you will not be competitive in the job market. 1 Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 2
An ultrasound technician is a very valuable job in the world of health care. Also called a diagnostic medical sonographer, an ultrasound tech uses special machines and equipment that operate on sound waves to determine or diagnose medical problems for patients. UltrasoundTechnicianExpert was created to provide information about how to become a Ultrasound Technician in your community as well as provide information about finding Ultrasound Technician jobs, ultrasound technician schools and more!
Getting the credentials to be an ultrasound tech doesn’t have to take long, but different educational paths yield different results, and there are ways to plan your program that will yield the best results at the lowest cost and time usage. If you’re looking at how long it takes to become a working, professional ultrasound technician, you have to include job search time in the equation.The graph below indicates how long most people search for a job before either finding one or dropping out of the workforce entirely.
Ultrasound/Sonography Education in California. Depending upon your current educational level, you will have the choice between ultrasound technician schools in California that offer certificate, associate's, bachelor's, or master's degrees in diagnostic medical sonography in California. 
Ultrasound technologists should complete an accredited training program. Depending on the program, it can take anywhere from one to four years to complete. Accredited ultrasound programs can be found at community colleges (a two-year associate’s degree) or four-year institutions (a bachelor’s degree).