In the Account type field, select the type of account to create a prenote for. You can create a prenote for a specific customer or vendor, or you can create prenotes for all customers, all vendors, or all customers and vendors. If the customer bank account is changed after a prenote was created for it, the prenote status will no longer appear in the Prenotes section. You must create a new prenote for the new customer bank account.
Answers. Best Answer: Yes....just to make sure it works. The ACH (Automated Clearing House) that operates the network is making sure the information is on hand to make the transaction. Basically it is a lot of computerized stuff to make sure the right bank and the right account are getting the money.
Follow these steps to create a customer or vendor account prenote for your organization’s bank. Click Cash and bank management Periodic Create prenotes. In the Bank name field, select the name of your organization’s bank. In the File name field, select where the new prenote file will be saved, and then type a file name. If the customer bank account is changed after a prenote was created for it, the prenote status will no longer appear in the Prenotes section. You must create a new prenote for the new customer bank account.
1 A prenote (preauthorization) is a zero dollar transaction created and sent through the ACH network to test the validity of a payor's/payee's bank account information that was provided at the time of enrollment or if subsequently changed. 1 The fee for a prenote is the same as the fee for a live transaction. 2  Prenotes can be contained in the same ACH batch as other credit or debit transactions. 3  Using the service class code of 200 in the ACH batch header record (field 2) will allow debits, credits, and prenotes to be contained in the same batch.
ACH Pre-Notes. With ACH Universal, you can create pre-notes in a variety of ways. Pre-notes, a.k.a. pre-notification-are zero dollar test transactions to confirm your customer's, employee's and vendor's banking information. 
Save. Daisy-Daisy/iStock/Getty Images. If you're new to direct deposit, you may log into your company's payment portal and find a pre-note mark next to your account. The notation simply means your employer has sent a test payment to the bank to make sure you provided the correct account and routing numbers. Pre-Note Process. Employers offer direct deposit as a quick and easy way for employees to receive paychecks, but the employer wants to make sure the money gets into the correct bank account. If you recently filled out paperwork to start direct deposits, you provided your bank account information
A prenote is a zero dollar transaction used to verify the routing number and account number. The department initiates ACH debit prenotes. Your financial institution would initiate ACH credit prenotes. 
The prenote needed to be for the zero amount. Basically, the direct deposit process was being confirmed. The account information needed to be ensured…ie, has a valid routing number, the bank account number is the correct length and starts with the correct digit for that bank. Since the prenote will not go through the RDFI until the live check is run there could still be accounts that are rejected. For example the account may be invalid and does not belong to anyone, the account could be closed or the account name may not match the account number.
A prenote is the commonly used term for an Automated Clearing House (ACH) prenotification. Prenotes are optional for the originating company, but they are not optional for the receiving bank or credit union (the RDFI, or receiving depository financial institution) once the originating company sends one.