Reading the Label. Prosecco is produced in the Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia regions of Italy, and you might see a few specific locations on the label. For example, some bottles say Treviso, which is a province (also the name of a city in the province) in the Veneto region. 
It’s a way to symbolically raise a glass and mark the shift from your daytime worries and hurries to an evening of friends and family. In this respect, Prosecco has a different purpose than Champagne or Cava: where the former is light and refreshing, often the latter is more yeasty, toasty, and rich. Prosecco is one of the perfect starts to an evening, but is often not suitable for main courses. Great Prosecco is to be light, frothy, clean, and airy. 
A bottle of Prosecco di Conegliano spumante extra dry and a glass of Prosecco frizzante, which stops forming bubbles soon after pouring. Prosecco /prɵˈsɛkoʊ/ (. [proˈsekko]) is an Italian white wine. Prosecco DOC can be Spumante sparkling wine, Frizzante (semi-sparkling) and Tranquillo (still) depending on the perlage. It is made from Glera grapes, formerly known also as Prosecco, but other grape varieties may be included. The following varieties are traditionally used with Glera up to a maximum of 15% of the total: Verdiso, Bianchetta Trevigiana, Perera, Glera lunga, Chardonnay, Pinot Bianco, Pinot Grigio and Pinot Nero. The first known mention of the name Prosecco is attributed to the Englishman Fynes Moryson, who, visiting the north of Italy in 1593, notes:  Histria is devided into Forum Julii, and Histria properly so called... Here growes the wine Pucinum, now called Prosecho, much celebrated by Pliny.
The Consortium recommends serving Prosecco in a tulip-shaped Prosecco glass, rather than the flutes and coupes typically used to serve champagne. This type of glass allows the drinker to experience in full the Prosecco’s aromas. Prosecco bottles should be stored upright in a cool, dark place (around 10-15⁰C) and kept away from sources of light or heat. For optimum enjoyment, Prosecco should be chilled to around 6-8⁰C before drinking, although the precise temperature will depend on the style of the wine. See Types of Prosecco.
Red wines are best served in large wine glasses, like these red wine glasses. The bowls of these glasses will be fuller and rounder with a larger opening than other wine glasses of similar capacities in order to allow you to dip your nose into the glass to detect aroma. A specific type of red wine glass, the bordeaux glass, is taller than traditional red wine glasses, yet the bowl is not quite as large. It is designed for full bodied, heavier red wines such as Cabernets and Merlots.
Port   There really isn't a specific port glass. Port would be served in a dessert wine glass and those are smaller than both red and white wine glasses. And, no, you s … houldn't serve white wine in a dessert wine glass. Serve white wine in an average sized glass that is clear. For more detail, to see a picture, and learn about all types of wine glasses, go to my website page on types of wine glasses. Hi-Sparkling wine should be served in a flute. The narrower the opening at the mouth, the longer the bubbles will last. Crystal flutes I have heard hold the bubbles even longer as opposed to regular glass, however I do not know the reasoning behind this.
While Prosecco is a flexible wine that can be served throughout the meal, Brut Prosecco is probably at its best when served with delicately flavored dishes and cheeses that won't overwhelm the wine's gentle bouquet. 
A champagne-goblet is usually a tall, running up conically champagne glass with a short stem. The term goblet refers to the relatively tall and small form of the glass which is a reminiscent to a goblet or a tulip shaped glass. The glass volumes up to 10 to 20 centiliter normally. Because of that, champagne flutes or white-wine glasses should only be lifted at the stem or at the bottom of the glass. Other glass shapes are also often referred to as flutes, for example the champagne-tulip. Our manufacturer offers these champagne-flutes as champagne-flutes, -peaks or –fountain.