The most well known vitamins for circulation are from the B complex group. Livestrong.com explains that these vitamins are most effective when working together in a grouping, with vitamins B6, B12, B1 and B3 all providing some benefit to the circulatory system.
Vitamin B. Vitamin B helps with circulation. Some foods that contain vitamin B are brown rice, berries, yeast, whole-grain cereals and leafy vegetables and legumes.
There are a number of vitamins that can help to improve your circulation. Improved circulation is good for a number of reasons. If your blood is not circulating properly you can become fatigued and there can be a build up of lactic acid in your muscles. This will cause your muscles to feel sore and ache.
Vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 is especially good for improving circulation. This vitamin helps stop free radicals that can cause hardening of the arteries. Chicken breast, tuna, turkey breast, mustard greens and garlic are all good sources of 
Vitamin B6 is especially good for improving circulation. This vitamin helps stop free radicals that can cause hardening of the arteries. Chicken breast, tuna, turkey breast, mustard greens and garlic are all good sources of Vitamin B6.
Vitamin E. To improve your circulation, you may want to consume foods that have Vitamin E. Some of the foods with vitamin E include almonds, mango, asparagus, hazelnuts and margarine. Potassium helps circulation by regulating blood. Raisins, figs ,wheat germ and bran wheat are all good sources of potassium.
Vitamin B helps with circulation. Some foods that contain vitamin B are brown rice, berries, yeast, whole-grain cereals and leafy vegetables and legumes. Vitamin C. You can find this vitamin in orange juice, grape fruit, apricot and blackberries.
Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. There are a number of vitamins that can help to improve your circulation. Improved circulation is good for a number of reasons. If your blood is not circulating properly you can become fatigued and there can be a build up of lactic acid in your muscles. This will cause your muscles to feel sore and ache.
Even the best diet can’t supply us with all the nutrients we need, and that’s especially true when it comes to healthy circulation. The family of nutrients known as vitamin B complex is a good example. Beans, molasses, meat, potatoes, lentils, and chili peppers are good sources of B vitamins.