[ 3 syll. (s)pur-geo(n) , sp-urge-on ] The baby boy name Spurgeon is pronounced as SP ER ER JHihN †. Spurgeon's language of origin is Old French and it is predominantly used in the English language. The name is of the meaning 'a medicinal plant'. Spurgeon is an unusual baby name for boys. Its usage peaked in 1901 with 0.008% of baby boys being given the name Spurgeon. Its ranking then was #775.
Spurgeon was a prolific author of many types of works including sermons, an autobiography, commentaries, books on prayer, devotionals, magazines, poetry, hymns and more. Many sermons were transcribed as he spoke and were translated into many languages during his lifetime. On 8 January 1856, Spurgeon married Susannah, daughter of Robert Thompson of Falcon Square, London, by whom he had twin sons, Charles and Thomas born on 20 September 1856. At the end of that year, tragedy struck on 19 October 1856, as Spurgeon was preaching at the Surrey Gardens Music Hall for the first time.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Spurgeon immigration records. You can find out when most of the Spurgeon families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
You can find out where the majority of the Spurgeon families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Spurgeon families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
Charles Haddon (CH) Spurgeon (/ˈhaedən ˈhædən/ ; ˈspɜrdʒən 19 june – 1834 31 january) 1892 was A British Particular baptist. preacher On 8 January 1856, Spurgeon married Susannah, daughter of Robert Thompson of Falcon Square, London, by whom he had twin sons, Charles and Thomas born on 20 September 1856. At the end of that year, tragedy struck on 19 October 1856, as Spurgeon was preaching at the Surrey Gardens Music Hall for the first time.
It is estimated that in his lifetime, Spurgeon preached to around 10,000,000 people, Spurgeon was the pastor of the congregation of the New Park Street Chapel (later the Metropolitan Tabernacle) in London for 38 years. On 8 January 1856, Spurgeon married Susannah, daughter of Robert Thompson of Falcon Square, London, by whom he had twin sons, Charles and Thomas born on 20 September 1856. At the end of that year, tragedy struck on 19 October 1856, as Spurgeon was preaching at the Surrey Gardens Music Hall for the first time.
Charles Haddon (CH) Spurgeon (/ˈhaedən ˈhædən/ ; ˈspɜrdʒən 19 june – 1834 31 january) 1892 was A British Particular baptist. Preacher spurgeon remains highly influential Among christians of various, denominations among whom he is known as The prince Of. preachers On 8 January 1856, Spurgeon married Susannah, daughter of Robert Thompson of Falcon Square, London, by whom he had twin sons, Charles and Thomas born on 20 September 1856. At the end of that year, tragedy struck on 19 October 1856, as Spurgeon was preaching at the Surrey Gardens Music Hall for the first time.
1 Lewis Spurgeon, aged 25, who landed in America from Liverpool, England, in 1913. 2  Marie Spurgeon, aged 62, who emigrated to the United States from Cardiff, Wales, in 1915. 3  Hilda Charlotte Spurgeon, aged 16, who landed in America from Brentford, England, in 1915. Spurgeon Early Origins. First found in Norfolk where they held a family seat. The name is anciently found in that county as Spirigin, of unknown origin, but if not Saxon, then it may be Viking, or may possibly be associated with the Danegeld.
Share what you know! Nicknames for Spurgeon: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Spurgeon: | Edit. Possibly bestowed upon children as a nod to Charles Spurgeon (1834-1892), a Baptist preacher who is sometimes referred to as the Prince of Preachers.