For example, European primrose (Primula vulgaris) seeds normally take 2 to 4 weeks to germinate if the conditions are right, but may germinate more quickly (in 2 or 3 days) if placed in a small pot of damp compost and placed in a polythene bag indoors at 15 - 20 degrees C. Corn seed germination requires temperatures at least 50 °F. Under the correct conditions, it takes 3-6 days for the sweet corn seed to germinate.
The length of time it takes a seed to germinate depends on a range of factors. Some of the most important are: The range of germination times generally varies from as little as one day (e.g. for some mustard seeds) to over one year (e.g. for some trees). If you want to plant (or have recently planted) seeds and want to know how long it will be before you start to see some green shoots, there is no quick answer. In temperate countries, most commercially sold garden flower seeds can be expected to germinate in somewhere between 14 to 30 days.
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 
1 The length of time it takes for your seeds to germinate is heavily related to soil temperature. 2  Tomato seeds should germinate within 5-6 days if you can keep the soil temperature around 80º F. Peppers take a little longer with a little higher temperature (7-8 days at 85º F). 
Generally seeds take between 7 and 14 days to germinate. There are of course exceptions, some varieties can germinate within 2 days if con … ditions are right, where as others can take literally years to germinate-even if conditions are right. 15 people found this useful. Corn seed germination requires temperatures at least 50 °F. Under the correct conditions, it takes 3-6 days for the sweet corn seed
Some varieties, such as thicker blades take longer to germinate than the thinner varieties. Typically, grass seeds will start to germinate within eight to ten days of seeding. In some warmer, more moist climates, you will start to see growth within a matter of days following seeding. It is important to make sure that your soil is rich, healthy and ripe for the seeds to properly grow. Most grass seeds will start to sprout up within days of seeding in moist, warm climates. In drier and cooler climates, it may take up to ten days to see results. Keep working at your lawn, give it the care it needs and you’ll be enjoying it in no time.
1 The seed packet should tell you how many days to bloom, which means how long it takes from germination to flowering. 2  If you have a short growing season and the packet says it will be 80 or 90 days to bloom, you will need to start the seeds indoors if you want to see them flower for a couple weeks before frost. 
It depends on which seed you have. Generally seeds take between 7 and 14 days to germinate. There are of course exceptions, some varieties can germinate within 2 days if con … ditions are right, where as others can take literally years to germinate-even if conditions are right. 15 people found this useful. If you want to plant (or have recently planted) seeds and want to know how long it will be before you start to see some green shoots, there is no quick answer. In temperate countries, most commercially sold garden flower seeds can be expected to germinate in somewhere between 14 to 30 days.
Replanting New Grass Seed. Grass is a fast growing plant, but the exact rate at which it grows depends upon the type of grass used and the growing conditions. Germination. Grass seeds usually germinate between seven and ten days after they have been sown, although it can take between three and thirty days. Growth. A fast growing variety of grass sown under good growing conditions will produce a green covering in about a week, although it will not yet be properly establish