Physical Geography of Mexico. Landforms Mexico has many different types of landforms. Mexico has two mountain ranges Sierra Madre Oriental and the Sierra Madre Occidental. The highest mountain is Mount Orizaba, it is capped with snow. There are also volcanoes and smaller mountain ranges in southern Mexico. The theory of plate tectonics explains why Mexico has so many different types of landforms. Scientists believe that Baja California was once connected to Mexico’s mainland. This also explains Mexico’s earthquakes and volcanoes.
Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession 1  ;). The eastern, western and southern mountain ranges known as Sierra Madre Oriental, Sierra Madre Occidental and Sierra Madre del Sur, respectively. 2  The Mexican Central Plateau or Mexican Altiplano, delimited by these three mountain ranges. 1 The Gulf of Mexico, located at the eastern side of Mexico from the Mexico-Texas border down to the Yucatan peninsula. 2  The Chihuahuan and Sonoran deserts, spanning most of northwestern Mexico from the Baja California peninsula to the Sierra Madre Oriental mountain range.
From volcanoes, to peninsulas, mountain a range, to basins, the country has many natural landforms to see. The mountainous landscape is of particular interest, as it makes the country wealthy in natural resources, yet sparsely inhabitable in many areas. Mexican Plateau. Although this is the least well known of the landforms in Mexico, the Mexican Plateau is famous within the country. It is located between the Sierra Madres Mountains, in the center of the country. The plateau receives a large amount of rain, and because volcanoes surround it, has very fertile soil
Mexico's Major Landforms. Plains and Plateaus: The Mexican Plateau covers much of the northern and central portions of Mexico. It has an arid to somewhat arid climate with its most densely populated area in the central part of the country. This landform begins at the border with the United States. Mexico is located in North America, just south of the United States. Central America connects North America and South America to each other. This region of the Earth is home to a wide array of landforms including mountains, volcanoes, valleys, rivers and much more.
Like its North American neighbor the United States, Mexico is divided into states that vary widely in climate and geography. Mexico's landscape includes tropical rain forests, deserts and seashores, and much of the country is covered by high plateaus and rugged mountains. Yucatan Peninsula. The easternmost territory of Mexico is the Yucatan Peninsula, which projects into the Gulf of Mexico. The Yucatan region is covered with tropical forest on a flat, low-lying limestone shelf.
The Rio Grande is a major river found in the Southwest. It forms the natural border between the United States and Mexico. It is almost 1,900 miles long and empties into the Gulf of Mexico. 
Mexico is composed of many different landforms due in part to the geological shifting of plate tectonics in the region. The geography of this country includes mountains, plains, plateaus, canyons and caves. 
The Sierra Madre Occidental range runs north to south, from the Sonora-Arizona border southeast through Sonora, Chihuahua, Sinaloa, Durango, Zacatecas, Nayarit, Jalisco, Augascalientes to Guanajuato, where it joins the Sierra Madre del Sur and the Transverse Volcanic Axis of central Mexico. The Rio Grande, rising in the San Juan Mountains of the U.S. State of Colorado, flows generally south to the Gulf of Mexico for 1,885 miles (3,000 km) and forms much of Mexico's northern border with the United States.
The Central Mexican Plateau consumes much of northern and central Mexico. It extends from the border with the USA on the north to the Cordillera Neovolcanica in the south, with the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range on the west and the Sierra Madre Oriental on the east. The Rio Grande, rising in the San Juan Mountains of the U.S. State of Colorado, flows generally south to the Gulf of Mexico for 1,885 miles (3,000 km) and forms much of Mexico's northern border with the United States.