Lupus is a chronic inflammatory disease that occurs when your body's immune system attacks your own tissues and organs. Inflammation caused by lupus can affect many different body systems — including your joints, skin, kidneys, blood cells, brain, heart and lungs. 
Autoimmune diseases arise from an abnormal immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body (autoimmunity). For a disease to be regarded as an autoimmune disease it needs to answer to Witebsky's postulates (first formulated by Ernst Witebsky and colleagues in 1957 and modified in 1994): 1  Direct evidence from transfer of disease-causing antibody or disease-causing T lymphocyte white blood cells.
Autoimmune disorders are conditions in which a person's immune system attacks the body's own cells, causing tissue destruction. Autoimmunity is accepted as the cause of a wide range of disorders, and it is suspected to be responsible for many more. 
Immune system disorders cause abnormally low activity or over activity of the immune system. In cases of immune system over activity, the body attacks and damages its own tissues (autoimmune diseases). Immune deficiency diseases decrease the body's ability to fight invaders, causing vulnerability to infections.
1. autoimmune disease-any of a large group of diseases characterized by abnormal functioning of the immune system that causes your immune system to produce antibodies against your own tissues. autoimmune disorder. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning
An example is Hashimoto's disease of the thyroid, characterized by a specific lesion in the thyroid gland with infiltration by mononuclear cells, destruction of follicular cells, and production of antibodies with absolute specificity for certain thyroid constituents. Some autoimmune disorders, such as Hashimoto's disease, are tissue specific, whereas others, such as SLE, affect multiple organs and systems. Both genetic and environmental triggers may contribute to autoimmune disease. About 5-8% of the U.S. population is affected by an
Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities. 
Definition [edit]. For a disease to be regarded as an autoimmune disease it needs to answer to Witebsky's postulates (first formulated by Ernst Witebsky and colleagues in 1957 and modified in 1994): 1  Direct evidence from transfer of disease-causing antibody or disease-causing T lymphocyte white blood cells.
Autoimmune disease: An illness that occurs when the body tissues are attacked by its own immune system. The immune system is a complex organization within the body that is designed normally to seek and destroy invaders of the body, including infectious agents. Patients with autoimmune diseases frequently have unusual antibodies circulating in their blood that target their own body tissues. Autoimmune diseases are more frequent in women than in men. It is felt that the estrogen of females may influence the immune system to predispose some women to autoimmune diseases. Furthermore, the presence of one autoimmune disease increases the chance for developing another simultaneous autoimmune disease.
autoimmune disease, one of a large group of diseases characterized by altered function of the immune system of the body, resulting in the production of antibodies against the body's own cells. Some autoimmune disorders, such as Hashimoto's disease, are tissue specific, whereas others, such as SLE, affect multiple organs and systems. Both genetic and environmental triggers may contribute to autoimmune disease. About 5-8% of the U.S. population is affected by an