by admin Leave a Comment. Proptosis is the condition of bulging eyes which is inherited by birth. In some cases it may develop due to thyroid problems. It can be unilateral which is bulging out of one eye and bilateral in which both the eyes are bulging. It is a clear indication for protruding eyes. Some of the other signs of proptosis are discomfort in opening and closing the eyes, difficulty in sleeping or blinking, dryness of eyes, discomfort or pain in making eye movements, scarring seen inside the eyes and excess of white part on the eyes.
Exophthalmos. Taken from the Greek (literally meaning 'with prominent eyes'), exophthalmos is a condition in which either one or both eyeballs bulge out or protrude from the eye socket. Many different conditions can lead to exophthalmos, which is also known as proptosis. Eye health centre
proptosis. Abnormal forward displacement of one eye. It is a sign of a severe orbital disorder, such as a tumour, inflammation, or thyroid eye disease. See orbital cellulitis; Graves' disease; exophthalmometer; exophthalmos; carotid-venous fistula. Protrusion of one or both eyeballs; can be congenital and familial, or due to pathology, such as a retroorbital tumor (usually unilateral) or thyroid disease (usually bilateral). Synonym(s): proptosis. [G. ex, out, + ophthalmos, eye]. /prop·to·sis/ (prop-to´sis) forward displacement or bulging, especially of the eye.
(May 2010). Exophthalmos (also called exophthalmus, exophthalmia, proptosis, or exorbitism) is a bulging of the eye anteriorly out of the orbit. Exophthalmos can be either bilateral (as is often seen in Graves' disease) or unilateral (as is often seen in an orbital tumor). In the case of Graves' disease, the displacement of the eye is due to abnormal connective tissue deposition in the orbit and extraocular muscles which can be visualized by CT or MRI. If left untreated, exophthalmos can cause the eyelids to fail to close during sleep leading to corneal dryness and damage.
This is a problem with the eyes also commonly known as exophthalmos. This is a condition where 1 or both of the eyes bulge out. There are some individuals who have eyes that seem to bulge naturally because of disparities in the human anatomy. Other individuals can develop this problem. The 2nd most common cancer type is melanoma. Glaucoma also is a severe disorder categorized by a rise in the pressure inside the eyeball. This can lead to protrusion and enlargement of eyes outside the exterior of the eye socket. Bleeding or hemorrhage also can cause the eyeball to bulge.
Proptosis, or exophthalmos, is the bulging out of one eye (unilateral) or both eyes (bilateral). Reviewed by. Michael Garin O.D. Proptosis, or exophthalmos, is the bulging out of one eye (unilateral) or both eyes (bilateral). Cases of proptosis develop for reasons ranging from variations in our anatomy to the development of another condition such as hyperthyroidism, of which bulging eyes are a symptom. If a person suddenly develops exophthalmos, especially in both eyes, it is considered a very serious problem
slide 1 of 7. Proptosis is a bulging of the eyeball from the socket from one or both eyes. Unilateral or any asymmetrical protrusion or bulging of one eye by at least 2 millimeters is one way of recognizing the protrusion. The normal upper limit is 22 mm for whites, 24 mm for blacks, 21 mm for Asians, and 19.7 mm for Hispanics. 
Proptosis in Dogs. Proptosis is a medical condition which causes a dog's eye to move forward. This typically noticeable (and unseemly) medical condition is frequently associated with head trauma, and often threatens the dog's vision.
Knowledge center. Exophthalmos, or exophthalmia, is a protruding eyeball anteriorly out of the orbit (eye socket). The Greek word ophthalmos means eye and the Greek word ex means out. Exophthalmos can be either bilateral (both eyes bulge out) or unilateral (just one eye bulges out). 