Vitamin B complex can be found in many food groups which include green and leafy vegetables, dairy products, fresh fruits, and certain meats. Therefore, foods containing Vitamin B complex are brewer’s yeast, milk, whole grain cereals, liver, eggs, nuts, poultry, fish and yogurt, to name a few. Given below is a list of the different foods containing Vitamin B complex: 1  B 1 (Thiamin): Beans, liver, wheat germ, fish, peanuts and oranges. 2  B 2 (Riboflavin): Green and leafy veggies, dairy products, nuts, beans and meat. 3  B 3 (Niacin): Nuts, meat, dairy products, beans and peanuts
The B vitamins include thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, folate (also called folic acid or folacin), vitamin B6, vitamin B12, biotin and pantothenic acid. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.
Food Rich in B Vitamins. Different foods contain different B vitamins, but if you consume a varied diet rich in whole grains, beans, fruits and vegetables, including leafy greens, you should have no problem meeting the requirements. Vitamins B2 and B9 are found in leafy green vegetables, liver and enriched bread. Vitamin B3 and B6 sources include fish, nuts and dried beans. B1 and B6 are present in potatoes and beans, and B5 is present in almost all foods. 
Animal foods are the only natural source of vitamin B12, but many products, including soy products and cereals, are fortified with B12 so it is widely available in the food supply. Other good natural sources include shellfish, such as clams, mussels and crab, fin fish and beef. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.
Vitamin B-12 is found primarily in protein foods, although some nonprotein foods are fortified with it. The best B-12 sources include clams and liver, as well as fish, cheese, yogurt and fortified cereals. Pyridoxine and Biotin. Pyridoxine, or vitamin B-6, helps your body break down protein and also play a role in cognitive development, red blood cell production and immune health. Some of the richest sources of pyridoxine include chickpeas, beef liver, tuna, salmon and chicken.
[accessed March 17, 2014]. *This includes sources of vitamin B6 from food and supplements. The best sources of vitamin B 6 include meat, fish, poultry, organ meats, enriched cereals and meatless soy products, nuts, lentils and some vegetables and fruit. The following table will show you foods rich in vitamin B 6. 1  Vitamin B 6 is a water-soluble vitamin. 2  It is also known as pyridoxine. 
The B vitamins work collectively and individually in every cell to perform many different jobs, including helping the body release the energy it gets from carbohydrates, proteins and fats. Some foods are especially good sources of just one B vitamin, while other foods contain several B vitamins. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.
Foods fortified with B 12 are also sources of the vitamin, although they cannot be regarded as true food sources of B 12 since the vitamin is added in supplement form, from commercial bacterial production sources, such as cyanocobalamin. Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
Or, you can create a diet rich in all the B vitamins by eating a few foods that contain multiple B vitamins. A spinach salad that included hard-boiled eggs and sunflower seeds, for instance, would provide a high amount of every single B vitamin. 2. Eat more salmon and trout. These fish are a great low-fat source of protein, and they contain loads of B vitamins. A meal featuring salmon, in particular, provides high levels of 6 of the 8 B vitamins: B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, and B12. Trout has more B1, B2, B5, and B12 than almost any other food. 