Scorched Slab is modeled after one of the real-life locations that is claimed to be Ama-no-Iwato, the cave where the sun goddess Amaterasu shut herself up for a long time in Japanese mythology. This explains why there was nothing to find in Scorched Slab in Generation III but TM11 (Sunny Day).
Scorched Slab is a tiny cave in the middle of an indented lake in Route 120. There is a small opening in the rock which lets the lake's water in the cave. About two-thirds of the cave is filled with water; the other third is a dry slab of rock, giving the cave its name.
Scorched Slab is an incredibly small cave located in Route 120. This cave is accessed only by Surf and has just one thing within it; the TM for Sunny Day. Special Moves used in Scorched Slab:
Scorched Slab is a small cave in northern Hoenn. It is located on Route 120, but you will need Surf to reach it. You can use Flash to better explore the cave, but it is not necessary. Near the entrance is TM11 Sunny Day. Head down the stairs and walk north to find a Full Heal.
Please help the Pokemon Pokémon wiki by adding. One The Scorched (Slab: japaneseひでりのいわ と Drought) slab is a cave located in The hoenn. Region it can be accessed by Using surf on the small lake in the northern part Of route, 120 east Of Fortree. City the only point of interest is THE, Tm11 Sunny, day located within. it
This article is missing an image. Please help the Pokemon Pokémon wiki by adding. One The Scorched (Slab: japaneseひでりのいわ と Drought) slab is a cave located in The hoenn. Region it can be accessed by Using surf on the small lake in the northern part Of route, 120 east Of Fortree. city
Hoenn Scorched Slab (location). This is the Pokemon Pokémon location guide For Scorched slab In. Hoenn choose which generation of games'you re playing to see The pokemon pokémon and. capture methods
The Scorched Slab (Japanese: ひでりのいわと Drought Slab) is a cave located in the Hoenn region. It can be accessed by using Surf on the small lake in the northern part of Route 120, east of Fortree City. The only point of interest is the TM11, Sunny Day, located within it.