organic. adj. 1. (Biology) of, relating to, derived from, or characteristic of living plants and animals. 2. (Biology) of or relating to animal or plant constituents or products having a carbon basis. 3. (Biology) of or relating to one or more organs of an animal or plant. 4. (Chemistry) of, relating to, or belonging to the class of chemical compounds that are formed from carbon Compare inorganic 2: an organic compound. 2. pertaining to, characteristic of, or derived from living organisms. 3. of, pertaining to, or involving animals, produce, etc., raised or grown without synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, or drugs: organic farming; organic chicken. 4. of or pertaining to an organ or the organs of an animal, plant, or fungus
1 of or relating to animal or plant constituents or products having a carbon basis. 2  of or relating to one or more organs of an animal or plant. 3  of, relating to, or belonging to the class of chemical compounds that are formed from carbon ⇒ ■ an organic compound. 
Organic chemistry is a chemistry subdiscipline involving the scientific study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic compounds and organic materials, i.e., matter in its various forms that contain carbon atoms. 
Definition of ORGANIC. : an organic substance: as a: a fertilizer of plant or animal origin b: a pesticide whose active component is an organic compound or a mixture of organic compounds c: a food produced by organic farming. 2. a: of, relating to, or arising in a bodily organ b: affecting the structure of the organism. 3. b (1) : of, relating to, or containing carbon compounds (2) : relating to, being, or dealt with by a branch of chemistry concerned with the carbon compounds of living beings and most other carbon compounds.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of inorganic is something unrelated to organic matter or organic life, not animal or vegetable, or a chemical compound that does not contain carbon. An example of something inorganic is plastic. 
Organic. Definition. noun, plural: organics. (Chemistry) An organic compound; or any substance containing carbon-based compounds, especially produced by or derived from living organisms. (Agriculture) An organic food; or any food that is organically grown (i.e. grown without using or applying synthetic pesticides, fungicides, inorganic fertilizers, or preservatives. adjective. (biology) Of, pertaining to, derived from, or similar to an organ of the body. Supplement.
Organic farming is better for the environment. organic gardening. organic food/vegetables/milk etc. The shop sells organic food. 
Organic compound. Definition. noun, plural: organic compounds. Any compound containing carbon atom. Supplement. An organic compound always contains carbon. A few exceptions are carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonates, cyanides, cyanates, carbides, and thyocyanates, which are considered inorganic. Examples of organic compounds are carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids.