Cost to Screen In Pool - 2014 Cost Calculator. The cost to Screen In Pool averages $6.54 - $8.21 per square foot in 2014. This Screened In Pool Installation cost estimate is calculated from average material costs, unit labor producitivity rates and national average hourly labor wages. The cost estimate does not include: 1  General contractor fees for organizing and supervising the Screened In Pool Installation. 2  Add 12.1% to 19.3% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project. 3  Sales tax on materials and supplies.
Let's say you pool is 30'x 15', that would be 450sqftx $6.00= $2,7 … 00. This price is for diamond brite or similar like marquis with white cement. This price also should include prep work, materials, and labor. Premium Pool and Pavers, Holiday, Florida 727 271 5975. In some cases, a puncture or a small tear can be repaired easily by the pool owner themselves for the cost of a $10-$15 repair kit. These kits have the vinyl material (patch) with epoxy that works in underwater applications so the pool owner doesn't have to even lower the water level to make a repair.
Your Local Screen Repair Company! At SWFLRescreens we are proud to be your local trusted company for pool cage and screen enclosure repair with over 34 years of family experience in the southwest Florida area.. We pride ourselves on professional, prompt, and courteous service. 
The average cost of a minor repair such as a screen or sealant repair is $35 per hour in labor, plus the cost of materials, which averages $57.50 per job. The average cost of cage painting is $50 per hour, plus the cost of materials, which averages $125 per job. Pool enclosures offer a way for homeowners to enjoy additional leisure space around their above-ground or in-ground home swimming pool.
Edit. Share to: Typically, do-it-yourself pool cleaning costs $20-$100 per month for chemicals during the summer after initial purchase of pool tools including a vacuum head and hose from $50 … , and a maintenance kit with a wall brush, leaf skimmer, test kits and telescopic pole for around $60. In some cases, a puncture or a small tear can be repaired easily by the pool owner themselves for the cost of a $10-$15 repair kit. These kits have the vinyl material (patch) with epoxy that works in underwater applications so the pool owner doesn't have to even lower the water level to make a repair.
Considerations When Doing Repairs. Homeowners undertaking a pool enclosure repair project should consider the purpose of the repair and the type of use they would like to get out of their pool. When rescreening the enclosure, consider an upgrade to a specialty screen like solar or privacy screen. Pool enclosures offer a way for homeowners to enjoy additional leisure space around their above-ground or in-ground home swimming pool.
1 On average, a pool enclosure that is screened can cost anywhere from $13 to $24 per square foot. 1 A retractable enclosure could cost upwards of $150 per square foot. 2  With the average mentioned above, the price range can get much higher with higher-end models. 3  For instance, a company such as Poolpatioenclosures.com states that they charge $15 per square foot for an enclosed area.
1 Higher-end enclosures made from glass can cost as much as $50 to $65 per square feet. 2  A pool owner should plan to pay anywhere from $8,000 to $39,000 for an entire enclosure for a standard in-ground pool. 1 A retractable enclosure could cost upwards of $150 per square foot. 2  With the average mentioned above, the price range can get much higher with higher-end models. 3  For instance, a company such as Poolpatioenclosures.com states that they charge $15 per square foot for an enclosed area.
1 An aluminum screen enclosure can cost anywhere from $15 to $30 per square feet. 2  Higher-end enclosures made from glass can cost as much as $50 to $65 per square feet. 3  A pool owner should plan to pay anywhere from $8,000 to $39,000 for an entire enclosure for a standard in-ground pool. 1 A retractable enclosure could cost upwards of $150 per square foot. 2  With the average mentioned above, the price range can get much higher with higher-end models. 3  For instance, a company such as Poolpatioenclosures.com states that they charge $15 per square foot for an enclosed area.