Steel drums were invented on the island of Trinidad around the time of W.W.II. One can trace the roots of these instruments back to the African slaves who were placed on the island by Spanish and French plantation owners as early as the 16th century.
The Kit consisted of a bass drum and foot pedal, snare, tom toms, hi-hat cymbal, and large hanging cymbals. In the 1960's rock drummers began the expansion of drum kits that are the norm today. More toms and cymbals, as well as the addition of another bass drum to increase speed were added.
The steel drum is believed to be the only non-electronic, acoustic musical instrument invented in the 20th century. The first steel drum or pan was invented around World War II in Trinidad, off the coast of Venezuela in South America. In the 1800s Trinidad was a sugar plantation society.
The First Bass Clarinet. The first bass clarinet was invented in 1793 by Heinrich Gresner of Dresden, Germany. He was a pioneer clarinet maker who was interested in enhancing the range of the clarinet. His first bass clarinet had nine keys and was pitched in B major.
The best information I found regarding the evolution of the modern guitar is the 2002 (or later) revision of  The Guitar And Its Music-From the Renaissance to the Classical Era by James Tyler and Paul Sparks  available from Los Angeles Classical Guitars and other places.
The range is one octave below that of the b-flat soprano clarinet. Ever since its invention in the late 18th century, the bass clarinet has evolved into the instrument that is used in orchestras and bands. The bass clarinet is made of grenadilla wood or African blackwood and is approximately 4 1/2 feet long.
The helicon, thought to have been invented in Russia circa 1845, was designed to be a marching horn, carried on the shoulder. This bass instrument was the forerunner of the Sousaphone, which is the self-same instrument with a directional bell grafted on.
HISTORY OF DRUMS. The concept of drums are as old as mankind. A drum is called a membranophone, or an instrument that creates sound by striking a stretched membrane with some type of object, usually a rounded stick.