An individual with an eye movement or tracking problem might see printed words like this: If a person's eyes can not properly track from word to word smoothly and seamlessly, reading, writing, and copying are going to be major problems. As visual skills progress and eye movements and tracking improve, the treatment program will gently shift to more demanding tasks. It is important that a patient progresses at a pace that is productive but still within their own comfort level.
oc·u·lo·mo·tor. adj. 1. Of or relating to movements of the eyeball: an oculomotor muscle. 2. Of or relating to the oculomotor nerve. [Latin. oculomotor. adj. 1. (Physiology) relating to or causing eye movements.
Oculomotor nerve: The third cranial nerve. The oculomotor nerve is responsible for the nerve supply to muscles around the eye, including the upper eyelid muscle, which raises the eyelid; the extraocular muscle, which moves the eye inward; and the pupillary muscle, which constricts the pupil. 
Eye Movement Problems, also referred to as Eye Tracking Problems, exist when one or both eyes do not move smoothly, accurately, and quickly across a line or from one object to another. As visual skills progress and eye movements and tracking improve, the treatment program will gently shift to more demanding tasks. It is important that a patient progresses at a pace that is productive but still within their own comfort level.
If one’s oculomotor muscles are ineffective, he may have difficulty reading–he may easily lose his place or repeat sentences. People with this condition may also have difficulty with balance, depth perception, sports, or hand eye coordination. Virtually every task requires good control of eye movements. Oculomotor dysfunction is most often due to a faulty development of muscle control, so a program of coordinating or strengthening activities is prescribed in a vision therapy program.
oculomotor nerve the third cranial nerve; it is mixed, that is, it contains both sensory and motor fibers. Various branches of the oculomotor nerve provide for muscle sense and movement in most of the muscles of the eye, for constriction of the pupil, and for accommodation of the eye. See anatomic Table of Nerves in the Appendices.
A vergence is the simultaneous movement of both eyes in opposite directions to obtain or maintain single binocular vision. When a creature with binocular vision looks at an object, the eyes must rotate around a vertical axis so that the projection of the image is in the centre of the retina in both eyes. Vergence movements are closely connected to accommodation of the eye. Under normal conditions, changing the focus of the eyes to look at an object at a different distance will automatically cause vergence and accommodation, sometimes known as the accommodation-convergence reflex.
oculomotor. pertaining to or affecting eye movements. oculomotor nerve. the third cranial nerve; it contains motor and parasympathetic fibers. Various branches of the oculomotor nerve provide for muscle sense and movement in most of the muscles of the eye, for constriction of the pupil, and for accommodation of the eye. See anatomic Table of Nerves in the Appendices.
There are six muscles around each eye. These six muscles work together in an extremely sophisticated manner in order to accurately control eye movements. Oculomotor Dysfunction occurs when these muscles are not properly coordinated. The causes of Oculomotor Dysfunction range from slow development to disease of the central nervous system. An eye exam easily diagnoses this condition. Oculomotor dysfunction is most often due to a faulty development of muscle control, so a program of coordinating or strengthening activities is prescribed in a vision therapy program.