The name feldspar derives from the German Feldspat, a compound of the words Feld, field, and Spat, a rock that does not contain ore . The change from Spat to-spar was influenced by the English word spar, a synonym for mineral. Feldspathic refers to materials that contain feldspar. Feldspar is a common raw material used in glassmaking, ceramics, and to some extent as a filler and extender in paint, plastics, and rubber. In glassmaking, alumina from feldspar improves product hardness, durability, and resistance to chemical corrosion.
Feldspar. Feldspar is the mineral name given to a group of minerals distinguished by the presence of aluminum (Al) and the silica ion (SiO4) in their chemistry. This group includes aluminum silicates of soda (sodium oxide), potassium (potassium oxide), or lime (calcium oxide). 
Feldspar comprises of a group of minerals which are the most common rock forming minerals. LKAB Minerals supply a sodium feldspar (also referred to as soda feldspar) which is used extensively in the glass industry. Feldspar is the mineral name given to a group of minerals distinguished by the presence of aluminum (Al) and the silica (SiO 4) in their chemistry. They form in a variety of thermal environments, during the crystallization of liquid rock (magma), by metamorphism of rocks deep in the earth, and in sedimentary processes.
Feldspar is a mineral, commonly found in nature in the form of  rocks. It is used to make tiles for the home and plates which you  eat off of. The formula actually is a blend ranging from … all sodium (albite) to all potassium (microcline), but albite is also one endpoint in the plagioclase series so we classify albite there. This mineral is often called potassium feldspar or K-feldspar, because by definition potassium always exceeds sodium in its formula.
Click here to download the Feldspar factsheet. Feldspar is by far the most abundant group of minerals in the earth's crust, forming about 60% of terrestrial rocks. Most European deposits offer potassium feldspar as well as sodium feldspar and mixed feldspars. Feldspars are primarily used in industrial applications for their alumina and alkali content. Most of the products we use on a daily basis are made with feldspar: glass for drinking, glass for protection, glass wool for insulation, the floor tiles and shower basin in our bathroom, the tableware from which we eat, … Feldspar is part of our daily life.
In the glass industry also, potash feldspar is used in varying proportions. It may contain 10 to 15% of the batch. Feldspar, in this industry, is valued for two purposes, firstly, it acts as a flux and secondly, for alumina content. FELDSPAR comprises a group of minerals containing potassium, sodium, calcium and aluminium silicates. They are the most common rock-forming minerals. The common feldspar is potassium feldspar, namely, orthoclase (K 2 O, Al 2 O 3, 6SiO 2).
The main reasons that sodium feldspar is used in this application is due to the alumina content and the minerals ability to act as a flux. The alumina content of sodium feldspar is over 19%; this provides the glass with impact and thermal shock resistance. Feldspar is the mineral name given to a group of minerals distinguished by the presence of aluminum (Al) and the silica (SiO 4) in their chemistry. They form in a variety of thermal environments, during the crystallization of liquid rock (magma), by metamorphism of rocks deep in the earth, and in sedimentary processes.
Feldspar is by far the most abundant group of minerals in the earth's crust, forming about 60% of terrestrial rocks. Most deposits offer sodium feldspar as well as potassium feldspar and mixed feldspars. Feldspars are primarily used in industrial applications for their alumina and alkali content. Most of the products we use on a daily basis are made with feldspar: glass for drinking, glass for protection, fiberglass for insulation, the floor tiles and shower basins in our bathrooms, and the tableware from which we eat. Feldspar is part of our daily life.
Feldspar. Feldspar is one of the most abundant minerals in the earth's crust. The feldspars include a range of compositions with a general chemical formula of xAl(Al,Si) 3 O 8 where x can be sodium (Na) and/or calcium (Ca) and/or potassium (K). They are primarily used in glass and ceramics making. 
Type: mineral_group. Description: Feldspar is the name given to a group of minerals distinguished by the presence of alumina and silica (SiO 2) in their chemistry. This group includes aluminum silicates of soda, potassium, or lime. It is the single most abundant mineral group on Earth.