Sandblasting is our primary preparation method for refinishing metals. It removes all types of rust, paint, corrosion and surface grime. We have multiple media types available for blasting, from sand to aluminum oxide, our preferred media. Depending on the finish desired, we alternate media for application. Powder coating adheres best to a freshly sandblasted, profiled surface. We do all our sandblasting in-house prior to powder coating.
The tools used, the safety measures taken and the urgency of completion are different for every project, and all of these factors can influence the total price. If you want a rough estimate to start budgeting, however, plan for the cost of professional sandblasting to be anywhere from $916 to $1,198. Before you hire a professional to start sandblasting the exterior of your home, make sure that you fully understand how the process works. Taking Permits and Neighbors Into Account. Sandblasting may be quick, but it is such an intensive method that permits are often required before work can begin. Make sure to build in time and budget for the cost of this additional requirement.
Walk down the length of the driveway and use the sand from the sandblaster to remove any unwanted materials from the surface of the concrete until you reach the driveway base. Release the trigger of the sandblaster and the sweep the area clean using a push broom. 
There is no doubt that Sandblasting is a good choice when in the asphalt or concrete parking lots, or even in an above ground parking structure. The reason for this is based mainly on cost factors. Sandblasting is simply less expensive that shotblasting. The reason for this is based on cost factors. Sandblasting is the most economical way to remove paint from an asphalt parking lot, or concrete parking structure hands down. If you’re parking structure is below ground than it’s advisable to look to our shotblasting services.
The twist lies in replacing common blasting media, such as sand, carborundum or crushed walnut, with #5 grade baking soda (sodium bicarbonate), says Bob Marsh, owner of Western Soda Blasting, a Denver based company that has been specializing in soda blasting for six years. Soda blasting was able to remove the color without damaging the concrete. An aluminum beverage can where the logo and lettering has been removed without damaging or profiling the surface is a testament to the gentle power of soda blasting. The owner of this stamped concrete was unhappy with the color.
Abrasive cleaning is “blasting” with a high pressure air hose and media such as sand or other granules to remove paint and dirt from a variety of surfaces either to prepare it for another opaque coating or (as we use it) to reveal an architectural surface. 
Wet sandblasting means water is used in the technique to remove debris such as paint, tex-cote or old stucco, from a structure. Silica sand is the most commonly used material, but any small, relatively uniform particles will work. Elite Sandblasting works on residential, commercial, and industrial structures. 
Small jobs will cost much more expensive than large jobs due to the setup time and cleaning cost. Larger jobs can afford to suck in the cost of setup and cleanup into the total cost of a job. The average sandblasting company will charge $40 to $65 dollars per hour of labor. Specialty services will cost over $75 per hour. These types of services include extra preparation, special abrasion materials, and job design. Materials cost for sandblasting costs about $50 per 50 pound bag. Most jobs require no more than one bag, but large jobs can use more materials. 
Sandblasting Considerations Sandblasting is a good choice when in the parking lot or in an above ground parking structure. The reason for this is based on cost factors. Sandblasting is the most economical way to remove paint from an asphalt parking lot, or concrete parking structure hands down. If you’re parking structure is below ground than it’s advisable to look to our shotblasting services.
Sandblasting Cost-Exterior Surfaces. For extensive exterior repair, repainting or restoration, sandblasting is a technique that has been commonly used for decades. In recent years, however, the extensive and time involved, as well as some health risks to take into consideration, have reduced its use. Taking Permits and Neighbors Into Account. Sandblasting may be quick, but it is such an intensive method that permits are often required before work can begin. Make sure to build in time and budget for the cost of this additional requirement.