It does not cause epidemics and does not have the severe public health impact that influenza types A and B do. The typical incubation period for influenza is 1 to 4 days, with an average of 2 days. Adults can be infectious from the day before symptoms begin through approximately 5 days after illness onset. Children can be infectious for. 1 The incubation period of swine flu is one to 7 days. 2  People may be contagious from one day before they develop symptoms to up to 7 days after they get sick. 3  There are two influenza antiviral medications that are currently effective against H1N1 flu.
You may have the flu if you have some or all of these symptoms: 1  fever*. 2  cough. 3  sore throat. 4  runny or stuffy nose. 5  body aches. 6  headache. 7  chills. 8  fatigue. 9  sometimes diarrhea and vomiting. 
If you have flu, you generally start to feel ill within a few days of being infected. You should begin to feel much better within a week or so, although you may feel tired for much longer. You will usually be most infectious from the day your symptoms start and for a further three to seven days. It's not the same as the common cold. Flu is caused by a different group of viruses and the symptoms tend to start more suddenly, be more severe and last longer. Some of the main symptoms of flu include: 1  a high temperature (fever) of 38C (100.4F) or above. 2  tiredness and weakness. 3  a headache.
According to the CDC, the flu typically lasts anywhere from a few days up to 2 weeks after it has been contracted. The length of the flu may be longer than 14 days for those in high risk categories for the illness. This may include: children under five, pregnant women, people over 50 years of age, and those living in assisted care or nursing homes. Flu symptoms are often numerous and may resemble the symptoms of a common cold. In most cases the flu symptoms are more intense than those of a common cold. According to the CDC, flu symptoms may include some or all of the following:
The Usual Time Frame. Symptoms typically begin 1 to 4 days after you've been infected with the flu. According to Flu.gov, you're contagious for about a week, beginning about a day before your symptoms develop. Chills and fever are often the first symptoms to appear, with a fever of 102 to 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39 degrees Celsius) being common. Christopher Robbins/Photodisc/Getty Images. If you're unlucky enough to get the flu, it can feel as if it's lasting forever. But for most otherwise healthy adults, it will be gone in 1 or 2 weeks. Many factors can affect how quickly you recover, including your age and other health conditions. If complications set in, you'll be out of commission even longer
How long your own flu shot lasts depends on how powerfully your own immune system reacts to it, said Dr. John J. Treanor, a vaccine expert at the University of Rochester medical school. 
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. The first symptoms of influenza type A, including fever, chills, headache, and body aches, often begin to go away after about 2 or 3 days. In some cases, these symptoms will last 5 days or longer. The respiratory symptoms of influenza type A, such as coughing, throat irritation, and congestion may last for days or weeks. However, most people are not contagious after about a week from the beginning of symptoms. 
Although infections from other viruses may have similar symptoms, those due to the influenza virus tend to be worse. Symptoms can begin about 1 to 4 days, or an average of 2 days, after a person is first exposed to the influenza virus. Fever and other symptoms can usually last up to 7 to 10 days, but the cough and weakness may last 1 to 2 weeks longer. If you get sick with influenza, home treatment can help ease symptoms. 