1 Integrate pharmacodynamic principles to aid in the understanding of adrenergic receptors and the actions of drugs on these receptors. 2  Understand the criteria upon which alpha and beta receptors are defined. 
1. These drugs are competitive antagonists of the beta adrenergic receptors 2. Beta blockers are either selective for the beta1 receptor or nonselective beta1 and beta2 antagonists. 3. Propranolol is the prototype Beta Blocker as well as the prototype of a nonselective beta blocker. 4. Integrate pharmacodynamic principles to understand the actions of drugs that interact with the adrenergic receptors and how these interactions are relevant to dental practice. 2. Understand the effects of epinephrine and norepinephrine on the cardiovascular system. 3.
Norepinephrine and epinephrine, both of which are secreted into the blood by the adrenal medulla, have somewhat different effects in exciting the alpha and beta receptors. Norepinephrine excites mainly alpha receptors but excites the beta receptors to a less extent as well. The beta receptors in turn are divided into beta1 and beta 2 receptors because certain drugs affect only some beta receptors. Also, there is a less distinct division of alpha receptors into alpha1 and alpha 2
2. Understand the pharmacologic actions and therapeutic actions of drugs that act at the beta 1 and beta 2 -adrenergic receptors as well as the alpha 1 -adrenergic receptor. 3. Know the mechanism of action and effects of amphetamine and cocaine. Integrate pharmacodynamic principles to understand the actions of drugs that interact with the adrenergic receptors and how these interactions are relevant to dental practice. 2. Understand the effects of epinephrine and norepinephrine on the cardiovascular system. 3.
Just as in the muscarinic receptor, and most other G protein-coupled receptors that bind biogenic amines, the adrenergic receptors possess an aspartate residue in the third transmembrane domain. The aspartate residue appears to interact with the amine residue of norepinephrine and other adrenergic ligands. The beta receptors in turn are divided into beta1 and beta 2 receptors because certain drugs affect only some beta receptors. Also, there is a less distinct division of alpha receptors into alpha1 and alpha 2
Three types of beta receptors are known, designated β 1, β 2 and β 3 receptors. β1-adrenergic receptors are located mainly in the heart and in the kidneys. β2-adrenergic receptors are located mainly in the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, liver, uterus, vascular smooth muscle, and skeletal muscle. β3-adrenergic receptors are located in fat cells. Beta receptors are found on cells of the heart muscles, smooth muscles, airways, arteries, kidneys, and other tissues that are part of the sympathetic nervous system and lead to stress responses, especially when they are stimulated by epinephrine (adrenaline)
Beta blockers block the action of endogenous catecholamines epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline) -in particular on adrenergic beta receptors, of the sympathetic nervous system, which mediates the fight-or-flight response. β1-adrenergic receptors are located mainly in the heart and in the kidneys. β2-adrenergic receptors are located mainly in the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, liver, uterus, vascular smooth muscle, and skeletal muscle. β3-adrenergic receptors are located in fat cells.
The objective of this article is to focus on the antihypertensive agents blocking adrenergic receptors, both alpha and beta blockers, and attempt to construct potential explanations for their effects on lipids in a mechanistic manner. Mechanisms of action of adrenergic receptor blockers on lipids during antihypertensive drug treatment.
Beta blockers, also known as beta-adrenergic blocking agents, are a class of drugs that works by blocking the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and epinephrine from binding to receptors. There are three known types of beta receptors, known as beta 1 (β 1), beta 2 (β 2) and beta 3 (β 3). 1  β 1 -adrenergic receptors are located commonly in the heart and kidneys.
Beta-blockers are drugs that bind to beta-adrenoceptors and thereby block the binding of norepinephrine and epinephrine to these receptors. This inhibits normal sympathetic effects that act through these receptors. Therefore, beta-blockers are sympatholytic drugs. Vascular smooth muscle has β 2 -adrenoceptors that are normally activated by norepinephrine released by sympathetic adrenergic nerves or by circulating epinephrine. These receptors, like those in the heart, are coupled to a Gs-protein, which stimulates the formation of cAMP.