Concept 25 Some viruses store genetic information in RNA. DNA was believed to be the sole medium for genetic information storage. Furthermore, Watson and Crick's central dogma assumed that information flowed one-way from DNA to RNA to protein. So it came as a surprise when in 1971, it was discovered that some viruses shift their genetic information from RNA to DNA. During infection, the RNA code is first transcribed back to DNA — then to RNA to protein, according to the accepted scheme. The initial conversion of RNA to DNA — going in reverse of the central dogma — is called reverse transcription, and viruses that use this mechanism are classified as retroviruses.
Three different types of RNA exist, mRNA or messenger RNA, tRNA or transfer RNA, and rRNA or ribosomal RNA. Protein Synthesis Cells store and use coded information. The genetic information stored in DNA is used to direct the synthesis of the thousands of proteins that each cell requires. The chemical and structural properties of DNA are the basis for how the genetic information that underlies heredity. DNA is encoded in the sequence of nitrogenous bases which directs the formation of proteins in the cell.
RNA encodes genetic information that can be translated into the amino acid sequence of proteins, as evidenced by the messenger RNA molecules present within every cell, and the RNA genomes of a large number of viruses. On the other hand, the sequence information of a protein molecule is not used by cells to functionally encode genetic information. DNA has three primary attributes that allow it to be far better than RNA at encoding
A nucleus of a cell contains chromosomes that carry genetic  information. Chromosomes are made from long, coiled molecules of  DNA. A gene is a shorter region of DNA that ca … rries the genetic  code for a particular characteristic. Answered. 
Thus, during cell division, the paired strands unravel and each strand serves as the template for synthesis of a new complementary strand. In most multicellular organisms, every cell carries the same DNA, but this genetic information is used in varying ways by different types of cells. In other words, what a cell does within an organism dictates which of its genes are expressed. 
Encoded by the DNA comprising the Genes which sit on the Chromosomes in the cells Nucleus.   The genetic information in the cell is stored in the nucleus. the nucleus contr … ols the cell and is like a little dot. 15 people found this useful. 1  The Stages of Mitosis: Understanding Prophase One of the most widely discussed topics in introductory biology classes is cellular division, or mitosis. The DNA of the chromosomes, in the nucleus of the cell, has the genetic information. + 24 others found this useful. Leiha Spence. Edit. Share to: Jeff Acklin. 351,349 Contributions. You can maintain power over people as long as you give them something.
From DNA to RNA to Protein. In order to synthesize a protein, the genetic information in the DNA must be converted to an amino acid sequence. Its similar to the way that someone needs to read a recipe and mix the correct ingredients together. Step 1- Transcription involves the synthesis of mRNA from template DNA.
I.a. The DNA, RNA and Proteins DNA or other wise called deoxyribonucleic acid is the building block of the life. It contains the information the cell requires to synthesize protein and to replicate itself, to be short it is the storage repository for the information that is required for any cell to function.
Most genes contain the information needed to make functional molecules called proteins. (A few genes produce other molecules that help the cell assemble proteins.) The journey from gene to protein is complex and tightly controlled within each cell. It consists of two major steps: transcription and translation. Together, transcription and translation are known as gene expression. During the process of transcription, the information stored in a gene’s DNA is transferred to a similar molecule called RNA (ribonucleic acid) in the cell nucleus. Both RNA and DNA are made up of a chain of nucleotide bases, but they have slightly different chemical properties
The chromosomes in a cell contain genetic information since DNA is found in a chromosome which holds genetic onformation. The DNA of the chromosomes, in the nucleus of the cell, has the genetic information. + 24 others found this useful. Leiha Spence. Edit. Share to: Jeff Acklin. 351,349 Contributions. You can maintain power over people as long as you give them something.