Gold Hex code: #FFCC00. Germany Flag-History, Facts & information for kids. Black, red and gold colors have played an important role in German history and can be traced back to the medieval banner of the Holy Roman Emperor-a black eagle with red claws and beak on a gold field.
Black, red and gold-the German flag. Since 1949, the year the Federal Republic of Germany was founded after the war, the civil and state flag of the country is a tricolor with three equally sized, horizontal bands of black, red and gold.
Germany's modern flag has three equal horizontal bands of black, red and gold, which are the country's national colors. Sometimes the three colors are associated with the thre … e principles unity, law and freedom which are stated in the text of Germany's national anthem.
German Flag Meaning: The colors black, red and gold have been associated with Germany since the middle ages, but the current German flag colors are traced back to early 19th century volunteers, who fought for the country in the Napoleonic wars.
The German flag consists of the colors of the coat-of-arms of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation (i.e. the First Reich) - a black eagle, with red beak and claws, on a gold field. The red, at least, does not mean anything; it is usual to paint the claws red, unless the beast itself is red or on a red field.
The colors in the German flag are black, red, and gold. These were also the colors of the flag of the holy Roman empire at one time. It symbolizes liberty for the people of Germany and was designed in 1848.
The colors on the German flag are black, red and yellow. They can be traced back to the medieval banner of the Holy Roman Emperor from about 1402-1806. The three equal bands of red, black and gold consisted of a black double-headed eagle with red claws on a bright golden ground.
During the division of the German state, the East German flag incorporated the East German coat of arms. The reunification of 1990 brought a return to the black, red and gold for all of Germany. The modern day colors signify democracy and freedom.
The colors of the German flag now represent the unification of Germany. From 1935 to 1945, the German flag featured a red background with a black Swastika in the middle of it on a white circle. The former East German flag (1959 to 1989) featured Communist emblems on it.