1 Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (250 degrees C). 2  Place potatoes in a large roasting pan and toss with oil, salt, pepper, and rosemary until evenly coated. 3  Spread out potatoes in a single layer. 4  Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 5  Serve immediately. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (250 degrees C). 2  Place potatoes in a large roasting pan and toss with oil, salt, pepper, and rosemary until evenly coated. 3
1 Put a roasting tin in the oven (one big enough to take the potatoes in a single layer) and heat oven to 200C/fan 180C/gas 6. 2  Peel the potatoes and cut each into 4 even-sized pieces if they are medium size, 2-3 if smaller (5cm pieces). 3  Drop the potatoes into a large pan and pour in enough water to barely cover them. Method. 1  Put a roasting tin in the oven (one big enough to take the potatoes in a single layer) and heat oven to 200C/fan 180C/gas 6. 2  Drain the potatoes in a colander. 3  Roast the potatoes for 15 mins, then take them out of the oven and turn them over.
Toss all to combine and coat in oil. Place the potatoes in the oven and roast for about 30 to 40 minutes, shaking the baking sheet occasionally, until the potatoes are nicely browned and fork tender and the garlic cloves and shallots are caramelized. Remove rosemary sprigs and serve immediately. Directions. Heat the oven to 375 degrees F. Cut the Peruvian potatoes in half or in quarters, about the same size as the small new potatoes. Do the same for the red bliss potatoes. Place all potatoes, garlic cloves, shallot quarters and rosemary sprigs on a baking sheet.
Method. 1  Put a roasting tin in the oven (one big enough to take the potatoes in a single layer) and heat oven to 200C/fan 180C/gas 6. 2  Peel the potatoes and cut each into 4 even-sized pieces if they are medium size, 2-3 if smaller (5cm pieces). Method. 1  Put a roasting tin in the oven (one big enough to take the potatoes in a single layer) and heat oven to 200C/fan 180C/gas 6. 2  Drain the potatoes in a colander. 3  Roast the potatoes for 15 mins, then take them out of the oven and turn them over.
1 Roast the potatoes for 15 mins, then take them out of the oven and turn them over. 2  Roast for another 15 mins and turn them over again. 3  Put them back in the oven for another 10-20 mins, or however long it takes to get them really golden and crisp. 4  The colouring will be uneven, which is what you want. Method. 1  Put a roasting tin in the oven (one big enough to take the potatoes in a single layer) and heat oven to 200C/fan 180C/gas 6. 2  Drain the potatoes in a colander. 3  Roast the potatoes for 15 mins, then take them out of the oven and turn them over.
Method 1. Par-boil the potatoes in gently boiling salted water for about 8 minutes. Stop cooking before they're cooked right through. 2. Leave to cool completely, then scratch roughly with a fork and season with a little fine salt. 3. 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Cut the potatoes in half or quarters and place in a bowl with the olive oil, salt, pepper, and garlic; toss until the potatoes are well coated. Transfer the potatoes to a sheet pan and spread out into 1 layer. Roast in the oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour or until browned and crisp. Flip twice with a spatula during cooking in order to ensure even browning. Remove the potatoes from the oven, toss with parsley, season to taste, and serve hot. Copyright 2001, Barefoot Contessa Parties!, All Rights Reserved. 
(Always use a baking sheet with sides for roasting vegetables.). Place the baking sheet in the oven. Roast the potatoes for about 20 minutes. Then turn them over using a spatula or a pair of tongs. Roast for an additional 20-30 minutes, depending how browned and crispy you like them. Sometimes I leave them in the oven even longer. 
Directions. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Toss potatoes, oil, and rosemary on a rimmed baking sheet. Spread out potatoes in a single layer; season with salt and pepper. Roast, stirring once halfway through cooking, until potatoes are golden brown and crisp outside and tender inside, about 30 minutes.