Arthritis (from Greek arthro- , joint + -itis, inflammation; plural: arthritides) is a form of joint disorder that involves inflammation of one or more joints. There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. 
Osteoarthritis. What it is: More people have this condition than any other form of arthritis. It’s the “wear and tear” that happens when your joints are overused. It usually happens with age, but it can also result from joint injuries or obesity (which puts extra stress on your joints). 2. What it is: RA is an autoimmune disease. That means the immune system attacks parts of the body, especially the joints. That leads to inflammation, which can cause severe joint damage if you don’t treat it. About 1 out of every 5 people who have rheumatoid arthritis get lumps on their skin called rheumatoid nodules.
Arthritis. Arthritis is a general term for conditions that affect the joints and surrounding tissues. Joints are places in the body where bones come together, such as the knees, wrists, fingers, toes, and hips. The two most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. 1  Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful, degenerative joint disease that often involves the hips, knees, neck, lower back, or small joints of the hand
While there’s currently no cure for arthritis, understanding the disease and how diet can help manage symptoms can make a world of difference. Here we review the most common types of arthritis. Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most common types of arthritis that occurs when cartilage in the joints begins to break down. Without that cushion, the bones rub against one another, causing symptoms like stiffness, joint pain, and loss of movement, especially in the knees, hips, and lower back. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disorder, which means your body’s immune system turns on you. In RA, the joints are the target of immune attack. This causes inflammation that can damage the joints and other organs.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes inflammation of the joints. Because many symptoms of RA are similar to those of a variety of other diseases, diagnosis can be difficult. A correct diagnosis requires clinical evaluation, X-rays, and a series of laboratory tests. Understanding the type of RA you have will help you and your doctor decide on a course of treatment.
1. What it is: More people have this condition than any other form of arthritis. It’s the “wear and tear” that happens when your joints are overused. It usually happens with age, but it can also result from joint injuries or obesity (which puts extra stress on your joints). 2. What it is: RA is an autoimmune disease. That means the immune system attacks parts of the body, especially the joints. That leads to inflammation, which can cause severe joint damage if you don’t treat it. About 1 out of every 5 people who have rheumatoid arthritis get lumps on their skin called rheumatoid nodules.
Less Common Types of Arthritis. Arthritis affects over 700,000 people in Ireland, the majority of these having osteoarthritis from wear and tear on joints over the years. About 40,000 people have rheumatoid arthritis. However, there are over 100 different types of arthritis and related diseases. 