Many attorneys charge a flat fee for preparing wills; around here it can cost between $200 and $500.00 for an attorney to prepare a simple will. Best Answer: You can often get them done for free from some volunteer attorneys and legal aid if you are low income. A simple will costs less than $500. If you have a lot of assets, you may want to go for a trust which starts adding up when it comes to the cost.
Attorney packages usually include at least one meeting with the lawyer. The attorney then draws up your will according to your specifications. If you’re requesting only a will, the minimum cost can run from $150 to $600, for an average cost of about $375. If any complications or problems arise, the attorney might bill you for more time at his hourly rate.
Total. To prepare a will yourself, expect to pay $100 including the cost of the software required and the notary service that is required to authenticate it. For a lawyer, expect to pay $500. Additional fees may apply depending on how basic the will is. Significance. The most substantial cost of preparing a will is if you hire a lawyer to prepare the paperwork. Depending on the state, lawyer fees can range from $500 to $1,000 for a simple will.
1 For those with modest assets and only a few beneficiaries, it's possible to create a basic will without an attorney. 2  Nolo Press gives free advice on when a no-frills will is enough, and sells books ($19-$32) or Quicken WillMaker Plus computer software ($50) to help you do it yourself. Complexity: Modest. A follow up to my previous post. In a meeting later, I explained my situation and how I felt. He must have felt the same, since he did lower the price from $1285.00 to $1085.00 If you have a problem with your will, it does pay to let the lawyer know about it so he can rectify the situation.
Many attorneys charge a flat rate for the service -- between about $300 and $600 at the time of publication -- which usually includes meeting with you to make sure that a simple will really does work for you. If you have neither a spouse nor children, you might want to leave all your assets to one individual. A simple will means that you’re not dividing your life’s possessions among a multitude of beneficiaries. It has nothing to do with the size of your estate.
Mid-Range Wills – If you have some investments and property and items you want to leave to family members or charities, the average cost of a will may double from $300 to $350 for an attorney to prepare. Living Wills – No matter what the size of your estate, a living will should cost you around $75; or you can ask for a living will to be included in the cost of your last will and testament.
Most Wills cost no more than $300 and a truly simply Will would cost no more than $150 for a single individual. Lastly, if the lawyer offers a free consultation, providing the lawyer with your information and allowing him or her to give you a quote for the cost of services costs you no more than an hour of your time. For example, if a lawyer were to tell her client that she would bill them at the rate of $180 per hour for her services, most clients would cringe. The client s first reaction might be to calculate how much they make an hour. If they make $25 per hour, the lawyer s $180 per hour fee would seem exorbitant, at best
You can educate yourself -- often free of charge -- to make sure a simple will really does meet your needs. Various legal websites, as well as the American Bar Association, offer instructional booklets and information online. If you have neither a spouse nor children, you might want to leave all your assets to one individual. A simple will means that you’re not dividing your life’s possessions among a multitude of beneficiaries. It has nothing to do with the size of your estate.