Shiva is the god of the yogis, self-controlled and celibate, while at the same time a lover of his spouse (shakti). Lord Shiva is the destroyer of the world, following Brahma the creator and Vishnu the preserver, after which Brahma again creates the world and so on. Shiva is responsible for change both in the form of death and destruction and in the positive sense of destroying the ego, the false identification with the form. Another main form of Shiva is Ardhnarishwara, half Shiva, half Shakti. Also related to Shiva is Indra. Attributes of Lord Shiva. Shiva's main attributes are 1  : the trident that represents the three gunas. 2  the snakes that show he is beyond the power of death and poison and also stand for the Kundalini energy. 3  the sound of Shiva's two-sided drum maintains the rhythm of the heartbeat and creates the sound AUM in the overtones
Lord Shiva represents the aspect of the Supreme Being (Brahman of the Upanishads) that continuously dissolves to recreate in the cyclic process of creation, preservation, dissolution and recreation of the universe. 
In Hinduism, Lord Shiva is regarded as the representation of the Supreme Being. He is known as the third element in the Hindu Trinity (Trimurti), the other two members being Lord Brahma-the creator and Lord Vishnu-the protector. Shiva is the destructive form of the Almighty. 
The 3 gods represent 3 energies the Shiva Shakti, The Vishnu  Shakti, and the Brahma Shakti.    Brahma is the Creator Energy, that which created this whole  universe, … or rather the energy this whole world is made of.    Vishnu is the managing energy, that which oversees all that is  going on. To understand Shiva we must keep in mind that every Hindu god represents a force within us. The gods enables us to have control over the force they represent.
The lingam (also linga, ling, Shiva linga, Shiv ling, Sanskrit: लिङ्गं, liṅgaṃ, meaning mark, sign, or inference) is a representation of the Hindu deity Shiva used for worship in temples. In traditional Indian society, the linga is rather seen as a symbol of the energy and potential of God, Shiva himself. According to Swami Sivananda, the view that the Shiva lingam represents the phallus is a mistake; The same sentiments have also been expressed by H. H. Wilson in 1840. The novelist Christopher Isherwood also addresses the interpretation of the linga as a sex symbol.
Shiva is represented with the following features: 1  A third eye. 2  The extra eye represents the wisdom and insight that Shiva has. 3  It is also believed to be the source of his untamed energy. 4  On one occasion, when Shiva was distracted in the midst of worship by the love god, Kama, Shiva opened his third eye in anger. Shiva is the third god in the Hindu triumvirate. The triumvirate consists of three gods who are responsible for the creation, upkeep and destruction of the world. The other two gods are Brahma and Vishnu. Brahma is the creator of the universe while Vishnu is the preserver of it
Shiva often holds a trident, which represents the Hindu trinity of Brahma, Shiva and Vishnu. It is also said to represent the threefold qualities of nature: creation, preservation and destruction, although preservation is usually attributed to Vishnu. 