If maintained properly and sealed regularly, asphalt driveways will last around 30 years. Not properly cared for, an asphalt driveway can deteriorate considerably in as little as 5 years, leading to costly repairs or replacements. Concrete driveways can last 50 years or longer with lesser maintenance and repair costs. Asphalt driveways must be sealed every 4 to 5 years. Asphalt is petroleum based. It is very elastic at the time of installation. Over time, the oils are oxidized and lose their moisture. The color of the asphalt lightens to gray, and the structure becomes more brittle.
Comparisons. In terms of initial cost, asphalt is a cheaper surface to use than concrete but the maintenance involved raises the overall cost. Asphalt roads and driveways can last for anywhere from 10 to 30 years if well-maintained. Concrete roads and driveways can last for 20 to 60 years if maintained properly. Asphalt requires re-sealing every three years or so. Low-end sealants cost around $5 for a five-gallon bucket and cover around 400 square feet of asphalt. High-end sealants can cost upwards of $20 per bucket. Concrete driveways are harder to fix when they crack.
Warm-mix asphalt may be a cheaper alternative to hot-mix asphalt. Concrete, however, remains the most cost effective option for many roadway systems. Using DOT initial bid and life cycle cost software, analyses were performed to compare hot-mix to warm-mix asphalt. An equivalent concrete pavement road was also analyzed. For the warm-mix asphalt representative, the strongest fuel savings case of 50 percent was used. For an urban two-lane road in 2013, warm-mix asphalt paving costs were estimated at $852,238 per two-lane mile compared to $878,513 per two-lane mile for a hot-mix asphalt roadway – or a savings of roughly $26,000.
A basic asphalt driveway costs about $2 to $6 per square foot, including installation. That provides you with a base and a top coat. The price goes up from there if you add features like a chip seal top coat, which extends the life of the driveway, or a decorative top coat that is stamped or colored. Asphalt Driveway Pros. 1  Price-Asphalt is considerably less expensive than concrete. 2  In some cases, it’s about half the price. 3  Better in cold climates-Asphalt is less likely to crack in cold weather. 4  It performs better than concrete in very harsh or snowy climates.
Cost. Ignoring any maintenance costs, asphalt is generally much cheaper to install than concrete. On average, the cost per square foot for asphalt will run between $2.50 to $4.00. Fluctuations in crude oil prices can cause fluctuations in asphalt prices but the price will remain around this range. 
1 Shorter lifespan-Asphalt doesn’t last as long. 2  The lifespan is generally about 15 to 20 years-half that of concrete. 3  More maintenance required-Asphalt needs to be resealed every three to five years, particularly if you want it to last. Asphalt Driveway Pros. 1  Price-Asphalt is considerably less expensive than concrete. 2  In some cases, it’s about half the price. 3  Better in cold climates-Asphalt is less likely to crack in cold weather. 4  It performs better than concrete in very harsh or snowy climates.
Basic, construction-grade concrete costs about $5 to $10 per square foot, including installation. Opting for fancier, decorative versions such as stamped or colored concrete will add several dollars per square foot to the price. Very high-end concrete could cost as much as $15 per square foot. Again, if you’re building a driveway where none existed, budget about an extra $2 to install a layer of gravel beneath the concrete. Removal of an existing driveway usually runs $50 to $60 per hour. Asphalt Driveway Pros. 1  Price-Asphalt is considerably less expensive than concrete. 2  In some cases, it’s about half the price. 3  Better in cold climates-Asphalt is less likely to crack in cold weather. 4  It performs better than concrete in very harsh or snowy climates.
On average a concrete driveway will easily last 30 years, and the asphalt may run 8-10 years but you must also add in the cost of the sealer. When you add this cost into the asphalt cost, you will see that concrete is a much greater value! 
An asphalt driveway will require more regular maintenance than a concrete driveway. Asphalt requires re-sealing every three years or so. Low-end sealants cost around $5 for a five-gallon bucket and cover around 400 square feet of asphalt. High-end sealants can cost upwards of $20 per bucket. Concrete driveways are harder to fix when they crack.
Concrete on the other hand, is one of the more expensive materials used to pave roads and driveways with. Concrete can cost between $3 to $10 per square foot installed. Asphalt can cost anywhere from $1 to $5 per square foot installed. Asphalt requires re-sealing every three years or so. Low-end sealants cost around $5 for a five-gallon bucket and cover around 400 square feet of asphalt. High-end sealants can cost upwards of $20 per bucket. Concrete driveways are harder to fix when they crack.