1 The City of Saline collects property taxes from July 1st, the year of any given tax, through February 28th of the following year. 2  Any taxes still due on March 1st are then turned over to the Washtenaw County Treasurer for continued collection. The link below will take you to the City of Saline's Tax and Assessing Software where you can access property details, such as current assessments, photos, building layout data, sales transactions, and recent tax bills.
Over 500 Saline area businesses are represented by, and are members of, the Saline Area Chamber of Commerce. The Saline Area Chamber of Commerce is also active in supporting various Saline area social and community causes. The main weather hazard in Saline—as well as in all of Southeast Michigan—is severe thunderstorms and snowstorms. Tornadoes, high winds, large hail, and lightning are the most frequent causes of death from weather in the area.
POSTMARKS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Payment: Please make checks payable to: Saline Township. Write your property identification number on your check for reference, and include the payment voucher portion of the tax bill with your payment. Saline Township Treasurer, 4690 Willow Road, Saline, MI 48176. Receipt sent upon request
Saline was ranked the 63rd best place to live (out of 1,300 location) in a 2009 CNN/Money Magazine survey, and it also made CNN/Money's list of best places to retire in 2005. The main weather hazard in Saline—as well as in all of Southeast Michigan—is severe thunderstorms and snowstorms. Tornadoes, high winds, large hail, and lightning are the most frequent causes of death from weather in the area.
Would like to move to Saline, MI (1 reply). Latest news from Saline, MI collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (24.3%), English (12.6%), Irish (11.0%), United States (6.5%), Polish (5.1%), Scottish (3.8%). Current Local Time: EST time zone. Elevation: 820 feet. Land area: 4.63 square miles. 6.2%. According to our research of Michigan and other state lists there were 9 registered sex offenders living in Saline, Michigan as of October 06, 2015.
Saline /səˈliːn/ is a city in Washtenaw County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The main weather hazard in Saline—as well as in all of Southeast Michigan—is severe thunderstorms and snowstorms. Tornadoes, high winds, large hail, and lightning are the most frequent causes of death from weather in the area.
14A-4 Saline. Located in the City of Saline, Michigan, the 14A-4 District Court presides over the Cities of Saline and Milan, the Townships of Bridgewater, Freedom, Lodi, Manchester, Saline, Sharon and York, as well as the Village of Manchester Criminal Misdemeanor and Civil Infraction (Traffic) cases. 
Response is by the Washtenaw County Sheriff, the Michigan State Police, Huron Valley Ambulance (HVA), Saline Area Fire Department. Non Emergency Numbers: Fire Saline Area Fire Department: 734.429.7911 Washtenaw County Sheriff: General Information: 734.971.8400, ext. Write your property identification number on your check for reference, and include the payment voucher portion of the tax bill with your payment. Saline Township Treasurer, 4690 Willow Road, Saline, MI 48176.
As of the 2010 census, the city population was 8,810. The city is popular for its annual Celtic Festival, which attracts people from all over the United States and its sister cities Brecon, Wales, United Kingdom (established 1966) and Lindenberg, Germany (established 2003). The main weather hazard in Saline—as well as in all of Southeast Michigan—is severe thunderstorms and snowstorms. Tornadoes, high winds, large hail, and lightning are the most frequent causes of death from weather in the area.