Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. If you do not have any insurance, and are paying out-of-pocket, expect the fee to see a private cardiologist to be anywhere from $200 - $400. This will include the office visit, physical exam and likely an electrocardiogram (EKG). The full cost of a regular visit to the doctor in the US typically ranges from $80-$200. However, this cost is usually paid by the patient's health insurance plan and the pati … ent (as co-pay or co-insurance).
1 On average, the price for a visit can be anywhere from $195 to $510 per visit without insurance. 2  This includes the consultation and diagnosis of heart conditions. 3  The doctor will also be able to provide various suggested treatments. 1 With cardiologist visits, the geographical location as well as the expertise of the doctor can greatly influence the price. 2  A visit to the cardiologist can cost differently depending on the medical institution to which you go.
It depends on what state you live in. Average office visit is 80$ and any tests will run 75-100$ or more. Depending on what you are getting tested for. The pap smears are … what get expensive. I'd think about going to a planned parenthood if you don't have insurance as they are a lot cheaper and work with you. The full cost of a regular visit to the doctor in the US typically ranges from $80-$200. However, this cost is usually paid by the patient's health insurance plan and the pati … ent (as co-pay or co-insurance).
I would imagine, $70-100 to get in the door. X-rays of the chest, if needed, will be cheaper at your regular vet. A heart ultrasound (echocardiogram) can easily be $350-$500. However, if it is a soft murmur, an ultrasound may not even be needed. I would expect up to $100 for the office visit. Feel free to use this link and call some cardiology offices, and see what they quote in your area. Dr. Andy. 
These tests are expensive without insurance (echocardiogram about $300, and stress test $500-$1000). If your primary doctor thinks you need to see a cardiologist, it's worth paying the $200-$400 for the office visit. The full cost of a regular visit to the doctor in the US typically ranges from $80-$200. However, this cost is usually paid by the patient's health insurance plan and the pati … ent (as co-pay or co-insurance).
The cost for a cardiologist visit depends on the level of experience of the doctor, the cost of living in your area, your insurance company, and your type of heart disorder. How much is it? 1  On average, the price for a visit can be anywhere from $195 to $510 per visit without insurance. 1 With cardiologist visits, the geographical location as well as the expertise of the doctor can greatly influence the price. 2  A visit to the cardiologist can cost differently depending on the medical institution to which you go.
in the US, I saw a specialist listed on DINET, who is a cardiologist, to assess for POTS. I don't have medical insurance. Every visit cost $350, and the diagnosis requires a series of about four visits. Every year, I follow up twice, costing me $350 each time. A hospital stay is quite expensive, but if they pay all of it except the cardiologist then that is more affordable. I know my office visits are less than $100 to see my cardiologist in his office, but I have no clue what it costs if he visits me in the hospital.
1 The price range for a cardiologist visit according to HarvardPilgrim.com can cost anywhere from $289 to $443. 2  This includes various visit lengths with the cardiologist regarding diagnosis and treatment of heart related diseases. 1 With cardiologist visits, the geographical location as well as the expertise of the doctor can greatly influence the price. 2  A visit to the cardiologist can cost differently depending on the medical institution to which you go.