Infants might have green stool as a result of: 1  Not finishing nursing entirely on one side, thus missing some of the high-fat content breast milk, which affects the digestion of the milk. 2  Protein hydrolysate formula (for babies with milk or soy allergy). 3  Lack of normal intestinal bacteria in breast-fed infants.
In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines.
Green stool is a condition in which the feces have a green coloring or tint. Green stool may be normal in some cases, such as in breast-fed infants. Green stool can also be caused by taking iron supplements or eating certain foods such as green leafy vegetables. Green stool can also indicate a problem with food digestion due to a disease, disorder or other abnormal process.
It may be alarming to see green poop in your toilet bowl, but it isn't necessarily a cause for concern. The color of your stools is often a reflection of what you eat. Black stools, for example, can result from eating blueberries or taking medications that contain bismuth subsalicylate, such as Pepto-Bismol.
The normal color of stool or feces is generally light to dark brown. Stool gets its color from bile, which is a yellow-green fluid produced in the liver that helps to digest your food. As food passes through your digestive tract, digestive enzymes break down the bile, resulting in various shades of brown stool. When a disease or condition causes diarrhea, food passes through the digestive tract rapidly, and stools may be green because digestive enzymes did not have time to turn the stool brown.
Presence of certain type of bacteria in intestinal tract can also affect the color of human stools. Salmonella, a type of bacteria, if enters in human intestine or digestive tract, could disturb its functioning and result in change in color of stools. This could be easily treated with antibiotics.