Bank Account.). Step 4. Click the Received From column on a blank line, and then type the name of the vendor from whom you received the rebate. Step 5. Click the Income column on the same line and select the expense account used to record the original vendor invoice. Step 7. Enter the check number in the Chk No. column if the vendor issued a check for the rebate. Select the appropriate payment method in the Pmt Meth. column and enter the rebate amount in the Amount column. Step 8. Click the Save & Close button to save the rebate entry and record the deposit.
Create a Rebate Item. Create a new item to describe the rebate. Select the Lists menu and choose Items.. Click the New button near the bottom of the window to open the New Item window. Choose Other Charge in the Type drop-down list. Enter a name and description for the rebate.
Add a Rebate account to your chart of accounts to save time and ensure consistent data entry. Select the Lists menu and choose Chart of Accounts.. Click the Account button at the bottom of the window and choose New to open the New Account window. Select Income as the account type. Assign a name, such as Rebates, and an account number. Click OK to save the new account. Create a new item to describe the rebate. Select the Lists menu and choose Items.. Click the New button near the bottom of the window to open the New Item window. Choose Other Charge in the Type drop-down list. Enter a name and description for
This rebate is then paid to the customer and the accounting journal entry is a debit to Sales Rebates and a credit to the Bank account of $432. In the case of a credit sale, the entries are slightly different. Where for example a customer has bought equipment for $3,600, the initial entry in respect of the sale would be to debit the Bank Account and credit the Sales Account with $3,600, respectively. Beyond the purchase price, it then becomes clear the customer is entitled to a 12% rebate amounting to $432.
If it is then determined that the customer is eligible for a 15% rebate amounting to $270, this is communicated to the customer and the accounting journal entry is to debit the Sales Rebates for $270 and to credit the same amount to the Debtors' account for that customer. Where for example a customer has bought equipment for $3,600, the initial entry in respect of the sale would be to debit the Bank Account and credit the Sales Account with $3,600, respectively. Beyond the purchase price, it then becomes clear the customer is entitled to a 12% rebate amounting to $432.
Let's say the rebate is $1.00 - Make the deposit of the $1.00 to Misc. Income account. Make a general journal entry deducting the $1.00 from the Misc. Income account (Debit). On the next line enter a Credit to the expense account it applies to and enter the customer:job name on that line. 
Basic Accounting. Generally accepted accounting principles state that rebates are a reduction in sales, not a selling expense. Therefore, companies must account rebates when selling goods. For example, say a company sells widgets for $5 each, and a planned 20 percent rebate is coming to induce higher sales. 
Step 3. Enter the amount of the rebate as a debit to the product rebates contra revenue account. Using the example transaction from the prior step, you should enter $100 as a debit to product rebates. Step 4. Record the cash received from the customer as a debit to your bank account in the general ledger. Step 2. Input the full amount of the sale as a credit to your sales revenue general ledger account. For example, if you sell an item that is normally priced at $500 with a customer rebate of $100, you would credit $500 to sales revenue. Related Reading: Accounting Systems & Procedures.