Zarah /za-rah/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Zarah's roots are Hebrew and Arabic, and the name Zarah means princess; radiance. Zarah is a version of Sarah (Hebrew). Biblical: originally called Sarai. Zarah is also a variant of Zara (Arabic): see also Zahara. Zarah is an uncommonly occurring given name for women. Zarah is an equally unusual last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census).
The name Zareh is of Armenian origin, and is used in more than one countries and different languages of the world, especially Arabic speaking countries, English speaking countries among others. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Zareh, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
[ syll. za-reh, zar-eh ] The baby boy name Zareh is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is Z EH R EH - †. Zareh is derived from African-Sudan origins. Zareh is a variant of the name Zareb. Zareh is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. 
Meaning of Zareh. Armenian name. In Armenian, the name Zareh means-protector.The name Zareh originated as an Armenian name. The name Zareh is most often used as a boy name or male name. Armenian Name Meaning-protector. 
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Zareh and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Zareh is fascinating, learn more about it. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Zareh, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
The meaning of Zareh is “Protector”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Zareh and its name origin or of any other name in our database. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Zareh, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.