ASCAP does not license the right to record music... on a CD, tape, or as part of an audio-visual work such as a motion picture, video or TV program. Those rights, known as mechanical and synchronization (synch) rights, are licensed by writers or publishers. While ASCAP does not license dramatic or grand rights, or dramatic performances of its members' music, an ASCAP license does authorize nondramatic performances of songs from dramatic productions.
What you are going to need here is a Synch (or synchronisation) Licence. You may think that you’re using your own recording here and that you have paid for permission to record the song, but you haven’t paid to have the lyrics and music synched to the video footage. I think I’ve answered that here before. Legally speaking you need a synchronisation licence and / or a mechanical licence to record and then make a video for a cover of someone else’s song. 99.9% of people don’t bother getting them and very occasionally they will get them pulled down or other action taken against them.
One of the common issues that come up in music and copyright is whether permission or a license is needed to play music. Starting with the most private and simple of circumstances, you do not need a license to play music in your home for your personal enjoyment. You’ve already paid for the CD. You may play it at home or in your car for your personal enjoyment as much as you wish. You may also play your radio in your home and in your car without a license. The radio station already has a “blanket” license to broadcast the music you enjoy for free on your radio.
ASCAP and the Radio Music License Committee (RMLC) have concluded negotiations on a new industry-wide license agreement (2010 Radio Station License Agreement) that covers the period January 1, 2010 - December 31, 2016. While ASCAP does not license dramatic or grand rights, or dramatic performances of its members' music, an ASCAP license does authorize nondramatic performances of songs from dramatic productions.
Podcast: How to license a cover song. Many CD Baby artists have achieved success selling cover songs. In this episode, Scott Sellwood formerly of RightsFlow, YouTube and now an advisor to Loudr shows us how to properly license a cover song in the digital age. Sell cover songs-legally-without expensive lawyers or complicated paperwork. In order to sell a song you didn’t write yourself, you need to obtain a license. With our partners Easy Song Licensing and Loudr, you can easily and cheaply obtain the mechanical licenses required in order to legally sell and distribute cover songs in any format (download, CD, vinyl, etc.)
1. You want to stream the song on your site. That is, you want the song to play, but not be permanently saved on the user's computer. This is called streaming.. To do this, you need a performance license, so named because it refers to the right to perform the song for an audience. 2.
The ASCAP radio license does not provide the right to authorize retransmissions of broadcasts of ASCAP music over loudspeakers in stores, restaurants or other locations open to the public, or by means of music-on-hold systems. While ASCAP does not license dramatic or grand rights, or dramatic performances of its members' music, an ASCAP license does authorize nondramatic performances of songs from dramatic productions.
Once you have acquired your license, you can sign up to sell your music on iTunes, Amazon, Facebook, and dozens of other music stores around the world with CD Baby distribution. License a cover song. Sell cover songs-legally-without expensive lawyers or complicated paperwork. In order to sell a song you didn’t write yourself, you need to obtain a license. With our partners Easy Song Licensing and Loudr, you can easily and cheaply obtain the mechanical licenses required in order to legally sell and distribute cover songs in any format (download, CD, vinyl, etc.)
A BMI License provides you with the legal authorization you need to use a very powerful product – music. This product is the music creator’s property, so a licensing agreement protects your business or organization from the penalties involved in copyright infringement. You can’t play music publicly without one. Copyright laws require music users to get permission from songwriters and composers who can charge a fee before their music is played publicly, which then allows them to continue to create music.