Isolated taste buds and/or cells were stimulated by bath-perfusion of KCl (50 mM substituted equimolar for NaCl), a sweet/bitter taste mix (cycloheximide, 10 µM; saccharin, 2 mM; SC45647, 0.1 mM; denatonium, 1 mM), or acetic acid (10 mM, pH 5.0). Several transmitter candidates including serotonin (5-HT), ATP, and norepinephrine (NE) have been identified in taste buds. Recently, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as well as the associated synthetic enzymes and receptors have also been identified in taste cells.
Summary. HHMI researchers discover a taste receptor that responds to amino acids. Humans can recognize five tastes: bitter, salty, sour, sweet and umami. Of the five, however, umami is the most difficult to describe—it’s the flavor associated with monosodium glutamate (MSG). 
CCK plays a variety of roles in digestive processes, including inhibition of food intake, consistent with a role in satiety. In the lingual epithelium, the sensing of a broad spectrum of L-amino acids is accomplished by the heteromeric amino acid (umami) taste receptor (T1R1-T1R3). T1R1 and T1R3 subunits are also expressed in the intestine. A defining characteristic of umami sensing by T1R1-T1R3 is its potentiation by IMP or GMP. Sensing of amino acids by the gut-expressed taste receptor T1R1-T1R3 stimulates CCK secretion. Daly K, Al-Rammahi M, Moran A, Marcello M, Ninomiya Y, Shirazi-Beechey SP. CCK is secreted by endocrine cells of the proximal intestine in response to dietary components, including amino acids
So to define Umami as a single taste stimulated by a single factor, like sweet or salty, is incorrect and difficult to do. Umami is a taste that is stimulated by amino acids and nucleotides. It is a savory, mouth filling, brothy, flavor intensifier that you experience regularly but may have never identified. This is why I think of it as a three dimensional taste. Umami on the other hand is the taste of amino acids, which is also very important to human life. Not only do our bodies produce it naturally but it is also found prolifically throughout nature, beginning with mother's milk.
Humans detect taste with taste receptor cells. These are clustered in taste buds and scattered in other areas of the body. Each taste bud has a pore that opens out to the surface of the tongue enabling molecules and ions taken into the mouth to reach the receptor cells inside. 1  salty. 2  sour. 3  sweet. 4  bitter. 5  umami. 
T1R1+3 is prominently expressed in fungiform taste buds, which are innervated by chorda tympani fibres. Therefore, we stimulated mouse fungiform papillae at the front of the tongue with various amino acids in the presence or absence of IMP, and recorded tastant-induced spikes from the chorda tympani nerve. As expected, nerve responses to l-amino acids were significantly enhanced by IMP (Fig. 3).
This result was consistent with the failure of taste stimulation of taste buds, which evokes ATP secretion from Receptor cells, to trigger GABA secretion (Fig. 2D). In marked contrast, acetic acid stimulated Ca 2+ influx in Presynaptic cells and triggered GABA release (Fig. 3C). Several transmitter candidates including serotonin (5-HT), ATP, and norepinephrine (NE) have been identified in taste buds. Recently, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as well as the associated synthetic enzymes and receptors have also been identified in taste cells.
Several amino acids taste sweet or delicious (umami) to humans, and are attractive to rodents and other animals. This is noteworthy because l-amino acids function as the building blocks of proteins, as biosynthetic precursors of many biologically relevant small molecules, and as metabolic fuel. Therefore, we stimulated mouse fungiform papillae at the front of the tongue with various amino acids in the presence or absence of IMP, and recorded tastant-induced spikes from the chorda tympani nerve. As expected, nerve responses to l-amino acids were significantly enhanced by IMP (Fig. 3).
Why do acids taste sour? There are certain area's on your tongue that react with certain molecules. The sour area reacts with acid molecules. Bases react in the same way with … your bitter area, causing acids to taste sour.