Withdrawal periods and intensity from short acting opiates like Dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrocloride) depend on individual body chemistry, dose and duration of use, as well as other factors. How long dilaudid stays in system   Assuming what is meant is the narcotic synthetic opiod 'dilaudid' commonly known on the street by many other names, the drug stays in … one's system an average of 72 hours before a urine test can be safely taken without traces of it in the system.
Opiate addiction can create severe sickness and other symptoms during withdrawal. The signs of withdrawal will start showing up within six to 12 hours, depending on which opiate was being abused. With Dilaudid, withdrawal may start in as little as six hours. Sweating and anxiety may be the first signs. A person’s nose will start running
Hydrocodone affects each person differently depending on the dosage and how long you have been taking hydrocodone. In other words, each withdrawal period is unique to the person taking hydrocodone. Additionally, various health concerns need to be taken into considration during hydrocodone detox. 24-72 hours hydrocodone withdrawal – General onset of symptoms can manifest shortly after the drug has worn off and linger for up to a few months after the medication is totally out of the system.
Hydromorphone/Dilaudid withdrawal can be a painful process particularly after heavy use. Symptoms are typically experienced within hours of stopping the use of the drug and can last up to several weeks after depending on the intensity of Hydromorphone/Dilaudid use. Hydromorphone/Dilaudid Addiction. Hydromorphone/Dilaudid is a potent centrally-acting analgesic drug of the opioid class. It is a derivative of morphine, a semi-synthetic drug and is both an opiate and a true narcotic.
The physical act of detox from hydromorphone will generally take between 24-72 hours depending on what dosage and frequency a user was taking the drug. After the hydromorphone leaves the body’s system, it is important to look at various programs for addiction recovery. There are many options to choose from. Hydromorphone is an opiate narcotic that is legally prescribed for the relief of severe pain. Like all opiates, hydromorphone (trade name: Dilaudid) has a high potential for addiction, and it is sold on the black market to addicts who cannot obtain it legally.
There are many different options for detox centers and what will suit each individual. It will generally take between 24 hours-72 hours for the Dilaudid to leave the body’s system. After that it is important that a program is sought out to help the user deal with withdrawal side effects and addiction recovery. 
When a man or woman has become accustomed to taking Dilaudid regularly, any decrease in the dose normally taken can result in withdrawal effects. Withdrawal symptoms can range among Dilaudid addicts, depending on how long Dilaudid has been abused and the dosage typically consumed. Withdrawal symptoms can peak in as minimal as 9 hours after the last dosage taken and can include the following: 1  Sweating. 2  Irritability. 3  Anxiety. 4  Muscle Pain. 5  Increased blood pressure. 
The withdrawal symptoms will usually peak between 14-36 hours of withdrawal and should subside within 72 hours. Although the duration of withdrawal may be longer or shorter, there will generally be a peak and a subsiding of symptoms similar to that of morphine. Hydromorphone is an opiate narcotic that is legally prescribed for the relief of severe pain. Like all opiates, hydromorphone (trade name: Dilaudid) has a high potential for addiction, and it is sold on the black market to addicts who cannot obtain it legally.