Energy expert, Chris Yelland recently noted that Eskom’s controlled blackouts, since December 2014, have had a “serious negative economic impact”. The cost to the economy during stage 1 load shedding – 10 hours of blackouts per day for 20 days a month – is R20 billion per month. Stage 2 load shedding, using the same time parameters, costs the economy R40 billion per month, while stage 3 is estimated to cost SA R80 billion per month. 
“These costs to the productive economy for load shedding in SA are based on a cost of unserved energy of R100 per kWh,” said Yelland. A recent technical fault at the Koeberg nuclear power plant resulted in one of its 900MW units going offline last week, which incurred further costs to SA and Eskom. The following infographic shows just how much load shedding is costing South Africa’s economy. Cost to SA’s economy. In addition to faults at existing power stations, it was reported on 9 February that the synchronization of Medupi Power Station’s first unit will be further delayed by six weeks to the end of March 2015.
According to Yelland’s calculations, Stage 1 load shedding – using 10 hours of blackouts per day for 20 days a month as parameters – costs the economy around R20 billion per month, while Stage 2 and Stage 3 robs the economy of R40 billion and R80 billion per month respectively. On Monday Eskom was forced to implement Stage 2 load shedding as a result of the accident and Yelland expects the country’s economy to lose R7,5 billion as a result. “The unit is now shut down until May for scheduled maintenance so one cannot count it as a cost to the economy.
These costs to the productive economy for load shedding in South Africa are based on a cost of unserved energy of R100 per kWh. Worryingly, Yelland’s estimates exclude the long-term costs of job losses, dismally weak economic growth and declining investor confidence. On Monday Eskom was forced to implement Stage 2 load shedding as a result of the accident and Yelland expects the country’s economy to lose R7,5 billion as a result. “The unit is now shut down until May for scheduled maintenance so one cannot count it as a cost to the economy.
These costs to the productive economy for load shedding in South Africa are based on a cost of unserved energy of R100 per kWh. Energy specialist Chris Yelland estimates the ‘human error’ that caused a unit at the Koeberg power station to trip one of its two reactors on Sunday cost SA’s economy at least R7,5 billion. On Monday Eskom was forced to implement Stage 2 load shedding as a result of the accident and Yelland expects the country’s economy to lose R7,5 billion as a result. “The unit is now shut down until May for scheduled maintenance so one cannot count it as a cost to the economy.
According to Yelland, the controlled blackouts since December 2014 have had a “serious negative economic impact”. The cost to the economy during stage 1 load shedding – 10 hours of blackouts per day for 20 days a month – is R20 billion per month. Stage 2 load shedding, using the same time parameters, costs the economy R40 billion per month, while stage 3 is estimated to cost SA R80 billion per month. The following infographic shows just how much load shedding is costing South Africa’s economy. Cost to SA’s economy. In addition to faults at existing power stations, it was reported on 9 February that the synchronization of Medupi Power Station’s first unit will be further delayed by six weeks to the end of March 2015.
This situation deteriorated to such an extent that the major mining groups shut down their operations on 24 January 2008 due to safety considerations.. Nersa deemed that these 23 days of load shedding had cost the SA economy R50-billion in 2008, or R2.17-billion/day. This estimate was based on a figure of R75 per lost kWh (the so-called cost of unserved energy), which is stipulated in SA’s National Integrated Resource Plan. By extension, the 62 days of load shedding that Eskom fears are now on the cards could cost the economy over R134-billion, or 3% of nominal GDP. 
According to him, the cost to the economy during stage 1 load shedding – i.e 10 hours of blackouts per day for 20 days a month – is R20 billion per month, while Stage 2 and Stage 3 robs the economy of R40 billion and R80 billion per month respectively. 
Stage 2 load shedding, using the same time parameters, costs the economy R40 billion per month, while stage 3 is estimated to cost SA R80 billion per month. “These costs to the productive economy for load shedding in SA are based on a cost of unserved energy of R100 per kWh,” said Yelland. A recent technical fault at the Koeberg nuclear power plant resulted in one of its 900MW units going offline last week, which incurred further costs to SA and Eskom
The cost to the economy during Stage 1 load shedding with 10 hours of blackouts per day for 20 days a month is totalled to cost R20 billion per month. Stage 2 load shedding, using the same time parameters, costs the economy R40 billion per month. 