Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 
Fungal Diseases Fungal diseases are called mycoses and those affecting humans can be divided into four groups based on the level of penetration into the body tissues. (view-How Common are Fungal Diseases) Superficial mycoses are caused by fungi that grow on the surface of the skin or hair. Cutaneous mycoses or dermatomycoses include such infections as athlete's foot and ringworm, where growth occurs only in the superficial layers of skin, nails, or hair. Subcutaneous mycoses penetrate below the skin to involve the subcutaneous, connective, and bone tissue.
Fungal diseases are called mycoses and those affecting humans can be divided into four groups based on the level of penetration into the body tissues. (view-How Common are Fungal Diseases). 1  Superficial mycoses are caused by fungi that grow on the surface of the skin or hair. 2  Cutaneous mycoses or dermatomycoses include such infections as athlete's foot and ringworm, where growth occurs only in the superficial layers of skin, nails, or hair. Subcutaneous mycoses penetrate below the skin to involve the subcutaneous, connective, and bone tissue.
1 Superficial mycoses are caused by fungi that grow on the surface of the skin or hair. 2  Cutaneous mycoses or dermatomycoses include such infections as athlete's foot and ringworm, where growth occurs only in the superficial layers of skin, nails, or hair. Subcutaneous mycoses penetrate below the skin to involve the subcutaneous, connective, and bone tissue.
These are the diseases caused by fungi that grow only on the surface of the skin and hair, i.e., the infection is confined to the outermost layers of skin, nail, and hair. These are the least harmful ones of all fungal infections, as they fail to penetrate the body of the host, and affect only the cells on the surface. The diseases caused by fungal infestation are together referred to as mycoses. They are classified into different groups, depending on the nature of the tissue that is involved, and mode of entry into the host.
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites. 
Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Fungi live outdoors in soil and on plants and trees as well as on many indoor surfaces and on human skin. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mucormycosis – A rare infection caused by different fungi that belong to a group of fungi called Mucoromycotina. These fungi typically live in soil and in association with decaying organic matter, such as leaves, compost piles, or rotten wood. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk and Prevention. 3  Diagnosis and Testing.
Fungi cause many kinds of diseases in plants and animals. Diseases in humans caused by fungus infection range from skin disorders to serious illness. Fungal diseases like blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, and candidiasis in humans often attack the lungs. Thrush, a fungal disease of the throat, is found mainly in infants. There are many diseases caused by fungi. Many times fungi are inhaled and can impact the lungs or get into the blood stream. Below is a list of some of them. 1  Coccidioidomycosis-is caused by Coccidioides immitis, this spore is typically found in desert areas of the US southwest.
Mycosis is an abnormal condition of fungus. Mycosis is the general term for any disease caused by a fungus. Some examples of mycoses are histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, candidiasis, ring worm, barber's itch, tinea infections, actinomycosis, mycetoma, sporotrichosis, aspergillosis. 
Fungi exist as molds and yeasts. A fungal infection is called a mycosis, these can manifest as a local infection or a systemic infection. A very common fungal infection is caused by a yeast like fungus called Candida Albicans. There are many diseases caused by fungi. Many times fungi are inhaled and can impact the lungs or get into the blood stream. Below is a list of some of them. 1  Coccidioidomycosis-is caused by Coccidioides immitis, this spore is typically found in desert areas of the US southwest.