Standard Chinese (known in China as Putonghua), a form of Mandarin Chinese, is the official national spoken language for the mainland and serves as a lingua franca within the Mandarin-speaking regions (and, to a lesser extent, across the other regions of mainland China).
Spoken Chinese. Chinese is a family of closely-related but mutually unintelligible languages. These languages are known variously as fāngyan (fāngyán regional), languages dialects Of chinese or varieties Of. Chinese in all around.1 2 billion people speak one or more varieties Of. chinese
Pŭtōnghua (Pŭtōnghuà). Mandarin mandarin is spoken by possibly more people than any other: language over.1 3. Billion it is the main language of, government the media and education In china And, taiwan and one of the four official languages In. singapore
The Languages of China are the languages that are spoken by China's 56 recognized ethnic groups.
The official Language is, of course, Chinese, and Mandarin is the official national spoken language except in Hong Kong and Macau; however, many different languages, as I have listed, are spoken due to China having so many different ethnic groups residing there.
Mandarin is spoken by possibly more people than any other language: over 1.3 billion. It is the main language of government, the media and education in China and Taiwan, and one of the four official languages in Singapore.
Mandarin is commonly referred to as Chinese, but in fact it is just one Chinese language of many. Mandarin is the most common Chinese language, and is also the official language of Mainland China, Taiwan, and one of the official languages of Singapore.
The Chinese language known as Mandarin is the most common language in the world. But there are many other languages spoken in China, including Wu, Hunanese, Jiangxinese, Hakka, Yue (including Cantonese-Taishanese), Ping, Shaojiang, and Min.
Hakka. Hakka is spoken in south eastern China, parts of Taiwan and in the New Territories of Hong Kong. There are also significant communities of Hakka speakers in such countries as the USA, French Guiana, Mauritius and the UK.