Spending money for tips. Now the real question is how much “cash” you need to bring on board the ship, since most things can be paid for with your on board account or keycard, and at the end of the trip you can settle your account with your credit card. But cash may still come in handy.
Cruise spending money factors to consider: 1. Drinking. Depending on how much you drink on vacation depends on how much money you should put into the daily budget. Lets just say every drink costs $8, if you’re good for five drinks a day, consider $40 per person. Tip: Pre-order your alcohol with the cruise lines bon voyage packages. It’s more expensive than the liquor store but cheaper than per-drink. 2.
Come to think of it, it may even be better to keep your cruise spending money and your play money separate! 3. Gratuities. If you pre-pay this then it won’t be an issue, but if not, expect the gratuity around $11.50 per-person per-day. Lets just say every drink costs $8, if you’re good for five drinks a day, consider $40 per person. Tip: Pre-order your alcohol with the cruise lines bon voyage packages. It’s more expensive than the liquor store but cheaper than per-drink. 2.
As you said, Carnival is cashless so everything will need to go on a card. As for cash, (I’m going on a Carnival in a couple weeks) figure out how much you want to spend at each port (spending money, souveniers etc), some tip money, and a little extra. They offer so many helpful tips. When I go, I usually bring about 100 dollars per day, per person (so on a 7 day cruise, visiting 3 ports, 300), but I rarely spend that much on shore. It’s mostly for transportation around the island and food.
Posts: 898. Well when I'm figuring how much cash to bring, I usually budget about $150 pp for ports. That includes cash for excursions, drinks, food and a little souvenir shopping. Note: We do very little souvenir shopping if at all, and I know people that is all they do. 
I'm leaving out of Charleston for a 5 day cruise to the Bahamas. My first cruise. I don't drink and I don't gamble, so on average how much money should I bring with me for the duration of the trip? Outside of a few souvenirs, most of my excursions I will be doing on my own. We took $200 cash, came home with $100 cash...didn't spend much in the ports, but left $20 for our steward and $20 for our wait staff because they were over and above awesome. Enjoy!
9. Though most major cruise lines allow one bottle of wine per person to be carried on board, some cruise lines, including Royal Caribbean and Celebrity Cruises, charge a steep corkage fee in the dining room. Corkage fees can range anywhere from $10 (on Azamara Club Cruises) to $25 (on Royal Caribbean and Celebrity). 
We are going on a 4 day cruise, how much cash should we bring? Is there an ATM on board? I heard you need it for Taxi Cabs, to barter with the locals, etc. I like to bring abot $50 in 1s and 5s for miscellanis tipping. And enough to make sure I've got cash to get my car out of hock at the airport parking when I return. Then maybe $25 a day walking around money.