The thyroid scan is used to determine the size, shape and position of the thyroid gland. The thyroid uptake is performed to evaluate the function of the gland. A whole-body thyroid scan is typically performed on people who have or had thyroid cancer. A physician may perform these imaging tests to: The thyroid scan and thyroid uptake provide information about the structure and function of the thyroid. The thyroid is a gland in the neck that controls metabolism, a chemical process that regulates the rate at which the body converts food to energy. top of page.
How It Is Done. A radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU) test is done in the nuclear medicine section of a hospital's radiology department by a person trained in nuclear medicine (nuclear medicine technologist). For this test, you will lie on your back with your head tipped backward and your neck extended. 
Iodine Uptake Scan. A means of measuring thyroid function is to measure how much iodine is taken up by the thyroid gland (RAI uptake). Remember, cells of the thyroid normally absorb iodine from our blood stream (obtained from foods we eat) and use it to make thyroid hormone (described on our thyroid function page). Therefore, all scans are now done with radioactive iodine. Both of the scans above show normal sized thyroid glands, but the one on the left has a  HOT  nodule in the lower aspect of the right lobe, while the scan on the right has a  COLD  nodule in the lower aspect of the left lobe (outlined in red and yellow).
The radioactive iodine uptake test, or RAIU test, is a type of scan used in the diagnosis of thyroid problems, particularly hyperthyroidism. The normal uptake is between 15 and 25 percent, but this may be forced down if, in the meantime, the patient has eaten foods high in iodine, such as dairy products and seafood. Low uptake suggests thyroiditis, high uptake suggests Graves' disease, and unevenness in uptake suggests the presence of a nodule.
Taking a picture of how well the thyroid gland is functioning requires giving a radioisotope to the patient and letting the thyroid gland concentrate the isotope (just like the iodine uptake scan above). Therefore, it is usually done at the same time that the iodine uptake test is performed. Therefore, all scans are now done with radioactive iodine. Both of the scans above show normal sized thyroid glands, but the one on the left has a  HOT  nodule in the lower aspect of the right lobe, while the scan on the right has a  COLD  nodule in the lower aspect of the left lobe (outlined in red and yellow).
As stated on our thyroid hormone production page, thyroxine (T4) represents 80% of the thyroid hormone produced by the normal gland and generally represents the overall function of the gland. The other 20% is triiodothyronine measured as T3 by RIA. Therefore, all scans are now done with radioactive iodine. Both of the scans above show normal sized thyroid glands, but the one on the left has a  HOT  nodule in the lower aspect of the right lobe, while the scan on the right has a  COLD  nodule in the lower aspect of the left lobe (outlined in red and yellow).
1 A radioactive iodine uptake test (RAIU) test measures thyroid function without imaging. 2  A whole-body thyroid scan, or metastatic survey, is used to evaluate patients with thyroid cancer. 3  The scan evaluates the spread of thyroid cancer to other parts of your body. The images and results of your thyroid scan will be evaluated by a physician who specializes in nuclear imaging. The results will be sent in a report to your doctor. In a normal thyroid scan, there are no abnormalities in the size, shape, and location of the thyroid gland.
Thyroid Scan and Uptake. Thyroid scan and uptake uses small amounts of radioactive materials called radiotracers, a special camera and a computer to provide information about your thyroid’s size, shape, position and function that is often unattainable using other imaging procedures. The thyroid scan and thyroid uptake provide information about the structure and function of the thyroid. The thyroid is a gland in the neck that controls metabolism, a chemical process that regulates the rate at which the body converts food to energy. top of page.
I just had a thyroid uptake scan. 5. Get help from a doctor now ›. MAY BE NORMAL: Normal range of thyroid uptake varies from lab to lab and geographic region to region. For those labs who accepts 10% to 30% as normal range, the 13.8% may be considered normal but lower range of normal. For i-123 and low i-131 the uptake and the scan is usually done at 24 hours. A thyroid probe directed to your neck measures the radioiodine uptake, this is follow by a gamma camera scan which makes an image of your thyroid gland based on the radioiodine distribution.