Background. Biathlon is the Olympic winter sport combining cross-country skiing rifle marksmanship. The word biathlon is of Greek origin and means two tests, referring to the disciplines of cross country skiing and rifle marksmanship. In a biathlon competition there are classes for novice, youth, junior, senior, and master participants. Each competitor skis distances ranging from 7.5km - 20km, while carring a .22 caliber rifle on their back.
1 In a Biathlon competition, the biathlete skis distances varying from 6 to 20 km and stops at the shooting range to shoot two or four times, with both the ski distance and number of shooting bouts depending on the type of competition in question. General description of a biathlon competition. 1  In a Biathlon competition, the biathlete skis distances varying from 6 to 20 km and stops at the shooting range to shoot two or four times, with both the ski distance and number of shooting bouts depending on the type of competition in question.
Biathlon is a sport that combines the endurance of free-technique cross-country skiing with precision small-bore rifle marksmanship. You can find a more detailed description of the two-discipline sport and its history on Wikipedia. If your interest lies in the summer version of biathlon, simply sign up for a race! Summer races generally include a safety briefing and orientation before the race, and provide a good introduction to the sport. If you'd like to try some winter biathlons, the first thing to do is to attend a safety certification clinic.
How to Do Biathlon. Biathlon is a multi-discipline winter sport of fast skiing and careful target shooting. While this winter sport is hugely popular in Europe, there are also biathletes who compete at World Cup Level from North America, Australia, New Zealand, China and Japan. Firstly understand what is involved in a Biathlon Competition: The skier carrying their .22 rifle in a harness skis off along a cross country trail (on cross country skis). The objective is to ski fast.
Biathlon is any sporting event made up of two disciplines. However, biathlon usually refers specifically to the winter sport that combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting. Other popular variants include summer biathlon, which combines cross-country running with rifle, and biathle, which combines running with swimming.
What is Biathlon: Biathlon is a Winter Olympic Sport which combines cross country skiing with precision target shooting. There is also a warm weather variant called Summer Biathlon which replaces skiing with running. The first Olympic Biathlon competitions were held in 1960 in Squaw Valley, California (USA). These were 20km races with four shooting stations with targets set at 250m, 200m, 150m, and 100m. The first three stations were done in prone position-the last in standing.
Biathlon is a winter sport that combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting. The biathlete shoots four times at any shooting lane, in the order of prone, standing, prone, standing, totaling 20 targets. For each missed target a fixed penalty time, usually one minute, is added to the skiing time of the biathlete. Competitors' starts are staggered, normally by 30 seconds.