Stop 1: The Mouth. The mouth is the beginning of the digestive system, and, in fact, digestion starts here before you even take the first bite of a meal. The smell of food triggers the salivary glands in your mouth to secrete saliva, causing your mouth to water. When you actually taste the food, saliva increases. 
Carbohydrate breakdown begins in your mouth with the enzyme salivary amylase, which cuts large starch molecules into smaller pieces. Enzymatic breakdown of carbohydrates pauses in your stomach and resumes in your small bowel. Pancreatic amylase continues the digestion of complex sugars and starches. Enzymes in the wall of your small intestine complete the final digestive step by breaking two-sugar carbohydrates, or disaccharides, into single sugar molecules, or monosaccharides. There they encounter other proteases that further digest them into their component amino acids. Free amino acids pass through the lining of your small intestine and enter your bloodstream, which transports them to your body tissues. Amino acids are used to form new proteins and fuel energy production.
The main source of lipase in your digestive tract is your pancreas, which makes pancreatic lipase that acts in your small intestine. First, bile made in your liver and released into your intestine converts dietary fat into small fatty globules. Although amylase, protease and lipase are the three main enzymes your body uses to digest food, many other specialized enzymes also help in the process. Cells that line your intestines make enzymes called maltase, sucrase and lactase, each able to convert a specific type of sugar into glucose.
Enzymes in the digestive system speed up the breakdown of food. The  process of these enzymes breaking down the food in the digestive  tract is known as hydrolases. 
The digestive system. Digestion is the breakdown of large molecules into smaller, soluble molecules that can be absorbed into the body. Digestion happens inside the gut, and relies on enzymes. You learnt about the gut in your Key Stage 3 studies. Digestion is the breakdown of carbohydrates, proteins and fats into small soluble substances that can be absorbed into the blood. Lipases and proteases are used in biological detergents, and enzymes are used in the manufacture of food and drink.
Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. When you eat a piece of meat or another protein-containing food, digestive enzymes called proteases break the bonds between amino acids, freeing them for absorption into your bloodstream. Protein digestion begins in your stomach, aided by the digestive enzyme pepsin. There they encounter other proteases that further digest them into their component amino acids. Free amino acids pass through the lining of your small intestine and enter your bloodstream, which transports them to your body tissues. Amino acids are used to form new proteins and fuel energy production.
The mouth is the beginning of the digestive tract. In fact, digestion starts here as soon as you take the first bite of a meal. Chewing breaks the food into pieces that are more easily digested, while saliva mixes with food to begin the process of breaking it down into a form your body can absorb and use. The small intestine continues the process of breaking down food by using enzymes released by the pancreas and bile from the liver. Bile is a compound that aids in the digestion of fat and eliminates waste products from the blood.
In the human digestive system, the main sites of digestion are the oral cavity, the stomach, and the small intestine. Digestive enzymes are secreted by different exocrine glands including: 1  Salivary glands. 2  Secretory cells in the stomach. Digestive enzymes are classified based on their target substrates 1  : proteases and peptidases split proteins into small peptides and amino acids. 2  lipases split fat into three fatty acids and a glycerol molecule. 3  amylases split carbohydrates such as starch and sugars into simple sugars such as glucose.
These enzymes increase the level of digestion in the stomach, increasing the amount of food broken down. Therefore, less undigested food is passed into the colon, and food nutrients are more available for absorption. Digestive Enzymes. No matter what specific foods we eat, our diets are composed of protein, fat and carbohydrates. Digestive enzymes break down protein, carbohydrates and fats into progressively smaller components. Enzyme supplements normally contain amylase, protease and lipase.
Digestion begins in the mouth with the secretion of saliva and its digestive enzymes. Food is formed into a bolus by the mechanical mastication and swallowed into the esophagus from where it enters the stomach through the action of peristalsis. Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream.