Your car takes in air and passes it into the engine through the air filter. (Some cars have more than one air filter.) The air filter takes out dust, leaves, and other debris from the air before passing it into the engine where it’s mixed with fuel. The combination of air and fuel is essential for the car to run. 
Air Filter. Changing the air filter on your car will take about ten minutes and will only cost you the price of a new filter, which runs usually runs around $15. Here’s how to do it: 1. Pop open your hood and locate the air filter in your car (typically housed within a black case with metal clips on either side). 2. It takes about 45 minutes to change your own oil and will cost around $20 (the price of oil and a new filter). Here’s how to change your oil and oil filter: 1. Make sure your car is on level ground so you can safely jack up your car. 2. Locate the oil pan under your car and unscrew the drain plug to drain the old oil.
I just changed the air filter and cabin filter in my 08 Honda Fit in about 4 minutes (and it was the first time I have ever done it myself). The dealership wanted $60 to replace my cabin filter alone. The air filter is in the air stream to your throttle valve assembly and intake manifold. Its found in a compartment in an air duct to the throttle valve assembly under t … he hood of your car.
Too much! I just changed the air filter and cabin filter in my 08 Honda Fit in about 4 minutes (and it was the first time I have ever done it myself). The dealership wanted $60 to replace my cabin filter alone. The part cost me $9 at Advance Auto Parts. The air filter is in the air stream to your throttle valve assembly and intake manifold. Its found in a compartment in an air duct to the throttle valve assembly under t … he hood of your car.
How to tell if your car air filter needs changing is important because a clean air filter is a necessity for the proper operation of a car. A clean air filter results in improved gas mileage, better acceleration, increased engine life, lower emissions and overall improved engine performance. Make certain to use the correct air filter replacement for your make and model of car. In some situations, a clean air filter will improve gas mileage by as much as 14% and may increase acceleration by up to 11% depending on the
It’s recommended that you change your air filter once every 12 months or 12,000 miles, whichever comes first. If you live in a particularly dusty place, do it more frequently. It’s always a good idea to at least check your air filter at every oil change. Between $10-$13. Swing by an auto parts store after work or pick an air filter up while you’re grocery shopping at a Super Walmart. Figuring out what air filter to get for your car is easy. First, you can check your owner’s manual, but let’s face it, you’ll probably forget to do that.
An air filter should be replaced once a year, or every 15,000 miles. If you regularly travel on dirt roads, however, you will need to check your air filter every few months. You don't need a mechanic's eye to determine the air filter's condition. Insert the new filter and make sure the casing is tightly secured. Not only is this fast, but cost efficient. Most quick lube shops charge up $20 to change an air filter. For a few minute's time, you can save yourself half the cost by self-installing.
That’s right. Your $20 oil change doubled its price in just a matter of seconds. I’ve seen mechanics charge anywhere from $18 to $25 to change an air filter. About the same price as an oil change. The air filter itself is only about $10 for most vehicles. Where the shop gets you is where they always get you-on labor. You’d think with what they charge, replacing an air filter is some complicated task that necessitates special tools only available to licensed mechanics. Between $10-$13. Swing by an auto parts store after work or pick an air filter up while you’re grocery shopping at a Super Walmart. Figuring out what air filter to get for your car is easy. First, you can check your owner’s manual, but let’s face it, you’ll probably forget to do that.
Remember, next to changing your oil and oil filter, replacing your air and fuel filters on a regular basis is the single most important act of maintenance you can perform for your engine. Do it and your engine will thank you by giving you many thousands of trouble-free miles. You're going to want to bring it with you to the auto parts store to compare old with new and make sure you get the right replacement. Toss it in the car and go clean up. By the way, it's okay to drive a car short distances without an air filter (something you can't do with a missing fuel filter).
The cost to change a Ford Escape fuel filter will depend on the  year of the vehicle. The part can cost from $15 to $35 or more.  Labor will be added to this amount unless a … person does it  themselves. Answers Publisher. The air filter is in the air stream to your throttle valve assembly and intake manifold. Its found in a compartment in an air duct to the throttle valve assembly under t … he hood of your car.