Caption: Goblet cell (yellow) in the mucosal lining of the small intestine (part of the digestive tract). A goblet cell secretes the mucus to protect the lining of the intestine and helps neutralize stomach acid. Inside the goblets cells are many mucigen granules (purple). When these are released into the intestine they will combine with water to form mucin, the main constituent of mucus.
Goblet cells are scattered among the absorptive cells in the epithelium of the small intestine and colon. These epithelial cells are specialized for secretion of mucus, which facilitates passage of material through the bowel. The name goblet refers to the cell's shape, narrow at the base and bulging apically. Intestinal Absorptive Cells. Absorptive cells, or enterocytes, are the predominant epithelial cell type lining the lumen of the small intestine and colon. These cells are specialized for absorption of nutrients across the apical plasma membrane and export of these same nutrients across the basal plasma membrane.
1 Specialized exocrine cells of the mucosa known as mucous cells secrete mucus into the lumen of the stomach and into the gastric pits. 2  This mucus spreads across the surface of the mucosa to coat the lining of the stomach with a thick, acid-and enzyme-resistant barrier. Secretion. The stomach produces and secretes several important substances to control the digestion of food. Each of these substances is produced by exocrine or endocrine cells found in the mucosa. 1  The main exocrine product of the stomach is gastric juice – a mixture of mucus, hydrochloric acid, and digestive enzymes.
The mucosa of the small intestine is characterized by evagination into plicae and villi, which increase the surface area for nutrient absorption, and by short tubular invaginations, the crypts, which provide a protected site for stem cells. The mucosa of the small intestine is lined by a simple columnar epithelium which consists primarily of absorptive cells (enterocytes), with scattered goblet cells and occasional enteroendocrine cells. In crypts, the epithelium also includes Paneth cells and
The absorptive surface area of the small intestine is increased by plicae circulares, villi, and microvilli. Exocrine cells in the mucosa of the small intestine secrete mucus, peptidase, sucrase, maltase, lactase, lipase, and enterokinase. Endocrine cells secrete cholecystokinin and secretin. The most important factor for regulating secretions in the small intestine is the presence of chyme. The small intestine is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The small intestine follows the general structure of the digestive tract in that the wall has a mucosa with simple columnar epithelium, submucosa, smooth muscle with inner circular and outer longitudinal layers, and serosa.
Goblet cells, which stand alone within a surface epithelium, are a characteristic feature of the intestine (as well as the respiratory tract and the female reproductive tract). Epithelial cells which are specialized to secrete mucus are called mucous cells. Intestinal Absorptive Cells. Absorptive cells, or enterocytes, are the predominant epithelial cell type lining the lumen of the small intestine and colon. These cells are specialized for absorption of nutrients across the apical plasma membrane and export of these same nutrients across the basal plasma membrane.
Both Brunner's glands, and the goblet cells in the duodenum secrete mucus. The mucus secreted by Brunner's glands is alkaline, and helps to neutralise the acid chyme produced by the stomach, to produce chyme with a pH suitable for the digestive enzymes of the small intestine. The small intestine is 4-6 metres long in humans. To aid in digestion and absorption: 1  the small intestine secretes enzymes and has mucous producing glands. 2  The pancreas and liver also deliver their exocrine secretions into the duodenum.
Goblet cells are found scattered among the epithelial lining of organs, such as the intestinal and respiratory tracts. They are found inside the trachea, bronchi, and larger bronchioles in the respiratory tract, small intestines, the large intestine, and conjunctiva in the upper eyelid. Goblet cells are a source of mucus in tears and secrete different types of mucins onto the ocular surface, especially in the conjunctiva. Function [edit]. The main role of goblet cells is to secrete mucus in order to protect the mucous membranes where they are found. Goblet cells accomplish this by secreting mucins, large glycoproteins formed mostly by carbohydrates.