Media caption UN refugee chief Antonio Guterres said refugee numbers had not risen at such a frightening rate since the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. The conflict in Syria has caused the world's worst refugee crisis for 20 years, with an average of 6,000 people fleeing every day in 2013, the UN says. UN refugee chief Antonio Guterres said refugee numbers had not risen at such a frightening rate since the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. 
By the beginning of June, more than 4,000 Syrian Kurds had crossed the border into the Kurdish region of Iraq, as violence in Syria continued. The large number of Syrian refugees in Jordan, estimated at 120,000, was reported to have caused a burden on Jordan's limited water resources. By the end of August 2014, the UN estimated 6.5 million people had been displaced within Syria, while more than 3 million refugees had fled to countries such as Lebanon (1.14 million), Jordan (608,000) and Turkey (815,000).
Refugee crisis was caused by a careless West that allowed anarchy and fear to take root in the Middle East. The war in Syria and Iraq has gone on as long as the First World War. Migrants wait at the Horgos 2 border crossing at the Serbia-Hungary border, 15 September 2015 EPA. Little has been done to end the four-year civil war that is destroying Iraq and Syria and which has caused the biggest mass flight of people ever seen in the Middle East. More than half of the 23 million Syrian population have fled their homes, of which four million are refugees outside Syria
More than four million refugees of the Syrian Civil War have left the country during the course of the war. Most of them fled to neighboring Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, and Iraq, while thousands also ended up in more distant countries of the Caucasus, the Persian Gulf, North Africa and Europe. By the end of August 2014, the UN estimated 6.5 million people had been displaced within Syria, while more than 3 million refugees had fled to countries such as Lebanon (1.14 million), Jordan (608,000) and Turkey (815,000).
Syrian Refugees A snapshot of the crisis – in the middle east and europe. Migration and refugee movements in the Mediterranean countries have gained unprecedented momentum in recent months. A snapshot of the crisis – in the middle east and europe. An estimated 9 million Syrians have fled their homes since the outbreak of civil war in March 2011, taking refuge in neighbouring countries or within Syria itself.
Refugee crisis Help Syrian refugees fleeing war Vulnerable families are still fleeing violence in Syria, risking their lives searching for safety. We're on the ground helping nearly 4 million people in the region. 
The war and repression driving this unprecedented crisis. Thomas van Linge. The biggest driver of the crisis by far is Syria. Four million people, nearly a fifth of Syria's population, have fled the country since the war began in 2011. 
The Iraq-Syrian war is the cause of the European Union’s refugee crisis and it is going to get worse. There is a bloody stalemate in Iraq, with the country divided by military front lines more heavily defended than the frontiers of the state. Migrants wait at the Horgos 2 border crossing at the Serbia-Hungary border, 15 September 2015 EPA. Little has been done to end the four-year civil war that is destroying Iraq and Syria and which has caused the biggest mass flight of people ever seen in the Middle East. More than half of the 23 million Syrian population have fled their homes, of which four million are refugees outside Syria
Media caption UN refugee chief Antonio Guterres said refugee numbers had not risen at such a frightening rate since the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. The conflict in Syria has caused the world's worst refugee crisis for 20 years, with an average of 6,000 people fleeing every day in 2013, the UN says. UN refugee chief Antonio Guterres said refugee numbers had not risen at such a frightening rate since the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. 