Follow. I usually think of lentils as protein (like if I eat them with rice as daal or whatever), but I know they have some carb content somehow as well. but there are some ways to prepare lentils that makes them seem very carby. 
Carbs in Beans. Although the carb count of beans depends on the specific type, beans are generally higher in carbs than lentils. One-half cup of plain baked beans, for example, has 27 grams of carbs. One-half cup of boiled black beans has 20.5 grams of carbs.
A large portion of the carbohydrates found in lentils —15.6 grams — are in the form of fiber, which helps to lower their calorie content because fiber is not digested nor absorbed in humans. Although all foods contain a mix of macronutrients, most foods tend to contain a majority of either protein, carbohydrates or fat. Lentils have the distinction of providing both protein, at 18 grams per cup, and carbohydrate, at 40 grams per cup.
High-fiber foods are effective on a low-carb diet because the fiber slows the absorption of the carbs. This slow absorption doesn't lead to a spike and fall in your blood sugar that can result in a craving for more food. In addition to being lower in carbs, boiled lentils also have more fiber than beans. Although the carb count of beans depends on the specific type, beans are generally higher in carbs than lentils. One-half cup of plain baked beans, for example, has 27 grams of carbs. One-half cup of boiled black beans has 20.5
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Lentils are low in saturated fat, sodium, and cholesterol. High in vitamin C, foliate, manganese, thiamine, iron, phosphorus and copper. Lentils are legumes, seeds of a plant whose botanical name is Lens ensculenta. They grow in pods that contain either one or two lentil seeds. They are very high in iron as well. Nutritional info: Lentils, raw (Dry Weight) Nutritional value per 100 g (3.5 oz) Energy 350 kcal 1480 kJ Carbohydrates 60 g-Sugars 2 g-Dietary fiber 31 g Fat 1 g Protein 26 g Thiamin (Vit.
A lentil is a legume. Lentils contain high levels of proteins, including the essential amino acids isoleucine and lysine. Apart from a high level of proteins, lentils also contain dietary fiber, Folate, vitamin B1, and minerals. They are very high in iron as well. Nutritional info: Lentils, raw (Dry Weight) Nutritional value per 100 g (3.5 oz) Energy 350 kcal 1480 kJ Carbohydrates 60 g-Sugars 2 g-Dietary fiber 31 g Fat 1 g Protein 26 g Thiamin (Vit.
Report Abuse. lentils are beans (legumes) and they are low in fat high in fiber and very good for you. I try to eat legumes 2 times a week or more and it is easy to do. Try the 15 bean soup you will like. and if you want to stretch your meat add some tofu to ground meat and it will taste like meat! They are very high in iron as well. Nutritional info: Lentils, raw (Dry Weight) Nutritional value per 100 g (3.5 oz) Energy 350 kcal 1480 kJ Carbohydrates 60 g-Sugars 2 g-Dietary fiber 31 g Fat 1 g Protein 26 g Thiamin (Vit.
Nutritional Value. Lentils are rich sources of protein, folic acid, dietary fiber, vitamin C, B vitamins, essential amino acids and trace minerals. A 100 g serving of lentils contains 60 g carbohydrates, 31 g dietary fiber, 1 g fat, 26 g protein, 0.87 mg thiamine, 479 μg of folate and 7.5 mg iron. Among the winter growing legumes, lentils have the highest concentration of antioxidants. Cholesterol Reduction. 
The favorite choice for the term Lentils is 1/2 cup of Cooked Lentils which has about 18 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Lentils is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins
Carbohydrates, which convert to glucose to provide energy for your body, are a staple in many diets. If you enjoy lentils and beans as part of your standard diet, you can still enjoy these foods once you switch to a low-carb diet, but you'll need to reduce your serving size to keep your carb intake as low as possible. Although the carb count of beans depends on the specific type, beans are generally higher in carbs than lentils. One-half cup of plain baked beans, for example, has 27 grams of carbs. One-half cup of boiled black beans has 20.5