Optic chiasma. The optic chiasm or optic chiasma is an X-shaped space, located in the forebrain, directly in front of the hypothalamus. Crucial to vision, the left and right optic nerves intersect at the chiasm, thus creating the hallmark X-shape. One-half of each nerve's axons (their long, threadlike portions) enters the opposite tract at this location, making it a partial decussation (crossing).
1 At the start of prophase I, the chromosomes have already duplicated. 2  During prophase I, they coil and become shorter and thicker and visible under the light microscope. 3  The duplicated homologous chromosomes pair, and crossing-over (the physical exchange of chromosome parts) occurs. Play ▶. Reset 1  ↺. At the start of prophase I, the chromosomes have already duplicated. 2  During prophase I, they coil and become shorter and thicker and visible under the light microscope. 3  The duplicated homologous chromosomes pair, and crossing-over (the physical exchange of chromosome parts) occurs.
Bivalent refers to the two homologous chromosomes (4 chromatids); chiasma refers to the actual break of the phosphodiester bond during crossing over. The larger the number of map units between the genes, the more crossing over occurs. Chiasma frequency was scored at the later diplotene-diakinesis stages of meiosis. These results suggest that X-rays induce DNA damages, likely including double-strand breaks, and these damages are repaired by a crossover pathway leading to chiasma formation (see Chromosomal crossover).
[G. chiasma ]. /chi·as·ma/ (ki-az´mah) pl. chias´mata [L.] chiasm; in genetics, the points at which members of a chromosome pair are in contact during the prophase of meiosis and because of which recombination, or crossing over, occurs on separation. See also chiasma formation. a visible connection between homologous chromosomes during the first meiotic division in gametogenesis. Chiasmata appear as X-shaped configurations during the late prophase stage and provide the means by which homologous chromosomes exchange genetic material. See also crossing over. chiasmatic, chiasmic, adj.
DNA replication precedes the start of meiosis I. During prophase I, homologous chromosomes pair and form synapses, a step unique to meiosis. The paired chromosomes are called bivalents, and the formation of chiasmata caused by genetic recombination becomes apparent. 
chiasma. pl. chiasmata [L., Gr.] chiasm; in genetics, the points at which members of a chromosome pair are in contact during the prophase of meiosis and because of which recombination, or crossing over, occurs on separation. See also chiasma formation. a visible connection between homologous chromosomes during the first meiotic division in gametogenesis. Chiasmata appear as X-shaped configurations during the late prophase stage and provide the means by which homologous chromosomes exchange genetic material. See also crossing over. chiasmatic, chiasmic, adj.
The nerve ... Click to read more below. The optic chiasm or optic chiasma is an X-shaped space just in front of the pituitary gland where optic nerve fibers pass through to the brain. The fibers from the nasal half of each retina cross over, but those from the temporal sides do not. 