A breast biopsy is a test that removes tissue or sometimes fluid from the suspicious area. The removed cells are examined under a microscope and further tested to check for the presence of breast cancer. A biopsy is the only diagnostic procedure that can definitely determine if the suspicious area is cancerous. The good news is that 80% of women who have a breast biopsy do not have breast cancer.
Bone marrow biopsy. This is a procedure that removes a small, solid piece of bone marrow tissue for examination to determine whether a person has a blood disorder or blood cancer, such as leukemia or multiple myeloma. A fine needle biopsy may be the first type of biopsy done on smaller tumors that the doctor can feel through the skin. The doctor uses a very thin, hollow needle attached to a syringe to collect a small amount of fluid and cells from the suspicious area for examination and further testing.
A cervical biopsy is a procedure performed to remove tissue from the cervix to test for abnormal or precancerous conditions, or cervical cancer. The cervix is the lower, narrow part of the uterus (womb) located between the bladder and the rectum. 
When a sample of tissue or fluid is removed with a needle in such a way that cells are removed without preserving the histological architecture of the tissue cells, the procedure is called a needle aspiration biopsy. Biopsies are most commonly performed for insight into possible cancerous and inflammatory conditions. The tissue is generally examined under a microscope by a pathologist, and can also be analyzed chemically. When an entire lump or suspicious area is removed, the procedure is called an excisional biopsy.
A biopsy is a procedure performed to remove tissue or cells from the body for examination under a microscope. A lung biopsy is a procedure in which samples of lung tissue are removed (with a special biopsy needle or during surgery) to determine if lung disease or cancer is present. 
Fine needle aspiration biopsy. A fine needle biopsy may be the first type of biopsy done on smaller tumors that the doctor can feel through the skin. The doctor uses a very thin, hollow needle attached to a syringe to collect a small amount of fluid and cells from the suspicious area for examination and further testing.
Listen to the Cancer.Net Podcast: Biopsy-What to Expect, adapted from this feature. A biopsy is a medical procedure that, for most types of cancer, is the only way to make a definitive cancer diagnosis, as it provides the most accurate analysis of tissue. A fine needle biopsy may be the first type of biopsy done on smaller tumors that the doctor can feel through the skin. The doctor uses a very thin, hollow needle attached to a syringe to collect a small amount of fluid and cells from the suspicious area for examination and further testing.
Here are some types of biopsies: 1  Needle biopsy. 2  Most biopsies are needle biopsies, meaning a needle is used to access the suspicious tissue. 3  CT-guided biopsy. 4  A person rests in a CT-scanner; the scanner's images help doctors determine the exact position of the needle in the targeted tissue. 5  Ultrasound-guided biopsy. 1
A prostate gland biopsy is a test to remove small samples of prostate tissue to be examined under a microscope. For a prostate biopsy, a thin needle is inserted through the rectum (transrectal biopsy), through the urethra, or through the area between the anus and scrotum (perineum). A transrectal biopsy is the most common method used. The tissue samples taken during the biopsy are examined for cancer cells.
A biopsy is a medical test commonly performed by a surgeon, interventional radiologist, or an interventional cardiologist involving sampling of cells or tissues for examination. It is the medical removal of tissue from a living subject to determine the presence or extent of a disease. The tissue is generally examined under a microscope by a pathologist, and can also be analyzed chemically. When an entire lump or suspicious area is removed, the procedure is called an excisional biopsy.