A volcano is an opening, or eruption in Earth's surface, or also known as tectonic plates. tectonic plates are what makes up the crust of the Earth and volcanos are usually found where tectonic plates are converging or diverging. This reaction causes hot magma, volcanic ashes and gases to escape from beneath the Earth, and is what we know as a volcano eruption.
Volcanic Landforms. Volcanic landforms are controlled by the geological processes that form them and act on them after they have formed. Thus, a given volcanic landform will be characteristic of the types of material it is made of, which in turn depends on the prior eruptive behavior of the volcano. 
Volcanism is the phenomenon of eruption of molten rock (magma) onto the surface of the Earth or a solid-surface planet or moon, where lava, pyroclastics and volcanic gases erupt through a break in the surface called a vent. Magma that reaches the surface to become lava cools rapidly resulting in rocks with small crystals such as basalt. Some of this magma may cool extremely rapidly and will form volcanic glass (rocks without crystals) such as obsidian.
GENERIC FEATURES. A volcanic vent is an opening exposed on the earth's surface where volcanic material is emitted. All volcanoes contain a central vent underlying the summit crater of the volcano. 
Volcanoes are spectacular (as well as dangerous) when they erupt, and they are among those geological features that give us a very clear sense of the power of geologic processes. Their magma originates in the upper mantle or the lower crust and varies in composition. Cinder cones (tephra cone) are a type of volcano that consists almost entirely of tephra (another term used for pyroclasts or solid volcanic ejecta). Magma that contains abundant volatiles (gases) bubbles as it reaches the surface and small bits of magma are thrown into the air in the process.
Magma Chamber. The Hawaiian Islands are an example of the way some volcanoes are made. A rising hot bubble of material finds it's way into the crust of the Earth from the deep interior, and erupts material unto the surface. Plumes. Magma consists of remelted material from Earth's crust and fresh material from other regions near the Earth's surface. When magma is erupted onto the surface in the form of lava, it becomes silicate rock. ...mor
1. a. An opening in the earth's crust from which lava, ash, and hot gases flow or are ejected during an eruption. b. A similar opening on the surface of another celestial object. 2. A usually cone-shaped mountain formed from the materials issuing from such an opening. Noun. 1. volcano-a fissure in the earth's crust (or in the surface of some other planet) through which molten lava and gases erupt. vent. crack, scissure, cleft, crevice, fissure-a long narrow opening. eructation, extravasation, eruption - (of volcanos) pouring out fumes or lava (or a deposit so formed).
Volcanoes form when hot material from below rises and leaks into the crust. This hot material, called magma, comes either from a melt of subducted crustal material, and which is light and buoyant after melting, or it may come from deeper in the interior of a planet and is light and buoyant because it is *very* hot. Plumes. Magma consists of remelted material from Earth's crust and fresh material from other regions near the Earth's surface. When magma is erupted onto the surface in the form of lava, it becomes silicate rock. ...more