a gap or cleft between the greater wing of the sphenoid and the orbital plate of the maxilla, through which pass the maxillary nerve and the inferior ophthalmic vein or its communicating branches to the pterygoid venous plexus in the infratemporal fossa. A gap or cleft between the greater wing of the sphenoid and the orbital plate of the maxilla, through which pass the maxillary nerve and the inferior ophthalmic vein or its communicating branches to the pterygoid venous plexus in the infratemporal fossa. 1  Facebook.
The mnemonic helps to recall all the nerves passing through Superior orbital fissure. Other structures passing through it are Superior & inferior ophthalmic veins, Meningeal branch of the lacrimal artery and anastomotic branch of middle meningeal artery which anastomoses with the recurrent branch of lacrimal artery. 
Tweet. On Monday we went through the bones of the orbit, what the superior orbital fissure (and inferior orbital fissure and optic canal) were, and what went through it (and them). To review the bones of the orbit look at these images. Hover over the bones to be reminded of their names. The superior orbital fissure is the main route for stuff to get from the brain to the orbit then. Everything in the orbit (muscles, glands, mucosa, skin, etc) will need to receive nerve fibres from cranial nerves passing through the superior orbital fissure. The optic nerve and the retina are the exceptions to this.
The superior orbital fissure is a foramen in the skull, although strictly it is more of a cleft, lying between the lesser and greater wings of the sphenoid bone. 1  1 Structures passing through. A number of important anatomical structures pass through the fissure, and these can be damaged in orbital trauma, particularly blowout fractures through the floor of the orbit into the maxillary sinus. These structures are: 1  superior and inferior divisions of oculomotor nerve (III). 2  trochlear nerve (IV)
Not to be confused with the infraorbital groove, infraorbital canal, and infraorbital foramen. The lateral wall and the floor of the orbit are separated posteriorly by the inferior orbital fissure which transmits the zygomatic branch of the maxillary nerve, and the ascending branches from the pterygopalatine ganglion. The infraorbital vessels are found in the inferior orbital fissure, and travel down the infraorbital groove into the infraorbital canal and exit through the infraorbital foramen. Inferior division of ophthalmic vein passes through the inferior orbital fissure. It is formed by the sphenoid bone and maxilla
in·fe·ri·or or·bi·tal fis·sure. A gap or cleft between the greater wing of the sphenoid and the orbital plate of the maxilla, through which pass the maxillary nerve and the inferior ophthalmic vein or its communicating branches to the pterygoid venous plexus in the infratemporal fossa. 1  Facebook.
The order of the nerves passing through the superior orbital fissure from superior to inferior: 1  L: lacrimal nerve. 2  F: frontal nerve (a branch of the ophthalmic nerve). 3  T: trochlear nerve (CN IV). 4  S: superior division of the oculomotor nerve (CN III). 5  N: nasociliary nerve (a branch of the ophthalmic nerve). 