Present in many foods, carbohydrates give your body energy, according to MayoClinic.com. Carbohydrates are classified as complex and simple. Between 45 and 65 percent of your caloric intake should be from carbohydrates. Calculate your total caloric intake and multiply your targeted carbohydrate percentage. Grains. Grains are an important source of carbohydrates, as they contain healthy fiber. Whole grains have undergone little processing, making these grains a low-glycemic food. According to the Harvard School of Public Health, carbohydrates with a low-glycemic index can help control blood sugar.
A serving of starchy veggies, such as one-half cup of corn or peas, a 3-ounce baked potato, 1 cup of squash or a 4-ounce sweet potato, provides 15 grams of carbohydrates. This amount makes up 75 percent of the 80 calories in these portions, with the remaining calories coming from a small amount of protein and fat. Vegetables generally fit in to one of two categories -- non-starchy and starchy. Non-starchy vegetables, like spinach, peppers and broccoli, have tiny amounts of carbohydrates, while starchy vegetables are made up of nearly all
Although fiber is a type of carbohydrate, it’s not digested by your body, which is beneficial for healthy weight management. Unlike bad carbs, good carbs are generally rich in fiber, which can help you feel full from consuming fewer calories. Although they lack fiber, low-fat milk and yogurt are rich in nutrients such as protein and calcium and are classified as good carbs. Small amounts of good carbs are present in nuts and seeds.
Fruits are a good source of carbohydrates, says the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The sugars found in fruits are naturally occurring, as opposed to refined sugars in sweets and baked goods. Choose whole fruits rather than fruit juice. Use fruits that are frozen or canned in their own juice rather than syrup. Serve fruit with lunch, and have a piece of fruit for a snack. Fruits high in fiber such as apples at 19 g, oranges at 15 g and raw pineapple at 19 g of carbohydrates are good choices. Grains. Grains are an important source of carbohydrates, as they contain healthy fiber. Whole grains have undergone little processing, making these grains a low-glycemic food. According to the Harvard School of Public Health, carbohydrates with a low-glycemic index can help control blood sugar.
Many carbohydrates also supply fiber. Fiber is a type of complex carbohydrate found in foods that come from plants—fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Eating food with fiber can prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation. It might also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar. There are two types of carbohydrates: simple and complex. 1  Simple carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, and milk products, as well as in sweeteners like sugar, honey, and syrup and foods like candy, soft drinks, and frosting or icing.
Here are recommended serving sizes for foods that are high in carbohydrates: 1  Vegetables: 1 cup of raw vegetables, or 1/2 cup cooked vegetables, or 3/4 cup of vegetable juice. 2  Fruits: 1 medium-size fruit (such as 1 medium apple or 1 medium orange), 1/2 cup of a canned or chopped fruit, or 3/4 cup of fruit juice. Carbohydrates are classified as simple or complex. This classification depends on the chemical structure of the food, and how quickly the sugar in the food is digested and absorbed. Simple carbohydrates have one (single) or two (double) sugars. Complex carbohydrates have three or more sugars.
Beneficial carbs are those that are minimally processed and rich in nutrients like fiber; examples include whole grains, fruits, vegetables and legumes. Whole grains include -- but are not limited to -- whole grain breads and cereals, brown rice, whole wheat pasta, quinoa, whole grain couscous and bulgur. Although they lack fiber, low-fat milk and yogurt are rich in nutrients such as protein and calcium and are classified as good carbs. Small amounts of good carbs are present in nuts and seeds.
Legumes include lentils, chick peas, soybeans and black, pinto, navy and lima beans. Although they lack fiber, low-fat milk and yogurt are rich in nutrients such as protein and calcium and are classified as good carbs. Small amounts of good carbs are present in nuts and seeds.