Bamboo Charcoal being used in fabric is a relatively new concept, but people are catching on to this discovery and it has become a popular and eco friendly choice for linens and towels. Bamboo charcoal is made by heating bamboo fibres at high temperatures of 800-1000 degrees celsius. 
Check a few out: 1  Activated Bamboo Charcoal can absorb minerals, toxins, impurities, and other harmful substances from your skin, leaving you with stronger, healthier skin. 2  It can act as a natural exfoliant to remove dead skin cells. 3  Activated Bamboo Charcoal is an effective, natural treatment for acne. The surface area to weight ratio of bamboo charcoal is 600:1. This means that 1 gram of bamboo charcoal has a surface area of 600 square meters. This is because of the presence of the C60 carbon molecule that is a ball shape.
Activated bamboo charcoal is not JUST beneficial when used as an ingredient in soap. It has many other awesome health benefits. Here are my 10 favorites: 1  Activate bamboo charcoal works great to regulate humidity, which is important for the health of your hair and body. The surface area to weight ratio of bamboo charcoal is 600:1. This means that 1 gram of bamboo charcoal has a surface area of 600 square meters. This is because of the presence of the C60 carbon molecule that is a ball shape.
Bamboo Charcoal. Referred to as “the Black Diamond” in Japan and Southeast Asia, bamboo charcoal fiber use is an emerging trend in the fashion industry as manufacturers look to combine fashion with function. According to ITRI test results, when a 500W halogen light shone on the bamboo charcoal yarn for 10 minutes, the yarn emits far more infrared rays 87% ~ 92%, and warm up temperature of 10 degrees Celsius, which is much higher than for instance wool’s 5 degrees Celsius.
Bamboo charcoal is made of bamboo by means of a pyrolysis process. According to the types of raw material, bamboo charcoal can be classified as raw bamboo charcoal and bamboo briquette charcoal. Raw bamboo charcoal is made of bamboo plant parts such as culms, branches, and roots. Bamboo briquette charcoal is made of bamboo residue, for example, bamboo dust, saw powder etc., by compressing the residue into sticks of a certain shape and carbonizing the sticks. There are two equipment processes used in carbonization, one is a brick kiln process, and the other is a mechanical process.
(3) bamboo charcoal has better properties and can replace the high quality wood charcoal made from hardwood; (4) bamboo charcoal is strong and can be cut into different shapes. Hence the future of bamboo charcoal is bright in the future to come. De-odorizing-As bamboo charcoal absorbs gases and decomposes it to carbon dioxide and other harmless gases, bamboo charcoal is often placed in refrigerators, near trash cans to absorb odor. Insoles containing bamboo charcoal also reduces the odor well.
One of the most powerful characteristics of bamboo charcoal and activated bamboo charcoal is its ability to adsorb a very wide range of organic and inorganic substances from its environment. The process of adsorbing something is different from absorbing something, so we’ll explain that here. Activated bamboo charcoal is used in most of our products – from our soaps and bath powders, to the multipurpose pouches and the pillows and cushions.
The result is called activated carbon or activated bamboo charcoal. Bamboo is a very sustainable resource. Contrary to popular belief, bamboo is not actually a tree, it is a type of grass. Bamboo is the fastest growing woody plant in the world (fully mature at the 6-7 year mark). The surface area to weight ratio of bamboo charcoal is 600:1. This means that 1 gram of bamboo charcoal has a surface area of 600 square meters. This is because of the presence of the C60 carbon molecule that is a ball shape.
Bamboo Charcoal. Bamboo charcoal has properties very different from the bamboo plant, especially its high density and porous structure. Bamboo charcoal has high mineral contents such as potassium, calcium, iron, and sodium. And for so many years, people especially in Japan uses bamboo charcoal for many purposes, from households, kitchen tools, and medicines. 
Bamboo charcoal is made up of pieces of bamboo, which are taken from plants five years or older and burned inside an oven at temperatures over 800 to 1200 °C. It benefits environmental protection by reducing pollutant residue. It is an environmentally functional material that has excellent absorption properties. Bamboo briquette charcoal is made of bamboo residue, for example, bamboo dust, saw powder etc., by compressing the residue into sticks of a certain shape and carbonizing the sticks. There are two equipment processes used in carbonization, one is a brick kiln process, and the other is a mechanical process.