1. What is the IELTS. IELTS (International English Language Testing System) is a worldwide highly recognized official English exam. The IELTS is administered by the British Council, IDP: IELTS Australia and Cambridge English Language Assessment. Its aim is to evaluate the English level of the people that take it
IELTS. IELTS, the International English Language Testing System, is designed to assess the language ability of candidates who need to study or work where English is used as the language of communication. IELTS is required for entry to university in the UK and other countries. 
The international English language testing system (IELTS) is the world’s most popular English language proficiency test for higher education and global migration, with over 2 million tests taken in the last year. The IELTS test is developed by some of the world’s leading experts in language assessment. It has an excellent international reputation, and is accepted by over 9,000 organisations worldwide, including schools, universities, employers, immigration authorities and professional bodies.
The International English language testing system (IELTS) is the world’s most popular English language proficiency test for higher education and global migration, with over 2.2 million tests taken in the last year. This is the most effective and natural way of testing your English conversation skills. IELTS, the International English Language Testing System, is an internationally recognized language test designed to assess the language ability of test takers who need to study or work where English is the language of communication.
IELTS is the most widely accepted English language test that uses a one-on-one speaking test to assess your English communication skills. This means that you are assessed by having a real-life conversation with a real person. This is the most effective and natural way of testing your English conversation skills. IELTS, the International English Language Testing System, is an internationally recognized language test designed to assess the language ability of test takers who need to study or work where English is the language of communication.
IELTS is the most widely accepted English language test that uses a one-on-one speaking test to assess your English communication skills. This means that you are assessed by having a real-life conversation with a real person. The IELTS test is developed by some of the world’s leading experts in language assessment. It has an excellent international reputation, and is accepted by over 9,000 organisations worldwide, including schools, universities, employers, immigration authorities and professional bodies.
. IELTS is an acronym for the International English Language Testing System, a standardized English language test that assesses an individual’s reading, writing, and verbal skills. The IELTS is an English language exam that allows non-native speakers to demonstrate their proficiency in the language. Available in approximately 130 countries the world over, the IELTS is used in numerous settings, including immigration, academia, and employment.
IELTS assesses all of your English skills — reading, writing, listening and speaking, and is designed to reflect how you will use English at study, at work, and at play, in your new life abroad. The IELTS test is developed by some of the world’s leading experts in language assessment. It has an excellent international reputation, and is accepted by over 9,000 organisations worldwide, including schools, universities, employers, immigration authorities and professional bodies.
IELTS Australia. IELTS has been accepted as the standard international test system for English language proficiency by a whole range of institutions. These include the majority of all education establishments operating in English in Australia, Canada, the UK and New Zealand. US educational institutions are also now starting to use it. The IELTS provides a test that grades a person’s proficiency in the English language. There are 2 versions of the test: the Academic Module and the General Training Module.