A UCLA Health answered. You want to lower your low-density lipoprotein (LDL) or “bad” cholesterol and raise your high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. You can lower LDL cholesterol by avoiding saturated and trans fats and consuming olive oil, canola oil and fish with omega-3 fatty acids. Exercise raises your HDL cholesterol. You can improve your cholesterol levels by following a lower-fat, lower-cholesterol eating pattern, starting a program of regular physical activity, and keeping your weight at or near ideal. Your doctor may choose to prescribe medication to help control your
1 Avoid trans fats, which lower HDL and raise LDL. 2  Foods that may contain trans fats include shortening and some margarine, cake and biscuit mixes, ramen noodles, deep-fried fast food, frozen foods, doughnuts, baked goods, candy, crackers, chips, breakfast cereal, energy bars and dips, gravy mixes and toppings. To calculate total blood cholesterol, add your LDL, HDL, and 20 percent of your triglycerides. 1  Triglycerides are body fat, so you want this number to be lower. 2  Aim for a total blood cholesterol around 200. 3  Above 240 is considered to be high.
Fighting for the Good. You probably know all about the two types of cholesterol: HDL and LDL. Too much LDL (bad) cholesterol can gunk up your blood and clog your arteries, but HDL (good) cholesterol acts like a housekeeper for your blood, mopping up excess LDL and tossing it in the trash (your liver) for disposal. 
Ways to Improve Your Cholesterol. A blood test is used to measure cholesterol levels. A person’s total cholesterol level is determined from calculations and measurements of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and triglycerides. Standard total cholesterol goals for adults are:
1 Physical activity can boost your HDL level. 2  Get at least 30 minutes a day of moderate activity, most days of the week. 3  Lose extra weight. 4  If you're overweight, losing extra pounds can help raise your HDL levels, as well as cut your LDL (bad) cholesterol levels. 5  Choose better fats. 
Medications and foods that may help. Some medications used to lower LDL cholesterol may also increase HDL cholesterol, including: Niacin. Niacin (Niaspan) is usually the best medication to increase HDL cholesterol. Various prescription and over-the-counter preparations are available, but prescription niacin is preferred, as it has the least side effects. 
Women. Less than 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L). 60 mg/dL (1.6 mmol/L) or above. If your HDL cholesterol level falls between the at-risk and desirable levels, you should keep trying to increase your HDL level to reduce your risk of heart disease. If you don't know your HDL level, ask your doctor for a baseline cholesterol test. Increasing HDL cholesterol also can reduce your risk of heart disease. Although higher levels of HDL can be helpful in reducing your risk of having a heart attack, researchers caution that you should also consider other risk factors for developing
LDL (low-density lipoprotein) or bad cholesterol: Elevated LDL cholesterol is highly associated with heart disease. Lowering levels to less than 100 mg/dL (less than 70 mg/dL if you are at very high risk of a heart attack or sudden cardiac death) is very important for reducing your risk of heart attack and stroke. HDL (high-density lipoprotein) or good cholesterol: HDL cholesterol is important for transporting less-healthy cholesterol away from the heart, thereby preventing the buildup of unhealthy cholesterol in your coronary arteries. Low levels increase your risk of heart diseas
Educate yourself about good cholesterol. HDL, or high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, acts as the body's waste-disposal system in the blood. HSL combs through blood for bad cholesterol, LDL, and flushes it out to your liver for disposal. To calculate total blood cholesterol, add your LDL, HDL, and 20 percent of your triglycerides. 1  Triglycerides are body fat, so you want this number to be lower. 2  Aim for a total blood cholesterol around 200. 3  Above 240 is considered to be high.