A male dog, (stud) can go through puberty between 5 and 12 months of age. If your dog has not reached sexual maturity by 12 months, talk to your vet. The age varies by breed with smaller dogs maturing earlier than larger breeds. A male can be sexually viable as early as 5 months. A female dog, (bitch) can begin puberty around 6 months of age. If she has not had her first heat, or cycle, by 12 months of age, talk to your vet. The bitch will typically come into heat twice a year after her first heat
Puppies can produce puppies as soon as they start their first heat at 6 to 8 months of age. But it's very unhealthy for a dog at that age to have puppies. You'll need to wait … until after her third or fourth heat cycle. She'll be just over 2 years old by then. At the age of 2 years is when a dog is fully matured and can be tested for genetic health defects prior to breeding. If you do plan on breeding always find a male that is smaller than your dog
Usually, a stud dog's appropriate age is 2 years old. However, buying a female lab wouldn't guarantee that you'll get to breed puppies. It is possible if the male dog's the dominant one but I have seen dog owners who have difficulty breeding pups because the female's the dominant one and she might attack the male. Report Abuse. At the age of 2-3 is when both male and female are mature enough to breed, you can breed between the ages of 2-10. 10 would be a bit old but some people have done it, before 2 or after 10 is when your female will have problems delivering.
Hello, Ususally by 6 months of age a Male dog can sire a litter. This will not be accepted by the AKC. Here is the AKC registration rules pertaining to breeding: I have a six month old male and 18 month old female. My female came into heat and we think Max, the male, might have mounted her. We do not want the female pregnant. Therefore, I need to know at what age it is possible for the male.
(Male and Female). A female dog, (bitch) can begin puberty around 6 months of age. If she has not had her first heat, or cycle, by 12 months of age, talk to your vet. The bitch will typically come into heat twice a year after her first heat
Share this conversation. Expert: NancyH replied 7 years ago. If he is just now 5 months then he would have been 4 months when she was in heat if she is showing now (dogs usually don't show much until after 4-5 weeks of pregnancy). While I have heard of pups as young as 4 1/2 months siring a litter its really unusual. The earliest I've heard of myself from friends who breed is a 5 1/2 month old that sired a 1 puppy litter.
Half of male dogs will display mounting behavior by 5½ months of age, and will become able to sire a litter around that age. Note that some male dogs may be able to sire a litter before 5 months of age - 5 months is the average. Female dogs become sexually mature (have their first heat) between 5 and 12 months of age. Small breed dogs tend to have their first heat around 5-6 months, while some giant breed dogs will not start to cycle until they are 18-24 months of age. Although most dogs are sexually mature by one year of age, dogs should not be used for breeding until they are at least 2 years of age.