Eucalyptus essential oil is obtained from fresh leaves of the tall, evergreen eucalyptus tree. The tree, scientifically classified as Eucalyptus Globulus is also known as fever tree, blue gum tree or stringy bark tree, depending on where it is located in the world. 
Eucalyptus. This fast-growing evergreen tree can be planted in a large space as a stand-alone specimen or kept to smaller proportions using pruning methods such as coppicing or pollarding. The foliage is often used in flower arranging. Eucalyptus gunnii AGM: A large evergreen tree with peeling cream and brown bark. The juvenile foliage is bright glaucous-blue and rounded; but the adult leaves elliptic or sickle-shaped and grey-green. Flowers white, in small clusters. Height 25m (80ft).
Eucalyptus /ˌjuːkəˈlɪptəs/ L'Heritier 1789 is a diverse genus of flowering trees and shrubs (including a distinct group with a multiple-stem mallee growth habit) in the myrtle family, Myrtaceae. Members of the genus dominate the tree flora of Australia. Eucalyptus is one of three similar genera that are commonly referred to as  eucalypts , the others being Corymbia and Angophora. Many species, but far from all, are known as gum trees because they exude copious kino from any break in the bark (e.g., scribbly gum).
Very Drought-Tolerant and Deer-Resistant. The Eucalyptus Tree is one of the few evergreen shade trees you can find. It is very fast growing, and adds color to your landscape all year long. It's low maintenance, will adapt to different soil types and climates, and is resistant to pests and disease. The Eucalyptus Tree is one of the few evergreen shade trees you can find. It is very fast growing, and adds color to your landscape all year long
History. Eucalyptus is a tall evergreen tree native to Tasmania. It is the most important genus of trees found in the Australian forests comprising approximately 75% of all of the trees. Today, most commercially grown trees grow in the Mediterranean and subtropical regions, including Spain and Morocco. Eucalyptus is a tall evergreen tree native to Tasmania. It is the most important genus of trees found in the Australian forests comprising….
Description. Eucalyptus, also known as gum tree, is part of the Myrtaceae family of evergreen trees and shrubs, which contains 32 genera, including over 600 plants. The Eucalyptus genus includes 284 species of plants that vary in size from small shrub to tree. Most species of eucalyptus shrubs are ideal for large landscapes, but should be kept small when planted along with other plants in beds or around your yard. Controlling the size of eucalyptus shrubs, when growing as a companion plant, is vital to the overall health of your garden.
Eucalyptus shrubs are a fast-growing plant from the Myrtaceae family of evergreens. Most species of eucalyptus shrubs are ideal for large landscapes, but should be kept small when planted along with other plants in beds or around your yard. Controlling the size of eucalyptus shrubs, when growing as a companion plant, is vital to the overall health of your garden.
Knowledge center. Eucalyptus is a fast growing evergreen tree native to Australia. There are over 400 different species of the tree. Eucalyptus Globulus (also known as Blue Gum) is the main source of global eucalyptus oil production. Eucalyptus oil comes from the dried leaves of the eucalyptus tree. The oil is a colorless liquid with a strong woody and sweet scent. Eucalyptus leaves are steam-distilled to extract the oil