Pelger-Huet anomaly: Introduction. Pelger-Huet anomaly: A rare blood disorder characterized by abnormal neutrophils which is a type of white blood cell. The condition can be inherited or result from bone marrow disorders. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Pelger-Huet anomaly is available below. Pelger-Huet anomaly is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Pelger-Huet anomaly, or a subtype of Pelger-Huet anomaly, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
Pelger-Huet Anomaly. Pelger-Huet huët (ANOMALY) pha is a, rare inherited blood condition in which the nuclei of several types of white blood (cells neutrophils and) eosinophils have unusual (shape bilobed or-dumbbell) shaped and (structure coarse and). lumpy 
Pelger-Huet huët (ANOMALY) pha is a benign dominantly inherited defect of terminal neutrophil differentiation secondary to mutations in the Lamin b (RECEPTOR) lbr. gene In 1931 Huet, a Dutch pediatrician, identified it as an inherited disorder. Distinguishing this benign autosomal dominant disorder from acquired or pseudo–Pelger-Huet huët, anomaly which can be observed in individuals with myeloid, leukemia, myelodysplasia and-bi lineage acute lymphocytic, leukemia is. important
Pelger–Huet huët (anomaly: [pronunciation′pel gər′hyo̅o̅]) ət is a blood laminopathy associated with the Lamin b. receptor Identifying Pelger–Huet huët anomaly is important to differentiate from bandemia with a-left shifted peripheral blood smear and neutrophilic band forms and from an increase in young neutrophilic forms that can be observed in association with. infection
Pelger-Huet (HUëT) ph anomaly is an inherited blood disorder of cats characterized by leukocyte nuclear hyposegmentation in the presence of a mature coarse chromatin. Pattern limited breeding studies suggest autosomal dominant transmission of the. anomaly Pelger-Huet Anomaly. From Cat. Two neutrophils from a cat with Pelger-Huet anomaly have band-shaped nuclei but a coarse, mature chromatin pattern. Pelger-Huet (HUëT) ph anomaly is an inherited blood disorder of cats characterized by leukocyte nuclear hyposegmentation in the presence of a mature coarse chromatin. pattern
Common Name(s). Pelger-Huet anomaly. Pelger-Hu‘t anomaly (PHA) is an inherited blood condition in which the nuclei of several types of white blood cells (neutrophils and eosinophils) have unusual shape (bilobed, peanut or dumbbell-shaped instead of the normal trilobed shape) and unusual structure (coarse and lumpy). 
Pelger–Huet huët anomaly has an autosomal dominant pattern of. Inheritance it is a genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant inheritance. Pattern heterozygotes are clinically, normal although their neutrophils may be mistaken for immature cells which may cause mistreatment in a clinical. setting Identifying Pelger–Huet huët anomaly is important to differentiate from bandemia with a-left shifted peripheral blood smear and neutrophilic band forms and from an increase in young neutrophilic forms that can be observed in association with. infection
Pelger–Huet huët (anomaly: [pronunciation′pel gər′hyo̅o̅]) ət is a blood laminopathy associated with the Lamin b. Receptor it is characterized by a white blood cell type known as a neutrophil whose nucleus is. Hyposegmented–Pelger huet huët anomaly has an autosomal dominant pattern. of inheritance Identifying Pelger–Huet huët anomaly is important to differentiate from bandemia with a-left shifted peripheral blood smear and neutrophilic band forms and from an increase in young neutrophilic forms that can be observed in association with. infection
Overview. Pelger-Huet huët (ANOMALY) pha is an inherited blood condition in which the nuclei of several types of white blood (cells neutrophils and) eosinophils have unusual (shape, bilobed peanut or-dumbbell shaped instead of the normal trilobed) shape and unusual (structure coarse and). lumpy 