Cyber Security for Healthcare. Healthcare records represent an extremely attractive target for cyber criminals, containing as they do various bits of sensitive information like Social Security numbers all in one place.
When protected health information (PHI) is compromised in a hospital network, violations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) can occur, leaving health providers liable for up to $1.5 million in fines from the federal government.
2 The Cybersecurity Working Group give special thanks to all of the Healthcare and Public Health Sector partners from the private sector as well as State, local, tribal, territorial, and Federal agencies who aided in the development of this document.
This is standard operating procedure. It is imperative that healthcare organizations bake cyber security into the process at the beginning and not at the end. The advantages of this approach include: 1  Cyber security becomes everyone’s responsibility, not just the security team’s job.
However, the problem is that too many healthcare and other organizations implement cyber security at the end of the development cycle, not at the beginning; they do not bake cyber security into all their business and development processes.
There are all kinds of terms to describe the same exposure including Cyber Liability, Privacy Liability, Security & Privacy liability, Data Breach, Network Security, and Cyber Security Insurance to name a few. All of these names focus on your exposure to a data breach.
The healthcare industry is prime pickings for cyber criminals. After a slew of data breaches in 2014, the FBI warned the healthcare industry that cyber-criminals would be directing more attention their way in 2015.
In order to understand why the healthcare industry is such a big target for cyber-criminals, you have to understand the value of a stolen medical record. Personal banking information is still valuable to the average cyber thief, but it doesn’t have nearly as high of a payout as that of a
The collecting, sharing and transmitting of information is vital to any healthcare encounter. As anyone working in the healthcare industry knows, there has been an increasing demand for more and better data to aid in the provision of service, to facilitate performance evaluations and to substantiate reimbursement.
Healthcare and Public Health Cybersecurity Primer is a tool intended for use by sector members, owners and operators, as well as Federal, State and local partners who may not be cyber experts, but wish to improve the sector’s level of understanding of.