Polaris says workers at the Osceola plant will be allowed to apply for jobs at the other Polaris facilities in Minnesota and Iowa ---or with any companies that continue producing parts for Polaris in Osceola. Polaris Industries officials fleshed out the reasons behind its plan to shut down its parts plant in Osceola, Wis. The Medina-based company plans to shift much of the work and many of the jobs in Osceola to Mexico.
Polaris (α Ursae Minoris, α UMi, commonly the North Star or Pole Star) is the brightest star in the constellation Ursa Minor, and the 50th brightest star in the night sky. It is very close to the north celestial pole, making it the current northern pole star. It is a multiple star, comprising the main star, α UMi Aa, which is a supergiant; two smaller companions, α UMi B and α UMi Ab; and two distant components, α UMi C and α UMi D. α UMi B was discovered in 1780 by William Herschel. The moving of Polaris towards, and in the future away from, the celestial pole, is due to the precession of the equinoxes. The celestial pole will move away from α UMi after the 21st century, passing close by Gamma Cephei by about the 41st century.
Polaris is located in the constellation of Ursa Minor, the Little Bear. It sometimes also goes by the name “Stella Polaris.” The seven stars from which we derive a bear are also known as the Little Dipper. Polaris, the North Star lies at the end of the handle of the Little Dipper, whose stars are rather faint. So at any hour of the night, at any time of the year you can readily find Polaris and it is always found in a due northerly direction. If you were at the North Pole, the North Star would be directly overhead. That’s true now, anyway. But Polaris won’t always be the North Star.
This production makes some Polaris products 100% American made. However, in 2010 Polaris relocated a portion of its utility and sport vehicle assembly to Mexico. Polaris snowmobiles are still 100% American made with the powertrain components manufactured in Osceola, WI and the vehicle assembly in Roseau, MN. In October 2011, Polaris announced an investment in Brammo, Inc. , an electric vehicle company based in Ashland, Oregon, United States. Its first production electric motorcycle, the Brammo Enertia, is assembled in Ashland and sold at dealerships.
Oconomowoc Residential Programs, Inc. (ORP) and its family of companies provide specialized services and dignified care for children, adolescents and adults with disabilities. In operation since 1984, ORP oversees eight companies that each year serve more than 1,700 individuals from around the country, in facilities and community-based settings throughout Wisconsin and Indiana.
Founded in 1993, Polaris Consulting & Services Limited is a global leader in Financial Technology (FT) for Banking, Insurance, and other Financial Services. Polaris is an expert in digital transformation, with over 25 years of experience and more than 300 clients across the globe. 
Polaris is based in the Minneapolis exurb of Medina, Minnesota, USA. The company also manufactures motorcycles through its Victory Motorcycles subsidiary and through the Indian Motorcycle subsidiary which it purchased in April 2011. Polaris no longer produces watercraft. In October 2011, Polaris announced an investment in Brammo, Inc. , an electric vehicle company based in Ashland, Oregon, United States. Its first production electric motorcycle, the Brammo Enertia, is assembled in Ashland and sold at dealerships.
Company Profile. A bump in the road is big business for Polaris Industries. The company is one of the world's top makers of off-road vehicles, comprising all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and side-by-side recreational and utility RANGER-brand vehicles. 
The eventual development of the Eagle Rock Quarry will be complementary to the existing Orca Quarry operation and provide further significant growth. Headquartered in Vancouver, BC, Polaris Materials Corporation is a public company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (symbol: PLS). 
Services include year-round education programs, community-based residential settings, community care services, treatment programs, and day services. An employee-owned business, ORP relies on its caregivers to make a difference in the lives of people with disabilities. In operation since 1984, ORP oversees eight companies that each year serve more than 1,700 individuals from around the country, in facilities and community-based settings throughout Wisconsin and Indiana.