How to Keep Fishing Worms Alive. Tweet. Many anglers fish with worms such as night crawlers and earthworms. You can catch your own bait, whether at night using a flashlight to find night crawlers or by digging in the dirt with a spade for
1 Don't put worms in a refrigerator for longer than a few days at most, however, as most worms can't handle temperatures below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (5 degrees Celsius). 2  Bait shops that keep worms in refrigerators have them set to temperatures higher than those used to keep food.
I've had a lot of success keeping my earthworms for fishing alive by feeding them coffee grounds and always keeping them in the refrigerator, so I decided to make a quick video on it. Thanks for watching and good luck fishing!
The art of worm keeping and keeping worms alive is essential in order to prolong the worms life cycle. Worm care is a relatively simple procedure, which varies depending on the type of worm you keep.
I would suggest that you use red or night crawlers worms. They are also called fishing worms, earth worms. You can start with some shredded newspaper, moistened,or any paper similar to newspaper. Use the black and white pages do not use any paper with color ink.
Anglers are often puzzled on how to catch worms and keep them alive for a day's fishing. Catching worms and keeping them alive and kicking is not difficult. Worms, whether earthworms or nightcrawlers, are the most popular live baits. They like warm and wet weather.
Instructions. 1  I would suggest that you use red or night crawlers worms. 2  They are also called fishing worms, earth worms. 3  You can start with some shredded newspaper, moistened,or any paper similar to newspaper. 4  Use the black and white pages do not use any paper with color ink.
Keep worms on ice in a cooler. Keep worms alive and wriggling when fishing during a hot day by filling a medium size ice cooler halfway with ice. Place your container of worms on the top of the ice and close the lid. Push the top of the cooler down after you remove worms to bait your hook. Avoid exposing the worms to the sun for any length of time.