Beauly lies on the north bank of the River Beauly close to the point at which it enters the Beauly Firth. The settlement grew up around Beauly Priory, which was established here in 1230. The line still operates, though in 1960 Beauly's railway station closed, only to reopen very recently. The name Beauly comes from the French beau lieu or beautiful place and it is often said this comes from a comment made by Mary Queen of Scots during a visit she made to the town in the Summer of 1564.
Beauly (/ˈbjuːliː/ BEW-lee; from French beau lieu, meaning beautiful place; Scottish Gaelic: A' Mhanachainn) is a town in the Kilmorack Parish of the Scottish County of Inverness, on the River Beauly, 10 miles west of Inverness by the Far North railway line. The town is now within the Highland council area. The land around Beauly is fertile-historically corn was grown extensively and more recently fruit has successfully been farmed. The town historically traded in coal, timber, lime, grain and fish. Beauly is also the site of Lovat Castle, which once belonged to the Bissets, but was presented by James VI, to Hugh Fraser, 5th Lord Lovat and later demolished. The population of Beauly was 855 in 1901.
beauly.net based in the village of Beauly near Inverness, specialise in high quality website design and marketing. With over 12 years experience in design, search engine optimisation (SEO) and internet marketing, regardless of your business size or turnover we have a solution designed bespoke for you. 
Beauly station in 1961. The Inverness and Ross-shire Railway, which was to be a line between Inverness and Invergordon, was authorised in 1860, and opened in stages. The first section, that between Inverness and Dingwall, opened on 11 June 1862, and one of the original stations was that at Beauly. It had two platforms and a passing loop. The platform is the shortest in Great Britain, only long enough for a single carriage and measuring 15.06 metres (49.4 ft) in 2013 compared with Conon Bridge 's 15.08 metres (49.5 ft). Normally operated by Class 158 trains, there is only one door in operation.
Beauly is the site of the Beauly Priory, or the Priory Church of the Blessed Virgin and John the Baptist, founded in 1230 by John Byset of the Aird, for Valliscaulian monks. Following the Reformation, the buildings (except for the church, which is now a ruin) passed into the possession of Lord Lovat. Beauly is also the site of Lovat Castle, which once belonged to the Bissets, but was presented by James VI, to Hugh Fraser, 5th Lord Lovat and later demolished. The population of Beauly was 855 in 1901.
Beauly railway station serves the village of Beauly in the Highland council area of Scotland. The platform is the shortest in Great Britain, only long enough for a single carriage and measuring 15.06 metres (49.4 ft) in 2013 compared with Conon Bridge 's 15.08 metres (49.5 ft). Normally operated by Class 158 trains, there is only one door in operation.
detailed map of Beauly and near places. Welcome to the Beauly google satellite map! This place is situated in Highland, Scotland, Scotland, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 57° 28' 0 North, 4° 28' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Beauly. 3D map of Beauly in United Kingdom. You can also dive right into Beauly on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Beauly 3D map within your web browser.