In some, such as amoebae, phagocytosis takes place by surrounding the target object with pseudopods, as in animal phagocytes. In other protozoa, for instance, ciliates, there is a specialized groove or chamber in the cell where phagocytosis takes place, called the cytostome or mouth. Pinocytosis is primarily used for the absorption of extracellular fluids (ECF), and in contrast to phagocytosis, generates very small vesicles. Unlike receptor-mediated endocytosis, pinocytosis is unspecific in the substances that it transports. The cell takes in surrounding fluids, including all solutes present.
Phagocytosis is a process used by cells to engulf and subsequently ingest particles of nutrients or bacteria. This process is a very important part of cell function, allowing cells to grab vital nutrients and allowing the body to protect itself from harmful bacteria. Phagocytosis is important in the creation of food vacuoles for unicellular organisms, such as the paramecium. Phagocytosis helps the body protect itself from harmful bacteria. Phagocytes dispose of cells that have undergone apoptosis, or programmed cell death. View slideshow of images above.
Pinocytosis is a process that is occurring constantly, as most cells need in a sense to hydrate. The membrane of the cell will wrap or attach itself to a drop and gradually pinch it into the cells interior. The vesicles are then absorbed by the cell into the cytosol. All cells go through the process of pinocytosis. Pinocytosis is primarily used for the absorption of extracellular fluids (ECF), and in contrast to phagocytosis, generates very small vesicles. Unlike receptor-mediated endocytosis, pinocytosis is unspecific in the substances that it transports. The cell takes in surrounding fluids, including all solutes present.
Pinocytosis also works as phagocytosis, the only difference is that phagocytosis is specific in the substances it transports. Phagocystosis actually engulfs whole food particles,which are later broken down by enzymes and absorbed into the cells. 路 just now. Report Abuse. Pinocytosis and phagocytosis are both types of endocytosis. Pinocytosis is cellular drinking and phagocytosis is cellular eating. Here is a site that I found very useful when learning about the cell membrane and types of transport across it. http://www.northland.cc.mn.us/biology/Bi...
PINOCYTOSIS In cellular biology, pinocytosis (cell-drinking) is a form of endocytosis, a process in which small particles are taken in by a cell by splitting into smaller particles. The particles then form small vesicles which subsequently fuse with lysosomes to hydrolyze, or to break down, the particles. Pinocytosis is primarily used for the absorption of extracellular fluids (ECF), and in contrast to phagocytosis, generates very small vesicles. Unlike receptor-mediated endocytosis, pinocytosis is unspecific in the substances that it transports. The cell takes in surrounding fluids, including all solutes present.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Phagocytosis is the cellular process of engulfing solid particles by the cell membrane to form an internal phagosome, or food vacuole.. ~ iKelsi :D. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phagocytosi... xbriannebaby 路 7 years ago. Phagocytosis is a process by which foreign bodies such as bacteria invading the body are rounded up and destroyed by phagocytes, which are cells that are able to break foreign particles, cell debris and disease producing micro-organisms. Adri 路 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down.
Best Answer: Phagocytosis is the engulfing of extracellular particles into the cell, which then become surrounded by a vesicle. It is important in some cells, such as unicellular organisms, as a mechanism of intracellular digestion. For instance, macrophages are an important phagocytic white blood cell that helps to defend the body by engulfing foreign pathogens, such as bacteria. By doing this, macrophages are capable of initiating an immune response where antibodies are produced to help defend the body against the pathogen.
Best Answer: PHAGOCYTOSIS Phagocytosis (literally cell-eating) is a form of endocytosis wherein large particles are enveloped by the cell membrane of a (usually larger) cell and internalized to form a phagosome, or food vacuole.. Pinocytosis is primarily used for the absorption of extracellular fluids (ECF), and in contrast to phagocytosis, generates very small vesicles. Unlike receptor-mediated endocytosis, pinocytosis is unspecific in the substances that it transports. The cell takes in surrounding fluids, including all solutes present.
pinocytosis is a form of endocytosis in which small particles are brought into the cell suspended within small vesicles which subsequently fuse with lysosomes to hydrolyze, or to break down, the particles. This process requires adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the chemical compound used as energy in a majority of cells. 路 just now. Report Abuse. Pinocytosis and phagocytosis are both types of endocytosis. Pinocytosis is cellular drinking and phagocytosis is cellular eating. Here is a site that I found very useful when learning about the cell membrane and types of transport across it. http://www.northland.cc.mn.us/biology/Bi...