The Alhambra, a Moorish citadel and palace, is in Granada. It is the most renowned building of the Andalusian Islamic historical legacy with its many cultural attractions that make Granada a popular destination among the touristic cities of Spain. The region surrounding Granada has been populated since at least 5500 B.C. and experienced Roman and Visigothic influences. Elibyrge was used as the name for what is now Granada by the 7th century B.C. and, by the 1st century A.D., it had become a Roman municipalilty known as lliberri.
The Alhambra: Granada has its usual quotient of churches, museums etc. typical for a southern European city. However, Granada has the Alhambra which is considered by some to be one of the 10 wonders of the world. In case you don't know, the Alhambra is a massive castle constructed over many centuries. It consists of gardens, fortifications and sumptuous palaces. 
Granada is a mid-sized provincial capital in the Andalucia region of Spain. Rich in history and culture, Granada is arguably the single most worthwhile city in Spain for visitors. Walking in Granada is definitely the best way to experience the city, but it can also be confusing at times. Streets are frequently short, winding, narrow, and put you in very close proximity to auto traffic, to say nothing of the multitudes of scooters that dart down narrow alleyways and around cars and buses.
Granada is also well-known within Spain for the University of Granada which has about 80,000 students spread over five different campuses in the city. The pomegranate (in Spanish, granada) is the heraldic device of Granada. The region surrounding Granada has been populated since at least 5500 B.C. and experienced Roman and Visigothic influences. Elibyrge was used as the name for what is now Granada by the 7th century B.C. and, by the 1st century A.D., it had become a Roman municipalilty known as lliberri.
Granada is historically one of Nicaragua's most important cities, economically and politically. It has a rich colonial heritage, seen in its architecture and structure. Granada has long been a center of commerce, including timber, gold and silver. Granada's economy continues to grow as it is becoming the national tourism hub. Though Granada remains Nicaragua's sixth largest city, it is widely known for preserving some of the finest colonial-era architecture in the country.
Noun. 1. Granada-a city in southeastern Spain that was the capital of the Moorish kingdom until it was captured by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492; site of the Alhambra (a palace and fortress built by Moors in the Middle Ages) which is now a major tourist attraction. 2. (Placename) a city in S Spain, in Andalusia: capital of the Moorish kingdom of Granada from 1238 to 1492 and a great commercial and cultural centre, containing the Alhambra palace (13th and 14th centuries); university (1531).
[ɡɾaˈnaː, -ˈnaða]) is a city and the capital of the province of Granada, in the autonomous community of Andalusia, Spain. Granada is located at the foot of the Sierra Nevada mountains, at the confluence of four rivers, the Beiro, the Darro, the Genil and the Monachil. The region surrounding Granada has been populated since at least 5500 B.C. and experienced Roman and Visigothic influences. Elibyrge was used as the name for what is now Granada by the 7th century B.C. and, by the 1st century A.D., it had become a Roman municipalilty known as lliberri.
Distances to Granada by road from various Spanish cities: Madrid, 433 km; Cadiz, 454 km; Malaga, 128 km; Seville, 251 km. Granada's airport is 15 km away from the city on the road to Malaga. Sierra Nevada is 30 km and Granada tropical coast is 65 km away from the city. Granada's climate is friendly and dry, the air clean and healthy, with clear and cheerful skies. Strong winds, fog and snow are rare.
Granada is a city in western Nicaragua and the capital of the Granada Department. With an estimated population of 123,697 (2012), it is Nicaragua's sixth most populous city. Granada has long been a center of commerce, including timber, gold and silver. Granada's economy continues to grow as it is becoming the national tourism hub. Though Granada remains Nicaragua's sixth largest city, it is widely known for preserving some of the finest colonial-era architecture in the country.
Granada is one of the pearls of Spain, most visited by tourists from all the world. The long-time capital of Moorish Andalusia has to offer the most important reminds of this epoch in Spanish history, with the world-famous  Alhambra  at the top of the list. On the other hand it is not far from the Mediterranean sea, so Granada is a great place to visit in any season. More about Granada ... Sightseeing The best itineraries to discover monuments, as world-famous Alhambra, museums, and everything else that makes Granada worth a visit ...