Zinc-iron-Zinc-cobalt-Zinc-nickel and Tin-zinc. Except for the latter, zinc accounts for 85-99% of the alloy composition. As in zinc plating, chromate conversion coating as a post treatment is important in improving the overall corrosion resistance of zinc alloys. (a) Salt Spray Test-The salt spray test has been used to assess the protective value of zinc and cadmium coatings however the results do not correlate with any given service exposure.
Cadmium is a soft, malleable, ductile, bluish-white divalent metal. It is similar in many respects to zinc but forms complex compounds. Unlike most other metals, cadmium is resistant to corrosion and as a result it is used as a protective layer when deposited on other metals. Cadmium and its congeners are not always considered transition metals, in that they do not have partly filled d or f electron shells in the elemental or common oxidation states. The average concentration of cadmium in Earth's crust is between 0.1 and 0.5 parts per million (ppm).
Essentially, you can think of plating as a double protection system from corrosion for steel parts. Continuing research has developed a wide range of options regarding this protective coating. In many industries, zinc plating is standard on all parts. A coating is added that with the zinc has a profound effect on the corrosion properties, significantly increasing the time to white rust.Colored chromates are some of the most effective corrosion protection that one can buy. Chromate colors in order of increasing corrosion resistance: White-Blue-Yellow-Black-Olive Drab.
Zinc-Nickel Alloy Plating. Zinc-Nickel Alloy Plating. Zinc-Nickel Alloy plating has more corrosion-resistance than galvanized plating. Therefore various bathes have been examined, for example, sulfate bath, chloride bath, cyanide bath, etc. However Zinc-Nickel Alloy plating became of practical use in recent years
Zinc Plating. Zinc plating is the most common and economical type of plating. Most fasteners and hardware that is found in the local hardware store has been zinc plated. Zinc plating is a sacrificial coating designed to corrode so the part does not. Zinc Nickel was also developed as a cadmium replacement. Amazing corrosion resistance and its ability to handle high temperatures is making this plating very popular with all the automotive companies. Zinc Nickel can withstand from 1000 to 2000 hours of salt spray testing.
Tin-Zinc Plating. Tin-Zinc was developed as a direct replacement for cadmium. Tin-Zinc offers all the advantages of cadmium like its extreme resistance to corrosion, but it does not have the “toxic” label associated with cadmium. Zinc Nickel was also developed as a cadmium replacement. Amazing corrosion resistance and its ability to handle high temperatures is making this plating very popular with all the automotive companies. Zinc Nickel can withstand from 1000 to 2000 hours of salt spray testing.
Zinc plating is a most valuable tool when used in combating corrosion of steel. The zinc corrodes before the steel does, sacrificing itself for the benefit of the steel. A metallurgical bond is formed between the zinc and steel forming an iron rich alloy with tenacious bond. 
The limitations of zinc are that when the plating begins to corrode the zinc rust is plentiful and unsightly. Zinc Plating is available in clear (silver color), blue, yellow, black and olive drab green. Trivalant chromates are used if requested. Zinc Nickel was also developed as a cadmium replacement. Amazing corrosion resistance and its ability to handle high temperatures is making this plating very popular with all the automotive companies. Zinc Nickel can withstand from 1000 to 2000 hours of salt spray testing.
Bare steel will rust very quickly once it has been exposed to moisture and oxygen in the atmosphere. Zinc and cad act as a barrier, protecting the steel below. Even if scratched, the remaining zinc will protect the steel and will not peel, unlike paint or chrome coatings. 