The Eastern Time Zone (ET) is a time zone encompassing 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States, parts of eastern Canada, the state of Quintana Roo in Mexico, Panama in Central America and the Caribbean Islands. 1 Alabama: The entire state is officially in the Central Time Zone. 2  However, a handful of communities unofficially observe Eastern Time because they are part of the Columbus, Georgia metropolitan area – Phenix City, Smiths Station, Lanett, and Valley.
When providing a time or scheduling a meeting, it’s important that you understand how these time zone distinctions work. For example, if you’re on the eastern coast of the United States, you’re in the EST/EDT zone depending on what time of year it is. If you’re on the west coast, you are on Pacific Standard Time (PST) or PDT (daylight time) again, depending on if it’s summer or winter. In the summer, those who observe this practice will be on EDT time which is four 4 hours behind Universal Coordinated Time. During the winter months when they go back an hour, they will be 5 hours behind UTC and therefore part of Eastern Standard Time.
12:46 PM. CDT. Western Indiana. is in the. Central Time Zone. View Current Times in All Indiana Cities and Towns. Effective April 2, 2006 - all of Indiana observes daylight saving time. Effective April 2, 2006 - the eight Indiana counties of Daviess, Dubois, Knox, Martin, Perry, Pike, Pulaski and Starke moved from the Eastern to Central Time Zones. 
While it may seem confusing, many of the U.S. States and countries in the Eastern Standard Time zone also observe what is known as Eastern Daylight Time for a portion of the year. In the summer, those who observe this practice will be on EDT time which is four 4 hours behind Universal Coordinated Time. During the winter months when they go back an hour, they will be 5 hours behind UTC and therefore part of Eastern Standard Time.
In most states in the USA and in most provinces in Canada, Daylight-Saving Time (DST) is observed. During DST the time is shifted forward by 1 hour to EDT; which is 4 hours behind Greenwich Mean Time (GMT-4). After the Summer months Eastern Time is shifted back by 1 hour to US Eastern Standard Time (EST) or (GMT-5). The schedule for the states of the United States that adopt daylight saving time are: Eastern Time Zone is the Eastern Time Zone of the United States of America (USA) and Canada.
This time zone is reckoned 75 degrees west of the Greenwich and it encompasses most of the eastern parts of the United States. It is also the timezone used in Canada, the Caribbean, and in a few countries of South America. All places using it are five hours before the universal time, UTC-05:00. On the northern parts of the time zone on second Sunday of March when it is 2:00 AM EST, clocks are moved forward by one hour to 3:00 AM EDT (Eastern Daylight Time) . Conversely, on the first Sunday of the month of November when it is 2:00 AM EDT, clocks are usually moved back by one hour to 1:00 AM.
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is the equivalent of Eastern Standard Time (EST) plus 5 hours or Eastern Daylight Saving Time (EDT) plus 4 hours. 
Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), when observing daylight saving time (spring/summer) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time (UTC−04:00). In the northern parts of the time zone, during the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one-hour gap. 1 Alabama: The entire state is officially in the Central Time Zone. 2  However, a handful of communities unofficially observe Eastern Time because they are part of the Columbus, Georgia metropolitan area – Phenix City, Smiths Station, Lanett, and Valley.
Observes EST – Eastern Standard Time part of the year, but not currently. Currently has same time zone offset as EST (UTC -5:00) but different time zone name. Eastern Standard Time (EST) is 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) . This time zone is a standard time zone and is used in: North America, Caribbean, Central America. This time zone is often called Eastern Time Zone