26.9%. According to our research of California and other state lists there were 32 registered sex offenders living in Monterey Park, California as of October 06, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Monterey Park to the number of sex offenders is 1,904 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is smaller than the state average. 
In the state legislature Monterey Park is located in the 24th Senate District, represented by Democrat Ed Hernandez, and in the 49th Assembly District, represented by Democrat Ed Chau. In 1988, the City of Monterey Park passed an ordinance declaring a moratorium on new building, in an attempt to regulate the rapid growth the city experienced as a result of the influx of Asian immigrants.
By the 1990 census, Monterey Park became the first city with an Asian descent majority population in the continental United States. Timothy P. Fong, a professor and director of Asian American studies at California State University, Sacramento, describes Monterey Park as the First Suburban Chinatown . In 1988, the City of Monterey Park passed an ordinance declaring a moratorium on new building, in an attempt to regulate the rapid growth the city experienced as a result of the influx of Asian immigrants.
Monterey Park is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States, 10 miles (16 km) east of Downtown Los Angeles. In 1988, the City of Monterey Park passed an ordinance declaring a moratorium on new building, in an attempt to regulate the rapid growth the city experienced as a result of the influx of Asian immigrants.
East Los Angeles College is a community college that is located in Monterey Park in an area that was once part of East Los Angeles (unincorporated). In addition California State University, Los Angeles is in proximity. In 1988, the City of Monterey Park passed an ordinance declaring a moratorium on new building, in an attempt to regulate the rapid growth the city experienced as a result of the influx of Asian immigrants.
Welcome to the Monterey County Parks Website! The Monterey County Parks Department is dedicated to providing quality recreational facilities for everyone that visits our parks. Effective July 1, 2015, Lake San Antonio will be closed to the public until further notice.
The City of Monterey in Monterey County is located on the southern edge of Monterey Bay, on Central California 's Pacific coast. It stands at an elevation of 26 feet (8 m) above sea level, on a land area of 8.466 sq mi (21.927 km²). The 2010 census recorded a population of 27,810. Among Monterey's notable present-day attractions are the Monterey Bay Aquarium, Cannery Row, Fisherman's Wharf and the annual Monterey Jazz Festival.
Monterey was the capital of Alta California under both Spain and Mexico. It was the only port of entry for taxable goods in California. In 1846 the U.S. flag was raised over the Customs House, and California became part of the United States after the ensuing Mexican-American War. Among Monterey's notable present-day attractions are the Monterey Bay Aquarium, Cannery Row, Fisherman's Wharf and the annual Monterey Jazz Festival.
The Monterey Park City Clerk is an administrative position responsible to the electorate. As a part time elected official, the city clerk is responsible for establishing policies, guidelines and procedures for the operation of the city clerk's office. The city clerk's office is responsible for maintaining an accurate record of city council proceedings, maintaining official city records and conducting municipal elections in accordance with federal and state laws.