One prominent researcher called human skin a “virtual zoo of bacteria.” Another compared the diversity in the human gut to a rain forest. The human gut alone contains on average: 40,000 bacterial species, 9 million unique bacterial genes and 100 trillion microbial cells. According to Asher Mullard, “Between them [the bacteria in our bodies], they harbor millions of genes, compared with the paltry 20,000 estimated in the human genome. 
We know that some species of oral bacteria can double their numbers every 20 minutes under ideal conditions in a Petri dish. In the mouth, though, species have to compete with each other, and conditions are not always as idyllic as in the lab. We dont even know exactly how many species there are, let alone how to count them or how fast they grow. Estimates of the number of bacterial species in the oral cavity vary between 500 to 650 different species. They live on the teeth and tongue, of course, but biofilms also cover the cheeks and oral mucosa.
It is hard to accurately estimate just how many species of bacteria there are, as one survey found over 20,000 different species in one liter of seawater alone. Most bacteria can be classified into either Gram-positive or Gram-negative bacteria, reflecting key differences in their cell walls. 
It is estimated that 500 to 1,000 species of bacteria live in the human gut Bacterial cells are much smaller than human cells, and it is often said that there are at least ten times as many bacteria as human cells in the body, although the actual ratio has not been strictly defined. The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea
All the bacteria living inside you would fill a half-gallon jug; there are 10 times more bacterial cells in your body than human cells, according to Carolyn Bohach, a microbiologist at the University of Idaho (U.I.), along with other estimates from scientific studies. 
The bacteria from the two species of gorilla are more closely related to each other than they are to human gut bacteria. Geography, diet and disease aside, the main thing that influences the members of these bacterial cities is the species of the host. Your body is made up of around ten trillion cells, but you harbour a hundred trillion bacteria. For every gene in your genome, there are 100 bacterial ones. This is your ‘microbiome’ and it has a huge impact on your health, your ability to digest food and more. We, in turn, affect them.
Finally, if we assume that 110 mammal species produce fertile and viable hybrids that interbreed with the parents in nature (that’s a generous estimate), this constitutes only 2.4% of all mammal species (there are about 4500). 
There is a point of view that human body contains approximately 1014 bacteria cells, while the number of human cells has been calculated to be at least 3.72 * 10 13. The mass of microorganisms are estimated to account for 1-3% total body mass. The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea