Southeast Asia or Southeastern Asia is a subregion of Asia, consisting of the countries that are geographically south of China, east of India, west of New Guinea and north of Australia. The region lies near the intersection of geological plates, with heavy seismic and volcanic activity. The South China Sea is the major body of water within Southeast Asia. The Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia, Singapore, and Vietnam have integral rivers that flow into the South China Sea.
CENTRAL ASIA. The 5 major regions of Asia are Southeast Asia, East Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, and Southwest Asia (also known as the Middle East). SOUTH ASIA. The 5 major regions of Asia are Southeast Asia, East Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, and Southwest Asia (also known as the Middle East).
The countries included under the formal regional term Southeast Asia are. Myanmar (Burma), Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam*, Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines. With the exception of Laos, the countries of both regions include coastal borders. * Vietnam can belong to either or both formal regions. This is because the northern portion of what is now Vietnam participated in the civilization shared by what is now China, Japan, and Korea; the southern areas of Vietnam were more closely linked with the civilization shared by South Asia/India and its neighbors.
Blog: East Asia and Pacific on the rise. Join the conversation around important development challenges facing the East Asia and Pacific region! Open Data. The World Bank provides free and open access to a comprehensive set of data about development in East Asia and Pacific countries and around the globe. October 4, 2015 — East Asia remains one of the main growth drivers of the world economy, accounting for nearly two-fifths of global economic growth. Overall, the region is expected to grow 6.5% in 2015.
East Asia or Eastern Asia is the eastern subregion of the Asian continent, which can be defined in either geographical or cultural terms. Geographically and geopolitically, it covers about 12,000,000 km 2 (4,600,000 sq mi), or about 28% of the Asian continent, about 15% bigger than the area of Europe. Using the UN subregion definitions, East Asia ranks second in population only to Southern Asia. Historically, many societies in East Asia have been part of the Chinese cultural sphere, and East Asian vocabulary and scripts are often derived from Classical Chinese and Chinese script.
Main article: History of East Asia. The history of East Asia is predominantly the history of the Chinese Dynasties that dominated the region in matters of trade as well as militarily, such as the Qin and the Han Dynasties. There are records of tributes sent overseas from the early kingdoms of Korea and Japan. Using the UN subregion definitions, East Asia ranks second in population only to Southern Asia. Historically, many societies in East Asia have been part of the Chinese cultural sphere, and East Asian vocabulary and scripts are often derived from Classical Chinese and Chinese script.
The culture in Southeast Asia is very diverse: on mainland Southeast Asia, the culture is a mix of Indochinese (Burma, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand) and Chinese (The Philippines,Singapore and Vietnam). The South China Sea is the major body of water within Southeast Asia. The Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia, Singapore, and Vietnam have integral rivers that flow into the South China Sea.
EAST ASIA. The 5 major regions of Asia are Southeast Asia, East Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, and Southwest Asia (also known as the Middle East). SOUTH ASIA. The 5 major regions of Asia are Southeast Asia, East Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, and Southwest Asia (also known as the Middle East).
Indonesia is the largest country in Southeast Asia and it also the largest archipelago in the world by size (according to the CIA World Factbook). Geologically, the Indonesian Archipelago is one of the most volcanically active regions in the world. The South China Sea is the major body of water within Southeast Asia. The Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia, Singapore, and Vietnam have integral rivers that flow into the South China Sea.