Jonathan Harker is a fictional character and one of the protagonists of Bram Stoker 's 1897 Gothic horror novel Dracula. While Harker says he would, in the privacy of his journal says that if it is necessary, that he would become a vampire himself out of his love for her. However, Harker manages to avoid that because along with Van Helsing and the others he manages to hunt down and destroy Dracula.
252 pages on this wiki. Jonathan Harker was a recently certified soliciter from Exeter, who is sent by his employer, Mr. Hawkins, to Transylvania in order to consult a client on a property transaction. While Harker says he would, in the privacy of his journal says that if it is necessary, that he would become a vampire himself out of his love for her. However, Harker manages to avoid that because along with Van Helsing and the others he manages to destroy Dracula.
He and Mina have a son whom they name Quincey, after Quincey Morris. Quincey Harker 's birthday is the day Quincey Morris died fighting Dracula, Mina likes to think that some of Morris spirit is in their son. While Harker says he would, in the privacy of his journal says that if it is necessary, that he would become a vampire himself out of his love for her. However, Harker manages to avoid that because along with Van Helsing and the others he manages to destroy Dracula.
Harker is a recently admitted solicitor from England, who is deputed by his employer, Mr. Peter Hawkins, of Exeter, to act as an estate agent for a foreign client named Count Dracula who wishes to move to England. While Harker says he would, in the privacy of his journal says that if it is necessary, that he would become a vampire himself out of his love for her. However, Harker manages to avoid that because along with Van Helsing and the others he manages to hunt down and destroy Dracula.
Answers. Best Answer: Jonathan Harker is sent by his boss, Peter Hawkins, to Dracula's castle. Count Dracula is looking to buy property in England and Jonathan Harker has to arrange it with him. Later, you might remember, some of the story takes place in the mansion Dracula buys. When Dracula has all the information he needs and leaves for England, he leaves Jonathan in the castle to be the prey of the three female vampires-but Jonathan escapes before they can kill him.
Mina (or a similar character) has appeared in most film adaptations of Stoker's novel. In Stoker's original novel, Mina Harker recovers from the vampire's curse upon Dracula's death and lives on to marry Jonathan. However, in some media, Mina is killed at some point in the story, while in others, she becomes a full vampire and keeps her powers after the death of Dracula. Jessica De Gouw portrayed Mina Murray in the TV series Dracula. In this role, she is a medical student who is engaged to Jonathan Harker, and is said to be a reincarnation of Dracula's deceased wife.
Chapter 1. Jonathan Harker journals about his travel to Dracula’s Castle and the foreboding messages he gets from town folk along the way. Chapter 2. Jonathan journals about his conversation with Count Dracula regarding England and the new estate in London that Jonathan secured for him. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Jonathon Harker is basically a Realtor. He travels to Transylvania to finalize a deal for Dracula to purchase a piece of property in England. Which sets up the whole story and Dracula's pursuit of Jonathan's fiance Mina. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_Ha...