For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Human Resources Assistant I in the United States is $37,150, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Human Resources Assistant I in the United States are expected to make less than $37,150. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. The annual salary for someone with the job title Human Resources Assistant I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States that make less than that annual salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States is $40,243, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States are expected to make less than $40,243. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
A retail store assistant manager is the person who acts under the supervision of the general manager in order to ensure that a retail store will run smoothly and efficiently on a daily basis. Specifically, experience within the store itself, customer service, and/or retail can be beneficial. A retail store assistant manager is a job which can be entirely different, depending on the organization.
Retail Assistant Managers with one to two decades of relevant experience report an average salary of approximately $37K. People who have worked for more than 20 years report a median income of $39K, which is barely higher than the median for folks with 10 to 20 years of experience. For Retail Assistant Managers, busy Los Angeles offers a higher-than-average pay rate, 27 percent above the national average. Earnings for Retail Assistant Managers in the United States come in at around $12.32 per hour on average. Cash earnings for Retail Assistant Managers — including $5K in bonuses and $4K in profit sharing proceeds near the top of the pay scale — generally stretch from $20K to $50K depending on individual performanc
A Retail Store Assistant Manager earns an average wage of $12.18 per hour. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Operations Management and Hiring. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. $27,344 - $55,116. Specifically, experience within the store itself, customer service, and/or retail can be beneficial. A retail store assistant manager is a job which can be entirely different, depending on the organization.
NIKE Salary. NIKE average salary is $93,017, median salary is $86,858 with a salary range from $24,000 to $350,000. NIKE salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. NIKE salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly