/thy·rox·ine/ (T4) (thi-rok´sin) an iodine-containing hormone secreted by the thyroid gland, occurring naturally as l-thyroxine; its chief function is to increase the rate of cell metabolism. thyroxine, thyroxin. a hormone of the thyroid gland that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine. The chemical name for thyroxine is tetraiodothyronine (symbol, T 4); it is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin, the storage form.
Thyroid gland. thyroid hormones iodothyronines secreted by the thyroid gland, principally thyroxine (tetraiodothyronine or T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3). The serum level of T 4 is normally 45 to 50 times the level of T 3. The TSH then stimulates the release of thyroid hormones such as T 3 and T 4 from the thyroid gland. When sufficient levels of serum thyroxine and other thyroid hormones have been reached, there is negative feedback to the hypothalamus and TRH is no longer secreted.
thyroid-stimulating hormone test a thyroid function test in which thyrotropin (thyroid-stimulating hormone) is administered intramuscularly and the thyroid gland is monitored over time with scintiscanning or radioimmunoassays for a response or areas of decreased responsiveness. The TSH then stimulates the release of thyroid hormones such as T 3 and T 4 from the thyroid gland. When sufficient levels of serum thyroxine and other thyroid hormones have been reached, there is negative feedback to the hypothalamus and TRH is no longer secreted.
Thyroid hormones (T 4 and T 3) are produced by the follicular cells of the thyroid gland and are regulated by TSH made by the thyrotropes of the anterior pituitary gland. The effects of T 4 in vivo are mediated via T 3 (T 4 is converted to T 3 in target tissues). T 3 is 3- to 5- fold more active than T 4. The major form of thyroid hormone in the blood is thyroxine (T 4), which has a longer half-life than T 3. In humans, the ratio of T 4 to T 3 released into the blood is roughly 20 to 1
The Anterior pituitary gland secretes the thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) this targets the thyroid gland, stimulating the release of thyroid hormones.    Thyroid- … stimulating horomone(TSH) is secreted by the Pitutary gland(Specifically thyrotrope cells of Anterior pitutary gland). TSH regulates thyroid gland. On the other hand, the insufficient of the secretion of thyroid hormone or thyroxine will cause the hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism's symptoms include the basal metabolic rate that below the normal level.
The hormone that regulates the synthesis and secretion of T3 (Triiodothyronine) and T4 (Thyroxine) by the thyroid gland is thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) that is produced a … nd secreted by the anterior pituitary gland, also known as the adenohypophysis. Answered. In Human Anatomy and Physiology. 
The thyroid hormone process begins when the pituitary gland in the brain produces thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). TSH then acts upon the thyroid gland to produce thyroid hormones. The two main thyroid hormones produced are thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Although the thyroid gland produces more T4 (80 percent) compared with T3 (20 percent), T3 is 300 percent more active than T4 and is the thyroid hormone responsible for increasing metabolism. In fact, much of the T4 is converted into the more active T3 inside the cells of the body.
thyroxine Thyroxine     thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3), are tyrosine-based hormones produced by the thyroid gland the thyroid and parathyroid glands are in the neck. the thyroid harmones accelerate the metabolic rate and oxygen consumption in all body tissues. On the other hand, the insufficient of the secretion of thyroid hormone or thyroxine will cause the hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism's symptoms include the basal metabolic rate that below the normal level.