Disher Name Meaning. Americanized spelling of German Discher ‘joiner’.English: occupational name for a maker or seller of dishes, from an agent derivative of Old English disc ‘dish’.Possibly a respelling of any of the names mentioned at Deshaw. You can find out when most of the Disher families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Swedish surnames and family names. Until quite recently, Sweden have not commonly used family surnames. Instead we have had a patronymic tradition, which means that all children got their fathers first name as their surname, with the suffix-son (for men) or-dotter (for women). My great-grandfather's last name was Thyr, and he was apparently born in Franshammar, Gavleborg. In my research it seems that Thyr is a Swedish first name as well as a surname, and not very common. I cannot find his birth record because I don't know the parish he was born in--Franshammar is not listed.
From the Swedish word frisk healthy, which was derived from the Middle Low German word vrisch fresh, young, frisky and was one of the names handed out to avoid confusion in the army. 
Sweden Roots Swedish Genealogy Information Swedish Last Names This list of Swedish Last Names is offered as an aid to deciphering difficult to read handwriting. Sometimes if there is something to compare handwriting against, then determining the actual intended name is possible. 
You can find out where the majority of the Disher families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Disher families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
Disher Early Origins. First found in Oxfordshire where they held a family seat as Lords of the Manor. The Saxon influence of English history diminished after the Battle of Hastings in 1066. The language of the courts was French for the next three centuries and the Norman ambience prevailed. 1 Plaques and Frames revealing the family crest for the surname Disher. 2  Surname Histories for the name Disher. 3  Symbolism proudly displaying the Disher family crest. 4  Travel Mugs displaying the family crest
Surnames of Swedish language origin. This is a category based on linguistic origin. Categorization of various list articles where some entries may be Swedish by ancestry, culture, ethnicity, or nationality, is unwarranted without references attesting to the relation between the surname and the Swedish language. 
From Old Norse falker or Middle High German valke falcon. FRISK Swedish. From the Swedish word frisk healthy, which was derived from the Middle Low German word vrisch fresh, young, frisky and was one of the names handed out to avoid confusion in the army. LINDSTROEM Lindström. Swedish means linden, stream and is derived from the swedish words lind meaning (linden) lime, tree and stroem ström which. MEANS Stream. Ljung swedish From the swedish name of the ... heather plant
Swedish Surnames Swedish surnames such as Magnusson, Hansen, Johansson and Norberg are also referred to as family or last names. Swedish surnames are inherited from the parents and follow the given name to create a full personal name. This article contains the history, origins and meaning of Swedish Surnames, also referred to as last names. This information is supplemented by a list of the Top 100 most popular and common Swedish Surnames. Swedish Surnames are is shared by the members of the same family, and indicate the family connection. Typical Place Surnames. Other typical, common last names in Sweden describe the home or workplace of the person or a nearby location such as Almstedt meaning elm house or Bergstrom meaning mountain stream or Borg meaning castle. Common Swedish Surnames.