Add a new slide and name it Bibliography. Type the list of the books and websites used for the presentation. Then type some keyword for moving from the name of the book or website back to the place where it is mentioned. Make the hyperlink from the each reference number in the presentation to the Bibliography page. Highlight the number by pressing the left mouse button. Click with the right mouse button on it and select the Hyperlink option from the drop-down menu. The window Insert Hyperlink appears. Click on the Place in these document tab. Select the Bibliography slide and click on the Ok button. Click on the Bibliography slide. Highlight the name of the book or website with the pressed left mouse button. Click with the right mouse button on it. Select the Hyperlink option from the drop-down menu.
Step 2. Add a book reference using the format: Author’s last name, author’s first name. Book Title. Place of Publication: Publisher Name, Year. Highlight the publication, and then place of publication and press Ctrl-I on the keyboard to italicize the words. Add a hyperlink from a slide that cites a source in the bibliography when you feel it is appropriate. Insert such a slide, for example, if you are directly quoting from the source, or are including statistics or charts from that source. Step 2. Type a reference number in brackets, such as (1) and highlight the number.
Add a new slide and name it Bibliography. Type the list of the books and websites used for the presentation. Then type a keyword for moving from the name of the book or website back to the place where it is mentioned. Make the hyperlink from each reference number in the presentation to the Bibliography page. Click on the Bibliography slide. Highlight the name of the book or website with the pressed left mouse button. Click it with the right mouse button. Select the Hyperlink option from the drop-down menu. In the appeared Insert Hyperlink window, click on the Place in this document button.
You make creating a bibliography for your PowerPoint show easier if you start your bibliography page at the outset of your research. Each time you add a new source to your report, take the time to add the citation to your bibliography. Make notes from your report once you complete it. 
Creating a Bibliography Slide. Launch Microsoft PowerPoint and scroll down to the last page on your presentation. Insert a new slide by clicking the Home tab, then click the New Slide arrow in the Slides group of the Ribbon. Step 2. Select the Title and Content slide from the available Office Theme options. Add a hyperlink from a slide that cites a source in the bibliography when you feel it is appropriate. Insert such a slide, for example, if you are directly quoting from the source, or are including statistics or charts from that source. Step 2. Type a reference number in brackets, such as (1) and highlight the number.
Step 8. Type a title for the slide (such as “Bibliography”) in the slide’s title box. Step 9. In the slide’s text box, press “Ctrl-V” to paste the Word text into the slide. If the bibliography displays as a bulleted list, right-click the text, mouse over “Bullets” and click “None” to remove the bullets. Click the “Insert Citation” button and select “Add New Source” to open the form on the dialog box. Step 4. Click to select the item in the Type of Source drop-down list. Enter the data on the form and click “OK” to close
Click at the end of the sentence or phrase that you want to cite. On the References tab, in the Citations & Bibliography group, click Insert Citation. Do one of the following: To add the source information, click Add New Source. To add a placeholder, so that you can create a citation and fill in the source information later, click Add New Placeholder. 
How to create an in-text citation for a Powerpoint. Cite a Powerpoint the same way you would cite anything else. Use the authors last name and the year of the presentation, e.g. (Doe, 2014). 