I started taking 10 mg Lexapro a couple of weeks ago, and my pdoc told me to take it in the morning with food. (Last week he increased it to 20 mg, still in the AM). It does not make me drowsy at all. Re: Best time of day to take Lexapro? When I first started taking I would take it at my bed time (I work nights so I sleep during the day, and I am awake at night so I always try bed time first).
Re: Best time of day to take Lexapro? Lexapro (escitalopram) works better either morning or night so for me it doesn't really matter what time I use to take them morning or night (sleep like a baby) it still works for me. Re: Best time of day to take Lexapro? When I first started taking I would take it at my bed time (I work nights so I sleep during the day, and I am awake at night so I always try bed time first).
So, my doc has prescribed Lexapro (10 mg) for my depression and anxiety. My sleep in the last few months has been lousy, and I've often had to take zopiclone or .5mg ativan to sleep. Just wondering what is the best time of day to take this stuff-a.m. or p.m. Re: Best time of day to take Lexapro? When I first started taking I would take it at my bed time (I work nights so I sleep during the day, and I am awake at night so I always try bed time first).
The medication is taken once a day, most commonly in the morning, but some prefer to take it in the evening or at noontime. For all patients, 10 mg/day is the recommended starting dose of LEXAPRO. 10 mg/day is also the maintenance dose for many patients. If the dose is increased to 20 mg/day, this should occur after a minimum of 1 week. LEXAPRO can be taken morning or evening once daily, with or without food
You can take this medication anytime during the day. However, if Lexapro makes you drowsy, try taking it before bedtime. If the medication causes insomnia, try taking it in the morning. However, your Lexapro dose should be taken at the same time each day to maintain an even level in your blood. It usually takes several weeks (and may even take longer than a month) to feel the beneficial effects of Lexapro. Try not to be discouraged if the drug does not work right away for you
It does not make a difference when in the day you take Lexapro; it is just important that you take it at the same time each day consistently. The best time of the day to take it is when you are most likely to remember to take it. If you are on 20mg, for example, take 10 m … g for a week and then 5mg for a week and then 5mg every other day.     I am not a doctor and you really should talk to YOUR doctor about tapering. Coming off of Lexapro has some pretty nasty side effects for some folks.
I used to take lexapro during the day..morning. I took 10 mg and I did get to start 2.5 mg or so in the evenings when life was rough but that extra amount made me a bit sedated. I just began taking lexapro about 4 weeks ago. First I took 10 mg for two days but was so zonked I cut back to 5. After 2 weeks I started alternating 5 & 10. Now I am finally up to 10 mg a day (for a week). My depression has improved no doubt but I have some increased anxiety and some insomnia but not every night.
Best Answer: I called the pharmacy about this when I was put on Lexapro. He said that I may want to take it at night instead of in the mornings. It will take about two weeks to fully get into your system. If I forget to take it at night, I will take it in the morning, and now it doesn't make me tired. okay, my dr told me to take lexapro in the morning but it makes me so tired and end up taking a nap to feel rested, i thought about just taking it at night around 7 or 8 is it better to take at night what do you think!
Escitalopram is usually taken 1 time per day with or without food. Typically patients begin at a low dose of medicine and the dose is increased slowly over several weeks. The dose usually ranges from 10 mg to 20 mg. Only your healthcare provider can determine the correct dose for you.