r. I am looking for a large square frozen breaded fish patties to make filet-o-fish sandwiches at home. The closest I can find is Van De Kamp's, http://www.vandekamps.com/crunchy-fis... but they are a little too small and have too much breading. I know I can make my own, and I'm just not interested in going that route
Place the fish in a plastic bag, then top with a zip-top plastic bag filled with ice. Thaw frozen fish in the refrigerator. To defrost safely and quickly in one to two hours, place the fish in a sealed plastic bag in a bowl of cold water, changing the water often. Fish sold as fresh can be anywhere from one day to two weeks out of the water. Large fishing vessels may stay at sea for two weeks, keeping their catch on ice to sell fresh. Even locally caught fish may take days traveling from boat to truck to wholesaler to retailer to your kitchen.
Not all frozen fish are equal, however. I was recently at an Asian market and saw row after row of fish simply tossed into a styrofoam package and plopped in the freezer: I wouldn't eat that fish for any money. No, to find the best flash-frozen fish, you need to look for one of two things: 1  A vacuum-sealed fish. 2  These are always your best bet. 3  A fish with a thick glaze of ice on it. 4  This is an older method of freezing that does protect the fish well. 
Fine Frozen Fish Sticks. Duckwise. My husband and I bonded over our love of all things food--from the best pie in Maine to the delights of ssam. Four years in, we've discovered discovered another shared, albeit closeted, love: fish sticks
Specialty brand tuna is also processed differently. The larger commercial canneries, such as Starkist®, cook their fish twice. First, they bake the fish whole on a rack, which causes a loss of natural beneficial oils, but makes the fish easier to de-bone. Ask for line-caught Alaskan fish first. The healthiest populations and habitats exist in Alaska. Fresh-caught, wild salmon is available nearly eight months of the year, with high quality frozen at sea (FAS) line-caught fish available during the interim. Wild Alaskan Coho salmon, frozen at sea, is our first choice. Wild Alaskan Chinook (also called King) salmon, fresh, is our second choice. Two caveats: Fresh Atlantic salmon is generally farm-raised—the name refers to the species, not the fish's origin
Often the fresh fish you buy to prepare at home has been frozen. Fish sold as fresh can be anywhere from one day to two weeks out of the water. Large fishing vessels may stay at sea for two weeks, keeping their catch on ice to sell fresh. Even locally caught fish may take days traveling from boat to truck to wholesaler to retailer to your kitchen.
•Handle properly: When shopping, ask for your fish to be packed with a separate bag of crushed ice to keep it cold. Refrigerate whole fish up to two days; fillets and steaks one to two days. Place the fish in a plastic bag, then top with a zip-top plastic bag filled with ice. Thaw frozen fish in the refrigerator. To defrost safely and quickly in one to two hours, place the fish in a sealed plastic bag in a bowl of cold water, changing the water often. 
Frozen Seafood Is Often the Best Choice. It might sound counterintuitive, but you'll find fresher, more eco-friendly fish in the freezer section of your market. Don't be fooled by the pretty displays at the fish counter—frozen is often a better choice. (Photo: Nicholas Eveleigh/Getty Images). Jane Says: Surprise!