1 Blueberries require light, free-draining acidic soils, with plenty of rich, organic matter if they're to thrive. 2  The soil should have a lower pH of between 4 and 5.5, similar to the requirements of rhododendrons and camellias. 3  It's possible to lower the pH levels of your soil with sulphur chips or dust. 1 After this, blueberries need regular pruning to maintain plant vigour and high quality berry production. 2  Prune them between November and March when the plant is dormant. 3  When pruning, take out any dead, dying and diseased wood. 4  Locate the oldest canes and remove one or two at the base each year.
A. If a late frost didn't kill the buds, the bushes may be suffering from too much bounty and too little pruning. If growing in the type of environment they love — acid soil, not too competition from weeds, full sun — blueberry bushes are very prolific berry producers. Canes that are more than seven years old become less productive. To keep them producing well, blueberry bushes need to be pruned every year. 1  If your bushes have never been trimmed, be careful not to go overboard the first year: Remove no more than two or three of the oldest canes (more than seven years old).
Pruning blueberries. 1  Blueberries produce fruit on branches that were produced the previous year. 2  For the first two or three years of a blueberry's life it's not necessary to prune it much, apart from keeping the plant tidy. 1 After this, blueberries need regular pruning to maintain plant vigour and high quality berry production. 2  Prune them between November and March when the plant is dormant. 3  When pruning, take out any dead, dying and diseased wood. 4  Locate the oldest canes and remove one or two at the base each year.
“How do I prune blueberry bushes” is one of the most commonly asked questions when growing blueberries. Knowing how to prune blueberries is important. Proper pruning of blueberries can make the difference between an average crop and a plentiful one. In addition, prune out unproductive canes that have not produced any new growth. Generally for blueberry plant pruning, you should remove the two oldest canes each winter. In the first two years, adequate pruning will help train blueberry bushes into the most desired shape for promoting maximum fruit production.
The best time to prune blueberries is in late winter to early spring (January to early March) after all chance of severe weather has passed. Young bushes generally do not require as much pruning; however, trimming blueberry bushes throughout the growing season may be necessary to maintain overall health and vigor. In addition, prune out unproductive canes that have not produced any new growth. Generally for blueberry plant pruning, you should remove the two oldest canes each winter. In the first two years, adequate pruning will help train blueberry bushes into the most desired shape for promoting maximum fruit production.
Soil: Moist, acidic, organic, well drained soil. Highbush blueberries require a soil pH of 4.0-5.2. If you do not have acidic soil, it can easily be changed by working with a local lawn and garden supply store to help lower your soil’s pH. How to Prune Blueberries. Do not prune for the first 2-3 years except to remove damaged or rubbing canes. Remove the fat fruit buds the first year to force vegetative growth and help the root system get established.
The type and amount of blueberry plant pruning, however, may depend on the type and size of the bush. For trimming blueberry bushes, you should remove any lower growth to prevent fruits from settling on the ground. Advertisement. When pruning blueberries, you’ll want to allow light to penetrate the center of the plant. In addition, prune out unproductive canes that have not produced any new growth. Generally for blueberry plant pruning, you should remove the two oldest canes each winter. In the first two years, adequate pruning will help train blueberry bushes into the most desired shape for promoting maximum fruit production.
Vegetable and Berry Specialist. Pruning is essential to maintaining a productive planting of highbush blueberries over time. Yet many blueberry growers fail to prune in a timely fashion, while other growers, or their workers, prune the plants without fully understanding what they are trying to accomplish.
1 Pruning – Blueberry bushes are best pruned when dormant in early spring. 2  Young bushes require less pruning during the first three years. 3  Prune young bushes by removing damaged branches and spindly growth around the base of the plants. 
Pruning blueberries is essential in order to maintain their size, shape, and productivity. When blueberry plants are not pruned, they can become overgrown masses of weak, leggy growth with small fruit. However, severe pruning can lead to larger berries but fewer in number. In addition, prune out unproductive canes that have not produced any new growth. Generally for blueberry plant pruning, you should remove the two oldest canes each winter. In the first two years, adequate pruning will help train blueberry bushes into the most desired shape for promoting maximum fruit production.