Specifically, this medicine is approved to treat any skin condition that responds to corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate cream. For individuals who do not prefer cream medications, Cutivate is also available in the form of a lotion or an ointment (see Cutivate Lotion or Cutivate Ointment) . Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Fluticasone propionate cream (Cutivate Cream ®) is a prescription skin medication used to treat inflammation and itching due to a wide variety of conditions in people age three months of age and older. Some of these conditions include but are not limited to:
CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Fluticasone propionate cream (Cutivate Cream ®) is a prescription skin medication. It is a topical steroid that is used to treat a wide variety of skin conditions, such as eczema, psoriasis, dermatitis, and allergic reactions. Fluticasone propionate cream is approved for the treatment of a variety of skin conditions, including dermatitis, psoriasis, and eczema.
As with any medicine, fluticasone propionate ointment may cause side effects. However, not everyone who uses the drug will experience problems. In fact, most people tolerate it quite well. Conditions like allergic dermatitis, seborrhea, and eczema are often successfully treated with fluticasone propionate ointment. Fluticasone propionate ointment (Cutivate Ointment ®) is a prescription skin medication. It is a topical steroid that is used to treat a wide variety of skin conditions, such as eczema, psoriasis, dermatitis, and allergic reactions
Fluticasone topical (for the skin) is used to treat the inflammation and itching caused by a number of skin conditions such as allergic reactions, eczema, and psoriasis. Fluticasone topical should not be used to treat rosacea, severe acne, or viral skin infections such as chickenpox or herpes. 
Cutivate (fluticasone propionate) Ointment, 0.005% is used to treat the inflammation and itching caused by a number of skin conditions such as allergic reactions, eczema, and psoriasis. It is a topical (for the skin) steroid. This medication is available in generic form. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the entire detailed patient monograph for Cutivate Ointment (Fluticasone Propionate Ointment).
Uses. This medication is used to treat a variety of skin conditions (such as eczema, psoriasis, rash). Fluticasone reduces swelling (inflammation), itching, and redness. This medication is a medium-strength corticosteroid. It is available in several forms, including cream, ointment, and lotion. Your doctor will choose the type of product based on your skin condition and the area of your body to be treated
The FDA approved topical fluticasone propionate in December, 1990. PRESCRIBED FOR: Fluticasone propionate is used to treat inflammation, itching, redness, dryness, and scaling associated with various skin conditions (for example, insect bites, allergic reactions and eczema). SIDE EFFECTS: Common side effects include