(CNSNews.com) - For the first time ever, the average price for a kilowatthour (KWH) of electricity in the United States has broken through the 14-cent mark, climbing to a record 14.3 cents in June, according to data released last week by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Although the price for an average KWH hit its all-time record in June, the seasonally adjusted electricity price index--which measures changes in the price of electricity relative to a value of 100 and adjusts for seasonal fluctuations in price--hit its all-time high of 209.341 in March of this year, according to BLS.
The average price people in the U.S. pay for electricity is about 12 cents per kilowatt-hour. (Context: A typical U.S. household uses about 908 kWh a month of electricity.). But there's huge variation from state to state. Here's a map of residential electricity prices, according to the Energy Information Administration. People in Hawaii pay the most for electricity, about 33 cents per kWh. Idaho had the lowest price, at about 8 cents per kWh. So the typical US household would pay about $73 for electricity each month in Idaho.
(Then divide by 1000 to get the kilowatt-hours, which is how your utility charges you.) Example: 100-watt bulb x 2 hours 1000 = 0.2 kWh. Trivia. The average U.S. household uses 920 kWh a month. (Dept. of Energy). The U.S. as a whole used nearly 4 trillion kWh in 2009. So the average rate of electricity is all but useless for most purposes. Therefore, on this site, I generally use a sample rate of 15 per kWh. This isn't a typical rate, since there's no such thing as typical when it comes to electricity rates. And it's certainly not average.
1 Unit rate-this is the price you will pay per unit (kWh) of energy, so it can fluctuate depending on how much energy you use. When calculating the price of your bill, energy providers monitor how many kilowatt hours of gas or electricity you have used over a certain period of time, and then multiply this by the price per unit set in your tariff.
The unit that both gas and electricity are measured in is kilowatt hours (kWh). One kWh of gas is approximately equivalent to leaving a small gas hob burner on for an hour. One kWh of electricity is the rough equivalent of running a washing machine for an hour. When calculating the price of your bill, energy providers monitor how many kilowatt hours of gas or electricity you have used over a certain period of time, and then multiply this by the price per unit set in your tariff.
1 The cost of electricity can be reported in dollars per megawatt-hour ($/MWh) or cents per kilowatt-hour (c/kWh) as commonly seen on residential electricity bills. 2  For example, $50 per MWh = 5 cents per kWh. 3  An average U.S. home uses 11,000 kWh or 11 MWh each year. Note: the size of the bubble is proportionate to project capacity. 1 
For electricity, average prices per kilowatt-hour (kWh) and per 500 kWh are published. For utility (piped) gas, average prices per therm, per 40 therms, and per 100 therms are published. For gasoline, the average price per gallon is published. Seattle area households paid an average of 10.2 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity in August 2015, up from the 9.6 cents per kWh in August 2014. The average cost of utility (piped) gas at $1.250 per therm in August was higher than the $1.187 per therm spent last year.
Here's the formula to figure the cost of running a device: wattage x hours used 1000 x price per kWh = cost of electricity For example, let's say you leave a 100-watt bulb running continuously (730 hours a month), and you're paying 15 /kWh. So the average rate of electricity is all but useless for most purposes. Therefore, on this site, I generally use a sample rate of 15 per kWh. This isn't a typical rate, since there's no such thing as typical when it comes to electricity rates. And it's certainly not average.
The average price per kilowatt-hour represents the total bill divided by the kilowatt-hour usage. The total bill is the sum of all items applicable to all consumers appearing on an electricity bill including, but not limited to, variable rates per kWh, fixed costs, taxes, surcharges, and credits. For electricity, average prices per kilowatt-hour (kWh) and per 500 kWh are published. For utility (piped) gas, average prices per therm, per 40 therms, and per 100 therms are published.