(Chickenpox Test). The varicella-zoster virus causes the disease commonly known as chickenpox. Chickenpox is highly contagious and can be spread through the air or direct contact with an infected person. In most cases, once a person has recovered from a chickenpox infection, they develop a lifelong immunity. The varicella IgG test is available by itself or as part of our Immunity Panel which also contains immunity tests for hepatitis A, hepatitis B, measles, mumps, and rubella. If someone is experiencing symptoms, the varicella zoster virus antibodies IgM test can identify a current chickenpox infection.
The Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) Titer is a blood test that checks if you are immune to Varicella Zoster Virus, also known as Chickenpox and Shingles. It measures your antibody levels to get a sense for whether your immune system has the capability to respond to an infection with one of these diseases. 
This test looks for antibodies in your blood that your body makes against the varicella-zoster virus. The varicella-zoster virus is very contagious. It can cause two health problems: chickenpox and shingles. When you become infected with the virus for the first time, it causes chickenpox. After having chickenpox, most people become immune to the virus for the rest of their life. 
A blood test which measures immunity to the virus which causes Chickenpox and Shingles. The Varicella Zoster Immunity test is a virology blood test. Results for the Varicella Zoster Immunity test are available within 2 days. Symptoms. There are no signs to confirm whether you are immune to Varicella Zoster therefore an immunity test is the safest way to find out. Phlebotomy. We will arrange for you to have your blood samples taken locally to where you live or work.
Chickenpox and shingles are caused by an infection with the varicella zoster virus (VZV), a member of the herpes virus family. Varicella zoster virus tests detect either antibodies produced by the immune system in response to a VZV infection or detect the virus itself. Tests for chickenpox and shingles may be performed to detect and diagnose a current or past infection with VZV.
The varicella blood test is a common test used to determine your immunity status for Chickenpox. Varicella Titer Test. Throughout life, we contract or are exposed to numerous infections. Some of these infections are worse than others. Let's look at varicella, the virus that causes chickenpox or shingles. After exposure, a person will have some level of IgG antibodies in their blood for their lifetime. This is what is detected when using the varicella blood test. Determining your immunity level to varicella can be not only important for your health, but also important for schooling or your career. http://www.squidoo.com/the-varicella-test-determining-your-immunity-to-chickenpox
These tests are not routinely used to diagnose active cases of chickenpox and shingles, which are caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZV). These conditions are usually diagnosed based upon a person's signs and symptoms. When someone is exposed to VZV, their immune system responds by producing antibodies to the virus. Two classes of VZV antibodies may be found in the blood: IgM and IgG. 1  IgM antibodies are the first to be produced by the body in response to a VZV infection.
1 Documentation of two doses of varicella vaccine; 2  Blood tests showing immunity due to a history of disease; or. 3  Documented history from a healthcare provider of a) diagnosis of varicella (chickenpox) or zoster (shingles); or b) verification of a history of varicella or zoster. 
However, if an adult age 60 years or older is tested for varicella immunity for whatever reason, and the test is negative, he/she should be given 2 doses of varicella vaccine at least 4 weeks apart, not zoster vaccine. See www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd-vac/shingles/hcp-vaccination.htm for more information. 