Corned beef is a salt-cured beef product. The term comes from the treatment of the meat with large grained rock salt, also called corns of salt. It features as an ingredient in many cuisines. Corned beef remains popular in the United Kingdom and countries with British culinary traditions and is commonly used in sandwiches, corned beef hash or eaten with chips and pickles. It also remains especially popular in Canada in a variety of dishes, perhaps most prominently Montreal smoked meat.
Best Answer: Salt. It refers to the preservation process. The corn in corned beef refers to the corn or grains of coarse salts used to cure it.. Dictionary.com defines corned beef as beef cured or pickled in brine.. Brine is salt water. Corned beef is traditionally served on Easter Sunday in Ireland -- the beef was salted through the winter to preserve it over Lent. Place the corned beef, pepper, allspice, bay leaves and salt into a large 8-quart pot along with 3-quarts of water. Cover and set over high heat. Bring to a boil, decrease the heat to low and cook, at a low simmer for 2 1/2 hours
Directions. Place the water into a large 6 to 8 quart stockpot along with salt, sugar, saltpeter, cinnamon stick, mustard seeds, peppercorns, cloves, allspice, juniper berries, bay leaves and ginger. Cook over high heat until the salt and sugar have dissolved. Remove from the heat and add the ice. Stir until the ice has melted. Place the brisket into a pot just large enough to hold the meat, add the onion, carrot and celery and cover with water by 1-inch. Set over high heat and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover and gently simmer for 2 1/2 to 3 hours or until the meat is fork tender.
Corned beef is beef that is first pickled in brine and then cooked by boiling. Usually, cuts of meat are used that feature long muscle grain, such as the brisket. The name corned beef is due to a coarse salt used in the pickling process. Corn originally meant grain, as in a small particle of something, and referred to the corns of salt. Corned beef does not actually contain corn, as is sometimes believed. Jewish Cooking: Corned Beef In the United States In the United States, corned beef is often purchased at delicatessens
Carbs in Corned Beef. The favorite choice for the term Corned Beef is 1 medium slice of Corned Beef which has about 0.2 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Corned Beef is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins.
Therefore, corned beef is meat preserved with salt and has nothing to do with corn. Best Salt to use for Brining or Curing Meat. Many brining recipes do not specify the type of salt. Pickling or canning salt is your best choice in brining recipes because it is pure, fine-grained, and dissolves easily. To make corned beef, you immerse meat in brine, which is simply a solution of salt and water. Besides salt and water, there are a few other ingredients commonly used in a brining recipe for corned beef brisket. 1  Salt preserves the meat, enhances flavor and helps carry sugar and spices throughout the food.
A Boost in Protein. At 18.2 grams per 100-gram serving, corned beef is a good source of protein. It also contains 10 percent of your daily recommended value for iron. The quantities of other nutrients in corned beef are negligible. 
The lack of beef or corned beef in the Irish diet is especially true in Northern Ireland and areas away from the major centres for corned beef production. However, individuals living in these production centres such as Cork did consume the product to a certain extent. Corned beef remains popular in the United Kingdom and countries with British culinary traditions and is commonly used in sandwiches, corned beef hash or eaten with chips and pickles. It also remains especially popular in Canada in a variety of dishes, perhaps most prominently Montreal smoked meat.
Brining, also known as corning or sweet pickling is a good meat curing method for beginners because it is easy and relatively inexpensive to do with delicious results. To make corned beef, you immerse meat in brine, which is simply a solution of salt and water. Besides salt and water, there are a few other ingredients commonly used in a brining recipe for corned beef brisket. 1  Salt preserves the meat, enhances flavor and helps carry sugar and spices throughout the food.