The Three Gorges Dam is a hydroelectric dam that spans the Yangtze River by the town of Sandouping, located in Yiling District, Yichang, Hubei province, China. The dam could only divert the water above Chenglingji, leaving 30 to 40 km 3 (7.2 to 9.6 cu mi) to be diverted. Also the dam cannot protect against some of the large tributaries downstream, including the Xiang, Zishui, Yuanshui, Lishui, Hanshui, and the Gan.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: When fishing around a dam, for big bass, catfish,trout, or any other fish it is always better fishing down side of the dam. 
Now, a quick word of warning: fishing below the dam is not for wimps and it's not for the careless. It's a two man operation and one that requires each angler to pay attention to what's going on around him or her. And always, without exception, wear a life jacket. Fish just like you would below the dam at Fort Loudon, and don't be shy about the size skipjack you use for bait. A big one maybe 12 inches or more will often catch a big striper maybe 30 pounds or more.
What Pace refers to as the detritus of civilization often ends up on the bottom immediately above and below dams, providing unexpected holding and feeding stations for bass. Old shopping carts, junk cars, lawn chairs, trash cans — you name it, it's probably on the bottom around your local dam, Pace said. One of the most obvious structures both above and below any dam is a riprap (broken rock) bank. Riprap draws bass because it attracts so much forage, Lowen said. Shad feed on algae growing on the rocks and are in turn preyed upon by bass.
Unguarded swimming is open on all areas of the river unless posted otherwise. The area within 300 feet above and 300 feet below the dam is not open for swimming. Swimming is at your own risk, and as with all areas of the river, swimmers should be cautious of swift currents, and sharp stones along the river bottom. *Remember to bring your own equipment.*. Water is backed up behind the dam to provide about 2 miles of flat water even during low water conditions and when the river is running high paddlers can travel from Woodstock Road (Rt. 125) to the Daniels area, approximately 4.7 river miles. The Daniels area has a canoe put-in/take-out just above the Dam.
Recreation on rivers and streams is a safe, wholesome outdoor activity. However, low-head dams can be a threat to an unwary boater, swimmer or wader. Of all the things you may encounter on a river or stream, the low-head dam is one of the most dangerous. 
The area above dams often creates a deep slow water area that can be home to a wide variety of fish, and can be fished using the same methods you?d use on a lake or pond. Again, these areas are often left alone by anglers seeking the white water and active fish below the dam. Click here to view the rest of the rest of the articles in this series. Dams are often the most fished spots on a river, and for good reason. The current provides oxygen for fish and brings food to them. The dam itself is a barrier that blocks migrating fish and forces them to concentrate at the bottom of the dam. This is also the area that tends to receive the most fishing pressure
Best Answer: Below the dam near the tail races. If you want real specificity, at night, according to academic research. The controversy about dams is the impact it has on smolt and other food coming through dams. It at least stuns them, making them easy pickin's for larger fish. thus more small animal life and on up the food chain until you get to the big fish.certain times of the year fishing below a dam can be a very dangerous thing to do because of emergency release of excess water from above the dam. most often you will be in a canyon situation with no where to go.