Origins of the Sidebottom Surname. There are no clear, concise answers to why or how one of your Sidebottom ancestors took on the surname. It may have been based on their occupation or a distinguising physical trait. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country. If you host the Sidebottom blog or web page, please link to this surname-focused resource. Here's the HTML code for a basic link. Simply cut/paste this code on to your page.
Patronymic, matronymic, or ancestral. Patronymic surnames (those that come from a male given name) include Benson (“the son of Ben”), Davis, Dawson, Evans, Harris, Harrison, Jackson, Jones (Welsh for John), Nicholson, Richardson, Robinson, Rogers, Simpson, Stephenson, Thompson, Watson, and Wilson. Enter your last name to learn its meaning and origin. This kind of name also gave a clue about whom a servant worked for. Someone named Vickers might have been a servant to Mr. Vicker, and someone named Williams might either have served a William or been adopted by him.
The derivation of the name is from the Olde English pre 7th Century sid, wide, broad, spacious, and bothm, valley, bottom, dell, and in the case of the topographical surname, this would denote residence in such a wide valley. One Thomas de Sidebotham is recorded in Earwaker's History of East Cheshire in 1400, and a Robert Sidbothom appears in a list of the knights, gentlemen and freeholders in the Macclesfield Hundred in 1445.
The family plaque describes the last name meaning of your surname, what classification Heraldry list your surname as and the coat of arms. This one is shown in flat black, but we do offer it in 5 different colors. This is a type of family tree plaque to add to your Christmas List. Click on Picture. We have the last name meaning and family surname history for most names. Click on Picture This Surname History and Family Shield Combination has the last name meaning of the surname along with the origin of the name.
Another form of surname was derived from the name of a father or grandfather. This is called a patronymic surname. In medieval England, there were only about 20 popular first names (for males), the most common being John. Thomas, the son of John, might be known as Thomas Johnson (John's son). 
If your family surname does not appear, and we don't have it in one of our off-line databases or many family history books then we offer a Surname Origin Research. Click on Picture. Click on Picture This genealogy print is showing the Last Name Meaning of Both Surnames of your family history. We have the last name meaning and family surname history for most names. Click on Picture This Surname History and Family Shield Combination has the last name meaning of the surname along with the origin of the name.
This long-established northern English name is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is either a locational surname, from a place called Sidebottom in Cheshire near Stockport, or a topographical name peculiar to the counties of Cheshire, Lancashire and Yorkshire. One Thomas de Sidebotham is recorded in Earwaker's History of East Cheshire in 1400, and a Robert Sidbothom appears in a list of the knights, gentlemen and freeholders in the Macclesfield Hundred in 1445.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Sidebottom families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. You can find out when most of the Sidebottom families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
A family name (in Western contexts often referred to as a surname or last name) is typically a part of a person's personal name which, according to law or custom, is passed or given to children from one or both of their parents' family names. 1 The father's first name is used as a surname in certain Southern states, such as Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. 2  Spouses and children take on the first name of the father as their last name or 'surname'.