Since removable retainers can be taken out, patients frequently ask how long they need to wear the retainer. Most relapse, or unwanted tooth movement, occurs in the first 3-6 months after the braces are removed.
Some retainers are used full-time for the first 6 months; after that, the retainers are worn only at night, for a few years. Other retainers are worn full-time for about a week, and solely at night thereafter. Fixed retainers are normally kept in place for 5 years.
For how long do I need to wear retainers? It takes time for the bone and all the tissues around your teeth to reorganise and therefore it is necessary to use retainers until your bite stabilises. In the first month after the braces are removed, the risk of relapse is very high.
After braces are removed, most patients will need to wear a retainer all the time for the first six months, then only during sleep for many years.
If you have a fixed retainer, you should spend more time to brush the back of your teeth. You have to brush all around the wire so that calculus will not form. You will be instructed on how to use dental floss with a floss-threader. Do remember not to use your front teeth to for biting hard foods or objects.
Then, my orthodontist is saying to wear my temporary retainer 24 hours a day 7 days a week for 6 months! I know my friends who have permanent retainers in both the top and bottom teeth and only have to wear their temporary retainer at night. To be honest, I just don’t want to wear it at school.
You are usually advised by your orthodontist to wear your retainers all the time for the first 2-3 months following the completion of your active treatment. If this is the case, wear your retainers all day and all night wherever you are. There are only a few exceptions to this rule.
For the average patent, you will wear your removable retainer full-time for the first 3-6 months, and thereafter only while sleeping. If your orthodontist recommends a period of time longer or shorter than this, he or she is protecting your smile.