Genuine Bayer ® Aspirin. The original, most trusted name in aspirin. Genuine Bayer Aspirin provides pain relief from headaches, backaches, muscle pain, toothaches, menstrual pain and minor arthritis pain —and has for over 100 years. It’s also recommended, under a doctor's supervision, to help reduce the risk of a recurrent heart attack or ischemic stroke
Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help select the best type of aspirin for you. You should not take this medication for self-treatment of pain for longer than 10 days. You should not use this drug to self-treat a fever that lasts longer than 3 days. Daily use of NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen) may decrease aspirin's ability to prevent heart attack/stroke. If you are taking low-dose aspirin for prevention of heart attack/stroke, consult your doctor or pharmacist for more details and to discuss other possible treatments (such as acetaminophen) for your pain/fever.
For most people, the benefits of aspirin for migraine treatment outweigh the risks, notes Hreib. Patients in these studies took a single dose of aspirin in the range of 900 to 1000 milligrams, which is equal to three adult-strength aspirins, a safe dose for most people. 
1 Ringing in the ears is a negative side effect of taking asprin. 2  Children should never be given aspirin for fevers. 3  The aspirin dose for pain is usually about 500 to 1000 mg, but the amount needed for preventing heart attacks is lower, usually about 80 mg per day. View slideshow of images above. It is a salicylate drug, and is recommended for a range of conditions, including inflammation, fever, and pain. Aspirin may also have a number of unpleasant side effects, most notably stomach bleeding, tinnitus, and ulcers, especially if the recommended dose is exceeded.
The studies in this review used 900–1,000mg of aspirin. This is a high dose and aspirin is not without adverse effects, nor is it a suitable treatment for everyone. Regular use can increase the risk of stomach irritation and ulceration. Aspirin was not compared to other migraine treatments. “Migraine sufferers could find relief in three aspirin tablets,” reported The Times. It said that researchers have suggested that one in four migraine sufferers could be pain-free within two hours if they take up to 1,000mg of aspirin in one go.
1 The aspirin dose for pain is usually about 500 to 1000 mg, but the amount needed for preventing heart attacks is lower, usually about 80 mg per day. View slideshow of images above. It is a salicylate drug, and is recommended for a range of conditions, including inflammation, fever, and pain. Aspirin may also have a number of unpleasant side effects, most notably stomach bleeding, tinnitus, and ulcers, especially if the recommended dose is exceeded.
This aspirin, known as low-dose aspirin, contains only 81mg of acetylsalicylic acid, making it equal to only one-quarter of a normal aspirin. Other sizes include a larger 500mg capsule, and an even larger 650mg capsule, equal to two normal tablets. It is a salicylate drug, and is recommended for a range of conditions, including inflammation, fever, and pain. Aspirin may also have a number of unpleasant side effects, most notably stomach bleeding, tinnitus, and ulcers, especially if the recommended dose is exceeded.
For headache pain, the recommended adult dose of aspirin is 325 to 650 mg every three to four hours as needed, up to six times per day. While aspirin may help alleviate acute migraine pain, it shouldn't be used more than twice a week for this purpose since rebound — or medication overuse — headaches can occur. 
Taking Genuine Bayer Aspirin for pain relief does not interfere with the benefits of taking it on a doctor-directed aspirin regimen. Aspirin is not appropriate for everyone, so be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin an aspirin regimen. *Among OTC brands. Genuine Bayer Aspirin provides pain relief from headaches, backaches, muscle pain, toothaches, menstrual pain and minor arthritis pain —and has for over 100 years.