1 half of the terrestrial globe, divided into northern and southern hemispheres by the equator or into eastern and western hemispheres by some meridians, usually 0° and 180°. 2  a map or projection of one of the hemispheres. 1 one half of a sphere. 2  half of the terrestrial globe, divided into northern and southern hemispheres by the equator or into eastern and western hemispheres by some meridians, usually 0° and 180°. 3
Hemisphere literally means half sphere.. For instance, the world is divided into Northern Hemisphere and Northern Hemisphere. I'm not sure that you can say that there is a western and eastern hemisphere because the US could be the eastern hemisphere of Europe, but Europe is the eastern hemisphere to the US. Idk.
From what I can remember, Hemisphere means half sphere or half ball.. The world is divided into hemispheres, North and South as well as West and East, but a more general definition would relate to the equal halves of a sphere. For instance, the world is divided into Northern Hemisphere and Northern Hemisphere. I'm not sure that you can say that there is a western and eastern hemisphere because the US could be the eastern hemisphere of Europe, but Europe is the eastern hemisphere to the US. Idk.
more ... In geometry it is an exact half of a sphere. It also refers to half of the Earth, such as the Northern Hemisphere (that part of the Earth north of the equator), or Western Hemisphere (the half of the Earth west of a line running from the North Pole through England to the South Pole, includes the Americas). Sphere. 
The noun HEMISPHERE has 3 senses: 1. half of the terrestrial globe. 2. half of a sphere. 3. either half of the cerebrum. Familiarity information: HEMISPHERE used as a noun is uncommon. left brain; left hemisphere (the cerebral hemisphere to the left of the corpus callosum that controls the right half of the body). right brain; right hemisphere (the cerebral hemisphere to the right of the corpus callosum that controls the lef
neural structure (a structure that is part of the nervous system). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of hemisphere): left brain; left hemisphere (the cerebral hemisphere to the left of the corpus callosum that controls the right half of the body). right brain; right hemisphere (the cerebral hemisphere to the right of the corpus callosum that controls the left half of the body). Holonyms (hemisphere is a part of...): cerebrum (anterior portion of the brain consisting of two hemispheres; dominant part of the brain in humans).
hemisphere (Noun). Half of the Earth, such as the Northern Hemisphere, Southern Hemisphere, Western Hemisphere or Eastern Hemisphere, Land Hemisphere, Water Hemisphere etc. . hemisphere (Noun). Any half-sphere, formed by a plane intersecting the center of a sphere. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hemisphere (Noun). , Half of the celestial sphere, as divided by either the ecliptic or the celestial equator. hemisphere (Noun). A realm or domain of activity
The names comes from hemi which means half, so hemisphere means half a sphere. We often talk about the northern and southern hemispheres … which are the halves of our planet north and south of the equator respectively. Similarly, we have the eastern and western hemispheres, the halves of the globe that are either east or west of the prime meridian. A hemishere is like half of a ball. 1. A half sphere; one half of a sphere or globe, when divided by a plane passing through its center.
Hemisphere: half of the globe that divides the eastern and western hemispheres. A hemishere is like half of a ball. 1. A half sphere; one half of a sphere or globe, when divided by a plane passing through its center. 2. Half of the terrestrial globe, or a projection of the same in a map or picture.