The stomach absorbs very few substances, although small amounts of certain lipid-soluble compounds can be taken up, including aspirin, other non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs, and ethanol.
In fact, almost all nutrients are absorbed outside the stomach. The stomach functions mostly in the preparation of eaten food for absorption, rather than in the absorpti … on itself. Some notable exceptions to this rule: water, alcohol, and aspirin are all absorbed in the stomach.   Almost all nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine. The colon (or large intestine) functions mainly to absorb water from the non-absorbed material that is eventually to be released from the body as feces.
The small intestine is a tubular structure within the abdominal cavity that carries the food in continuation with the stomach up to the colon from where the large intestine carries it to the rectum and out of the body via the anus. The main function of this organ is to aid in digestion.
However, there are three substances that stomach membrane is able to absorb -- Water, alcohol and aspirin. Someone once pointed out that if nutrients were absorbed by the stomach, bulimia would not have all of it's negative effects.
Ibuprofen is mostly absorbed in the duodenum (small intestine). It cannot be absorbed through the lining of the stomach due to its low solubility in water and the low pH of st … omach acid (since ibuprofen dissolves in water better at higher pH's).
In fact, almost all nutrients are absorbed outside the stomach. The stomach functions mostly in the preparation of eaten food for absorption, rather than in the absorpti … on itself. Some notable exceptions to this rule: water, alcohol, and aspirin are all absorbed in the stomach.   Almost all nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine. The colon (or large intestine) functions mainly to absorb water from the non-absorbed material that is eventually to be released from the body as feces.
The functions of the stomach are to (1) store food, (2) to initiate protein digestion, (3) to kill bacteria with gastric juice and (4) to move chyme into the duodenum. Very little nutrient absorption occurs in the stomach because this isn't really a gastric function.