Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!)
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time.
Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 
1 Fill pot with water to completely cover the eggs at least 1 inch above eggs and turn heat to high. 2  Bring water to a boil, takes approximately 15 minutes. 3  As soon as eggs start to boil, let boil for 10-12 minutes (I do 11 minutes). 4  Set timer to help. Place the eggs with water over high heat and bring to a boil. For our gas stove, bringing the eggs to a boil takes about 15 minutes in our larger saucepan. When boiling starts, set a timer to 11 min. It’s important to be flexible in this step.
Put the eggs in a pot and fill the pot with water about an inch over the eggs. Bring water to rolling boil turn off heat. Let stand for 15 minutes then run under cold water. It's doesn't mater if you are doing 1 or 2 eggs or 2 or 3 dozen. After the water comes to a rolling boil they take the same amount of time to cook. Place the eggs in a pan and cover with cold water. The water should be at least two inches over the top of the eggs. Bring the water to a boil. Start your timer and boil the eggs for 3 minutes.
Directions. Place eggs in a large saucepan. Cover them with cool water by 1 inch. Slowly bring water to a boil over medium heat; when the water has reached a boil, cover and remove from heat. Let sit 12 minutes. Transfer eggs to a colander; place under cool running water to stop the cooking. Eggs can be peeled and served immediately.
For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. 
Put all the eggs in pan then put enough water to cover the eggs heat to boiling. Turn down the heat to very low and cook eggs to desired hardness 3-5min for soft boiled and 10-12 for hard boiled. Remove from hot water and emerged in cold water for easy peeling. Report Abuse. Place your eggs in cold water and when it starts boiling, time it for 10 minutes, then place them in cold water or water with ice to stop the cooking process. If cooked too long, the outside part of the yolk will turn green. If it's not green, you know you're doing it right