Complex endometrial hyperplasia is a type of hyperplasia where the lining is even thicker. There are two types of complex hyperplasia, both carrying a higher risk of cancer: 1  Complex endometrial hyperplasia without atypia – Cells are thicker than simple hyperplasia, but are normal in appearance. Learn. A type of endometrial hyperplasia with a higher risk of developing endometrial cancer, complex endometrial hyperplasia affects the uterus. In a normal menstrual cycle, the lining of the uterus, the endometrium, builds up and then sheds. Complex endometrial hyperplasia occurs when the lining doesn’t shed.
1 Complex hyperplasia without atypia-this type is a little thicker than simple hyperplasia, and has more crowding and abnormal architecture to the glands. 2  Without treatment, about 10% of patients will progress to endometrial cancer. Endometrial Hyperplasia and its relation to Cancer. 1  Simple hyperplasia. 2 
Simple hyperplasia with atypia can be treated with progestin therapy and has a less than 10% chance of developing into cancer. Complex hyperplasia with atypia, though, carries a 25–30% chance of developing into cancer, and in some cases preexisting cancerous cells are detected during treatment. Hyperplasia with atypia, however, is considered precancerous. The presence of atypical cells means that you and your doctor will want to treat your hyperplasia more aggressively and keep a careful eye on its development.
Complex hyperplasia with atypia-similar architectural abnormalities as complex hyperplasia without atypia, only the cells have bizarre appearances. Complex hyperplasia without atypia-this type is a little thicker than simple hyperplasia, and has more crowding and abnormal architecture to the glands.
1 Simple with atypia: Eight percent risk of ovarian cancer. 2  Complex with atypia: The most significant type of endometrial hyperplasia. 3  Twenty-nine percent of cases progress to uterine cancer and 17 to 59 percent of cases have coexistent uterine cancer. 1 Simple without atypia: One percent risk of ovarian cancer. 2  Complex without atypia: Three percent risk of ovarian cancer. 3  Simple with atypia: Eight percent risk of ovarian cancer. 4
Hormones and the absence of hormones are the causes of complex endometrial hyperplasia. In normal menstrual cycles, the ovaries produce the hormone estrogen in the beginning of the cycle, causing the lining to grow and thicken. 
1 Complex endometrial hyperplasia without atypia – Cells are thicker than simple hyperplasia, but are normal in appearance. 2  Patients have a 10% higher risk of developing cancer. 3  Complex endometrial hyperplasia with atypia – Cells are thicker than simple hyperplasia and have bizarre appearances. Learn. A type of endometrial hyperplasia with a higher risk of developing endometrial cancer, complex endometrial hyperplasia affects the uterus. In a normal menstrual cycle, the lining of the uterus, the endometrium, builds up and then sheds. Complex endometrial hyperplasia occurs when the lining doesn’t shed.
Hyperplasia is generally stated to be with atypia (atypical hyperplasia) or without atypia (simple hyperplasia) and this distinction can make the world of difference in terms of treatment options. 
1 Simple hyperplasia. 2  Complex hyperplasia without atypia-this type is a little thicker than simple hyperplasia, and has more crowding and abnormal architecture to the glands. 3  Without treatment, about 10% of patients will progress to endometrial cancer. Endometrial Hyperplasia and its relation to Cancer. 1 
Endometrial hyperplasia is an abnormal thickening or growth of the lining of the uterus. There are several varieties: Simple hyperplasia. Complex hyperplasia without atypia-this type is a little thicker than simple hyperplasia, and has more crowding and abnormal architecture to the glands. Without treatment, about 10% of patients will progress to endometrial cancer