Cyber crime can be simply defined as a type of crime committed via the internet. These crimes can be committed against property, persons, or government. No one is exempt from becoming a victim, but understanding how cyber crimes happen can help to avoid falling victim to one. These weak spots are where hackers will enter a network when they target it. Some of the common access points that are attacked include: 1  Unpatched or outdated network software. 2  Obvious, old, or weak passwords.
This makes them vulnerable to cyber crime. When cyber crime does happen due to this type of activity, the types involve: 1  Child pornography. 2  Fraud. 3  Harassment. 4  Cyber-bullying. 5  Stalking. 6  Identity theft. These weak spots are where hackers will enter a network when they target it. Some of the common access points that are attacked include: 1  Unpatched or outdated network software. 2  Obvious, old, or weak passwords.
When asking, how does cyber crime happen, few think of viruses, trojans, and worms, though most people are familiar with these. These programs can do a wide variety of damage, from simply be annoying to stealing a person's information or even completely destroying a computer network. These weak spots are where hackers will enter a network when they target it. Some of the common access points that are attacked include: 1  Unpatched or outdated network software. 2  Obvious, old, or weak passwords.
Most cyber crimes are committed by individuals or small groups. However, large organized crime groups also take advantage of the Internet. These professional criminals find new ways to commit old crimes, treating cyber crime like a business and forming global criminal communities. Criminal communities share strategies and tools and can combine forces to launch coordinated attacks. Now that all of this information is available online, criminals also use the Internet to steal people's identities, hack into their accounts, trick them into revealing the information, or infect their devices with malware.
People commit cybercrime because it’s easy to be anonymous using technology. Electronically, it’s easy to hide your identity from others, and this strong sense of anonymity than can allow almost anybody to illegally pursue personal gain through the use of technology--without getting caught. These criminals--who operate in the electronic world-- vary in age, gender, personality, social and economic status, and more, meaning that people who commit cybercrimes could be anyone.
As computer crime becomes the most widespread criminal activity in the world, there are always criminals searching for new and unprotected computer technologies to exploit or take advantage of. These criminals--who operate in the electronic world-- vary in age, gender, personality, social and economic status, and more, meaning that people who commit cybercrimes could be anyone.
Computer crime, or cybercrime, is any crime that involves a computer and a network. The computer may have been used in the commission of a crime, or it may be the target. Crimes that use computer networks or devices to advance other ends include: 1  Fraud and identity theft (although this increasingly uses malware, hacking and/or phishing, making it an example of both computer as target and computer as tool crime). 2  Information warfare. 3  Phishing scams.
Here are a few types of attacks cyber criminals use to commit crimes. You may recognize a few of them: 1  Botnet-a network of software robots, or bots, that automatically spread malware. 2  Fast Flux-moving data quickly among the computers in a botnet to make it difficult to trace the source of malware or phishing websites. Now that all of this information is available online, criminals also use the Internet to steal people's identities, hack into their accounts, trick them into revealing the information, or infect their devices with malware.