Sanu-Meaning of Sanu. 1  The meaning of Sanu is small field . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Sanu is СҰ. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 4  Sanu is a Japanese last name. 1 The most common Kanji used in the name Sanu is СҰ. 2  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 3  Sanu is a Japanese last name.
Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Sanu or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Sunu, Sanaa, Sean, Sane, Suni, Siana, Sana, Sani, Sania, Siani, Sina, Sein, Seena, Saina, Saen, Sona, Sonia, Sonu, Sini, Sena, Sion, Sinai, Sun, Sian, Soni, Seona, Soini, Siena, Seina, Sunee. Show more information for this name. Find compatibility of name Sanu with different names.
More.. Many baby names sound really cute when your baby boy or baby girl is still a baby. However, when your baby grows to become a pilot, a sportsperson, a scientist or even the president of your country, it is an entirely different story. The noted tennis star of.... Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Sanu in Hindu origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details.
Name Sanu generally means Peak or Sun, Name Sanu is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Name Sanu belongs to rashi Kumbh (Aquarius) with dominant planet Saturn (Shani) . Similar sounding names: Sunu, Sanaa, Sean, Sane, Suni, Siana, Sana, Sani, Sania, Siani, Sina, Sein, Seena, Saina, Saen, Sona, Sonia, Sonu, Sini, Sena, Sion, Sinai, Sun, Sian, Soni, Seona, Soini, Siena, Seina, Sunee. Show more information for this name. Find compatibility of name Sanu with different names.
In Local: Name Sonu generally means, is of Indian origin, Name Sonu is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Sonu are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Sonu belongs to rashi Kumbh (Aquarius) and Nakshatra (stars) Sathabisham, Sravana, Purva Bhadra. Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Sonu or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs.
Meaning of name Sanu, Origin of name Sanu, Personality of name Sanu, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Sanu and adorable Baby boy Photos of Sanu. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Sanu is lucky! 
1 The meaning of Sanu is small field . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Sanu is СҰ. 3  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 4  Sanu is a Japanese last name. 1 The most common Kanji used in the name Sanu is СҰ. 2  The name meaning could vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) are used. 3  Sanu is a Japanese last name.