The lipids (obviously) make up the lipid bilayer. The carbohydrates are short chains that attach to the other two organic molecules, when they attach to a protein they are known as 'glycoproteins' and when they are attached to lipids they are called 'glycolipids'. This all being said, there are three things that make up the cell membrane:   # The phospholipid bilayer  # The protein inside and outside the cell  # cholesterol between some phospholipid chains. + 24 others found this useful. ScottyThetruecookie Norton.
4.1 Plasma Membrane Structure andFunction The plasma membrane is a phospholipid bilayer in whichprotein molecules are either partially or wholly embedded(Fig. 4.1). The phospholipid bilayer has a ﬂuid consistency,comparable to that of light oil. 
Figure 1: The lipid bilayer and the structure and composition of a glycerophospholipid molecule. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple). (C) The subregions of a glycerophospholipid molecule; phosphatidylcholine is shown as an example. 
The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. 
In addition to phospholipids, the plasma membrane has cholesterol molecules and proteins that allow the membrane to function properly. Cholesterol molecules are primarily responsible for giving the membrane the rigidity it needs to hold the cell’s shape. 
Phospholipids make up the basic structure of a cell membrane. A single phospholipid molecule has two different ends: a head and a tail. The head end contains a phosphate group and is hydrophilic. This means that it likes or is attracted to water molecules. The cell membrane, or plasma membrane, surrounds and protects the internal environment of a cell; however, this is not its only function. A cell membrane also determines what materials enter or leave the cell.
The cell itself is encapsulated by its own membrane, the plasma membrane. Although the composition of membranes varies, in general, lipid molecules make up approximately 40 percent of their dry weight; proteins, approximately 60 percent. The lipids and proteins are held together by noncovalent interactions. An important feature of this model is that the hydrophilic groups of the lipid molecules are oriented toward the surfaces of the bilayer, and the hydrophobic groups toward the interior. In 1972 Jonathan Singer and Garth Nicolson postulated a unified theory of membrane structure called the fluid-mosaic model.
Phospholipids form the basic structure of a cell membrane, called the lipid bilayer. Scattered in the lipid bilayer are cholesterol molecules, which help to keep the membrane fluid consistent. Membrane proteins are important for transporting substances across the cell membrane. The cell membrane, or plasma membrane, surrounds and protects the internal environment of a cell; however, this is not its only function. A cell membrane also determines what materials enter or leave the cell.
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. The cell membranes of almost all living organisms and many viruses are made of a lipid bilayer, as are the membranes surrounding the cell nucleus and other sub-cellular structures.
The plasma membrane is a phospholipid bilayer membrane that separates the cell from its environment and regulates the transport of molecules and signals into and out of the cell. Embedded in the membrane are proteins that perform the functions of the plasma membrane. The plasma membrane is not a fixed or rigid structure, the molecules that compose the membrane are capable of lateral movement.