Soundproofing Treatment. For soundproofing a home office, follow the treatment outlined in our Walls and Ceiling sections of this Applications Guide. There you will learn how to combat noise bleeding through common surfaces to help produce a quiet home office environment. 
Resale Value. Having a soundproof office can really boost the resale value of your home, should you ever decide to sell. As with all renovations, make sure the amount you put in to the soundproofing is something you can potentially regain with the sale of your home. A real estate professional can assist with the math, and help you determine how much value soundproofing will add to your home. Here, then, are 5 reasons to consider soundproofing your home office: Noise Reduction. Noise reduction is the most obvious reason for soundproofing. Reduced noise means fewer distractions for you, allowing you to focus more clearly on your work.
Step 1: Fixing the Door. A large percentage of the noise that enters your home office comes in through the bottom of the door. This can be addressed by changing the existing door with a solid core door that is designed to reduce noise and sound vibrations. Step 5: Soundproof Flooring. To reduce the sound that is coming from below your home office, gently pull up the carpeting and place sound acoustic boards underneath to reduce sound vibrations that cause noise. Save the tack strips and carpet matting so that it can be reused once the boards have been laid
Check with an accountant, but soundproofing an office is a business expense that is 100 percent deductible while it also improves the rest of your home and lifestyle. Finally, soundproofing adds value to not just business, but also to your home. 
Floors. If carpeting is available, this is usually the best option for soundproofing. Existing carpeting can be buffered with new carpet padding and acoustic tiles. This requires pulling back the carpet and tearing out the current tack strips and padding. Then, loose lay the tiles and layer new foam on top. Walls. Walls can be the most time-consuming area to soundproof, but can be done at virtually any stage of the job. In a new build, request staggered or double studs, resilient channels, or sound clips to reduce the noise that is allowed to vibrate from one side of the wall to the other.
Tax-Deductible. As a renovation to a home office, soundproofing is potentially tax-deductible. But before basing your entire decision to soundproof on deductibility, be sure to check with a seasoned tax professional. There are many rules regarding taxes and home offices, so it's better to be safe than sorry. Here, then, are 5 reasons to consider soundproofing your home office: Noise Reduction. Noise reduction is the most obvious reason for soundproofing. Reduced noise means fewer distractions for you, allowing you to focus more clearly on your work.
Soundproofing a home office provides a way to stop noises from entering the room and disrupting your work. Aside from rebuilding existing walls with soundproofing materials, a way to reduce and eliminate the level of noise in the room is by sealing all areas where noise may enter. Step 5: Soundproof Flooring. To reduce the sound that is coming from below your home office, gently pull up the carpeting and place sound acoustic boards underneath to reduce sound vibrations that cause noise. Save the tack strips and carpet matting so that it can be reused once the boards have been laid
Step 3: Soundproof the Ceiling. You can further soundproof the room by attaching a sheet of drywall to the ceiling and add acoustic soundboards to it. This will give you a new ceiling that is designed to lessen sound that is coming from above the home office. Step 5: Soundproof Flooring. To reduce the sound that is coming from below your home office, gently pull up the carpeting and place sound acoustic boards underneath to reduce sound vibrations that cause noise. Save the tack strips and carpet matting so that it can be reused once the boards have been laid
Instructions. Soundproof your door. Many offices will come standard with a hollow door that will do little to block sound from outside. Use a door with medium-density fiber, which will be heavier and block sound much more effectively. Make sure the door closes tightly, and if you need to, use a door sweep screwed to the bottom. Soundproof walls. You will have to tear holes into the walls and install strips of felt that will absorb surrounding sound. A variety of insulation materials exist, including cotton, viscoelastic and fiberglass. Add the materials between the studs and generally in any open space. Use headphones.