The underlying hourly rate for a Structural Engineer ranges from $80 to $119 in most parts of the country. Usually, a minimum fee will be charged, which represents 1.5 - 2 hours of effort. In some cases, the quoted job price may be negotiable, particularly if other work is performed by the Structural Engineer. 
A decade later that same structural engineer can ask for $30.43 to $42.28, or between thirty and forty-five thousand per year for the same work. Today, according to Eng-Tips.com, a consumer can expect to pay roughly 8% of a total construction project fee to the structural engineer. This is because the work performed by any structural engineer is going to ensure the stability of a building. For example, load-bearing walls, foundations, and even design approval will all land on the desk of the modern
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Structural Engineer I in the United States is $59,027, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Structural Engineer I in the United States are expected to make less than $59,027. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 
For example, a building is designed by an engineering consulting firm, and receives $237,000 for their work. It is reasonable to anticipate that the structural engineer would then receive roughly $18,960. This is because the work performed by any structural engineer is going to ensure the stability of a building. For example, load-bearing walls, foundations, and even design approval will all land on the desk of the modern structural engineer.
Structural Engineer Salary. (United Kingdom). The average salary for a Structural Engineer is £29,713 per year. The highest paying skills associated with this job are ANSYS and STAAD. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. 
1 Basic jobs such as an inspection could run $200 to $500. 2  According to fixr.com, a structural engineer would usually ask for about 8% of the total construction project cost. 3  Homewyse.com suggested that the hourly rate of a Structural Engineer ranges from $67 to $100. 1 According to fixr.com, a structural engineer would usually ask for about 8% of the total construction project cost. 2  Homewyse.com suggested that the hourly rate of a Structural Engineer ranges from $67 to $100. 3  The engineer is going to be able to analyze, inspect and discuss the structural soundness of your home.
1 Usually, a structural engineer would ask for a three-part payment that begins with around 25% of the entire budget. 2  The second part of payment, which is usually around 25% to 50%, is issued when the project is near completion. 1 According to fixr.com, a structural engineer would usually ask for about 8% of the total construction project cost. 2  Homewyse.com suggested that the hourly rate of a Structural Engineer ranges from $67 to $100. 3  The engineer is going to be able to analyze, inspect and discuss the structural soundness of your home.
As such, they command a respectable amount of money for their services. Don’t expect to hire a structural engineer for a small amount. A structural engineer’s average cost is $100 to $150 per hour for their services. A job requiring a residential structural engineer will typically only last an hour or two. While this may seem like a large amount of money, they guarantee the work they perform. They are liable for any mistake in their calculations. Average Structural Engineer Costs. A structural engineers’ education requires extensive knowledge in many fields including wide-ranging knowledge of mathematics and geometry. Their training alone is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.
The cost will be dependent on what type of service you need from the structural engineer. At one property, the seller had violated the truss when installing a whole house fan. The engineer needed to provide a report on how to remediate that ($400). 