Definition of DERO. : a genus of small aquatic oligochaete worms (family Naididae) having an expanded anal hood from which project two pairs of cylindrical ciliated gills. ADVERTISEMENT. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
1 DeRo, the pairing of Deniz and Roman on Alles was zaehlt. 2  Zählt, dero the caste In, pakistan mostly In Sindh, province whose native language Is. 3  SINDHI, dero The'unilever s laundry detergent trade mark used In.  romania 1 DeRo, the pairing of Deniz and Roman on Alles was zaehlt. 2  Zählt, dero the caste In, pakistan mostly In Sindh, province whose native language Is.  sindhi
A lot of Dero's go to James Fallon High School and Murray High School as the area that these schools are located in are absolutely distraught looking areas in dire need of repair as the people whom occupy these homes are on the dole and cannot take care of themselves. Like Australian versions of 'Red Necks' and another term for 'Bogan'. People who roam around wearing moccasins, thongs, pajama's, underwear and skanky looking clothing. People who look and ARE poor, living in homes shared with rats and cockroaches and various other things.
1 Dero, the caste in Pakistan, mostly in Sindh Province, whose native language is Sindhi. 2  DERO, the Unilever's laundry detergent trade mark used in Romania. 3  DERO comes from Detergent Romanesc (Românesc Romanian).  detergent 1 DeRo, the pairing of Deniz and Roman on Alles was zaehlt. 2  Zählt, dero the caste In, pakistan mostly In Sindh, province whose native language Is.  sindhi
Dero may refer to: 1  DJ Dero, Argentine DJ, producer and remixer of electronic music. 2  Dero Goi, a German musician. 3  Derro or Dero, Australian slang for a derelict person. 4  Al DeRogatis, American football player and announcer. 5  Jim DeRogatis, American rock music critic. 1 DeRo, the pairing of Deniz and Roman on Alles was zaehlt. 2  Zählt, dero the caste In, pakistan mostly In Sindh, province whose native language Is.  sindhi
A dero can be described as someone who lacks hygiene… a life, friends, sometimes even a home. They often smell, due to the lack of hygiene. Then you get people that want to be deros, they listen to punk, or heavy metal music, wear black make-up, but can’t afford deodorant. Like Australian versions of 'Red Necks' and another term for 'Bogan'. People who roam around wearing moccasins, thongs, pajama's, underwear and skanky looking clothing. People who look and ARE poor, living in homes shared with rats and cockroaches and various other things.
Dero Goi was born in Wolfsburg on 16. April. 1970. He also grew up in Wolfsburg, Lower Saxony with his current bandmate Crap. They lived in the same tenement housing department and both started playing music in grade school. Dero was forced to sing Elvis Presley songs with his father. When asked how Oomph! came up with their name, Dero said that the name was chosen because of its peculiarity. Because it was so strange to see that the name like that is existing.
By Bicyclists, For Bicyclists. At Dero, we are not simply bike rack manufacturers. We ride our bikes to work, to the grocery store, across the country, for fun, to compete, and to play. 
Origin of DERO. New Latin. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.