It is a non-heading cabbage with dark green leaves and white leaf stalks and is grown as an annual. Horticulturally, in leafy greens such as bok choy, bolting is the premature growth of a long stalk carrying a flower head. So, early flowering bok choy is a sure sign that your bok choy is bolting. Advertisement.
When your leaves are bitter and you still want to use the plant, use it as you would any bitter green in recipes. You might find(as I did) this sometimes is a great alternative to some of your more common bitter greens in recipes. Use it in place of frisee or escarole.
Bolting is common among lettuces, onions, cabbage, Bok Choy, and other cool weather crops. The Symptoms: Here are a few examples of the signs of plants bolting: Lettuce is turning a lighter green and is drier looking. Leaves taste bitter and dry. The plant shoots a stalk upward producing little, if any leaves.
Direct seed your bok choy if possible, as transplanting can cause shock, which may then lead to bolting. Plant the bok choy in rows 24 inches apart, with individual plants 3 to 4 inches apart. If transplanting bok choy, handle the plant carefully and place it in a rich, moist soil with a pH of 5.5 to 7. Adding a nitrogen-rich compost to the soil before planting will help the plant to thrive as well.
1. Direct seed your bok choy if possible, as transplanting can cause shock, which may then lead to bolting. Plant the bok choy in rows 24 inches apart, with individual plants 3 to 4 inches apart. If transplanting bok choy, handle the plant carefully and place it in a rich, moist soil with a pH of 5.5 to 7. Adding a nitrogen-rich compost to the soil before planting will help the plant to thrive as well.
Similar to cabbage. Texture: Bok choy leaves are famously tender and crisp, while the stalks are crunchy, firm and juicy. Depending on the cultivar, the leaves are dark green or yellow-green and the stalks yellow-green or off-white.
Bok choy's leaves will turn bitter once the plant bolts. Fortunately, cultivating and maintaining bok choy under ideal conditions in your garden will discourage the plant from bolting.