anatomical position. n. The erect position of the body with the face directed forward, the arms at the side, and the palms of the hands facing forward, used as a reference in describing the relation of body parts to one another. The position of an animal’s body at which the totality of its muscles are at their lowest tension. Common examination positions. From Lammon et al., 1995. anatomical position that of the human body standing erect, palms facing forward; it is the position of reference in designating site or direction of structures of the body.
The position of an animal’s body at which the totality of its muscles are at their lowest tension. For humans, the anatomical position has a person standing erect, with feet facing forward, the arms at the sides, palms of the hands facing interior, and fingers pointing straight down.
In order to describe body parts and positions correctly, the medical community has developed a set of anatomical positions and directional terms widely used in the healthcare industry. The anatomical reference point is a standard body position called the anatomical position. In the anatomical position, the body is erect, the palms of the hand face forward, the thumbs point away from the body, and the feet are slightly apart. It’s important to understand the anatomical position because most directional terms are based off it. 
When using these terms, it is assumed that the body is in the anatomical position. 1  Lateral-More distant to the body midline. 2  In the anatomical position, the radius is lateral to the ulna. 3  A simpler example is the thumb is lateral to the pinky.. 4  Medial-Closer to the midline; on the inner side. Anatomists use the anatomical position. A person in the anatomical position is standing up straight, with arms at the sides and palms facing forwards with the fingers extended. The feet are facing forward, as are the head and eyes (see the figure to the right). The anatomical planes of the body.
The anatomical position is of importance in anatomy because it is the position of reference for anatomical nomenclature. Anatomic terms such as anterior and posterior, medial and lateral, abduction and adduction, and so on apply to the body when it is in the anatomical position. 
The Anatomical Position: A body movement can be described in terms of the anatomical plane through which it occurs and the anatomical axis through which it rotates. The General Rule. : The axis of rotation is perpendicular to the plane of movement. Anatomical Planes
If the anatomical position is placed face-down, it is in the prone position. If the anatomical position is placed face-up, it is in the supine position. Up, Down, Side-to-Side: Directional Terms Imagine that when you’re studying a (correctly anatomically positioned) body you’re looking at a map. Remember, the anterior is the front view and the superior is the top view—combine the two and you’ve got yourself a bird’s-eye view of the front of the body. And there you have it: a crash course in anatomical position and directional terms. Stay tuned for part two on planes and cavities!
Standard anatomical position is rigidly defined for human anatomy. In standard anatomical position, the human body is standing erect and at rest. Unlike the situation in other vertebrates, the limbs are placed in positions reminiscent of the supine position imposed on cadavers during autopsy. Thus, all descriptions are with respect to the organism in its standard anatomical position, even when the organism in question has appendages in another position. However, a straight position is assumed when describing the proximo-distal axis
Because animals can change orientation with respect to their environment, and because appendages (arms, legs, tentacles, etc. ) can change position with respect to the main body, it is important that anatomical terms of location refer to the organism when it is in its standard anatomical position. Thus, all descriptions are with respect to the organism in its standard anatomical position, even when the organism in question has appendages in another position. However, a straight position is assumed when describing the proximo-distal axis