Ability. Instant CONVOKE spell. Convoke is the ability to lower the casting cost of a spell by tapping creatures. When a creature's controller taps it to utilize a spell's convoke ability, the spell's casting cost it reduced by one mana of whatever color the tapped creature is or by one generic mana
Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more 
We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more. 
Full Definition of CONVOKE. transitive verb. : to call together to a meeting. See convoke defined for English-language learners. See convoke defined for kids. 
Ivanhoe by Scott, Walter View in context. Mademoiselle Cormon convoked the Maternity Society, which held a special meeting at which it was voted that the association would not in future assist any misfortunes about to happen, but solely those that had happened.
This ability is useful for surprising your opponent when it appears that you don't have any mana left. It is also useful for a blitzkrieg tactic of rushing the opponent by force projecting your lower cost creatures for mana. Convoke is the ability to lower the casting cost of a spell by tapping creatures. When a creature's controller taps it to utilize a spell's convoke ability, the spell's casting cost it reduced by one mana of whatever color the tapped creature is or by one generic
1 On June 15 the organization convoked a meeting to which it invited ‘all those who feel concerned about the future of communism.’. 2  This is what happened when the government gave in to the armed forces' demand to convoke a special meeting of the National Security Council. 1 Several villages contested the payment by taking their case to the parlement, and other villages followed suit by convoking general assemblies, naming syndics to represent their interests, and refusing to pay the full amount.
Synonyms. 1  Several villages contested the payment by taking their case to the parlement, and other villages followed suit by convoking general assemblies, naming syndics to represent their interests, and refusing to pay the full amount. 1
verb. assemble, come together. 1  besiege. 2  bunch up. 3  collect. 4  concentrate. 5  congress. 6  convene. 7  converge. 8  convoke. 9  corral. 10  flock. 11  forgather. 12  gang around. 13  gang up. 14  gather. 15  hang out. 16  make the scene. 17  mass. 18  meet. 19  meet up. 20  muster. 21  pack. 22  raise. 23  rally. 24  rendezvous. 25  round up. 26  swarm. 27  teem. 28  throng. 