Pastrami (Turkish: pastırma, Romanian: pastramă, Bulgarian: пастърма) is a meat product usually made from beef, and sometimes from pork, mutton or turkey. Pastrami sandwich at the Carnegie Deli. Pastrami (Turkish: pastırma, Romanian: pastramă, Bulgarian: пастърма) is a meat product usually made from beef, and sometimes from pork, mutton or turkey. The raw meat is brined, partially dried, seasoned with herbs and spices, then smoked and steamed. In the United States, although beef plate is the traditional cut of meat for making pastrami, it is now common to see it made from beef brisket, beef round, and
Pastrami starts off as salt-cured, or “corned”, beef which is then rubbed and. smoked. This process was a Romanian specialty brought to the U.S. via New York during a wave of Romanian Jewish immigration. Traditional New York-style pastrami is also steamed to finish the cooking process and helps to tenderize the meat. My Beef Pastrami recipe will probably be one of the best things to come off of your smoker that you may never have envisioned making yourself – it is after all a deli meat. However, it’s not much harder to make your own pastrami than it is to make a regular barbecued beef briske
To make pastrami, you start by making corned beef. Corned beef is a beef brisket soaked in brine (with some sugar and spices). According to The Joy of Cooking, corned beef has nothing to do with corn but got its name...when a granular salt the size of a kernel of wheat -- corn to a Briton -- was used to process it.. 
1.After soaking beef brisket in a brine solution, to prepare pastrami you coat it with peppercorns and have it smoked; on the other hand, corned beef is boiled. 2.Pastrami and corned beef are both made from beef brisket. But unlike corned beef, pastrami can also be made from deckle. Another difference between beef pastrami and corned beef is the other sources of their cow meat. Although they can both be made from beef brisket, specifically flat-cut brisket, pastrami does not necessarily have to be from beef brisket. Unlike corned beef, pastrami has another alternative in its meat sources
Pastrami is Jewish barbecue, it is corned beef with chutzpah, and it is at its ballsiest at Katz's Delicatessen in New York City. Katz's is a timeless throwback is where Harry met Sally's fake orgasm and they both met real pastrami. When you go, make sure to have what she's having, and leave your diet behind. 
The biggest difference is that pastrami is smoked after curing, and corned beef isn't. Pastrami is usually cured with a dry rub, and corned beef with a brine. Brisket seems to be the most common cut of meat for both of them. Reply. 
Pastrami is cured, like corned beef, often with a spice mixture heavy on the black pepper. Like corned beef, it's usually made from the brisket, which gives it that loose-grained texture. Unlike corned beef, it's then smoked. Corned beef is beef which has been cured with salt and spices (often pepper, allspice, and bay leaf), then simmered in water to cook it. It's traditionally made with the brisket, which has more fat than the ones usually used for most roast beef deli meat.