The Credit. The Energy Star tax credit lets you deduct 30 percent of the cost of solar-power systems or solar water heaters. As it's a credit, the money comes right off your tax bill, rather than your taxable income. Unlike some credits, there's no dollar limit on how big an amount you can claim. If the credit is bigger than your tax bill, the excess isn't refundable. Instead, you carry it forward to next year and deduct it again
Installing solar panels on your home comes with financial incentives. Install solar panels on your home and you can harvest heat from the sun to create energy. You can also reduce your energy consumption, lower your utility bills and get a tax credit through 2016. Federal Tax Credits. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, homeowners can receive a federal tax credit for certain solar panel systems installed through the end of 2016. The tax credit equals 30 percent of the cost of purchase and installation with no limit.
Solar Investment Tax Credit. If you're thinking of adding solar power to your total energy solution, you should know that there are solar tax credits available for almost all 50 states. In most instances these tax credits are applied to your income tax at the time of filing. Federal solar tax credits are also available. Currently, the federal incentive is 30 percent of the total cost of installation. As an example, if you install a solar power system for your residential dwelling and the cost is $30,000, the tax credit is 30 percent of that amount, or $9,000. This reduces the cost of your installation to $21,000. 
When purchasing a solar electric system, you could potentially save up to 30% with the federal solar tax credit. When most consumers set out to do research about solar panels, they will eventually come across the Residential Renewable Energy Tax Credit also known as the Federal Investment Tax Credit (ITC). While most people qualify for the solar tax incentive, there are some that do not qualify. Anyone who does not owe taxes will not be able to benefit from the tax credit. Also, it does not apply for solar installations on rental properties.
If you are interested in a solar installation for your residence or business and would like to see how much you can save with the federal solar tax incentive, contact us at (888) 595-9570 or gosolar@amecosolar.com. While most people qualify for the solar tax incentive, there are some that do not qualify. Anyone who does not owe taxes will not be able to benefit from the tax credit. Also, it does not apply for solar installations on rental properties.
The tax incentive is a credit, meaning that when you file your Federal taxes you can claim 30% of the qualified expenditures of your solar system.* If you owe Federal taxes that year, then the credit can be applied and you will either A) owe less, B) owe nothing, C) owe nothing and have a credit left over. While most people qualify for the solar tax incentive, there are some that do not qualify. Anyone who does not owe taxes will not be able to benefit from the tax credit. Also, it does not apply for solar installations on rental properties.
Refund. The Residential Energy Efficient Property Credit is a dollar-for-dollar tax credit. That means that money you claim with the solar write-off comes directly off your tax bill, not just off your taxable income. If you spend, say, $12,000 on installing solar panels, you can cut your tax bill by $3,600. If you're not a do-it-yourselfer, that includes the cost of labor, not just the panels themselves. There's no upper limit on how big a credit you can get.
If you pay state income tax, you may also get a bigger state refund for putting in solar panels. The federal Department of Energy's website includes a page with links to different state energy-efficiency tax incentives, making the research easy. If you spend, say, $12,000 on installing solar panels, you can cut your tax bill by $3,600. If you're not a do-it-yourselfer, that includes the cost of labor, not just the panels themselves. There's no upper limit on how big a credit you can get.
If your solar equipment meets the federal Energy Star standard for energy efficiency, you can claim a tax credit equal to 30 percent of the purchase price; you can also include 30 percent of the cost of installing the system as part of your credit. Solar power not only saves you money on your power bill, it can help shrink your taxes. Rather than giving you a tax deduction, the federal government offers a tax credit for solar-power purchases: You subtract part of the cost of qualifying equipment directly off your tax bill rather than your taxable income.