Noun. 1. mineral wax-a waxy mineral that is a mixture of hydrocarbons and occurs in association with petroleum; some varieties are used in making ceresin and candles. ader wax, earth wax, ozocerite, ozokerite. mineral-solid homogeneous inorganic substances occurring in nature having a definite chemical composition. 1 Mineral salt. 2  mineral spirits. 3  mineral spring. 4  Mineral tallow. 5  mineral tar. 6  mineral vein. 7  mineral water. 8  mineral wax. 9  mineral wool. 10  mineral.
1 Other mineral waxes include peat waxes, ozokerite and ceresin waxes. 2  Beeswax has been traded for over 2,000 years and references to wax before the 19th century typically meant beeswax. 3  Yellow beeswax is secreted by bees to build honeycombs; the empty comb is melted in boiling water to recover the wax. The chemical composition of waxes is complex, but normal alkanes are always present in high proportion and molecular weight profiles tend to be wide. The main commercial source of wax is crude oil but not all crude oil refiners produce wax. Mineral wax can also be produced from lignite.
Petroleum and mineral wax product segment is further sub-segmented into paraffin wax, microcrystalline wax and others (including semi-crystalline wax and petroleum jelly). Synthetic segment is further bifurcated into gas-to-liquids (GTL) wax, polymer wax and others (such as montan wax). 
mineral wax-a waxy mineral that is a mixture of hydrocarbons and occurs in association with petroleum; some varieties are used in making ceresin and candles. ader wax, earth wax, ozocerite, ozokerite. 1 Mineral salt. 2  mineral spirits. 3  mineral spring. 4  Mineral tallow. 5  mineral tar. 6  mineral vein. 7  mineral water. 8  mineral wax. 9  mineral wool. 10  mineral.
4 Reviews. The mineral oil that's used as medicine is a very refined, clear liquid distilled from petroleum. It's available over-the-counter (OTC) to treat a variety of ailments, including constipation, minor skin irritations, scalp conditions, ear-wax buildup, and others. A liquid form of mineral oil is taken by mouth, applied to the skin or scalp, and used in the ears. Mineral oil is also used to treat certain scalp conditions, including dandruff, cradle cap, or scalp psoriasis. The oil may also be used to treat dry skin, diaper rash, or skin burns caused by radiation. It helps moisturize and prevent evaporation of water from the surface of the skin.
Definition of MINERAL WAX. : a wax of mineral origin; especially: ozokerite. ADVERTISEMENT. Rhymes with MINERAL WAX. battle-ax, direct tax, disclimax, estate tax, hidden tax, income tax, Japan wax, minimax, nuisance tax, parallax, prothorax, sealing wax, single tax, supertax, telefax, to the max.
The word wax usually refers to a variety of organic substances that are solid at ambient temperature but become free-flowing liquids at slightly higher temperatures. The chemical composition of waxes is complex, but normal alkanes are always present in high proportion and molecular weight profiles tend to be wide. The main commercial source of wax is crude oil but not all crude oil refiners produce wax. Mineral wax can also be produced from lignite.
1 If the warm mineral oil and shower don't work, use a nonprescription wax softener followed by gentle flushing with an ear syringe each night for a week or two. 2  Make sure the flushing solution is body temperature. 3  Cool or hot fluids in the ear can cause dizziness. 1 Soften and loosen the earwax with warm mineral oil or a mixture of hydrogen peroxide mixed with an equal amount of room-temperature water. 2  Place 2 drops of the fluid, warmed to body temperature, in the ear twice a day for up to 5 days.
• MINERAL WAX (noun). The noun MINERAL WAX has 1 sense: 1. a waxy mineral that is a mixture of hydrocarbons and occurs in association with petroleum; some varieties are used in making ceresin and candles. Familiarity information: MINERAL WAX used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.