After three weeks of running on alternate days, your knee should be conditioned well enough for you to resume your normal training program. If your knee begins to swell after you run, you know you've done a little too much. Ice your knee, use anti-inflammatories and back off your running a bit. For most of my patients, this takes about three weeks, at which point they can go back to light jogging on a track or a soft, grassy surface. By six weeks, many are able to start fairly intensive road running and interval workouts.
I had undergone arthroscopic surgery for the knee due to tear in the medial meniscus and lateral meniscus as per MRI. As per the doctor reports they had done a ……. Aug 16, 2013 · Wear a knee brace and use crutches the first week after surgery. At this point you should be able to do most anything ……. How to Do Knee Strengthening Exercises After Arthroscopic … – Apr 26, 2009 · After arthroscopic knee surgery, you have to re-strengthen your muscles around the knee.
0 Comment. How long is recovery after knee arthoscopic surgery … – Jan 22, 2015 · There is a HUGE difference between arthroscopic knee and arthroscopic shoulder surgery. At this point you should be able to do most anything ……. How to Do Knee Strengthening Exercises After Arthroscopic … – Apr 26, 2009 · After arthroscopic knee surgery, you have to re-strengthen your muscles around the knee.
Some people find a cane to be helpful. If you use a cane, place it in the hand opposite the knee that was operated on. It takes up to six weeks for the knee joint to re-establish normal joint fluid after arthroscopic surgery. Because of this, you may not realize the benefits of your surgery for four to six weeks. There is a high degree of variability in recovery times. Everyone heals from their knee surgery at a different pace. If necessary, patients use crutches or a walker for one to three days after surgery. If your pain is minimal then you do not have to use crutches or a walker.
If you have this procedure, you must simply wait for the arthroscopic wounds to heal and for the knee's swelling to go down before resuming running. For most of my patients, this takes about three weeks, at which point they can go back to light jogging on a track or a soft, grassy surface. By six weeks, many are able to start fairly intensive road running and interval workouts.
Best Answer: The recovery from a meniscus surgery is a lot faster than recovery from ACL surgery. However, mensicectomy is hardly performed anymore. Rather, they usually perform an arthroscopic debridement to smooth out the tear. Preservation of the mensicus is helpful in the long run. I am debating having surgery for a torn meniscus. (Superiorly surfacing oblique tear in the posterior horn of the medial mensicus, to be exact.) I can run and do most things pain free, but I have a lot of pain in the back of my knee with deep flexion. I cannot squat, sit indian style, or cross my...
Walk with crutches for 1-2 days, and thendiscontinue the use of crutches; bend the knee to tolerance.Exercise the calf by pumping the foot for 5 minutes, 3 times aday, and straight leg raising 10-15 times, 3 times a day. Donot use exercise equipment (except stationary cycle ifavailable—wait 3 days and be gentle).2. 
While knee arthroscopy is a safe procedure for the treatment of knee injuries, there are some risks that patients should be aware of. Depending on the patient and joint condition, these risks may include swelling and stiffness of the joint, bleeding, blood clots, infection, or continuing knee problems. Patients are usually able to go home from the hospital on the day of surgery. To reduce pain and swelling, make sure to elevate your leg while at home, and for the first several days (48 hours), ice the knee for 20 to 30 minutes a few times per day to minimize pain and swelling.
Q: I am 41 years old, have been running for 19 years, and last ran a marathon in Feb. of 2001. I was training for a marathon in December and had to have an arthroscopy for two tears in the medial meniscus of the right knee. The ortho. says I can start running 3-4 weeks postop. My question is when is it realistic and productive to start training again for a marathon in the spring or summer? Any tips would be much appreciated. As a background I was up to 42 miles a week, and a long run of 20 miles. I last ran 3:21 and was shooting for sub 3:20. Thank you for your time. --Aching (to run) in Ft. Worth. A: The menisci are cushions in the knee which function as shock absorbers
Over weeks and months, you should be able to resume your old running routine. A few words of caution to keep in mind: Most people in your situation are able to resume running over a short time. I hope you'll be one of them! 1  It's a common question for people with musculoskeletal injuries or surgery. 2  There's a good deal of uncertainty and misconception about the benefits and risks of exercise in a person with arthritis. 