Want your video to go viral – encode the URL in your QR Code. The options are endless. In addition to website URLs a QR Code can also contain a phone number – so when it is scanned it prompts the user to call a particular number. Similarly you can encode an SMS text message, V-card data or just plain alphanumeric text. QR or Quick Response Codes are a type of two-dimensional barcode that can be read using smartphones and dedicated QR reading devices, that link directly to text, emails, websites, phone numbers and more! You may have even got to this site by scanning a QR code!
QR Codes. Connect with your favorite businesses and interests through a QR code that you can scan with your smartphone or tablet. Once a QR is scanned, you'll be taken to the information embedded in the code, such as a website, document or phone number. You'll need a code scanning app installed on your device to scan a QR code. You can get one from your device's app store (i.e., Google Play™ Store, Apple® App Store SM, etc.). To scan a QR code: 1  Open the QR code reader app installed on your device. 2  Scan the QR code by lining it up inside the window on your screen. 3  The barcode is decoded on your device and specific instructions are sent to the app for appropriate action (e.g. open a specific website)
1 Use the search tool to look for a “bar code scanner” or “QR Code reader” app. 2  Select and download one of the apps and click on the app button to open it. 3  Similar to positioning your smartphone to take a picture, aim the camera at the desired QR Code. Just follow these easy steps to get the proper app and scan: 1  Click your smartphone’s app store icon to open the store. 2  Use the search tool to look for a “bar code scanner” or “QR Code reader” app. 3
QR is short for Quick Response (they can be read quickly by a cell phone). They are used to take a piece of information from a transitory media and put it in to your cell phone. You may soon see QR Codes in a magazine advert, on a billboard, a web page or even on someone’s t-shirt. The reason why they are more useful than a standard barcode is that they can store (and digitally present) much more data, including url links, geo coordinates, and text. The other key feature of QR Codes is that instead of requiring a chunky hand-held scanner to scan them, many modern cell phones can scan them.
You can easily generate a QR code using a site like Kaywa.com or you can use the Open Source code to generate codes for you if you have a smart developer on hand. Google also has a tool — see our separate article about that: Close-Up With Google’s New QR Code Generator. The reason why they are more useful than a standard barcode is that they can store (and digitally present) much more data, including url links, geo coordinates, and text. The other key feature of QR Codes is that instead of requiring a chunky hand-held scanner to scan them, many modern cell phones can scan them.
QR code (abbreviated from Quick Response Code) is the trademark for a type of matrix barcode (or two-dimensional barcode) first designed for the automotive industry in Japan. A barcode is a machine-readable optical label that contains information about the item to which it is attached. QR codes also may be linked to a location to track where a code has been scanned. Either the application that scans the QR code retrieves the geo information by using GPS and cell tower triangulation (aGPS) or the URL encoded in the QR code itself is associated with a location.
QR codes have become common in consumer advertising. Typically, a smartphone is used as a QR code scanner, displaying the code and converting it to some useful form (such as a standard URL for a website, thereby obviating the need for a user to type it into a web browser). QR codes also may be linked to a location to track where a code has been scanned. Either the application that scans the QR code retrieves the geo information by using GPS and cell tower triangulation (aGPS) or the URL encoded in the QR code itself is associated with a location.
Your business, no matter how small or large, could use QR codes in a number of ways. You might auto generate one next to every product on your web site containing all the product details, the number to call and the URL link to the page so they can show their friends on their cell phone. The reason why they are more useful than a standard barcode is that they can store (and digitally present) much more data, including url links, geo coordinates, and text. The other key feature of QR Codes is that instead of requiring a chunky hand-held scanner to scan them, many modern cell phones can scan them.
You'll need an app that can read QR codes (we like Barcode Reader or Google Goggles in the Android Market). When you see a QR code in an app review, hit it with the barcode reader and it will take you to the download section in the Android Market. It's that simple. 