A second effective practice is to use consistent language. Consistent language provides students a model for talking about the new concept. In addition, the use of consistent language allows ELLs to focus on the task rather than trying to figure out the meaning of new words. While building oral language skills is important with all students, it is even more essential for English language learners. Although we do not include a chapter dedicated exclusively to oral language, ways of building oral language are referred to in each chapter and are integrated into the activities.
With this caveat in mind, a number of principles and practices on this website support improved achievement for adolescent ELLs as well as for their native-English-speaking peers (Rance-Rooney, 2009). BEST PRACTICES. 1  Recognize the different linguistic and academic needs of students in various ELL subpopulations. 2  Use the native language to support English language development. 3  Implement language development standards and assessments that are directly linked to academic standards and assessments. The best research can do is tell us which strategies have a good chance (i.e., high probability) of working well with students. Individual classroom teachers must determine which strategies to employ with the right students at the right time. In effect, a good part of effective teaching is an art.
Some teaching strategies for ELLs address all the reading areas of vocabulary, grammar, fluency, and comprehension. Some best practices include repeated reading of words, sentences, and stories; using cognates and synonyms to explain unfamiliar words and concepts; and summarizing text. ELLs benefit from hearing and reading grammar in meaningful, comprehensible contexts. Teaching grammar without practicing or using it in context is too abstract a method for ELLs. Instead, use reading selections to highlight and practice correct English grammar.
For instruction to be meaningful, students must understand the essence of what is said to them. Teachers who adjust their level of English and vocabulary scaffold ELLs' acquisition of new skills and strategies during reading instruction as well as their acquisition of English language skills. While building oral language skills is important with all students, it is even more essential for English language learners. Although we do not include a chapter dedicated exclusively to oral language, ways of building oral language are referred to in each chapter and are integrated into the activities.
Best Practices for English Language Learners was developed by teachers and educational administrators as a resource for teachers, principals, and district leadership to: 1  Provide a framework for sheltered instruction for all teachers. 2  Increase use and improve the quality application of research-based. 
ELL Best Practices Collection. Our ELL Best Practices collection includes a variety of resources that will help you ensure your school environment is welcoming to English language learners (ELLs) and their families. ELL Best Practices Guide. This ELL Best Practices guide helps you create a comprehensive communication plan that puts LEP parents on equal footing with English-speaking parents and shows you how to steer clear of discrimination during student registration.
ESL Program Models. General program models for teaching English language learners (ELLs) include content-based integrated, content-based self-contained, and dual-immersion approaches, leading to a variety of classroom configurations. ELLs benefit from hearing and reading grammar in meaningful, comprehensible contexts. Teaching grammar without practicing or using it in context is too abstract a method for ELLs. Instead, use reading selections to highlight and practice correct English grammar.
In addition, during vocabulary and comprehension instruction, explicit instruction can be used to teach ELLs metacognitive skills and strategies so they think about and prepare for a task and learn to regulate their own learning and understanding (Dianda & Flaherty, 1995). While building oral language skills is important with all students, it is even more essential for English language learners. Although we do not include a chapter dedicated exclusively to oral language, ways of building oral language are referred to in each chapter and are integrated into the activities.
Best Practices for teaching the ELL student: Students whose first language is not English may require alternative instructional approaches and assessment procedures to benefit from content area instruction. Total Physical Response (TPR): As much as possible, the teacher links language learning to enable the ELL student to make a physical response. This technique ties in to various learning styles and is fun for the student.