Medical Definition of VARNISH. : any of various liquid preparations that when spread and allowed to dry on a surface form a hard lustrous typically transparent coating and that include some used in dentistry to line deep cavities in order to protect the pulp of a tooth. — varnish transitive verb. 
Varnish can be applied in different ways. When applying it with a brush, make sure that you don’t shake the can. Shaking the can will form bubbles in the finish, which is then transferred to the surface of your furniture when brushed on. Also make sure not to over brush, as this may leave brush marks on the surface. Polyurethane varnish should not be used outdoors because of its sensitivity to ultraviolet light. Some use UV-absorbers in order to protect the surface from the sun’s rays but this is only good for at least 2-4 years.
Varnish is a clear, hard solution that is principally applied to wood to give it a glossy finish while forming a protective film around it. Varnish consists of a resin, a drying oil and a thinner or solvent. Lacquer is a type of solvent-based product that is made by dissolving nitrocellulose together with plasticizers and pigments in a mixture of volatile solvents. Lacquer also contains a solution of shellac in alcohol that creates a synthetic coating, causing it to form a high gloss surface
Varnish is a general name, like paint, for a transparent, protective finish or film mostly used on wood. Traditional Varnishes contained a resin, a drying oil, and a solvent. The finish is usually shiny but can be modified by adding flatting agents or by rubbing the hardened varnish with abrasives. Varnish is transparent, but often has a yellowish tone.
What is Varnish. Varnish is a general name, like paint, for a transparent, protective finish or film mostly used on wood. Traditional Varnishes contained a resin, a drying oil, and a solvent. The finish is usually shiny but can be modified by adding flatting agents or by rubbing the hardened varnish with abrasives. Varnish is transparent, but often has a yellowish tone.
In classic varnish the cure rate depends on the type of oil used and, to some extent, on the ratio of oil to resin. The drying and curing time of all varnishes may be sped up by exposure to an energy source such as sunlight, ultraviolet light, or heat. Polyurethane varnish may also lack the hand-rubbed lustre of drying oils such as linseed or tung oil; in contrast, however, it is capable of a much faster and higher build of film, accomplishing in two coats what may require multiple applications of oil.
When working with outdoor furniture, spar varnishes may be your best bet. This is because spar varnish does not only protect the wood from temperature changes and UV rays but also gives it flexibility so that it could last for many years. Polyurethane varnish should not be used outdoors because of its sensitivity to ultraviolet light. Some use UV-absorbers in order to protect the surface from the sun’s rays but this is only good for at least 2-4 years.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Varnish is a finish which can be applied to wood and other surfaces to create a hard, glossy film which will resist the elements. This type of finish is used in a wide range of situations, and it is a very popular method of finishing for floors, boat trim, and some cabinetry. 
Varnish is traditionally a combination of a drying oil, a resin, and a thinner or solvent. Varnish finishes are usually glossy but may be designed to produce satin or semi-gloss sheens by the addition of flatting agents. Varnish has little or no color, is transparent, and has no added pigment, as opposed to paints or wood stains, which contain pigment and generally range from opaque to translucent. Polyurethane varnish may also lack the hand-rubbed lustre of drying oils such as linseed or tung oil; in contrast, however, it is capable of a much faster and higher build of film, accomplishing in two coats what may require multiple applications of oil.