With a population of 3,645,257 in 2011 and an estimated population of 4,196,457 as of July 1, 2015, it is Canada's fourth-most populous province and most populous of Canada's three prairie provinces. Alberta and its neighbour, Saskatchewan, were established as provinces on September 1, 1905. Alberta's capital city, Edmonton, is located approximately in the geographic centre of the province. It is the most northerly major city in Canada, and serves as a gateway and hub for resource development in northern Canada.
Rocky Mountain Region: Alberta, Canada. Located in the Southwestern edge of Alberta, the Rocky Mountains are perhaps the best known and most well visited of Alberta's six natural regions. The Rocky Mountains comprise 8 percent of the province. Banff, Canada's first national park, was established in 1885. Soon after, Waterton Lakes National Park was established on the southern end and Jasper National Park on the northern end of Alberta's Rocky Mountain Chain. And, in 1959, the Government of Alberta protected another significant mountain region, Willmore Wilderness Park, just north of Jasper National Park. The foresight of those who set aside these parks ensured that two of the three sub-regions of the Rocky Mountains, the Alpine and Sub-Alpine, are well protected today.
As one of the 10 regional offices, the Alberta Region works closely with Alberta's 45 First Nations in the funding and delivery of essential programs – education, government, social assistance, child and family services and housing, amongst others. Alberta is home to 45 First Nations communities in three treaty areas. Treaties 6, 7 and 8 consist of a combined 140 reserves spread over 812,771 hectares of land. The Regional Director General for the Alberta Region is Jim Sisson; the Associate Director General is Kevin Murchie.
Calgary & Area. Calgary is known as the Energy capital of Canada and is set in a stunning location on the confluence of two rivers, near the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. The city bustles with museums, theatres, art galleries, fine restaurants and shops
The Calgary-Edmonton Corridor is the most urbanized region in the province and one of the densest in Canada. The region covers a distance of roughly 400 kilometres north to south. In 2001, the population of the Calgary-Edmonton Corridor was 2.15 million (72% of Alberta's population). Alberta's capital city, Edmonton, is located approximately in the geographic centre of the province. It is the most northerly major city in Canada, and serves as a gateway and hub for resource development in northern Canada.
Cities [edit]. Calgary is the largest city in Alberta. Edmonton is the second largest city and is the capital. 1  Edmonton-the capital city of Alberta and the second largest city in population (812,000 city; 1,159,000 metro region). 2  Edmonton has both the largest urban parkland system and the largest shopping mall in North America. 1 Edmonton-the capital city of Alberta and the second largest city in population (812,000 city; 1,159,000 metro region). 2  Edmonton has both the largest urban parkland system and the largest shopping mall in North America.
Edmonton, the capital city of Alberta, is located near the geographic centre of the province and is the primary supply and service hub for Canada's crude oil, oil sands (Athabasca oil sands) and other northern resource industries. Approximately 290 km (180 mi) south of the capital is Calgary, Alberta's largest city. Alberta's capital city, Edmonton, is located approximately in the geographic centre of the province. It is the most northerly major city in Canada, and serves as a gateway and hub for resource development in northern Canada.