The plague is a serious bacterial infection that can be deadly. Sometimes referred to as the black plague, the disease is caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria is found on animals throughout the world and is usually transmitted to humans through fleas. You may also experience painful, swollen lymph glands, called buboes. These typically appear in the groin, armpits, neck, or site of the insect bite or scratch. The buboes are what gives bubonic plague its name.
If left untreated, symptoms, such as vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, can progress rapidly to septicemic plague. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause bubonic plague (Yersinia pestis), the bacteria begin to multiply within the lymph system. (The lymph or lymphatic system is a major component of your body's immune system. The period between becoming infected and the start of symptoms is called the bubonic plague incubation period. If they are not treated quickly, these symptoms can rapidly worsen and result in death.
The best-known symptom of bubonic plague is one or more infected, enlarged, and painful lymph nodes, known as buboes. After being transmitted via the bite of an infected flea, the Y. pestis bacteria become localized in an inflamed lymph node where they begin to colonize and reproduce. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
Bubonic plague: In this form of the infection, bacteria infiltrate the lymph nodes, causing enlarged, painful, tender lymph nodes called buboes. Accompanying symptoms are fever, chills, headaches, and weakness. If not treated, the infection can spread to other areas of the body. Overview. Plague is an infectious disease caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. These bacteria are found mainly in rodents, particularly rats, and in the fleas that feed on them. Other animals and humans usually contract the bacteria from rodent or flea bites.
Forms of plague. Bubonic plague: Patients develop sudden onset of fever, headache, chills, and weakness and one or more swollen, tender and painful lymph nodes (called buboes). This form usually results from the bite of an infected flea. The bacteria multiply in the lymph node closest to where the bacteria entered the human body. Pneumonic plague is the most serious form of the disease and is the only form of plague that can be spread from person to person (by infectious droplets). Plague is a serious illness. If you are experiencing symptoms like those listed here, seek immediate medical attention.
Bubonic plague symptoms can occur within two to six days of being infected by the bacteria Yersinia pestis. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause bubonic plague (Yersinia pestis), the bacteria begin to multiply within the lymph system. (The lymph or lymphatic system is a major component of your body's immune system. The period between becoming infected and the start of symptoms is called the bubonic plague incubation period. If they are not treated quickly, these symptoms can rapidly worsen and result in death.
1 Symptoms and signs depend on one of the three forms of plague and include the following: 2  Bubonic plague symptoms and signs include painful and enlarged lymph nodes, chills, headache, fever, and weakness. 1 There are three forms of plague in humans: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague. 2  The signs and symptoms of plague generally develop between two and seven days after a person acquires the infection. 3 
Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting. Swollen and painful lymph nodes occur in the area closest to where the bacteria entered the skin. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
Plague is caused by the bacteria Yersinia pestis. Rodents, such as rats, carry the disease. It is spread by their fleas. People can get the plague when they are bitten by a flea that carries the plague bacteria from an infected rodent. In rare cases, you may get the disease when handling an infected animal. 
What are the symptoms of plague? Initial symptoms include fever, chills, muscle aches, headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and extreme exhaustion. Swollen and tender lymph nodes near where the infected flea bit the person are typical of bubonic plague. Bubonic plague and septicemic plague are transmitted primarily by the bite from infected fleas; however, transmission can occur by bites or scratches from infected wild rodents and cats, or contact with tissue from infected animals. Bubonic plague is rarely spread from person-to-person.