Uremia is a very severe condition wherein there are high levels of nitrogen-based toxins the body like urea and creatinine. These toxins stay in the body and accumulate the bloodstream because the kidney’s function is impaired. 
Uremia is a clinical state in which the blood urea nitrogen level, an indicator of nitrogen waste products, is elevated. In uremia, the kidneys’ failure to filter nitrogen waste properly leads to excessively high levels of nitrogen wastes in the bloodstream. Uremia is life-threatening because too much nitrogen in the blood is toxic to the body. Symptoms of uremia include confusion, loss of consciousness, low urine production, dry mouth, fatigue, weakness, pale skin or pallor, bleeding problems, rapid heart rate (tachycardia), edema (swelling), and excessive thirst
uremia. 1. an excess in the blood of urea, creatinine, and other nitrogenous end products of protein and amino acid metabolism; more correctly referred to as azotemia. 2. in current usage, the entire complex of signs and symptoms of chronic renal failure. 
uremia. 1. an excess in the blood of urea, creatinine, and other nitrogenous end products of protein and amino acid metabolism; more correctly referred to as azotemia. 2. in current usage, the entire complex of signs and symptoms of chronic renal failure. uremia. 1. an excess in the blood of urea, creatinine, and other nitrogenous end products of protein and amino acid metabolism; more correctly referred to as azotemia. 2. in current usage, the syndrome of chronic renal failure.
Background. Uremia is a clinical syndrome associated with fluid, electrolyte, and hormone imbalances and metabolic abnormalities, which develop in parallel with deterioration of renal function.
Topic Overview. Uremia (uremic syndrome) is a serious complication of chronic kidney disease and acute kidney injury (also known as acute renal failure). It occurs when urea and other waste products build up in the body because the kidneys are unable to eliminate them. 
Uremia or uraemia (see spelling differences) can be translated as  urea in the blood. Urea is one of the primary components of urine. It can be defined as an excess of amino acid and protein metabolism end products, such as urea and creatinine, in the blood that would be normally excreted in the urine. There is no specific time for the onset of uremia for people with progressive loss of kidney function. People with kidney function below 50% (i.e. a glomerular filtration rate [GFR] between 50 and 60 mL) and 30 years of age may have uremia to a degree.