Best Answer: An indicator is a weak (usually organic) acid that changes its molecular shape with changes in pH. As the shape changes then the color of the solution changes. For instance, phenolphthalein has one shape below pH 8 which is colorless and a different shape when the pH is above 8 which is pink. This is why we say phenolphthalein is colorless in an acid and pink in a base.
indicator (Noun). Any of many substances, such as litmus, used to indicate the concentration of a substance, or the degree of a reaction. indicator (Noun). A plant or animal whose presence is indicative of some specific environment. indicator (Noun). A measure, such as unemployment rate, which can be used to predict economic trends.
An indicator is a chemical compound that changes colour and structure when exposed to certain conditions and is therefore useful for chemical tests. Litmus, for example, is … an indicator that becomes red in the presence of acids and blue in the presence of bases. + 19 others found this useful. MikizuNg Vasabi. Indicator is a process which is used to find out the substanceis acid,base and salt. example: litmus paper and termuric both are natural indicator. example of artificial indic … ator: mithyl orange and phenolphtaceil. 4 people
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of indicator): absorption indicator (an indicator used in reactions that involve precipitation). acid-base indicator (an indicator that changes color on going from acidic to basic solutions). 4. (chemistry) a substance that changes color to indicate the presence of some ion or substance; can be used to indicate the completion of a chemical reaction or (in medicine) to test for a particular reaction. Familiarity information: INDICATOR used as a noun is uncommon. Dictionary entry details. • INDICATOR (noun).
Acid-base-indicators: A graphic view. A pH indicator is a halochromic chemical compound added in small amounts to a solution so the pH (acidity or basicity) of the solution can be determined visually. Hence, a pH indicator is a chemical detector for hydronium ions (H 3 O +) or hydrogen ions (H +) in the Arrhenius model.
4. a. a substance, as litmus, that indicates the presence or concentration of a certain constituent. b. a substance often used in a titration to indicate the point at which the reaction is complete. 5. a plant or animal that indicates by its presence in a given area the existence of certain environmental conditions. Chemistry Any of various substances, such as litmus or phenolphthalein, that indicate the presence, absence, or concentration of another substance or the degree of reaction between two or more substances by means of a characteristic change, especially in color. 3. Ecology An indicator species.
4. indicator - (chemistry) a substance that changes color to indicate the presence of some ion or substance; can be used to indicate the completion of a chemical reaction or (in medicine) to test for a particular reaction. Chemistry Any of various substances, such as litmus or phenolphthalein, that indicate the presence, absence, or concentration of another substance or the degree of reaction between two or more substances by means of a characteristic change, especially in color. 3. Ecology An indicator species.
Report Abuse. When doing titration, you use an indicator of the substance that is being used to titrate the other. For example, if you had HCl and were titrating it with NaOH, you would have HCl in a beaker with a base indicator (phenolphthalein) . Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. indicators will change the color of a solution when it reaches a certain pH range. you can choose an appropriate indicator from a table that shows what color it is at one pH range and what color it changes to at a different pH range.