Geography. The state comprises three major geographic zones. In the east, most of interior Washington is made up of the Columbia Plateau and the valleys of the Columbia River and its tributaries. Central Washington is dominated, and the state is divided, by the north-south Cascade Range. Washington's coastal region is one of the wettest areas in the United States, receiving up to 150 in. (381 cm) of rain per year at high elevations; it is correspondingly heavily forested, especially with spruce, fir, cedar, and hemlock.
What time is it in Washington State Time Zone / Current time. Washington State is in the Pacific Time Zone in the United States of America (USA). US Pacific Standard Time (PST) is 8 hours behind Greenwich Mean Time (GMT-8). Like most states in the USA, (is observed in Washington State Time, where the time is shifted forward by 1 hour to (); which is 7 hours behind Greenwich Mean Time (). After the Summer months the time in Washington State Time is shifted back by 1 hour to US Pacific Standard Time (PST) or (GMT-8).
Description: Location Map of Washington shows where the state of Washington is located in the US. Occupying a total of 176, 477 sq km Washington has a 1769 km long boundary. The boundary of Washington also comprises 253 km long coastline. The north to south region of Washington stretches to a total of 390 km, while the east to west zone of the state is 580 km long.
Washington /ˈwɒʃɪŋtən/ is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States located north of Oregon, west of Idaho, and south of the Canadian province of British Columbia on the coast of the Pacific Ocean. Washington is part of a region known as the Pacific Northwest, a term which always includes Washington and Oregon and may or may not include Idaho, western Montana, northern California, and Alaska, depending on the user's intent.
Named after George Washington, the first President of the United States, the state was made out of the western part of the Washington Territory which had been ceded by Britain in 1846 by the Oregon Treaty as a settlement of the Oregon Boundary Dispute. It was admitted to the Union as the 42nd state in 1889. The state of Washington is often referred to as Washington State or the State of Washington to distinguish it from Washington, D.C. , the capital of the United States. Washington is part of a region known as the Pacific Northwest, a term which always includes Washington and Oregon and may or may not include Idaho, western Montana, northern California, and Alaska, depending on the user's intent.
Japan in former times was called Wa-nu. It is 14,000 li distant from our capital, situated to the southeast of Silla in the middle of the ocean. It is five months' journey to cross Japan from east to west, and a three-month journey from south to north. [日本古倭奴也去京師萬四千里直新羅東南在海中島而居東西五月行南北三月行] (145, tr. The custom of writing Japan as Wa 倭 ended during the Tang Dynasty (618–907 CE). Japanese scribes coined the name Nihon or Nippon 日本 circa 608–645 and replaced Wa 倭 with a more flattering Wa 和 harmony; peace around 756–757 CE (Carr 1992:6-7). The linguistic change is recorded in two official Tang histories.
The Washington Location Map offers information about the geographical standing of the state. While Idaho borders the state on the eastern side, Oregon shares the southern border. Pacific Ocean surrounds it from the west and the country Canada surrounds the state from the north. Occupying a total of 176, 477 sq km Washington has a 1769 km long boundary. The boundary of Washington also comprises 253 km long coastline. The north to south region of Washington stretches to a total of 390 km, while the east to west zone of the state is 580 km long.
Wa. Wa is a unit of length, equal to 2 metres or 4 sok Wa as a verb means to outstretch arms to both sides, which relates to the fathom's distance between the fingertips of a man's outstretched arms. The 1833 Siamese-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce, reads: [The] Siamese fathom ... Wa also occurs as a colloquialism for 'square wa' a unit of area abbreviated ตร.ว. or ว๒.) As for many terms normally written in the Thai alphabet, romanization of Thai causes spelling variants such as waa and wah.