Registered nurses set up plans for patient care. Registered nurses (RNs) provide and coordinate patient care, educate patients and the public about various health conditions, and provide advice and emotional support to patients and their family members. Nurse anesthetists, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners, also referred to as advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs), provide and coordinate patient care and they may provide primary and specialty health care. The scope of practice varies from state to state.
Busy nurses often find it difficult to provide effective patient teaching in the current healthcare climate. As Fran London, a nurse, patient-education expert, and author, noted, Teaching patients isn't rocket science, but it is a sophisticated skill that takes practice and commitment. For patient teaching to be effective, nurses must know their patients and individualize patient education. Busy nurses may think time allows them to give patients only printed materials. But as important as these materials are, they're only a small part of the individualized patient-education process.
A nurse practitioner (NP) is an RN who has completed advanced nursing education (usually a master’s or doctorate degree) and is certified by the New York State Education Department as a Certified Nurse Practitioner Nurse Practitioner or NP in a specialty area of practice. RNs provide health teaching to patients, families, other care providers and the public. They participate in health research and in making health care policies. RNs may work independently, in collaboration with other health care personnel or under clinical supervision (i.e., from a physician or nurse practitioner).
(October 2014). A registered nurse (RN) is a nurse who has graduated from a nursing program and met the requirements outlined by a country or state licensing body in order to obtain a nursing license. An RN's scope of practice is determined by local legislation governing nurses, and usually regulated by a professional body or council. 
Registered nurses usually take one of three education paths: a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN), an associate’s degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved nursing program. Registered nurses also must be licensed. Nurse anesthetists, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners, also referred to as advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs), provide and coordinate patient care and they may provide primary and specialty health care. The scope of practice varies from state to state.
Registered nurses usually take one of three education paths: a bachelor's degree in nursing, an associate’s degree in nursing, or a diploma from an approved nursing program. Registered nurses must also be licensed. Nurse anesthetists, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners, also referred to as advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs), provide and coordinate patient care and they may provide primary and specialty health care. The scope of practice varies from state to state.
A registered professional nurse (RN) is a licensed health care professional who helps patients to achieve optimal health and prevent disease or injury. RNs provide compassionate care that is respectful of each patient's values and wishes. RNs provide health teaching to patients, families, other care providers and the public. They participate in health research and in making health care policies. RNs may work independently, in collaboration with other health care personnel or under clinical supervision (i.e., from a physician or nurse practitioner).
Registered nurses earn on average $64,690 a year, although compensation depends on level of education, experience, geographic location and the type of facility. Experienced registered nurses with advanced education can earn $80,000 a year or more. Overview. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, registered nursing is among the top 10 occupations with the largest job growth. Registered nursing (RN) requires a large base of knowledge used to assess, plan and intervene to promote health, prevent disease and help patients cope with illness.
A licensed practical nurse (LPN) is a licensed health care practitioner who provides nursing care under the direction of an RN, CNS, NP, midwife, physician, physician assistant, specialist assistant, dentist or podiatrist. LPNs provide compassionate care that is respectful of each patient’s needs, values and wishes. RNs provide health teaching to patients, families, other care providers and the public. They participate in health research and in making health care policies. RNs may work independently, in collaboration with other health care personnel or under clinical supervision (i.e., from a physician or nurse practitioner).
For some cultures, illness is a family event. For example, a nurse might teach many extended members if the patient is the matriarch of a Hispanic family. Do not alienate the family, as they may be great allies in maintaining and promoting self-care behaviors. Presume that patients can be responsible for their care. Provide for optimal learning conditions. Do not try to teach a patient while they are sleepy, hungry or in pain. Provide a quiet and private place. Silence your phone, and give the patient your undivided attention. Assess the patient’s existing knowledge.