About Uveitis. Uveitis is a general term describing a group of inflammatory diseases that produces swelling and destroys eye tissues. These diseases can slightly reduce vision or lead to severe vision loss. The term uveitis is used because the diseases often affect a part of the eye called the uvea. Nevertheless, uveitis is not limited to the uvea. These diseases also affect the lens, retina, optic nerve, and vitreous, producing reduced vision or blindness. Uveitis may be caused by problems or diseases occurring in the eye or it can be part of an inflammatory disease affecting other parts of the body
Uveitis, or ocular inflammatory disease, is a wide range of inflammatory diseases of the eye, specifically the uvea. There are 3 basic layers of the eye – the sclera and cornea on the outside, the retina on the inside, and the uvea in between. Uveitis has many causes. Most cases are due to autoimmune disease or infection, and there are some for which a cause is not found – so called “idiopathic” uveitis – which is treated as non-infectious inflammation. Other causes include trauma, medication-induced uveitis, and in rare instances, cancer.
Uveitis is a form of eye inflammation. It affects the middle layer of tissue in the eye wall (uvea). Uveitis (u-vee-I-tis) warning signs often come on suddenly and get worse quickly. Definition. Uveitis is a form of eye inflammation. It affects the middle layer of tissue in the eye wall (uvea). Uveitis (u-vee-I-tis) warning signs often come on suddenly and get worse quickly. They include eye redness, pain and blurred vision.
Uveitis is an inflammation of one or more of the structures making up the uvea. If all three structures are involved, ciliary body, iris and choroid, is the inflammation is called true uveitis or pan-uveitis. If only the ciliary body and the iris are inflamed it is called iridocyclitis or anterior uveitis, while inflammation of the choroid is choroiditis or posterior uveitis. The usual signs of uveitis are severe pain with an intense reddening of the visible parts of the eye.. The uvea is the part of the eye made up of the iris, the ciliary body and the choroid.
Uveitis (also known as iridocyclitis) is the inflammation of the uvea, the pigmented layer that lies between the inner retina and the outer fibrous layer composed of the sclera and cornea .The uvea consists of the middle layer of pigmented vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid. 1 Iritis is the inflammation of the anterior chamber and iris. 2  Iridocyclitis presents the same symptoms as iritis, but also includes inflammation in the ciliary body. 3  Anywhere from two-thirds to 90% of uveitis cases are anterior in location.
So, some two years later, I reply if asked that I have idiopathic uveitis, OU, mostly anterior. And, I can describe what that is; inflammation in both of my eyes; of unknown cause, mostly in the front of my eyes. And now friends ask. . . The middle layer of the eye, between the sclera and retina, is called the uvea. When the uvea becomes inflamed, the condition is called uveitis.. He changed my medications around. The next day I was back, the inflammation having worsened.
There are several causes of uveitis, including autoimmune disorders (such as sarcoidosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, Behcet's disease, and ankylosing spondylitis), infections (such as syphilis and toxoplasmosis), and trauma. Additionally, some are “idiopathic,” meaning the cause is unknown. Uveitis is inflammation of the 'uvea' of the eye. The uvea is made up of three parts. The first part is the iris, which is the colored ring of tissue you can see in the mirror.
1 Iritis is the most common form of uveitis. 2  It affects the iris and is often associated with autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis or sarcoidosis. 3  Iritis may develop suddenly and may last weeks, even with treatment. 4  Rare cases are chronic and require close, long-term monitoring. Uveitis may develop rapidly, and it is very important that you see your eye doctor for a complete eye exam if you develop these symptoms, especially if a painful, red eye does not clear up quickly. Left untreated, uveitis may permanently damage your vision.
Uveitis has many potential causes, including infection with a virus. Other potential causes include fungus, bacteria, parasite, inflammatory disease affecting other parts of the body, or injury to the eye. There are four types of uveitis: 1  Iritis is the most common form of uveitis. 2  Cyclitis is an inflammation of the middle portion of the eye and may affect the muscle that focuses the lens. 3  Retinitis affects the back of the eye. 4  Choroiditis is an inflammation of the layer beneath the retina. Uveitis may develop rapidly, and it is very important that you see your eye doctor for a complete eye exam if you develop these symptoms, especially if a painful, red eye does not clear up quickly. Left untreated, uveitis may permanently damage your vision.
The iris and the ciliary body together form the anterior uveal tract. The iris is the pigmented or colored membrane behind the cornea (clear outer surface of the eye). It is responsible for the color of the eye. The ciliary body is a thickened extension of the choroid and connects the choroid and the iris. The usual signs of uveitis are severe pain with an intense reddening of the visible parts of the eye.. The uvea is the part of the eye made up of the iris, the ciliary body and the choroid.