Adenosine also plays a role in regulation of blood flow to various organs through vasodilation. Adenosine is used as a medication, specifically, as an antiarrhythmic agent, to treat a number of supraventricular tachycardia that do not improve with vagal maneuvers. Common side effects include chest pain, feeling faint, shortness of breath and tingling. 
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-pyrophosphate, produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. a compound derived from nucleic acid, composed of adenine and a sugar, d-ribose. Adenosine is the major molecular component of the nucleotides adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, and adenosine triphosphate and of the nucleic acids DNA and RNA. Also called adenine-d-ribose. See also adenosine phosphate.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme. It is often called the molecular unit of currency: ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. Every cell uses ATP for energy. It consists of a base (adenine) and seventeen phosphate groups. 
ADENOSINE Overview Information. Adenosine is a chemical that is present in all human cells. It readily combines with phosphate to form various chemical compounds including adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). People use it for medicine. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of adenosine during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Gout: ATP can raise the level of uric acid in the blood stream and in the urine, and this might trigger a case of gout. Gout causes red, hot, tender, swollen joints.
Yeast-derived ingredient that plays an important cell-signaling role in many bodily processes. Adenosine is a good anti-inflammatory ingredient. Adenosine is present in our cells and functions as a cell-communicating ingredient because it is a source of energy that supports healthy cellular activity. [1]. References Cited: 1  Wilson C. Adenosine receptors and asthma in humans..
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, the 5′-pyrophosphate of adenosine, involved in energy metabolism; it is produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation and substrate-level phosphorylation. a compound derived from nucleic acid, composed of adenine and a sugar, d-ribose. Adenosine is the major molecular component of the nucleotides adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, and adenosine triphosphate and of the nucleic acids DNA and RNA. Also called adenine-d-ribose. See also adenosine phosphate.