The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today announced that it has approved Flublok, the first trivalent influenza vaccine made using an insect virus (baculovirus) expression system and recombinant DNA technology. Flublok is approved for the prevention of seasonal influenza in people 18 through 49 years of age.
caprinized vaccine. a vaccine, usually a virus, attenuated by serial passage through goats, e.g. caprinized rinderpest vaccine. In highly susceptible cattle this vaccine may cause significant reactions and lapinized vaccines are preferred. core vaccine. one that should always be included in the basic immunization program for the species.
Recombinant DNA is a type of DNA that is artificially created by inserting a strand or more of DNA into a different set of DNA. It is used in genetic modification to create completely new organisms by adding artificial bits or bits of DNA from other organisms to an existing creature. The term is often shortened to rDNA.
Examples of successful recombinant/purified protein vaccines are listed here. The majority of on market vaccines using this strategy are related to protecting a person against the damage caused by secreted toxins rather than protecting a person against infection by the bacterium or virus.
There is a third production technology for flu vaccines that was approved for use in the U.S. market in 2013 and that involves using recombinant technology. This production method does not require an egg-grown vaccine virus and does not use chicken eggs at all in the production process.
formed changes. This leads to either a different protein, or an inactive protein. Now that we know what DNA is, this is where the recombinant comes in. Recombinant DNA is the general name for taking a piece of one DNA, and and combining it with another strand of DNA.
Recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH) or recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST) refers to bovine growth hormone that is made in a lab using genetic technology. Some rBGH products on the market differ chemically from a cow's natural somatotropin by one amino acid.
Recombinant or purified protein vaccines consist of protein antigens that have either been produced in a heterologous expression system (e.g., bacteria or yeast) or purified from large amounts of the pathogenic organism.