For-Bourton-on-the-Water Restaurants, Tea Shops. For-History of Bourton-on-the-Water. You can select an alternative. Place to Visit from here. Bourton-on-the-Water is the home of Giffords Touring Circus-animals and artists from the circus fill many Cotswold village greens with wonderment during the summer months. The best way to return to Bourton-on-the-Water is to retrace your steps. See Lower Slaughter for walk to the village of Upper Slaughter. A circular walk from Bourton-on-the-Water to include river and lakes (3½ miles – 2 hours approx).
The small historic core of Bourton-on-the-Water along with associated areas along the River Windrush have been designated a UK Conservation Area. Salmonsbury Camp, a nearby Iron Age habitation, is designated a UK National scheduled monument (SAM 32392). Long-distance footpaths and local walks start, finish or pass through Bourton-on-the-Water. One such route that begins its 100-mile route north is the Heart of England Way. Bourton is also home to Bourton-on-the-Water Primary School and the Cotswold School, a co-educational comprehensive school.
The famous Bourton-on-the-Water Model Village. The Model Village is a one-ninth scale replica of the heart of the beautiful Cotswold village of Bourton-on-the-Water, containing all the buildings from the Old Water Mill (now the Car Museum) down to the Old New Inn and the ford. The Model Village is the perfect place to start your day in Bourton as you will discover the location of all the shops and attractions. Inside the Model Village for our customers convenience we have a small gift shop selling souvenirs, ladies & gentlemen’s toilets and baby changing facilities. Admission Charges.
Bourton-on-the-Water was first served by rail with the opening of the Bourton-on-the-Water Railway in 1862; this was a branch line from Kingham on the Oxford, Worcester and Wolverhampton Railway (OWWR). The station was situated just to the north of the village. Long-distance footpaths and local walks start, finish or pass through Bourton-on-the-Water. One such route that begins its 100-mile route north is the Heart of England Way. Bourton is also home to Bourton-on-the-Water Primary School and the Cotswold School, a co-educational comprehensive school.
Bourton-on-the-Water is only 4 miles from. Stow-on-the-Wold and straddles the river Windrush with its series of elegant low bridges beside neat tree-shaded greens and tidy stone banks. Standing back from the river are traditional Cotswolds buildings, many of which are now tourist shops for the day-trippers and visitors. The best way to return to Bourton-on-the-Water is to retrace your steps. See Lower Slaughter for walk to the village of Upper Slaughter. A circular walk from Bourton-on-the-Water to include river and lakes (3½ miles – 2 hours approx).
Bourton-on-the-Water has been described as the 'Little Venice' of the Cotswolds and is one of the most popular tourist spots in the region being serviced by the many shops, cafe's, and attractions. The best way to return to Bourton-on-the-Water is to retrace your steps. See Lower Slaughter for walk to the village of Upper Slaughter. A circular walk from Bourton-on-the-Water to include river and lakes (3½ miles – 2 hours approx).
Bourton on the Water. Known as The Venice of the Cotswolds, beautiful Bourton-on-the-Water is surrounded by rivers, streams and brooks and the characteristically low stone bridges that cross them. Just outside the centre of Bourton is the Dragonfly Maze,a large yew maze designed by cult puzzle maker Kit Williams, who created the infamous treasure hunt book ‘Masquerade’ in 1979.
Welcome to the Bourton-on-the-Water website. This site has been produced by the local people of Bourton on the Water so that you can enjoy, at your leisure some of the delightful features that our village and the surrounding countryside have to offer.
The village of Bourton-on-the-Water is known for its picturesque High Street, flanked by long wide greens and the River Windrush that runs through them. The river is crossed by several low, arched stone bridges. These arched bridges have led to Bourton-on-the-Water being called the Venice of the Cotswolds. Long-distance footpaths and local walks start, finish or pass through Bourton-on-the-Water. One such route that begins its 100-mile route north is the Heart of England Way. Bourton is also home to Bourton-on-the-Water Primary School and the Cotswold School, a co-educational comprehensive school.