Krabi is humid and hot all year round, with average temperatures ranging between the late 20s and early 30s. Minor respite from the heat comes at night time, when average low temperatures often drop into the mid to low 20s, although the drop in temperature is often negated by a rise in humidity. The dry season is the high season for tourism in Krabi and is when accommodation and flight prices will be at their highest.
See the links below the weather forecasts for other cities, towns and villages near Krabi. Krabi 1 – 3 Day Weather Forecast Summary: Heavy rain (total 26mm), heaviest during Fri night. Warm (max 31°C on Fri afternoon, min 27°C on Thu night). Local time in Krabi: ICT. View 3 Hour Detailed Krabi Weather Forecast for Today. Krabi 4 – 7 Day Weather Forecast Summary: Moderate rain (total 16mm), heaviest on Tue morning. Warm (max 31°C on Mon morning, min 28°C on Sun night).
On the whole, the wet season is largely unpredictable in Krabi – you are just as likely to be met with long periods of clear skies and sunny weather as you are with over a week of heavy rain and thick cloud. Minor respite from the heat comes at night time, when average low temperatures often drop into the mid to low 20s, although the drop in temperature is often negated by a rise in humidity. The dry season is the high season for tourism in Krabi and is when accommodation and flight prices will be at their highest.
Krabi weather text for Sun 18 th October. The Krabi weather is going to be patchy rain nearby. Krabi visibility is going to be around 9 km i.e. 5 miles and an atmospheric pressure of 1011 mb. The daytime temperature is going to reach 35 °c and the temperature is going to dip to 26 °c at night. Our Krabi weather forecaster is reporting Wednesday 14 th October to be the wettest day in the coming week with around 13.00mm (or 0.5 inches) of rainfall. Make sure to carry an umbrella if you are out and about in Krabi.
This report describes the typical weather at the Krabi Airport (Krabi, Thailand) weather station over the course of an average July. It is based on the historical records from 2007 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Krabi has a tropical monsoon climate with short dry season. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by forests (64%), oceans and seas (27%), and shrublands (7%).
Krabi 10 day weather forecast, updated four times a day and shows the weather summary plus detailed sun, rain, snow, wind and temperature. The weather forecast extends out to 10 days showing information for morning, afternoon and overnight. Local time in Krabi: ICT. View 3 Hour Detailed Krabi Weather Forecast for Today. Krabi 4 – 7 Day Weather Forecast Summary: Moderate rain (total 16mm), heaviest on Tue morning. Warm (max 31°C on Mon morning, min 28°C on Sun night).
Weather Overview for Krabi. Krabi, made up of 130 different islands, is one of Thailand ’s southern provinces, lying off the east of Phuket in the Andaman Sea. The region has two distinct seasons: a rainy season, which runs from May until October, and a dry season, which runs from November until April. Minor respite from the heat comes at night time, when average low temperatures often drop into the mid to low 20s, although the drop in temperature is often negated by a rise in humidity. The dry season is the high season for tourism in Krabi and is when accommodation and flight prices will be at their highest.
Krabi Weather WEATHER Krabi has two predominant seasons. One is the hot season and the other the wet season or the Rainy season, but we have to be more detailed. Hot season is from January to April and this is followed by the so called rain season. 
It looks on Tuesday, 20 October the Krabi weather is going to be patchy rain nearby. The visibility is going to be around 9 km i.e. 5 miles and an atmospheric pressure of 1009 mb. The daytime temperature is going to reach 35 °c and the temperature is going to dip to 26 °c at night. Our Krabi weather forecaster is reporting Wednesday 14 th October to be the wettest day in the coming week with around 13.00mm (or 0.5 inches) of rainfall. Make sure to carry an umbrella if you are out and about in Krabi.
Krabi weather summary for coming week. The maximum temperature for Krabi over the next 7 day will be 36℃ (or 97℉) on Friday 16 th October at around 1 pm. In the same week the minimum temperature will be 25℃ (or 76℉) on Wednesday 14 th October at around 4 am. Our Krabi weather forecaster is reporting Wednesday 14 th October to be the wettest day in the coming week with around 13.00mm (or 0.5 inches) of rainfall. Make sure to carry an umbrella if you are out and about in Krabi.