Many liquid potpourri products and essential oils, including oil of cinnamon, citrus, pennyroyal, peppermint, pine, sweet birch, tea tree (melaleuca), wintergreen, and ylang ylang, are poisonous to dogs. Essential oils and liquid potpourris contain chemicals that are rapidly absorbed orally or through the skin. Many of these chemicals are metabolized through the liver.Very young dogs and puppies, and dogs with liver disease are more sensitive to their effects.
As for dogs.. There are Essential oils that can be toxic to your dog. Even safe oils can be toxic if your not using the correct dosage.If it says do not apply directly to your skin then do not to your dog. Most oils you can use on your dog must be diluted way down with ” carrier” oils.If In Doubt .. 
Peppermint oils should not be used around cats at any time. The Safe Use of Peppermint with Cats. One of the problems with using any aromatherapy product, such as peppermint or cinnamon, with cats is that felines have a heightened sense of smell. This makes them more sensitive to scented products in the first place. Because it is potentially toxic, many veterinarians will recommend against using peppermint products around cats. It is very important that no plant material, oil, or extract is ingested by your cats as they may become ill. If you do choose to use peppermint around your cats, do so with caution.
Peppermint is safe for dogs, in moderation. It can be used settle a dog's stomach (as with humans). However, avoid feeding your dog peppermint candies (or other food pro … ducts) that contain xylitol, as it can cause hypoglycemia, which can lead to coma and death. + 75 others found this useful. Yes some dogs may be allergic to the fume of the peppermint oil but it depends so you should consult a doctor to find out if your dog is allergic to the fume of peppermint. 1 person found this useful. Edit.
1 Use only essential oils that are safe for dogs. 2  Always DILUTE essential oils before using them on your dogs. 3  A rough guideline is to add about 8-10 drops of essential oils to 1/2 oz. ( 4 15 ml) of carrier base oil, or about 25-30 drops of essential oils to 8 oz. ( 5 240 ml) of shampoo. If we choose essential oils that are safe for dogs, and use them in diluted form, they are perfectly safe to use on dogs and are effective therapeutically for a great number of ailments. However, some essential oils, diluted or not, are unsafe for dogs and use of such oils should be avoided altogether.
There are quite a few essential oils for dogs that are safe for use, but you do not have to buy all of them! There are a few must-have's that you should get if you want to give your dog aromatherapy. Aromatherapy for Dogs. Essential oils are good to have for the treatment of a wide variety of dog health problems-from flea infestations, motion sickness, to arthritis, and more.
Note that not all essential oils are safe for our pets. This page gives you a list of some safe and beneficial essential oils that you can use on your dogs. So you want to try using essential oils on your dog, but there are so many essential oils! Aromatherapy for Dogs. Essential oils are good to have for the treatment of a wide variety of dog health problems-from flea infestations, motion sickness, to arthritis, and more.
Peppermint oil, however, is especially dangerous. If swallowed, peppermint oil can cause gastrointestinal upset, a suppression of the central nervous system, and even liver damage. Some peppermint oils contain a derivative of aspirin, which is highly toxic to cats. Because it is potentially toxic, many veterinarians will recommend against using peppermint products around cats. It is very important that no plant material, oil, or extract is ingested by your cats as they may become ill. If you do choose to use peppermint around your cats, do so with caution.
Safe Essential Oils for Dogs. Essential oils are good to have for the treatment of a wide variety of dog health problems-from flea infestations, motion sickness, to arthritis, and more. Aromatherapy for Dogs. Essential oils are good to have for the treatment of a wide variety of dog health problems-from flea infestations, motion sickness, to arthritis, and more.