Alkaline phosphatase is an enzymatic protein found in liver, intestine, placenta and bone. The normal adult range of alkaline phosphatase is 41 to 133 IU per liter of blood, and these values vary among laboratory and method, according to The Pocket Guide to Diagnostic Tests.. Normal Alkaline Phosphatase Level. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzymatic protein found in liver, ... The normal adult range of alkaline phosphatase is...
An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Check bone problems (sometimes found on X-rays), such as rickets, bone tumors, Paget's disease, or too much of the hormone that controls bone growth (parathyroid hormone).
The normal value for alkaline phosphatase is 53 to 128 U/L for a 20- to 50-year-old man and 42 to 98 U/L for a 20- to 50-year-old woman. Pregnant women typically have higher alkaline phosphatase values due to contributions from the placenta. Normal values are slightly different if you are older than 60 -- 56 to 119 U/L if you're a man or 53 to 141 U/L if you're a woman. Normal values can vary slightly among testing laboratories.
Alkaline phosphatase (ALP, ALKP, ALPase, Alk Phos) (EC 3.1.3.1) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids. The process of removing the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation. Normal ALP levels in adults are approximately 20 to 140 IU /L, though levels are significantly higher in children and pregnant women. Blood tests should always be interpreted using the reference range from the laboratory that performed the test. High ALP levels can occur if the bile ducts are obstructed.
Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in many organs, including the liver, bone, kidney, intestine and placenta. The highest concentration of alkaline phosphatase comes from the liver and bone. A routine blood test detects the total amount of alkaline phosphatase in the blood. Pregnant women typically have higher alkaline phosphatase values due to contributions from the placenta. Normal values are slightly different if you are older than 60 -- 56 to 119 U/L if you're a man or 53 to 141 U/L if you're a woman. Normal values can vary slightly among testing laboratories.
When the results of your ALP test are in, your doctor will discuss them with you and tell you what to do next. According to Cigna, the normal levels for an adult are between 25 and 100 units of ALP per liter of blood. The normal value for a child is up to 350 units per liter (Cigna, 2010). In pregnant women, the value may rise due to the ALP produced in the placenta
Alkaline Phosphatase. Guide. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones. A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Check bone problems (sometimes found on X-rays), such as rickets, bone tumors, Paget's disease, or too much of the hormone that controls bone growth (parathyroid hormone).
Alkaline Phosphatase (Definition). The normal range is 20 to 140 iu/l.[12] high levels can indicate active bone formation occurring as alp is a byproduct of osteoblast activity (such as the case in paget's disease of bone). Levels are also elevated in people with untreated celiac disease and bile blockage. ...Read more. 
Because this test is not specific for liver or bone, other liver-or bone-specific blood tests are usually needed to help determine the source of an increased blood alkaline phosphatase level. Symptoms may also help determine the source. Otherwise, an alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme test can determine the source. Pregnant women typically have higher alkaline phosphatase values due to contributions from the placenta. Normal values are slightly different if you are older than 60 -- 56 to 119 U/L if you're a man or 53 to 141 U/L if you're a woman. Normal values can vary slightly among testing laboratories.
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones. According to Cigna, the normal levels for an adult are between 25 and 100 units of ALP per liter of blood. The normal value for a child is up to 350 units per liter (Cigna, 2010).