Preparation Time: 2 Hours Serving Size: marinade for 1 1/2 pound meat. 1  1 1/2 pounds beef, chicken or pork. 2  2 cloves fresh garlic, minced. 3  1/4 cup green onions, including the tops, chopped. 4  1 teaspoon salt. 5  a pinch of sugar. 6  1/4 teaspoon black pepper. In an air tight bowl large enough to accommodate your meat, combine garlic, green onions, salt, pepper, sugar, vinegar and soy sauce. Mix well. Chamorro Marinade from Guam is used for almost all types of meat. Traditionally, flank steak is sliced into 2 inch wide, 1/4 inch thin slices, marinated overnight and then thread onto skewers and grilled. Beef cubes cut into bite size pieces work well too
Directions. 1  The best way to handle slice the beef is partially frozen. 2  Combine the rest of ingredients except for the oil, water, cornstarch. 3  Heat oil in skillet and remove the garlic and onions from the marinade. 4  Add the water and cornstarch to marinade and bring to a boil, stirring often. 1 The best way to handle slice the beef is partially frozen. 2  Slice thinly, about 1/4-inch thick and 2-3-inches long. 3  Combine the rest of ingredients except for the oil, water, cornstarch. 4  Marinate for about 30 minutes.
Preparation Time: 2 Hours Serving Size: marinade for 1 1/2 pounds of meat. 1  1 1/2 pounds beef, chicken or pork. 2  2 cloves fresh garlic, minced. 3  1/4 cup green onions and tops, chopped. 4  1 teaspoon salt. 5  a pinch of sugar. 6  1/4 teaspoon black pepper. 7  1/2 cup white vinegar. 8  1/2 cup Kikkoman soy sauce. 1 1 1/2 pounds beef, chicken or pork. 2  2 cloves fresh garlic, minced. 3  1/4 cup green onions and tops, chopped. 4  1 teaspoon salt. 5  a pinch of sugar. 6  1/4 teaspoon black pepper.
Directions. 1  The best way to handle slice the beef is partially frozen. 2  Slice thinly, about 1/4-inch thick and 2-3-inches long. 3  Combine the rest of ingredients except for the oil, water, cornstarch. 4  Marinate for about 30 minutes. 5  Heat oil in skillet and remove the garlic and onions from the marinade. 1
1 These meat rub recipes work well with chicken, pork, beef and even veggies. 2  It is possibl…. 3  The Best BBQ Tri-tip Recipe for Beginners There are few things better in life than a superbly cooked piece of quality red meat. 4  This delicious BBQ tri-tip recipe delivers exactly that, with a mouth-watering array of …. 
1 1 1/2 pounds beef, chicken or pork. 2  2 cloves fresh garlic, minced. 3  1/4 cup green onions, including the tops, chopped. 4  1 teaspoon salt. 5  a pinch of sugar. 6  1/4 teaspoon black pepper. 7  1/2 cup white vinegar. 8  1/2 cup Kikkoman soy sauce. In an air tight bowl large enough to accommodate your meat, combine garlic, green onions, salt, pepper, sugar, vinegar and soy sauce. Mix well. Chamorro Marinade from Guam is used for almost all types of meat. Traditionally, flank steak is sliced into 2 inch wide, 1/4 inch thin slices, marinated overnight and then thread onto skewers and grilled. Beef cubes cut into bite size pieces work well too
It is a stew of blood, offal and meat simmered in rich, spicy gravy of pig blood, garlic, chili and vinegar. The term dinuguan comes from the Filipino word dugo meaning “blood.”. Evolution. Pork, beef and deer were not a part of the traditional Chamorro diet. It was reported by the Legaspi expedition in 1565 that the natives of Guam: were not accustomed to eat flesh, nor would the prisoners, who were carried away by our ship, eat any food except fish. 
Finadene is the Chamorro sauce used to complement fish, beef, chicken or pork. It is made with either a soy sauce, vinegar or lemon base and uses chopped (spicy) boonie peppers, sliced onions, dash of salt and chopped cherry tomatoes if desired. 