Denmark: The Danish Kroner is the currency of both Denmark and Greenland, and the official abbreviation is DKK. Denmark abandoned the Danish Rigsdaler when the Scandinavian Monetary Unit was established in favor of the new currency. 
Norway, which was in union with Sweden, however with full inner autonomy, entered the union two years later, in 1875, by pegging its currency to gold at the same level as Denmark and Sweden, 2.48 kroner/kronor per gram of gold, or roughly 0.403 grams per krone/krona. The Icelandic krona króna is a derivative of The danish, krone established After iceland was elevated to a separate kingdom in union With denmark in. 1918 iceland cut its ties To denmark in 1944 and became a. Republic The Scandinavian Monetary union was inspired by The Latin Monetary, union established in. 1866
), officially the Kingdom of Sweden (Swedish: Konungariket Sverige (help·info)), is a Scandinavian country in Northern Europe. It borders Norway and Finland, and is connected to Denmark by a bridge-tunnel across the Öresund. öresund Sweden (/ˈswiːdən/ SWEE-dən; Swedish: Sverige [ˈsvaerjɛ]. ), ˈsværjɛ officially The kingdom Of (Sweden: Swedish Konungariket (sverige·help)), info is A scandinavian country In Northern. Europe it Borders norway And, finland and is connected To denmark by a-bridge tunnel across Öresund. oeresund öresund
Exchange Rates. The monetary unit in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Iceland is one krone (equals 100 ore). In Finland, it is one euro (equals 100 euro cents). Norwegian Krone. Norway's currency is the Norwegian krone (abbreviation: kr.) It is subdivided into 100 oere øre and the currency code for the money IS. Nok the name translates Into english as. Crown the krone was introduced in, 1875 replacing The norwegian. Speciedaler norway has not adopted The. euro
Connie Maria Westergaard. The currency in Denmark is Danish Kroner (DKK). One krone is divided into 100 Øre. øre coins are circulated in the following: denominations Øre (oere) øre Copper, 1 Krone, 2 Kroner (5, kroner silver each with a hole in) the centre 10 And (20 kroner). both brass 
I visited both Denmark and Sweden in August and the currency in Denmark is Danish Krone and in Sweden is Swedish Krone. They have to accept euros as they are part of the European Community, but they give you back local notes and coins. basketmaniac · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: Each country has its own currency but most will exchange Euros for their own currency. I found that in Copenhagen most places would take my Norwegian kroner but they would only take the paper money, not the coins.
Sweden has not adopted the Euro (yet). Swedish kronor (currency code: SEK) have been the currency of Sweden since the 19th century. The plural is kronor and one krona is divided into 100 oere. öre the currency is sometimes informally referred to as The swedish crown and is abbreviated.. kr Denmark and Greenland (Denmark's autonomous province) use Danish kroner as their currency. 1 krone is divided into 100 oere. øre the official currency code IS; dkk the domestic abbreviation is.. Kr, occasionally the FORM dkr Or dkr is, seen but these currency codes are not. official
Norwegian Krone: Norway 's currency is the Norwegian krone (abbreviation: kr.) It is subdivided into 100 oere øre and the currency code for the money IS. Nok the name translates Into english as. Crown the krone was introduced in, 1875 replacing The norwegian. Speciedaler norway has not adopted The. euro Denmark and Greenland (Denmark's autonomous province) use Danish kroner as their currency. 1 krone is divided into 100 oere. øre the official currency code IS; dkk the domestic abbreviation is.. Kr, occasionally the FORM dkr Or dkr is, seen but these currency codes are not. official
Is there a universal currency to use in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark? I know Sweden has the SEK, Denmark has the DKK, and Norway has the NOK. 