PV development in Vietnam 1989-2008. Source: Trinh Quang Dung, 2010. In Vietnam, solar energy applications have been increasingly developed since the 1990’s (Trinh Quang Dung, 2010). Figure 2 shows the development of PV power in Vietnam in the last 10 years from 1998 to 2008. The applications include solar electricity for homes and service centers, solar water heating systems, solar PV power, solar drying and lighting.
The Cost of Solar Panels. The average residential solar system will help reduce your carbon footprint: its yearly production (in kilowatt) is the equivalent of hundreds of tree seedling growing for 10 years and over 10 barrels of crude oil not consumed!
1 It’s a low-interest loan that allows you to finance the cost of your solar power system over 30 years with payments based on the system’s production. 2  Your monthly electricity bills could be lower, and over time, you’ll be building equity in your system.
The video clip shows the installation of the first grid-tie solar power system, containing 32 solar panels, on a school in Danang-Vietnam.(May 2011) Solar Serve is involved in business and charity projects in Vietnam. More information on video clip.
Solar power in Vietnam is applied in rural and mountainous areas, remote areas and islands (To Quoc Tru, 2010. About 4,000 families have benefited from Solar Home Systems (SHSs) and 12,000 people around Vietnam are receiving solar electricity from the PV system.
1 SolarCity maintains and insures the system at no additional cost to you for 20 years. 2  At the end of your agreement, you can upgrade to a new system with the latest solar technology, you can keep your current panels and extend your lease, or you can simply have the panels removed for free.
Welcome to Wholesale Solar. We are your source for discount prices on solar panels and renewable energy products for home power, back-up power, solar & wind power, off-grid & grid intertied residential, marine and RV power systems. Retail and wholesale pricing.