The breathing rate, or the number of times that a person breathes in and out in 1 minute, is often checked by health care professionals to determine the health of a person. The normal breathing rate is between 12 and 18 breaths per minute. Many factors affect a person's breathing. You must learn to test for breaths per minute and spot the reasons or causes behind slow or fast breathing. This article will tell you how to check the breathing rate.
Definition. Respiratory rate (also known as ventilation rate, respiration rate, breathing rate, pulmonary ventilation rate, breathing frequency, and respiratory frequency or Rf) = the number of breaths a person takes during one minute. It is usually measured at rest, while sitting. Medical textbooks suggest that the normal respiratory rate for adults is only 12 breaths per minute at rest. Older textbooks often provide even smaller values (e.g., 8-10 breaths per minute). Most modern adults breathe much faster (about 15-20 breaths per minute) than their normal breathing frequency. The respiratory rates in the sick persons are usually higher, generally about 20 breaths/min or more
A newborn baby has a normal breathing rate of 30-60 breaths per minute. This rapid breathing continues as the baby begins to grow and starts slowing down at around six months of age. By the age of one, the normal breathing rate has slowed to around 24-40 breaths a minute and stays at this rate until around age three. School-aged children have a normal breathing rate, also known as respiratory rate, of 18-30 breaths a minute while resting. An increased rate can indicate illness or can occur when the child is under medication for asthma or allergies.
For children from the age of one to five years old, normal respiration is 20 to 30 breaths per minute, while children who are from six to twelve years old should have a normal respiratory rate that ranges from 12 to 20 breaths per minute. From birth to six months of age, a baby's normal breathing rate is 30 to 60 breaths per minute; after the age of six months, breathing typically slows to 24 to 30 breaths per minute.
- normal Rf (respiratory frequency or respiratory rate): 12 breaths per minute; - inspiration: about 1.5-2 seconds; - normal exhalation is 1.5-2 seconds, followed by an automatic pause (no breathing for 1-2 seconds). The physiological and medical norm for respiratory minute ventilation at rest is 6 liters per minute for a 70 kg man (see references for textbooks below: Guyton, 1984; Ganong, 1995; Straub, 1998; Castro, 2000; etc.). These textbooks also provide the following numbers for normal breathing:
The respiration rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. The rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. 
Measurement [edit]. Human respiration rate is measured when a person is at rest and involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. An optical breath rate sensor can be used for monitoring patients during a magnetic resonance imaging scan. A normal respiratory rate is termed eupnea, an increased respiratory rate is termed tachypnea and a lower-than-normal respiratory rate is termed bradypnea. Breathing (which in organisms with lungs is called ventilation and includes inhalation and exhalation) is a part of respiration.
A respiratory rate, or breathing rate, is the number of breaths a person takes in one minute while at rest, and it can be measured by counting the number of times a person's chest rises and falls within one minute. From birth to six months of age, a baby's normal breathing rate is 30 to 60 breaths per minute; after the age of six months, breathing typically slows to 24 to 30 breaths per minute.