1 They will not remove your doors, drawers or hardware but will carefully paint your cabinets in place. 2  If you have a rental property, this is probably your least expensive option. 3  For a standard kitchen, prices could range from $1,000-1,800 for this type of work. Also there are lots of painters who claim to paint kitchen cabinets for a good price, but in the end, the cabinets turn out looking terrible. Painting is about 75-80% less expensive than refacing or replacing cabinets. So keep this in mind!
You’ll need to remove the items from your cabinets and set up a work area for painting doors and drawers. Your kitchen will be unusable during this time, so you’ll want to work as quickly as possible. But depending on how large your kitchen is, it may take you a couple of days just to apply the first coat. So I painted the cabinets―instant transformation! Step-by-step guide: How to repaint kitchen cabinets. Many of us have cabinets in good condition, but the finish is cringe-inducing. Fortunately, there’s an easy, albeit time-consuming, fix that doesn’t involve taking a sledgehammer to the room.
The average national cost to paint a small project is $628, with most homeowners spending between $353 and $908. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Painting an entire home -- or even an entire room -- can be an extensive and expensive undertaking. The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage.
Cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Kitchen Cabinet Painting. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
Painting kitchen cabinets can update your kitchen without the cost or challenge of a major remodel. See step-by-step how to update old cabinets with paint. Cover the countertop with a drop cloth. Use a roller or paintbrush to paint the frame and sides of the cabinetry unit or cabinet box. If your cabinets have a lot of detailing, it will be easier to use a tapered brush. A roller works well on larger flat surfaces and flat-panel doors.
The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself. If you don't want to sand or scrape away the old paint, just use a deglossing agent, This is especially useful with shiny paint types. The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage.
Depending on the type of kitchen cabinets you have, the process involved with painting them will vary -- and so will the price. For example, custom cabinets -- which often are not stained before they are sold -- require significant prep work to ensure a lasting paint job. The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage.
Cabinetry Painting Job Materials and Supplies. Cost of supplies that may be required to paint kitchen cabinets including: masking tape and paper, surface repair and preparation material, primers, and cleanup supplies. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Kitchen Cabinet Painting. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $2.98 - $6.08 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Kitchen Cabinet Painting. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.