Far South Tasmania... Where the mountains and forest meet the Great Southern Ocean... Flanked to the west by the rugged world of the South-West National Park, the Far South also has many sheltered, quiet bays and beaches along its eastern flank, around which most settlement occurs. 
1 South of Tasmania and Australia's southern coastline is the Southern Ocean. 2  North of Australia are the Timor and Arafura seas. 3  To the southeast, between Australia and New Zealand, is the Tasman Sea. 4  To the northeast is the Coral Sea. Australia has the Indian Ocean to the west and south and the Pacific Ocean to the east and north. Way south of Australia at latitude 60 degrees, is the Southern Ocean.
Macquarie Island is 1300 kilometres south of Tasmania, out in the wild Southern Ocean. In a good year it has as much as three days of sunshine. The rest of the time it is very cold and very windy. It has to be mentioned here because it is a World Heritage Area and is administered by the Tasmanian government. Bruny is the third of only four significantly-populated islands off the island of Tasmania. It has its northern point in the mouth of the Derwent River, not far from Hobart, and stretches south, about one hundred kilometres, until at its tip it gazes into the expanse of the
Tasmania (/taezˈmeɪniə/ ; tæzˈmeɪniə abbreviated As tas and known colloquially As) tassie is an island state that is part of The commonwealth Of. Australia it is located 240 (km 150) mi to the south of The australian, mainland separated By Bass. strait The state is named after Dutch explorer Abel Tasman, who made the first reported European sighting of the island on 24 November 1642. Tasman named the island Anthony van Diemen's Land after his sponsor Anthony van Diemen, the Governor of the Dutch East Indies.
The state has a population of 507,626 (as of June 2010), almost half of which resides in the Greater Hobart precinct, which forms the metropolitan area of the state capital and largest city, Hobart. Tasmania's area is 68,401 km 2 (26,410 sq mi), of which the main island covers 64,519 km 2 (24,911 sq mi). Tasmania is promoted as a natural state; almost 45% of Tasmania lies in reserves, national parks, and World Heritage Sites and the state was the founding place of the first environmental party in the world. The state is named after Dutch explorer Abel Tasman, who made the first reported European sighting of the island on 24 November 1642. Tasman named the island Anthony van Diemen's Land after his sponsor Anthony van Diemen, the Governor of the Dutch East Indies.
Introduction. The Southern Ocean, which circles the globe without being blocked by land, is home to the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), the longest of the world's ocean currents. Also known as the channel, it connects the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific Ocean basins and exerts a powerful influence over the Earth's climate. In a remote south-western corner of Tasmania is the pristine 'sunken valley'. This unusual estuarine system within the areas of Port Davey and Bathurst Harbour is home to species of marine wildlife that usually exist in much deeper water.
The Southern Ocean. The Southern Ocean, which circles the globe without being blocked by land, is home to the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), the longest of the world's ocean currents. Also known as the channel, it connects the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific Ocean basins and exerts a powerful influence over the Earth's climate. In a remote south-western corner of Tasmania is the pristine 'sunken valley'. This unusual estuarine system within the areas of Port Davey and Bathurst Harbour is home to species of marine wildlife that usually exist in much deeper water.
1 West of Australia is the Indian Ocean and to the east is the Pacific Ocean. 2  South of Tasmania and Australia's southern coastline is the Southern Ocean. 3  North of Australia are the Timor and Arafura seas. 4  To the southeast, between Australia and New Zealand, is the Tasman Sea. 5  To the northeast is the Coral Sea. Australia has the Indian Ocean to the west and south and the Pacific Ocean to the east and north. Way south of Australia at latitude 60 degrees, is the Southern Ocean.
Satellite photo of the Tasman Sea. The Tasman Sea (Māori: Te Tai-o-Rehua) is a marginal sea of the South Pacific Ocean, situated between Australia and New Zealand. It measures about 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi) across and about 2,800 kilometres (1,700 mi) from north to south. The sea was named after the Dutch explorer Abel Janszoon Tasman, who was the first recorded European to encounter New Zealand and Tasmania. The British explorer Captain James Cook later extensively navigated the Tasman Sea in the 1770s as part of his first voyage of exploration.