Baby names meanings search results: The name Maya is a baby girl name. The name Maya comes from the Arabic origin. In Arabic the meaning of the name Maya is: A princess. The name Maya is a baby girl name. The name Maya comes from the Arabic origin. In Arabic the meaning of the name Maya is: A princess. Similar Names: 1  Kaya (Japanese). 2  Maya (Muslim). 3  Taya (Japanese). 
The name is also used as a variant form of the Greek-origin name Maia (μαια in Ancient Greek), the eldest of the Pleiades and the mother of Hermes in Greek and Roman mythology. The unrelated name Maia, meaning  palm tree  in the Māori language, is popular for Māori girls in New Zealand. In Old Persian the name means  generous .. Maya can also be a name used as a tribute to the Maya peoples of southern Mexico and northern Central America or to the Maya, a group of Indigenous Australians. Additionally, Maya can be a name of Japanese origin, with different meanings. Variants include Mayako and Mayaka
Maya /maya/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MYE-ah. It is of Spanish, Hindi and Russian origin. In Spanish, short form of Amalia. In Hindi, from Sanskrit, meaning  dream, illusion. In Russian, a form of Mary. A star constellation. See also Mai. Maya is a very popular first name for females (#1164 out of 4276, Top 27%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#4520 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Maya for girls
Origin of the name Maya: From Indian mythology, Maya is a name of the goddess Devi, the consort of Shiva. Alternatively, it is a variant of Maia, the name of a Greek fertility goddess, the daughter of Atlas and Pleione, and mother of Hermes (Mercury) by Zeus.
Maya is used chiefly in English and it is derived from Latin origins. The name Maya is derived as a re-spelling of the Roman name Maia, or else as a Latinate version of May. The Roman name could be of the Latin element 'maia' or else 'mai' (meaning great, big). [ 2 syll. ma-ya, may-a ] The baby girl name Maya is pronounced as M AA-Yaa-, M AY aa-or M EY-aa- †. Maya has 15 variants that are used in English and other languages. English variants include Maaja, Maiah, Maie, Mayah, Mayam, Mayi, Miah (also used in Russian and Spanish), Miya, Moia, Moja, Mya, and Myah.
Latin Meaning: The name Maya is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Maya is: Daughter of Atlas. American Meaning: The name Maya is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Maya is: Daughter of Atlas. Spanish Meaning: The name Maya is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Maya is: Abbreviation of Amalia;. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony
Maya is a variant of the name May (English and Scottish) in the English language. See also the related form, Sumaya. Maya is popular as a baby girl name. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1960s; before that, it was of only sporadic use. [ 2 syll. ma-ya, may-a ] The baby girl name Maya is pronounced as M AA-Yaa-, M AY aa-or M EY-aa- †. Maya has 15 variants that are used in English and other languages. English variants include Maaja, Maiah, Maie, Mayah, Mayam, Mayi, Miah (also used in Russian and Spanish), Miya, Moia, Moja, Mya, and Myah.