LxWxH. which is length times width times height. This will give you the volume of the slab in cubic units (meters, feet, inches, whatever). Depending on the type of steel, you will have a different density ratio which can be used to calculate the weight of the slab. The density of low grade steel is something on the order of: 7850 kg/m3. so you would multiply your volume by the density ratio to get kilograms. If you know the weight of the slab and the type of steel, you can calculate the volume by dividing the weight by the density ratio. I hope this helps, perhaps you could provide more details on the type of steel and the exact property of the slab that you need (volume, weight, density
Or: Select Weight review. A document will be generated. In this case, the steel quantity from the column is only 0.07% of the total quantity estimated and 0.04% of the estimation for the first level. This property is useful especially for large structures.
Answer. # 1. The question should be framed thus: How to calculate. quantity of steel for practical purpose of construction.... In a given RCC design it is simple to arrive at the. quantity by calculating the lenght of each bar & multiply. with the unit weight of given dia.
You want to use an equation of the form: Mass = Density*Volume. The volume of a cylinder can be calculated using: V = pi*radius^2*length. (where pi ~= 3.1416). And the density of steel is more or less constant, at 7850 kg/m^3. 
Suppose we want to cal. steel for column of size 230*450mm,with. 4 rods of 25mm + 4 rods of 20mm(in one column) ,and their are 20 columns on the floor. height of floor is 11 feet. calculate quantity of steel for 25mm and 20mm. Suppose we want to cal. steel for column of size 230*450mm,with
The calculation of quantity of steel in a beam is steel quantity is  equal to 1 percent of concrete quantity. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Quantity of steel in building is calculated in many method. many engineer use to quantify the quantity of steel in a building by referring to detailed planned so they can compute the approximate weight of steel needed.
Lets take example of RCC Column, where reinforcement required is 2.5% of concrete volume, weight of steel required will be: =196.25 kg. 2. Labour Requirement for 1m3 of RCC: Labours required are presented in terms of days required by particular labour to complete its work for the given quantity of concrete. First method is, when we have the drawing available, we can calculate the total weight of steel required divided by total volume of concrete for different components. This will give us the weight of reinforcement steel per cubic meter
Steel quantity is sometimes 130% times the volume of concrete. The unit of concrete is in vol. once you get the volume of steel, you will multiply it by the density of steel, as a result the qty of steel in kg is resolved. orAnGE jULiuS · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
The density of low grade steel is something on the order of: 7850 kg/m3 so you would multiply your volume by the density ratio to get kilograms. If you know the weight of the slab and the type of steel, you can calculate the volume by dividing the weight by the density ratio. I hope this helps, perhaps you could provide more details on the type of steel and the exact property of the slab that you need (volume, weight, density. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Quantity of steel in building is calculated in many method. many engineer use to quantify the quantity of steel in a building by referring to detailed planned so they can compute the approximate weight of steel needed.