Hookworm is a type of parasitic * roundworm, known as a nematode (NEM-a-tode), that has hooked mouthparts. The worm uses these mouthparts to fasten itself onto the intestinal walls of various hosts * , including humans.
Necator americanus is a species of hookworm (a type of helminth) commonly known as the New World hookworm. Like other hookworms, it is a member of the phylum Nematoda. It is a parasitic nematode that lives in the small intestine of hosts such as humans, dogs, and cats.
There are many different species of hookworms, some are human parasites and some are animal parasites. People can be infected by larvae of animal hookworms, usually dog and cat hookworms. The most common result of animal hookworm infection is a skin condition called cutaneous larva migrans.
Adult hookworms live inside the small intestine of humans and other animals, where they attach to the intestinal wall and feed on the host's blood. Eggs are passed in the host's stools. The eggs hatch into larvae in 1 to 2 days under warm, moist conditions out of direct sunlight.
The human hookworms include the nematode species Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale. A larger group of hookworm species normally infecting non-human animals can invade and parasitize humans or can penetrate the human skin--causing cutaneous larva migrans--but do not develop any further.
People are infected when animal hookworm larvae penetrate the skin, causing a local reaction that is red and itchy. Raised, red tracks appear in the skin where the larvae have been and these tracks may move in the skin day to day, following the larvae’s movements.
Hookworms, like other roundworms, reproduce by sexual reproduction. Some worms are hermaphroditic (male and female organs) but not hookworms. They have both sexes, male and female. When the eggs of a hookworm are fertilized they are still inside the female’s body, which is internal fertilization.
THE ORGANISM: There is a group of roundworms called hookworms-this is a human-infecting hookworm native to the Americas (there are other types of human hookworms), including the southern U.S. Eggs passed in feces hatch and the larvae migrate out into the soil, where they live for a while.