The Aurora Borealis is most often seen in a striking green color, but it also occasionally shows off its many colors ranging from red to pink, blue to purple, dark to light. The reason that the aurora is seen in so many colors is that our atmosphere is made up of many different compounds like Oxygen and Nitrogen. Different atoms give off different colors of the spectrum when they are excited. A familiar example is the Neon lights that we see on many business signs in our modern world. The Neon lights contain the gas Neon. These lights have electricity run through them to excite the Neon gas.
The colors most often associated with the aurora borealis are pink, green, yellow, blue, violet, and occasionally orange and white. Typically, when the particles collide with oxygen, yellow and green are produced. Interactions with nitrogen produce red, violet, and occasionally blue colors. 
Why the different colors? The color of the aurora depends on which gas is being excitedby the electrons and on how much energy is being exchanged.Oxygen emits either a greenish-yellow light (the mostfamiliar color of the aurora) or a red light; nitrogen generallygives off a blue light.
The colors in the aurora were also a source of mystery throughout human history. But science says that different gases in Earth’s atmosphere give off different colors when they are excited. Oxygen gives off the green color of the aurora, for example. Nitrogen causes blue or red colors. So today the mystery of the aurora is not so mysterious as it used to be. Yet people still travel thousands of miles to see the brilliant natural light shows in Earth’s atmosphere.
They are both polar lights. One is the Aurora Borealis, the northern lights and the Aurora Australis, the southern lights. They are on the different poles on the earth, other than that, they are the same. Borealis is near the North Pole. Australis is near the South pole. 
The otherworldly colors of the Northern Lights and Southern Lights have fueled folklore for millennia, but their cause is actually quite straightforward. The aurora is caused by the interaction of high-energy particles (usually electrons) with neutral atoms in earth’s upper atmosphere. This process is similar to the discharge in a neon lamp, or the fluorescence of a television screen. The strongest auroras are quite bright, comparable to moonlight. The atmosphere consists mainly of nitrogen and oxygen, which emit the characteristic colors of their respective line spectra. Atomic oxygen is responsible for the two main colors of green (wavelength of 557.7 nm) and red (630.0 nm). Nitrogen causes blue and deep red hues.
Every gas creates a different color of light: helium-orange/white, neon-red/orange, argon-lavender, krypton-gray/green, and so on. The colors of auroras are determined by the gases in the Earth's atmosphere, and incoming solar particles tend to collide with different gases at different heights.  Very high up (above 300 km / 185 miles), oxygen is the most common gas, and collisions there can create a rare red aurora. 
The aurora is the name given to the bands of colored lights seen in the sky at the higher latitudes. The aurora borealis or Northern Lights are seen mainly near the Arctic Circle. The aurora australis or Southern Lights are seen in the southern hemisphere. The light you see comes from photons released by oxygen and nitrogen in the upper atmosphere. Energetic particles from the solar wind strike the layer of the atmosphere called the ionosphere, ionizing the atoms and molecules. However, the colors of the aurora are different on different worlds because the atmosphere is different. The only requirement for a planet or moon to have an aurora is that it have an atmosphere that is bombarded by energetic particles.
The color of the aurora depends on the wavelength of the light emitted. This is determined by the specific atmospheric gas and its electrical state, and the energy of the particle that hits the atmospheric gas. The atmosphere consists mainly of nitrogen and oxygen, which emit the characteristic colors of their respective line spectra. Atomic oxygen is responsible for the two main colors of green (wavelength of 557.7 nm) and red (630.0 nm). Nitrogen causes blue and deep red hues.