Symbolism is a literary element used in literature to help readers understand a literary work. Learn more about the definition of symbolism and the different types of symbolism used in literature, then test your knowledge with a quiz. Types of Symbolism in Literature. In literature, authors often use different symbols to represent a particular concept. Throughout various forms of literature, the following symbols might be used to create meaning in a story.
Test Your Knowledge of Symbolism. 1. Choose the correct symbolism definition when used as a literary device: A. To use different kinds of notation, like musical notes or mathematical symbols. B. To give objects a new meaning that is different from their original meaning. C. To write in a language that uses symbols, like hieroglyphics. When used as a literary device, symbolism means to imbue objects with a certain meaning that is different from their original meaning or function. Other literary devices, such as metaphor, allegory, and allusion, aid in the development of symbolism
Symbolism Defined. Symbolism is everywhere; symbolism exists whenever something is meant to represent something else. Symbolism is a figure of speech that is used when an author wants to create a certain mood or emotion in a work of literature. Types of Symbolism in Literature. In literature, authors often use different symbols to represent a particular concept. Throughout various forms of literature, the following symbols might be used to create meaning in a story.
1. the practice of representing things by symbols, or of investing things with a symbolic meaning. 2. a set or system of symbols. 3. symbolic meaning or character. 4. the principles and practice of symbolists in literature or art. 5. (cap.) the literary movement of the Symbolists. symbolism. n. 1. the representation of something in symbolic form or the attribution of symbolic meaning or character to something. 2. a system of symbols or symbolic representation. 3. a symbolic significance or quality.
Symbolism Definition. Symbolism is the use of symbols to signify ideas and qualities by giving them symbolic meanings that are different from their literal sense. Symbolism can take different forms. Generally, it is an object representing another to give it an entirely different meaning that is much deeper and more significant. Sometimes, however, an action, an event or a word spoken by someone may have a symbolic value. Function of Symbolism. Symbolism gives a writer freedom to add double levels of meanings to his work: a literal one that is self-evident and the symbolic one whose meaning is far more profound than the literal one. The symbolism, therefore, gives universality to the characters and the themes of a piece of literatur
Writers use many literary devices to add layers of meaning to their writing. One way they do this is by using symbolism. Symbolism is when writers use animals, elements, things, places, or colors to represent other things. The symbols they use are usually well known in literature or culture. When you understand the symbol being used, you connect its meaning to the story you are reading and understand the story on a deeper level. 
About | Categories | Types. About Symbols A literary symbol is something that means more than what it is; an object, person, situation, or action that in addition to its literal meaning suggests other meanings as well. Often, the thing or idea represented is more abstract, general, non-or super-rational; the symbol is more concrete and particular. 1 To be called a symbol, an item must suggest a meaning different in kind from its literal meaning: a symbol is something more than the representative of a class or type. 2  We ought not to use the phrase is a symbol of when we can as easily use is or is an example of or is an evidence of.
Definition: A symbol is literary device that contains several layers of meaning, often concealed at first sight, and is representative of several other aspects, concepts or traits than those that are visible in the literal translation alone.