Symptoms. A kidney stone may not cause symptoms until it moves around within your kidney or passes into your ureter — the tube connecting the kidney and bladder. At that point, you may experience these signs and symptoms: 1  Severe pain in the side and back, below the ribs. 2  Pain that spreads to the lower abdomen and groin.
1 Blood in the urine (hematuria), which can occur either with stones that stay in the kidney or with those that travel through the ureters. 2  Frequent and painful urination, which may occur when the stone is in the ureter or after the stone has left the bladder and is in the urethra.
1 No symptoms, if the stone is small enough. 2  Sudden, severe pain that gets worse in waves. 3  Stones may cause intense pain in the back, side, abdomen, groin, or genitals. 4  People who have had a kidney stone often describe the pain as the worst pain I've ever had.. 5  Feeling sick to the stomach (nausea) and vomiting.
There are four main types of stones: 1  Calcium oxalate: The most common type of kidney stone which is created when calcium combines with oxalate in the urine. 2  Inadequate calcium and fluid intake, as well other conditions, may contribute to their formation. 3  Uric acid: This is another common type of kidney stone.
1 Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 2  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 3  Diet and hereditary factors are also related to stone formation.
1 Dehydration is a major risk factor for kidney stone formation. 2  Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 3  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones.
If they stay in the kidney, they typically do not cause pain. When they travel out of the body through the tubes of the urinary tract (including the ureters, which connect the kidney to the bladder, or the urethra, which leads outside the body), their movement may cause: 1  No symptoms, if the stone is small enough.