Oxidative Phosphorylation Oxidative phosphorylation is a process by which most ATPs (~34-36) are produced in cellular respiration. Within the inner mitochondiral membrane, the … re is what is called and Electron Transport Chain/System (ETC/ETS). Oxidative phosphorylation occurs in order to produce energy in the form of ATP. It occurs after chemiosmosis, in which a concentration gradient of hydrogen ions is created in … the mitochondria between the matrix and the intermembrane space.
Oxidative phosphorylation is a redox reaction in which electrons are transferred from donors to acceptors. This redox reaction releases energy which is used to produce ATP. 1 Both substrate level phosphorylation and oxidative phosphorylation involves formation of ATP. 2  But in substrate phosphorylation there is a direct transfer of phosphate group to Adenosine diphosphate to give adenoisine triphosphate and there is no direct transfer of phosphate group in oxidative phosphorylation.
oxidative phosporylation. Oxidative phosphorylation is the ultimate metabolic pathway of cellular respiration, and follows glycolysis and the Krebs cycle. The enzymes of oxidative phosphorylation are membrane-bound – at the plasma membrane of prokaryotes, and the analogous inner mitochondrial membrane of eukaryotes. In oxidative phosphorylation, the energy carrier molecules generated by the citric acid cycle (NADH & FADH 2) enter an electron transfer chain that generates a proton gradient by pumping protons (H +) across the membrane.
Oxidative phosphorylation is a metabolism pathway by which energy released by the degradation of food components is stored in Adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is produced in all the living organisms having aerobic oxidation although they may have different sources energy.. 1 Both substrate level phosphorylation and oxidative phosphorylation involves formation of ATP. 2  But in substrate phosphorylation there is a direct transfer of phosphate group to Adenosine diphosphate to give adenoisine triphosphate and there is no direct transfer of phosphate group in oxidative phosphorylation.
oxidative phosphorylation the final common pathway of aerobic energy metabolism in which high-energy phosphate bonds are formed by phosphorylation of ADP to ATP coupled with the transfer of electrons along a chain of carrier proteins with molecular oxygen as the final acceptor. It occurs in mitochondria. 
During oxidative phosphorylation, electrons are transferred from electron donors to electron acceptors such as oxygen, in redox reactions. These redox reactions release energy, which is used to form ATP. In eukaryotes, these redox reactions are carried out by a series of protein complexes within the inner membrane of the cell's mitochondria, whereas, in prokaryotes, these proteins are located in the cells' intermembrane space.
Oxidative phosphorylation (or OXPHOS in short) is the metabolic pathway in which the mitochondria in cells use their structure, enzymes, and energy released by the oxidation of nutrients to reform ATP. In eukaryotes, these redox reactions are carried out by a series of protein complexes within the inner membrane of the cell's mitochondria, whereas, in prokaryotes, these proteins are located in the cells' intermembrane space.
Oxidative phosphorylation occurs in the mitochondria, and the two reactions (oxidation of NADH or FADH 2 and phosphorylation to generate ATP) are coupled by a proton gradient across the inner membrane of the mitochondria (Figure 9). The oxidation reaction for NADH has a larger, but negative, D G than the positive D G required for the formation of ATP from ADP and phosphate. This set of coupled reactions is so important that it has been given a special name: oxidative phosphorylation.