Pin it Marshmallows are surprisingly easy to make at home — they're made of just gelatin and a hot sugar syrup, and you can make a batch in the stand mixer in about 20 minutes. I do definitely recommend a stand mixer for this one. 
It should look like this: 1&2. Stir 3/4 of the powdered sugar into the marshmallow mixture, then knead in the remaining 1/4 until it is all incorporated into the mixture. Note: be sure to grease your hands and counter before dumping mixture from bowl. 3. add color to your fondant. 
MARSHMALLOW Overview Information. Marshmallow is a plant. The leaves and the root are used to make medicine. Don’t confuse marshmallow with the mallow (Malva sylvestris) flower and leaf. Marshmallow leaf and root are used for pain and swelling (inflammation) of the mucous membranes that line the respiratory tract. Marshmallow leaf is used topically as a poultice for insect bites. Marshmallow root is applied to the skin as an ingredient in ointments for chapped skin as well as for pain and swelling of the feet and hands due to exposure to the cold (chilblains). In foods, marshmallow leaf and root are used as a flavoring agent.
A marshmallow is a sugar based confection that, in its modern form, typically consists of sugar, water and gelatin whipped to a spongy consistency, molded into small cylindrical pieces, and coated with corn starch. Some marshmallow recipes call for eggs. The use of marshmallow to make sweets dates back to ancient Egypt, where the recipe called for extracting sap from the plant and mixing it with nuts and honey. Another pre-modern recipe uses the pith of the marshmallow plant, rather than the sap.
Marshmallows are incredibly cool -- not only do they taste good, but by lighting them you can create a great source of light in a dark campsite! Technically, marshmallows are a confection -- a candy. 1 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. 2  Sift the cornstarch and confectioners sugar into a bowl. 3  Lightly grease an 8x8-inch square baking pan and sprinkle 1 tablespoon of the cornstarch-and-sugar mixture into it. 4  Tilt the pan to coat the sides and the bottom. 5  Leave any excess in the pan.
Android Marshmallow has changes deep in the operating system that can allow your phone (or tablet) to get better battery life. We see this mentioned with every operating system update from every company that makes smart devices, but this time they mean it. 
Directions. Place the gelatin into the bowl of a stand mixer along with 1/2 cup of the water. Have the whisk attachment standing by. In a small saucepan combine the remaining 1/2 cup water, granulated sugar, corn syrup and salt. Place over medium high heat, cover and allow to cook for 3 to 4 minute