Boundary Layer. In general, a layer of air adjacent to a bounding surface. Specifically, the term most often refers to the planetary boundary layer, which is the layer within which the effects of friction are significant. For the earth, this layer is considered to be roughly the lowest one or two kilometers of the atmosphere. 
The planetary boundary layer (PBL), also known as the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL), is the lowest part of the atmosphere and its behavior is directly influenced by its contact with a planetary surface. On Earth it usually responds to changes in surface radiative forcing in an hour or less. 
In the Earth's atmosphere, the atmospheric boundary layer is the air layer near the ground affected by diurnal heat, moisture or momentum transfer to or from the surface. On an aircraft wing the boundary layer is the part of the flow close to the wing, where viscous forces distort the surrounding non-viscous flow. = the thickness of the boundary layer: the region of flow where the velocity is less than 99% of the far field velocity; is position along the semi-infinite plate, and is the Reynolds Number given by (density and dynamic viscosity). The Blasius solution uses boundary conditions in a dimensionless form: at. at and
Definition of BOUNDARY LAYER. : a region of retarded fluid near the surface of a body which moves through a fluid or past which a fluid moves. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The thickness of the velocity boundary layer is normally defined as the distance from the solid body at which the viscous flow velocity is 99% of the freestream velocity (the surface velocity of an inviscid flow). = the thickness of the boundary layer: the region of flow where the velocity is less than 99% of the far field velocity; is position along the semi-infinite plate, and is the Reynolds Number given by (density and dynamic viscosity). The Blasius solution uses boundary conditions in a dimensionless form: at. at and
The thickness δ of a hydrodynamic boundary layer is defined as the distance from the surface of the body (or from the interface of fluids) at which the velocity in the boundary layer can be considered essentially equal to the velocity in the external stream. Within a dynamic boundary layer a smooth change in velocity occurs from the velocity of the external stream to zero at the wall as a result of the adhesion of the viscous fluid to the solid surface. Similarly, the temperature and concentration vary smoothly within a boundary layer. The layer of fluid, close to the surface of a body placed in a moving stream, in which the impact pressure is reduced as a result of the viscosity of the fluid. A velocity gradient exists through the boundary layer, ranging from the velocity of the body to the velocity of the free airstream.