Universal Material Testing Instrument. The TENSILON RTF is our newest universal testing machine offering innovative measuring possibilities, based on A&D's newly-developed and extensive technological knowledge. The RTF Series is a world-class Class 0.5 testing machine. Having improved the overall design and structure of the machine, we achieved a very strong load frame stiffness enabling super-high accuracy in measurement.
Tensile testing, also known as tension testing, is a fundamental materials science test in which a sample is subjected to a controlled tension until failure. A tensile specimen is a standardized sample cross-section. It has two shoulders and a gauge (section) in between. The shoulders are large so they can be readily gripped, whereas the gauge section has a smaller cross-section so that the deformation and failure can occur in this area.
TENSILON RTF. TENSILON RTF model from A&D is a new Universal Testing Machine which was developed under superior knowledge of force sensor and measurement control technology that enables connection between sensors and machines. The TENSILON RTF series is the world’s best class 0.5 testing machine. With the latest MSAT Software from A&D the Tensilon RTF is capable on doing all kind of test like tensile test, compression test, 3-point or 4-point bending test, cycle test, program control test, stress relaxation test and creep test which makes this system very versatile in any industries.
MSAT (Multi Signal Analysis Testing). Data processing software for comprehensive control of a testing machine. The MSAT series is equipped with functions for not only testing machine operation but also data analysis, calculation and data storage for each testing mode. Detachable digital display for load and displacement indication. This display can be attached with magnets to any part of the machine and it does not obstruct the user when fixing a sample to the jig or testing a sample as its position can be freely adjusted.
The most common testing machine used in tensile testing is the universal testing machine. This type of machine has two crossheads; one is adjusted for the length of the specimen and the other is driven to apply tension to the test specimen. There are two types: hydraulic powered and electromagnetically powered machines. A tensile specimen is a standardized sample cross-section. It has two shoulders and a gauge (section) in between. The shoulders are large so they can be readily gripped, whereas the gauge section has a smaller cross-section so that the deformation and failure can occur in this area.
Print. Universal Tensile Strength Testing Machine is suitable for carrying out tensile test on variety of materials such as yarns, fabrics, lea, elastomers, papers, wires, etc. B-Tex Engineering provides you with high quality, accurate and reliable testing machine. 
In the context of an RTI prevention model, universal screening is the first step in identifying the students who are at risk for learning difficulties. It is the mechanism for targeting students who struggle to learn when provided a scientific, evidence-based general education (Jenkins, Hudson, & Johnson, 2007). 
The TENSILON RTG is a table model universal testing machine which has a capacity below 10 kN (1 tf) which is mainly used in plastic, rubber, adhesive, packaging, textile, and electronic industries. To learn more about this instruments you may go to AND Website or you can write an email for sales rep to contact you. With the latest MSAT Software from A&D the Tensilon RTF is capable on doing all kind of test like tensile test, compression test, 3-point or 4-point bending test, cycle test, program control test, stress relaxation test and creep test which makes this system very versatile in any industries.
The RTC Series, TENSILON Universal Tensile Testing Machine, is the culmination of years of experience by one of the world's leading manufacturers of force measuring instruments. The RTC TENSILON is designed for a wide range of applications, including bending, compression, tensile testing and peeling.The RTC TENSILON also provides one of the most advanced software packages in the industry.