Wales' oldest lived in castle is Penhow Castle. Built by Sir William St Maur in the early 13th century source Trivia http://www.castles-of-britain.com/castle85.htm   po … ssibly whittington castle (actually now in shropshire, england) is amongst the oldest castles (approx 2 miles east of oswestry).
The oldest castle in Portugal was built by King Ferdinand II in  1842. It was built on the ruins of a monastery that was destroyed  during a earthquake that happened in 1755 … . Built in the Romanticism  style, the colors or red and yellow have been restored to their  glory.
The oldest castle in the world that is still standing is Windsor  Castle, home of Queen Elizabeth II. It was built in 1070. Castles  were first built in Europe around 800 AD … .
Built by Sir William St Maur in the early 13th century source Trivia http://www.castles-of-britain.com/castle85.htm   po … ssibly whittington castle (actually now in shropshire, england) is amongst the oldest castles (approx 2 miles east of oswestry).
Windsor Castle is the oldest occupied castle in the world as well as being one of the biggest castles in the world. It is the official home of the British monarchy. Yedikule Zindanlari. Near the top of any list of world castles, Yedikule Zindanlari is an impressive Byzantine and medieval fort in Istanbul.
One of the oldest castles in the world, Hastings Castle was one of the first Norman castles to be built in England. Helmsley Castle. Helmsley Castle was a twelth century castle in York and the site of a dramatic siege during the English Civil War.
1. Windsor Castle. Windsor Castle is the oldest occupied castle in the world, built around 1070. It’s located in Windsor, England. (Dan Kitwood/Getty Images). 2. Warwick Castle. Warwick Castle, built in 1068, is located in Warwickshire, England.
The oldest castle in the world that is still standing is Windsor  Castle, home of Queen Elizabeth II. It was built in 1070. Castles  were first built in Europe around 800 AD … .
Malahide Castle is one of the oldest castles in Ireland. It has served as a residence for Talbot family since 1185 and till 1975. In the period of 1649-1660 the castle was run by Miles Corbet after the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland.