You can learn more by reading IRS Publication 969. If your health plan’s deductible is at least $1,250 ($2,500 for a family), you can open an HSA and contribute up to $3,250 per year for an individual, or $6,450 per family per year. 1 While your 401k is tied to your employer, your HSA is not. 2  As long as your health plan meets the deductible requirement and permits you to open an HSA, you can open one anywhere, so you can (and should) shop around. 3  You can withdraw the funds tax-free at any time for qualified medical expenses.
You must have an HDHP if you want to open an HSA. An HDHP is a health insurance plan that generally doesn't pay for the first several thousand dollars of health care expenses (i.e., your deductible) but will generally cover you after that. Once funds are deposited into the HSA, the account can be used to pay for qualified medical expenses tax-free, even if you no longer have HDHP coverage. The funds in your account roll over automatically each year and remain indefinitely until used. There is no time limit on using the funds.
1 The money deposited in the account is tax deductible. 2  The balance in your HSA can continue to grow each year as you contribute to the account. 3  The money can be used for a wide variety of health expenses without ever being taxed. 1 The balance in your HSA can continue to grow each year as you contribute to the account. 2  The money can be used for a wide variety of health expenses without ever being taxed. 3  After age 65 you can withdraw the funds from the account for non-qualified expenses without penalty.
Members enrolled in a QHDHP are not eligible to open an HSA if: 1  They are covered by any health plan other than a QHDHP (such as a PPO, HMO, or health care FSA). 2  Dental and vision plans are not included in this restriction. 3  They are enrolled in Medicare. 4  They are claimed as a dependent on another individual’s tax return. You lose eligibility to establish or contribute to an HSA if you become covered by a health plan other than a QHDHP, become entitled to Medicare or become a dependent on another person’s tax return. However, you can keep the HSA and continue to use the funds on a tax-exempt basis for qualified medical expenses.
1 The money you contribute to your HSA health insurance plan is deductible from your federal income taxes and most states' income taxes. 2  Money within your HSA insurance plan rolls over each year and will grow as you continue to contribute to the health savings account. 1 The balance in your HSA can continue to grow each year as you contribute to the account. 2  The money can be used for a wide variety of health expenses without ever being taxed. 3  After age 65 you can withdraw the funds from the account for non-qualified expenses without penalty.
2. You can open an HSA account (also known as a “custodial account”) at your bank, credit union, or other authorized brick and mortar or online financial institution (also known as your HSA “trustee,” “custodian,” or “administrator”). 3. Fund your account. Some HSA administrators will require you to make a minimum initial deposit at the time you open your account. At my credit union, I could open my HSA with as little as $1.00! Other than that, you may fund the account however you want to: All at once, monthly, or as needed.
However, an advantage to a Health Savings Account is that the money within the account can be used at any time to pay for a wide variety of qualified health expenses without being subject to federal income taxes or penalties. 1 The balance in your HSA can continue to grow each year as you contribute to the account. 2  The money can be used for a wide variety of health expenses without ever being taxed. 3  After age 65 you can withdraw the funds from the account for non-qualified expenses without penalty.
You'll need money to deposit into your savings account. If you don't have money to deposit, then you won't benefit from a HSA. Find an HSA plan on your own or through your employer. Your employer may have HSAs available during the open enrollment period. If you are an individual, you can apply at any time. Open an HSA once your qualifying insurance is in place. HSAs can be opened with any qualified trustee or custodian. 
You still have until April 15, 2015, to make HSA contributions for 2014. If you had an HSA-eligible policy for the full year, then you can contribute up to $3,300 for individual coverage or $6,550 for family coverage (plus $1,000 if you were 55 or older in 2014). If you used cash for medical bills after opening the account and let the money grow in your HSA, you can withdraw money tax-free for those bills at any time as long as you’ve kept the receipts. Many insurers make it easy to keep records of past expenses.