Hepatitis B vaccine can prevent hepatitis B, and the serious. consequences of hepatitis B infection, including liver. cancer and cirrhosis. Hepatitis B vaccine may be given by itself or in the same. shot with other vaccines. 
Descriptions. Hepatitis A and hepatitis B combination vaccine is used to prevent infection caused by the hepatitis A and hepatitis B virus. The vaccine works by causing your body to produce its own protection (antibodies) against the disease. Hepatitis A is a serious disease of the liver that can cause death. Hepatitis A and hepatitis B combination vaccine is recommended for all persons 18 years of age or older who are at risk from infection from their jobs or some behaviors, or from traveling to the following parts of the world:
Twinrix is a vaccine against hepatitis A and hepatitis B, manufactured by GlaxoSmithKline. Twinrix is administered over three doses. The name was created because it is a mixture of two earlier vaccines — Havrix, an inactivated-virus Hepatitis A vaccine, and ENGERIX-B, a recombinant Hepatitis B vaccine.
Hepatitis B infection can cause serious problems including liver failure, persistent hepatitis B infection, cirrhosis, and liver cancer. Preventing infection can prevent these problems. Hepatitis B vaccine is a genetically engineered (man-made in the laboratory) piece of the virus. It does not contain live virus, so you cannot get hepatitis from the vaccine. This vaccine works by helping the body produce immunity (through antibody production) that will prevent you from getting infection from hepatitis B virus.
Why It Is Used. This combination vaccine can prevent both hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection with only one series of injections. People get the vaccines together rather than separately. Immunity to the hepatitis B virus is thought to be lifelong. The hepatitis A vaccine is effective for at least 25 years in adults and 14 years in children.
Hepatitis B vaccine can prevent hepatitis B, and the serious consequences of hepatitis B infection, including liver cancer and cirrhosis. Hepatitis B vaccine may be given by itself or in the same shot with other vaccines. Adults getting hepatitis B vaccine should get 3 doses — with the second dose given 4 weeks after the first and the third dose 5 months after the second. Your doctor can tell you about other dosing schedules that might be used in certain circumstances. Top of Page.
Hepatitis B vaccine does not protect you from other virus infections (such as HIV virus which causes AIDS; hepatitis A, hepatitis C or hepatitis E; HPV virus which causes genital warts and other problems).The vaccine is recommended for people of all ages, especially those at an increased risk of getting the infection. It does not contain live virus, so you cannot get hepatitis from the vaccine. This vaccine works by helping the body produce immunity (through antibody production) that will prevent you from getting infection from hepatitis B virus.
How It Works. Twinrix is a vaccine that provides active immunity against both the hepatitis A and hepatitis B viruses. It is given in a series of 3 injections on the same schedule as the hepatitis B vaccine: an initial dose followed by doses at 1 month and 6 months. Immunity to the hepatitis B virus is thought to be lifelong. The hepatitis A vaccine is effective for at least 25 years in adults and 14 years in children.
Twinrix can be administered on the same schedule as monovalent Hepatitis B vaccine: at 0- 1- and 6- months. In some circumstances, an accelerated dosing schedule of 0- 7- and 21-to 30- days followed by a booster at 12 months can be used and is believed to have similar efficacy as the traditional schedule. Twinrix is administered over three doses. The name was created because it is a mixture of two earlier vaccines — Havrix, an inactivated-virus Hepatitis A vaccine, and ENGERIX-B, a recombinant Hepatitis B vaccine.