Chicken eggs take exactly 21 days from the date they are started incubating. Hatched naturally, most broody hens will take about 6 days to gather enough eggs and then set the nest. For the next 21 days she will seldom leave the nest except for defecating and occasionally for food and water. She will not allow the eggs to drop more than a degree or two in temperature.
The normal incubation period for chicken eggs is 21 days--hatching at 18 or 19 days is too soon, and usually indicates too high of a temperature in the incubator or some other issue. Chicks that hatch too early or too late invariably have health problems or tend to do poorly. It can take anywhere from an hour up to a day for a pipped egg to hatch. Some will pip a bit and then stop for a long time, then finish up all at once in the space of a few minutes. Some will consistently pip until they pop out, within an hour.
It takes 21 days to hatch an egg, but it has to be turned for the first 18 days, twice a day (one turn in the morning, and one at night). Some chickens have hatched at 21-24 d … ays, though 21 days is the main time. Hatched naturally, most broody hens will take about 6 days to gather enough eggs and then set the nest. For the next 21 days she will seldom leave the nest except for defecating and occasionally for food and water. She will not allow the eggs to drop more than a degree or two in temperature.
Fertility and Candling. Natural fertility is rarely 100% - it may vary from 55% to 95% with season, condition and type of birds. You might be safe to expect that 50% to 75% of the fertile eggs will hatch, though 90%-100% hatches can and does happen. With shipped eggs the hatch rate is approximately 50% overall. Fertility of eggs cannot be determined before incubating them. A day is counted as a full 24 hours, so Day 1 would be the first 24 after setting the egg, Day 2 the next 24 hours etc. If you set eggs on a Monday, it's usually a safe bet that they will hatch on a Monday, 3 weeks later. Select clean, even shaped, undamaged eggs for incubating.
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began. A day is counted as a full 24 hours, so Day 1 would be the first 24 after setting the egg, Day 2 the next 24 hours etc. If you set eggs on a Monday, it's usually a safe bet that they will hatch on a Monday, 3 weeks later. Select clean, even shaped, undamaged eggs for incubating.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 7. Turn the eggs at least three times daily.
With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. Hatched naturally, most broody hens will take about 6 days to gather enough eggs and then set the nest. For the next 21 days she will seldom leave the nest except for defecating and occasionally for food and water. She will not allow the eggs to drop more than a degree or two in temperature.