Blending. 1  10 Straight whiskeys and single malt Scotch whiskeys are not blended; that is, they are produced from single batches and are ready to be bottled straight from the barrel. 2  All other whiskeys are blended. 3  Different batches of whiskey are mixed together to produce a better flavor. 1 Whiskey is aged in wooden barrels, usually made from charred white oak. 2  White oak is used because it is one of the few woods that can hold a liquid without leaking but which also allows the water in the whiskey to move back and forth within the pores of the wood, which helps to add flavor.
Whiskey (usually spelled whisky in Canada and Scotland) is a spirit produced from fermented grain and aged in wood. A spirit is any alcoholic beverage in which the alcohol content has been increased by distillation. 1 Whiskey is aged in wooden barrels, usually made from charred white oak. 2  White oak is used because it is one of the few woods that can hold a liquid without leaking but which also allows the water in the whiskey to move back and forth within the pores of the wood, which helps to add flavor.
If you're a whiskey (and especially bourbon) drinker, you need to know what that means. By definition, whiskey (or whisky, in Scotland) is a spirit distilled from fermented grain mash — grain varieties include wheat, rye, barley, and corn — and then aged in wooden barrels. Whiskey is made all over the world and there are many popular styles including Scotch whisky, Irish whiskey, and American whiskey. 
How Scotch Whisky Is Made is a film taking you through the production process for Scotch Malt Whisky, Grain Whisky and Blended whisky. The first part of the film takes you through the production process for Scotch Malt Whisky from malting, mashing, fermentation, distillation and finally maturation. The film then takes you through the production process for Scotch Grain Whisky from malting and cereal cooking to mashing, fermentation, distillation and finally maturation. Finally the film takes you through the production process for Scotch Blended Whisky.
The type of grain used varies with the kind of whiskey being made, but all whiskeys contain at least a small amount of malted barley, which is needed to start the fermentation process. Scotch malt whiskey contains only barley. Other whiskeys contain barley in combination with corn, wheat, oats, and/or rye. 1 Whiskey is aged in wooden barrels, usually made from charred white oak. 2  White oak is used because it is one of the few woods that can hold a liquid without leaking but which also allows the water in the whiskey to move back and forth within the pores of the wood, which helps to add flavor.
Whisky or whiskey is a type of distilled alcoholic beverage made from fermented grain mash. Various grains (which may be malted) are used for different varieties, including barley, corn (maize) , rye, and wheat. Whisky is typically aged in wooden casks, generally made of charred white oak. Whisky is a strictly regulated spirit worldwide with many classes and types. The typical unifying characteristics of the different classes and types are the fermentation of grains, distillation, and aging in wooden barrels. 1 Blended malt whisky is a mixture of single malt whiskies from different distilleries. 2  If a whisky is labelled pure malt or just malt it is almost certainly a blended malt whisky. 3  This was formerly called a vatted malt whisky. 4  Blended whisky is made from a mixture of different types of whisky.
Scotch whisky, often simply called Scotch, is malt whisky or grain whisky made in Scotland. Scotch whisky must be made in a manner specified by law. All Scotch whisky was originally made from malted barley. Commercial distilleries began introducing whisky made from wheat and rye in the late 18th century. 
The word whisky (or whiskey) is an anglicisation of the Classical Gaelic word uisce / uisge meaning water (now written as uisce in Irish Gaelic, and uisge in Scottish Gaelic). Distilled alcohol was known in Latin as aqua vitae (water of life). 1 Blended malt whisky is a mixture of single malt whiskies from different distilleries. 2  If a whisky is labelled pure malt or just malt it is almost certainly a blended malt whisky. 3  This was formerly called a vatted malt whisky. 4  Blended whisky is made from a mixture of different types of whisky.
1 10 Straight whiskeys and single malt Scotch whiskeys are not blended; that is, they are produced from single batches and are ready to be bottled straight from the barrel. 2  All other whiskeys are blended. 3  Different batches of whiskey are mixed together to produce a better flavor. 1 Whiskey is aged in wooden barrels, usually made from charred white oak. 2  White oak is used because it is one of the few woods that can hold a liquid without leaking but which also allows the water in the whiskey to move back and forth within the pores of the wood, which helps to add flavor.
Whisky is a one of the most popular varieties of distilled alcoholic beverages, made from the fermented grain mash. The type of preferred grain varies from region to region, spanning from barley (extremely popular in Scotland), malted barley, rye, wheat and corn (which is main ingredient of the American Bourbon). One exception is made for Indian whisky, which is traditionally made not from fermented grain but from fermented molasses. The existence of whisky can be traced to the ancient times, almost to 2 million BC kingdoms of ancient Babylon and Mesopotamia.