1 Refrigerate the bag for 30 minutes. 2  After marinating for 30 minutes, either cook the chicken on a grill OR preheat the oven to 375 degrees in preparation to bake the chicken. 3  To bake the chicken, place the chicken pieces in a large casserole dish (9x13). 1 To bake the chicken, place the chicken pieces in a large casserole dish (9x13). 2  Bake the chicken in the preheated 375 degree oven for 45-60 minutes, or until golden brown on top.
1 In a small bowl, whisk together olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, salt, pepper, and paprika for about 30 seconds. 2  Place chicken in a large bowl, and pour marinade over. 3  Using your hands, work marinade into chicken. 4  Cover, and refrigerate overnight. Cook. Ready In. 1  Cut 3 slits in each chicken breast to allow marinade to penetrate. 2  In a small bowl, whisk together olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, salt, pepper, and paprika for about 30 seconds. 3
1 1. 2  To make the grilled Greek chicken, place the bird, breast side down, on a cutting board. 3  Using kitchen shears or a large knife, cut along one side of the backbone from tail to neck. 4  Pull open the bird, then cut along the other side of the backbone and discard the backbone or save it for stock. Directions. 1 
1 Place the chicken pieces in the mixture, cover, and marinate in the refrigerator 8 hours or overnight. 2  Preheat grill for high heat. 3  Lightly oil the grill grate. 4  Place chicken on the grill, and discard the marinade. 5  Cook chicken pieces up to 15 minutes per side, until juices run clear. 1 Lightly oil the grill grate. 2  Place chicken on the grill, and discard the marinade. 3  Cook chicken pieces up to 15 minutes per side, until juices run clear. 4  Smaller pieces will not take as long.
1 After marinating for 30 minutes, either cook the chicken on a grill OR preheat the oven to 375 degrees in preparation to bake the chicken. 2  To bake the chicken, place the chicken pieces in a large casserole dish (9x13). 3  Bake the chicken in the preheated 375 degree oven for 45-60 minutes, or until golden brown on top. 1 To bake the chicken, place the chicken pieces in a large casserole dish (9x13). 2  Bake the chicken in the preheated 375 degree oven for 45-60 minutes, or until golden brown on top.
1 While your chicken souvlaki is cooking, prepare the pita breads. 2  Preheat the oven to 250C. 3  Use a cooking brush to oil the pita breads on both sides and season with salt and oregano. 4  Place a large oven tray (upside down) at the bottom of the oven and place the pita breads on top of the tray. 5  Bake for 2 minutes. 1 To prepare this chicken souvlaki recipe, start by preparing the marinade. 2  Cut the chicken breasts into 2 cm pieces and place them in a large bowl, along with all the marinade ingredients. 3  Use your hands to mix really well, cover with plastic wrap and put in the fridge for 30-60 minutes.
Directions. In a medium bowl, whisk together the oil, oregano leaves, garlic, lemon juice and salt and pepper, to taste. Pat the chicken dry and place in a re-sealable plastic bag. Pour the mixture over the chicken and seal the bag, pressing out any excess air, and then turn the bag over several times to distribute the marinade. Place the chicken skin-side down and cook until well browned, 10 to 13 minutes. Flip the chicken over and cook for another 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer the chicken to a sheet pan and finish cooking in the oven until golden brown and cooked through, 25 to 30 minutes. Let the chicken rest 10 minutes before serving.
A simple marinade of Greek olive oil, lemon, oregano, and cinnamon give this fried chicken a delicious Greek flavor. Compliment your chicken with some boiled kale, spinach, or string beans seasoned with olive oil, lemon juice, and salt. Or, use the same oil to make french fried potatoes. 1 Lightly oil the grill grate. 2  Place chicken on the grill, and discard the marinade. 3  Cook chicken pieces up to 15 minutes per side, until juices run clear. 4  Smaller pieces will not take as long.
1 Cut 3 slits in each chicken breast to allow marinade to penetrate. 2  In a small bowl, whisk together olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, salt, pepper, and paprika for about 30 seconds. 3  Place chicken in a large bowl, and pour marinade over. 4  Using your hands, work marinade into chicken. 5  Cover, and refrigerate overnight. Cook. Ready In. 1 