Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) — The most severe form of muscular dystrophy, DMD usually affects young boys and causes progressive muscle weakness, usually beginning in the legs. Dystrophin — A protein that helps muscle tissue repair itself. Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) — This form of muscular dystrophy begins in late childhood to early adulthood and affects both men and women, causing weakness in the muscles around the hips and shoulders.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy: The best-known form of muscular dystrophy, due to mutation in a gene on the X chromosome that prevents the production of dystrophin, a normal protein in muscle. DMD affects boys and, very rarely, girls. 
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy is a term for a group of diseases that cause weakness and wasting of the muscles in the arms and legs. The muscles most affected are those closest to the body (proximal muscles), specifically the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, pelvic area, and thighs. 
Definition. Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that cause progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass. In muscular dystrophy, abnormal genes (mutations) interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. There are many different kinds of muscular dystrophy
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue.
Medical Definition of MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. : any of a group of hereditary diseases characterized by progressive wasting of muscles—called also progressive muscular dystrophy; see becker muscular dystrophy, duchenne muscular dystrophy. Full Definition of MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. : any of a group of hereditary diseases characterized by progressive wasting of muscles — compare Becker muscular dystrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy. See muscular dystrophy defined for English-language learners. See muscular dystrophy defined for kids.
The major forms of muscular dystrophy include: 1  Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 2  Becker muscular dystrophy. 3  limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. 4  facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. 5  congenital muscular dystrophy. 6  oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. 7  distal muscular dystrophy. 8  Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy and. 
1. Any of a group of progressive muscle disorders caused by a defect in one or more genes that control muscle function and characterized by gradual irreversible wasting of skeletal muscle. 2. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X-linked form of muscular dystrophy, affecting around 1 in 3,600 boys, which results in muscle degeneration and premature death. The disorder is caused by a mutation in the gene dystrophin, located on the human X chromosome, which codes for the protein dystrophin. 
1 Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD): DMD affects young boys, causing progressive muscle weakness, usually beginning in the legs. 2  It is the most severe form of muscular dystrophy. 3  DMD occurs in about 1 in 3,500 male births, and affects approximately 8,000 boys and young men in the United States. Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) — This form of muscular dystrophy begins in late childhood to early adulthood and affects both men and women, causing weakness in the muscles around the hips and shoulders.