CTS (carpal tunnel syndrome) is one of the most common conditions affecting the nerves of the hand. It is estimated that almost 5% of women and 3% of men have CTS. American Family Physician 2 estimates that from 3% to 6% of adults in the general population suffer from carpal tunnel syndrome. Carpal tunnel syndrome is a painful, progressive condition that occurs when the median nerve in the wrist is compressed. The nerve may become compressed because it has swollen, the tendons are inflamed, or both.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is often the result of a combination of factors that increase pressure on the median nerve and tendons in the carpal tunnel, rather than a problem with the nerve itself. Physicians can use specific tests to try to produce the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome. In the Tinel test, the doctor taps on or presses on the median nerve in the patient's wrist. The test is positive when tingling in the fingers or a resultant shock-like sensation occurs.
In its first year, the Cadillac CTS came only with a 3.2-liter V6 good for 220 hp. This was joined in 2004 by a more desirable 255-hp 3.6-liter V6. At the time, the base V6 was available with a five-speed manual transmission or a five-speed automatic. The larger V6 came with the automatic only. Blending all-American style with European-inspired handling, the Cadillac CTS has been a popular choice with luxury sedan consumers for more than a decade.
The CTS-V is a high-performance version of the CTS. The current model features a supercharged 6.2L LSA V8 engine producing 556 horsepower (415 kW) and 551 lb·ft (747 N·m) of torque. The first generation CTS-V was introduced in 2004 as a 4-door sedan and was available through 2007. The CTS (VIN D) was available in three body styles: 4-door sedan, 2-door coupe, and 5-door sport wagon. The first-and second-generation CTS are based on the GM Sigma platform (VIN D); the third-generation CTS is based upon a stretched version of the GM Alpha platform (VIN A).
The Cadillac CTS is a mid-size luxury car / executive car designed, engineered, manufactured and marketed by Cadillac. Cadillac introduced the CTS in 2002 as a 4-door sports sedan, succeeding the Catera. The CTS (VIN D) was available in three body styles: 4-door sedan, 2-door coupe, and 5-door sport wagon. The first-and second-generation CTS are based on the GM Sigma platform (VIN D); the third-generation CTS is based upon a stretched version of the GM Alpha platform (VIN A).
Certified Technology Specialist (CTS). A Certified Technology Specialist (CTS) performs general technology solution tasks by: 1  Creating, operating, and servicing AV solutions. 2  Conducting AV management activities that provide for the best audiovisual resolutions of the client's needs, both on time and within budget. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is a medical condition in which the median nerve is compressed as it travels through the wrist at the carpal tunnel and causes pain, numbness and tingling, in the part of the hand that receives sensation from the median nerve. The mechanism of injury is compression; there are a variety of contributing factors. Some of the individual predisposing factors include: diabetes, obesity, pregnancy, hypothyroidism, and a narrow-diameter carpal tunnel. CTS may also result from an injury that causes internal scarring or mis-aligned wrist bones.
Long-standing CTS leads to permanent nerve damage with constant numbness, atrophy of some of the muscles of the thenar eminence, and weakness of palmar abduction (see carpometacarpal joint § Movements). Pain in carpal tunnel syndrome is primarily numbness that is so intense that it wakes one from sleep. Pain in electrophysiologically verified CTS is associated with misinterpretation of nociception and depression. Conservative treatments include use of night splints and corticosteroid injection. The mechanism of injury is compression; there are a variety of contributing factors. Some of the individual predisposing factors include: diabetes, obesity, pregnancy, hypothyroidism, and a narrow-diameter carpal tunnel. CTS may also result from an injury that causes internal scarring or mis-aligned wrist bones.