Amazon Prime pricing is increasing 25 percent, but there are still ways to avoid paying $99 a year for free shipping. Amazon announced Thursday that it will raise the price of its Prime service from $79 to $99 per year. Results showed 94 percent of Amazon Prime customers were likely to renew at the $79 price point, but if price increased by $20, only 58 percent were likely to renew. (For a detailed calculation to see if you should foot the bill and pay for the now-$99 service, try Slate's Amazon Prime widget .).
Amazon Student is a membership programme created especially for higher education students studying in the UK. A six-month trial of Amazon Prime delivery benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music and Prime Photos is available to customers who satisfy the conditions set out in the Amazon Student Terms & Conditions. 
To get this deal however, one must have an .edu email address in order to qualify. In case one sticks with Amazon Student after the first 6 months, he or she will be given a discounted rate on a number of products for the rest of the year. 1  As of 2014, the cost of Amazon Student is $49 per year. 1 The student then starts receiving benefits for Amazon Student as soon as they click on the confirmation link contained in the e-mail. 2  The yearly fee for Amazon Student is considerably less than Amazon Prime, which currently charges $99 up from the initial $79.
If this weren't enough, Amazon Student awards eligible members free scholarship money ($250,000 in merit scholarships and $25,000 in textbook gift cards are given to 50 undergraduates of the program annually.) Selected winners will each receive $5,000 toward college tuition (and $500 toward textbook costs). 
Free Amazon Student Membership for 6 months (does not include streaming) for $0 + free shipping. Feb 24, 2012 7:06 PM. Free membership to Amazon Student (basic Prime w/ no streaming) for 6 months! You must have an .edu email address. If you stick with Student after the 6 months you'll be given a discounted rate for the rest of the year.
Amazon hands out free Amazon Student memberships, as well as other benefits at no cost to the students. The membership to Amazon Student, which is basic Amazon Prime with no streaming, is free for the first six months. 1 The student then starts receiving benefits for Amazon Student as soon as they click on the confirmation link contained in the e-mail. 2  The yearly fee for Amazon Student is considerably less than Amazon Prime, which currently charges $99 up from the initial $79.
1 The yearly fee for Amazon Student is considerably less than Amazon Prime, which currently charges $99 up from the initial $79. 2  For Kindle users, buying the numerous e-publications available can be quite pricey. 3  Taking advantage of Kindle Owners’ Lending Library can help the student save money. 1 The student then starts receiving benefits for Amazon Student as soon as they click on the confirmation link contained in the e-mail. 2 
Netflix charges a monthly fee of $7.99 per month, which comes out to $95.88 per year. Amazon Prime costs $99 per year, which comes out to about $8.25 per month. Forgetting the nice shipping benefits you get with Prime, you pay about the same. 
2. Join Amazon Student Students still get a discounted Amazon Prime rate when they join Amazon Student. Although the price has jumped $10 to $49, it's now half off a regular membership. To qualify as a student, though, you'll need a .edu email adress. Results showed 94 percent of Amazon Prime customers were likely to renew at the $79 price point, but if price increased by $20, only 58 percent were likely to renew. (For a detailed calculation to see if you should foot the bill and pay for the now-$99 service, try Slate's Amazon Prime widget .).
Amazon (AMZN) announced the annual membership will now cost $99 a year, up from $79. A student membership will cost $49 annually. In February, Amazon said it was considering raising the price to $119 a year. Prime members get two-day shipping on a large number of Amazon items at no extra cost, plus the ability to borrow Kindle books and stream movies and television shows. The company said blamed the increase on increase fuel and shipping costs.