A provisional application for patent (provisional application) is a U.S. national application filed in the USPTO under 35 U.S.C. §111(b) . A provisional application is not required to have a formal patent claim or an oath or declaration. Provisional applications also should not include any information disclosure (prior art) statement since provisional applications are not examined. 1 The benefits of the provisional application cannot be claimed if the 12 month deadline for filing a nonprovisional application has expired (unless the benefit of the provisional application has been restored under 37 CFR 1.78).
Anything that is not included in the provisional patent application is not considered to be a part of your invention. For this reason you may hear patent attorneys explain that a provisional patent application is helpful to protect whatever is included in the application (as I said above). Therefore, an applicant who files a provisional patent application must file a corresponding non-provisional application for patent (i.e., “regular patent application”) during the 12-month pendency period of the provisional application in order to benefit from the earlier filing of the provisional application.
A fairly typical quote for a provisional patent application (through filing) for a moderately complex mechanical innovation is $2,5000 for attorneys fees plus the cost of the provisional filing fee (typically $130) and the cost of any professional illustrations desired (typically $200 to $300). Therefore, an applicant who files a provisional patent application must file a corresponding non-provisional application for patent (i.e., “regular patent application”) during the 12-month pendency period of the provisional application in order to benefit from the earlier filing of the provisional application.
If you do file the nonprovisional patent application within 12 months then the filing date of your nonprovisional patent application will be deemed to be the filing date of your earlier filed provisional patent application, at least with respect to whatever you disclosed in the provisional patent application. Therefore, an applicant who files a provisional patent application must file a corresponding non-provisional application for patent (i.e., “regular patent application”) during the 12-month pendency period of the provisional application in order to benefit from the earlier filing of the provisional
Anyone who has ownership rights to an invention can file a provisional patent application. Nolo's Online Provisional Patent Application is only suited for United States-based individuals, companies with fewer than 500 employees or affiliates, and nonprofits. Yes and no. When you file a provisional patent application with Nolo's Online Legal Forms, you can physically be outside of the U.S., but you must supply a mailing address within the United States -- you cannot use a foreign mailing address.
In order to patent your invention, you must file a regular patent application -- a more complex document -- and the patent must be approved by the USPTO. To receive the benefit of the earlier provisional patent application date, a regular patent application would have to be filed within one year. Yes and no. When you file a provisional patent application with Nolo's Online Legal Forms, you can physically be outside of the U.S., but you must supply a mailing address within the United States -- you cannot use a foreign mailing address.
Once you file the provisional patent application, you have a year before you must file for a regular patent. This gives you time to better assess the commercial potential of your invention. 
Best Answer: There is no such thing as a provisional patent. There are only provisional APPLICATIONS. A provisional application is never examined and never becomes a patent. All a provisional APPLICATION does is capture a filing date the benefit of which can be claimed for a later filed full Utility Patent Application. For all the good it would do you, you can say patent pending for up to 1 year from the provisional filing date.
1 For Non-Provisional Utility Applications and when Converting a Provisional Application to a Non-Provisional Application the fee is $1000. 2  But again, half of that fee will be credited toward the subsequent application fees, making the net cost of the patent search just $500. Provisional to Non-Provisional Application. In order to properly select this option, you must have already filed a Provisional Application describing your invention in the US Patent and Trademark Office within the last 12 months, and for our purposes, within the last 11 months.
Software —. A fairly typical quote for a provisional patent application (through filing) for a software innovation is $5,000 for attorneys fees plus the cost of the provisional filing fee (typically $130) and the cost of any professional illustrations desired (typically $300 to $500). Therefore, an applicant who files a provisional patent application must file a corresponding non-provisional application for patent (i.e., “regular patent application”) during the 12-month pendency period of the provisional application in order to benefit from the earlier filing of the provisional application.