In Countries, States, and Cities. The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss frank (or franc), divided into 100 Rappen (or centimes). In Countries, States, and Cities. The currency in
CHF-Swiss Franc. Switzerland, Franc. The Swiss Franc is the currency of Switzerland. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Switzerland Franc exchange rate is the EUR to CHF rate. The currency code for Francs is CHF, and the currency symbol is CHF. Below, you'll find Swiss Franc rates and a currency converter. Swiss Franc History. Importance of the Swiss Franc. The Swiss Franc has a reputation for being a safe haven or hard currency; it is often purchased during financial uncertainty due to its reliability and stability. Regularly used as a global reserve currency, the Swiss Franc is the sixth most traded currency in the world.
What is the currency of Switzerland? The Swiss Franc, or Frank (abbreviation:  CHF), which is divided up into 100 units called Rappen in  German, Centimes in French, Centesimi in Italian  and Rap in Romansh.  …   All the countries surrounding them use Euros, except Liechtenstein  which also uses Swiss Franks. 17 people found this useful. In Countries, States, and Cities. The currency in Switzerland is the Swiss frank (or franc), divided into 100 Rappen (or centimes).
The national currency in Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The commonly used abbreviation for Switzerland’s unit of currency is CHF, although SF is sometimes used. Each unit of Swiss currency is divided into 100 units and is known differently according to the language of the Canton in Switzerland. In French speaking Switzerland these units of currency are known as centimes, while in Italian speaking areas of Switzerland they are called centisimi. In German speaking Switzerland these units of currency are known as rappon.
Please note that Switzerland remains with the Swiss franc, usually indicated as CHF. While Switzerland is not part of the European Union and thus is not obliged to convert to the Euro, many prices are nonetheless indicated in euros so that visitors may compare prices. 
The basic unit of Swiss currency is the Swiss franc (F), which is made up of 100 centimes. Bank notes are issued in denominations of 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, and 1,000 francs, and coins are minted as 5, 10, 20, and 50 centimes, and 1, 2, and 5 francs. Money. The basic unit of Swiss currency is the Swiss franc (F), which is made up of 100 centimes. Bank notes are issued in denominations of 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, and 1,000 francs, and coins are minted as 5, 10, 20, and 50 centimes, and 1, 2, and 5 francs. Frommer's lists exact prices in the local currency.
Answer by Chris Freel. Confidence votes 7.2K. The Swiss Franc, or Frank (abbreviation: CHF), which is divided up into 100 units called Rappen in German, Centimes in French, Centesimi in Italian and Rap in Romansh. All the countries surrounding them use Euros, except Liechtenstein which also uses Swiss Franks. The currency in Switzerland is the Swiss frank (or franc), divided into 100 Rappen (or centimes).
The franc (sign: Fr. or SFr. or FS; German: Franken, French and Romansh: franc, Italian: franco; code: CHF) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia. The Swiss franc is used as a reserve currency around the world and is currently ranked rarely 5th or 6th in value held as reserves after the United States dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar.