Cymbidium /sɪmˈbɪdiəm/ , or boat orchid, is a genus of 52 evergreen species in the orchid family Orchidaceae. The new Latin genus name is derived from the Latin cymba meaning boat. Asian Cymbidiums or Chinese Cymbidiums refer to mainly five species of cymbidiums orchids that are found throughout East Asia in areas of China, Korea, Japan, India, and in parts of Thailand and Vietnam. These species are usually grown for their variegated leaves.
Cymbidium spikes bloom only one time, so once the blooms have dropped you will not be able to encourage a rebloom from the spike as you can with other types of orchids. They typically bloom in the early spring although sometimes you can see flowers beginning to bloom in October or bloom all the way until June. Fertilizer Requirements. When the Cymbidium is in active growth, you will want to fertilize regularly. An orchid fertilizer solution of (20-20-20) is recommended. During the winter months, applying fertilizer once a month is sufficient.
Cymbidium Orchid Care: The Basics. Cymbidium (sym-BID-ee-um) orchids are often used in cut flower displays as well as in corsages. Cymbidium orchids are often called “boat orchids” and the flowers are usually large in size and display a patterned lip. Fertilizer Requirements. When the Cymbidium is in active growth, you will want to fertilize regularly. An orchid fertilizer solution of (20-20-20) is recommended. During the winter months, applying fertilizer once a month is sufficient.
Of all the orchid genera, the Cymbidium orchid is one of the easier to care for, particularly if you want your orchids outside for much of the year. Because most commercially available Cymbidium orchids are terrestrials, they must have special, loose media to grow in. As the cold-tolerant Cymbidium may be outside when it flowers, be sure to watch for the little holes or full-bore shredding that can indicate your plants have been invaded by pests. Check ProPlants’ Orchid Care Guide for All Types to discover which symptom is caused by what bug or virus and how to fix it right away.
Cymbidium plants are sympodial and grow to a height of 60 cm and the racemes as high as 90 cm. The raceme grows from the base of the most recent pseudobulb. Each flower can have a diameter of 5 to 10 cm, according to the species. They bloom during the winter, and each plant can have up to fifteen or more flowers. Cymbidium Swartz 1799, is a genus of 52 evergreen species in the orchid family Orchidaceae, subfamily Epidendroideae, tribe Cymbidieae, subtribe Cyrtopodiinae.
Cymbidiums are said to be the exception to the rule when it comes to orchid care. Among the types of orchids, this is one that can grow freely outside the confinement of greenhouses and similar structures. In fact, because it thrives so well outdoors, it has been a favorite garden plant. Since cymbidiums are mostly the outdoor type of orchids, they require a lot of sunlight. During summer they can be exposed to direct sunlight and still survive. Remember though, anything that is too much can cause death to any plant, as is the case with these orchids.
As covered in this article about orchids care and light, Cymbidiums need medium to bright light intensity in order to thrive, and do best with as much light as possible. If your Cymbidium orchid is receiving the optimal amount of light the leaves will be a yellow-green color. Too much light will cause the leaves to become yellow, and too little light will cause the leaves to become a very dark green color. Fertilizer Requirements. When the Cymbidium is in active growth, you will want to fertilize regularly. An orchid fertilizer solution of (20-20-20) is recommended. During the winter months, applying fertilizer once a month is sufficient.
Cymbidium plants are sympodial and grow to a height of 60 cm and the racemes as high as 90 cm. The raceme grows from the base of the most recent pseudobulb. Each flower can have a diameter of 5 to 10 cm, according to the species. Asian Cymbidiums or Chinese Cymbidiums refer to mainly five species of cymbidiums orchids that are found throughout East Asia in areas of China, Korea, Japan, India, and in parts of Thailand and Vietnam. These species are usually grown for their variegated leaves.
How to Care for Cymbidium Orchids. Cymbidium orchid care is just as detailed as that of other orchids, but it can be simpler if you already have the right environment at hand. These orchids love bright, cool places with a lot of moisture in the air. Florida winters are ideal, as are the northern states in the summer. By Anne Baley. If you’re looking for an orchid variety to grow outdoors, the Cymbidium orchid is probably the best choice you can make. They need a lot of light in order to produce their long sprays of blooms and can tolerate cooler temperatures more so than many other orchid varieties.
Cymbidium orchid growing is a good way for beginners to start, especially if they have a plot of protected soil outdoors they want to fill. If you want to take a first step into the world of orchids, look for information about Cymbidium orchid varieties. By Anne Baley. If you’re looking for an orchid variety to grow outdoors, the Cymbidium orchid is probably the best choice you can make. They need a lot of light in order to produce their long sprays of blooms and can tolerate cooler temperatures more so than many other