Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. A cup of coffee contains 80–175 mg of caffeine, depending on what bean (seed) is used and how it is prepared (e.g. drip, percolation, or espresso).
Caffeine. Caffeine is a stimulant and is naturally found in coffee beans and tea. The molecular formula for caffeine is C 8 H 10 N 4 O 2 and its molar mass is 194.19 g·mol −1. The chemical formula for caffeine is best represented by its structural formula which can be seen below. The structural formula of caffeine
Caffeine is a naturally occurring chemical stimulant called trimethylxanthine. Its chemical formula is C8H10N4O2 (see Erowid: Caffeine Chemistry for an image of the molecular structure). It is a drug, and actually shares a number of traits with more notorious drugs such as amphetamines, cocaine and heroin. 
trimethylxanthine is its real name and its chemical formula is C8H10N4O2. The chemical formula for caffeine is C8H10N4O2. Caffeine is a drug that many people consume in a variety of  products on a daily basis. The formula for it is C8H10N4O2.  Chocolate is one of the products that typically con … tains caffeine.
The caffeine molecule is classified as an alkaloid, meaning that it is a nitrogen-based compound that is extracted from plants. The chemical formula for caffeine is C 8 H 10 N 4 O 2, is found in coffee. Caffeine, in its pure form, is found as odorless bitter white crystals. April 22nd, 2008 · 81 Comments ·. Introduction | What is Caffeine: Molecule Structure | Stimulating Science: The Properties of Caffeine | Discovery: The Magical Bean | Coffee Creates a Social Lifestyle in Europe | Colonization and Coffee | Coffee’s Impact on the Nation of Brazil | Coffee Industry Today | Conclusions.
These truffles contain chocolate and coffee -- two natural sources of caffeine. Marko Goodwin. Caffeine is a naturally occurring chemical compound. Caffeine's systematic name is 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine or 3,7-dihydro-1,3,7-trimethyl-1H-purine-2,6-dione and its chemical formula is C8H10N4O2. Caffeine is also commonly known as coffeine, theine, mateine, guaranine and methyltheobromine. 
The molecular structure of caffeine. Caffeine belongs to the family of heterocyclic compounds known as purines. It has the systematic name 3,7-dihydro-1,3,7-trimethyl-1H-purine-2,6-dione; it is also known as 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine, and 1,3,7-trimethyl-2,6-dioxopurine. A therapeutic dose of caffeine is about the same as the amount found in an average cup of coffee, between 100 and 200 milligrams (0.0071 ounces). Decaffeinated coffee can be prepared through extraction with a solvent (such as methylene chloride), water extraction, or steam extraction.
Caffeine can be classified as an alkaloid, a term used for substances produced as end products of nitrogen metabolism in some plants. The chemical formula is C 8 H 10 N 4 O 2. Caffeine has a molar mass of 194.19 grams (6.85 ounces). It is soluble in water and in many organic solvents, and it appears in pure form as white crystals. Caffeine can be prepared by extraction from natural sources or by synthesis from uric acid. A therapeutic dose of caffeine is about the same as the amount found in an average cup of coffee, between 100 and 200 milligrams (0.0071 ounces). Decaffeinated coffee can be prepared through extraction with a solvent (such as methylene chloride), water extraction, or steam extraction.
Products containing caffeine are coffee, tea, soft drinks (colas), energy drinks, other beverages, chocolate, caffeine tablets, other oral products, and inhalation. Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. A cup of coffee contains 80–175 mg of caffeine, depending on what bean (seed) is used and how it is prepared (e.g. drip, percolation, or espresso).
The chemical name for caffeine is trimethylxanthine. The other  names for caffeine are theine, mateine, guaranine, and  methltheobromine. Caffeine is naturally in coffee, te … a, and guarna. 1  Allergies to Baby Formula Allergies to baby formula can be quite difficult to deal with. 2  When a baby is allergic to formula, this can greatly affect their nutrition. Caffeine is a drug that many people consume in a variety of  products on a daily basis. The formula for it is C8H10N4O2.  Chocolate is one of the products that typically con … tains caffeine.