A tissue takes approximately six weeks to fully decompose. In  ordinary trash, this item is exposed the moisture and air needed  for decomposition to take place quickly. Technically steel or any other metal does not decompose. If you are referring to corrosion, it will eventually turn into Iron Oxide (rust) over time, but that is largely depen … dent on atmospheric conditions. The more humidity, the quicker. Less oxygen, slower. In the ocean with the salt water, VERY fast.
Once in a landfill the only thing left for it to do is decompose. Decomposition rates (rate at which it will totally break down into the earth) of items in landfills will vary depending on the amount of sunlight, moisture and air exposure it receives. Some of these time ranges are very rough estimates. 
Story: A message circulating on various social networking platforms like Facebook and Twitter says that it takes years of time for the commonly used consumer wastes to decompose and that it effects the global green house effect badly. How Long does it take to Decompose. Paper Towel - 2-4 weeks. Banana Peel - 3-4 weeks. It takes significant period of time for a material to decompose completely, depending upon the type of material and the method of degradation. A paper towel may decompose in 2-4 weeks, and a plastic bag takes several thousand years to degrade and decompose completely. You can find more about the decomposition process in reference section. The Wikipedia page lists the typical amount of time it takes for the decomposition of various material
How long does it take for an apple core to decompose in a landfill? It can take up to two months for an apple core to decompose in a  landfill. Banana peels will take a few days to decompose. While  glass takes a very long time to decompose, … a paper bag can take up  to five months. Joshua Polsky. 
Clarification of Answer by leapinglizard-ga on 31 Oct 2004 16:28 PST That is indeed a new question, which I suggest you list separately. Your original question, and my answer, pertain to the matter of whether an apple decomposes faster if it is sliced or left intact. Request for Answer Clarification by christineg-ga on 31 Oct 2004 10:00 PST My question, I think, was too elementary. I guess I am looking for the specific step by step process of apple decomposition. Leapinglizard-ga your answer was very helpful. I am not sure if this is another question in itself or a clarification.
Compost is often created from a mixture of carbon-rich and nitrogen-rich materials. Carbon-based materials are woody or paper based. These materials are referred to as brown.. Kitchen waste, such as apple peels, lettuce and banana peels are considered green materials and are rich in nitrogen. 
Let’s see how long it really takes for various wastes to decompose in landfills (based on waste category) with some relevant statistics. It should be noted that the rate of decomposition can depend upon landfill conditions. Plastic Waste. Plastic products are very common in our modern life. Plastic waste is one of many types of wastes that take too long to decompose. Normally, plastic items can take up to 1000 years to decompose in landfills. But plastic bags we use in our everyday life take 10-20 years to decompose, while plastic bottles take 450 years. Disposable Diapers.
Decomposition is the process by which organic substances are broken down into a much simpler form of matter. The process is essential for recycling the finite matter that occupies physical space in the biome. Bodies of living organisms begin to decompose shortly after death. 