Chromosomes are made of a single strand of DNA. There are also some proteins that are bound to this DNA in order to manage it and keep it coiled, these are also sometimes referred to as part of the chromosome. SEE http://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/handbook/basics/c... In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure. yash · 4 months ago. Thumbs up.
Alleles are forms of the same gene with small differences in their sequence of DNA bases. These small differences contribute to each person’s unique physical features. Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases. 
Confidence votes 1.9K. Chromosomes are made of a single strand of DNA. There are also some proteins that are bound to this DNA in order to manage it and keep it coiled, these are also sometimes referred to as part of the chromosome. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  A Lesson in Genetics: The X Chromosome and Its Function In your cells, the material that makes up your genetic material is known as a chromosome. 2  Chromosomes are organized DNA structures found in the cell nucleus.
Report Abuse. In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure. yash · 4 months ago. Thumbs up.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Effectively, and most importantly, chromosomes are made of DNA. Chromosomes are how your DNA is packaged. It's wrapped around proteins called histones, and then the strong of histones is coiled around and around, and then THAT is coiled even further. 
DNA and histone proteins are packaged into structures called chromosomes. In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure. Chromosomes are not visible in the cell’s nucleus—not even under a microscope—when the cell is not dividing. 
Chromosomes are made up of DNA and proteins. The chromosomes help  to carry the genetic information throughout the body. There are 23  pairs of chromosomes in the human body … . Answered. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  A Lesson in Genetics: The X Chromosome and Its Function In your cells, the material that makes up your genetic material is known as a chromosome. 2  Chromosomes are organized DNA structures found in the cell nucleus.
No. Chromosomes are made up of DNA and each chromosome contains thousands of genes. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  A Lesson in Genetics: The X Chromosome and Its Function In your cells, the material that makes up your genetic material is known as a chromosome. 2  Chromosomes are organized DNA structures found in the cell nucleus.
A chromosome is made up of tightly-packed structures called DNA. Each DNA is made up of nucleotides. Each nucleotide is made up of a sugar, a phosphate, and a base (adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine). In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure. yash · 4 months ago. Thumbs up.
They carry the genetic information. Chromosomes are made up of DNA and protein combined as chromatin. Each chromosome contains many genes. 