Knowledge center. Motor neuron disease (MND) is a serious and incurable form of progressive neurodegeneration-over time the nerves in the spine and brain progressively lose function. In the case of motor neuron disease, motor neurons-types of nerve cells-are affected. The renowned English physicist, Stephen Hawking, and guitar virtuoso Jason Becker are living with motor neuron disease. In all three MND forms symptoms are very similar.
This leads to muscle weakness, often with visible wasting. Motor neurone disease, also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), occurs when specialist nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord called motor neurones stop working properly. This is known as neurodegeneration. The end of life for someone with motor neurone disease isn't usually distressing and is most often in their own home. In most cases, a person with the condition will die in their sleep as the end stage of gradual weakness in their breathing muscles.
1 ALS: 2  Presents with symptoms and signs of degeneration of the upper and lower motor neurons, leading to progressive weakness of the bulbar, limb, thoracic and abdominal muscles. 3  Other brain functions, including oculomotor and sphincter function, are relatively spared, but may be involved in some patients. 
Abstract. Twenty-seven of 42 patients with motor neuron disease had significant pain. The nature and duration of the pain are described along with an illustrative case-report. The aetiology and most effective treatment of this common complication of motor neuron disease remain unclear
Pain in motor neuron disease. Newrick PG, Langton-Hewer R. Twenty-seven of 42 patients with motor neuron disease had significant pain. The nature and duration of the pain are described along with an illustrative case-report. The aetiology and most effective treatment of this common complication of motor neuron disease remain unclear
MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE PAIN PATHWAY-SPIRITUAL PAIN Spirituality may be defined as, a search for meaning within a life experience and will encompass apatient’s understanding of self in relationship with others (for example people, nature, God) There is an overlap with psychological and spiritual pain. 
Abstract. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder marked by progressive loss of motor neurons, muscle wasting, and respiratory dysfunction. With disease progression, secondary symptoms arise creating new problematic conditions for ALS patients. Amongst these is pain. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressively lethal motor neuron disorder that affects roughly 2 in 100,000 individuals each year [ 1 – 3 ]. Commonly referred to as Lou Gehrig’s disease, ALS is characterized by degeneration of primary motor neurons in the cortex, brainstem, and spinal cord.
Motor neurone disease (MND) causes a progressive weakness of many of the muscles in the body. There are various types of MND. This leaflet is mainly about amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), which is the most common type of MND. Although there is no cure for MND, treatments can help to ease symptoms and disability. 