Confidence votes 23.9K. Dr. Leo Kanner (1894-1981), who was born in Klekotow, Austria, is one of the first persons to study autism. He was a psychiatrist and physician who published a paper in 1943, Autistic Disturbances of Affective Contact, describing his work with children who would now be labeled as having autism. He was also the first person to use the English word autism in 1943 when he identified 11 children with very similar behaviors. Many of the characteristics that Kanner used to describe early infantile autism are still used today when describing autism, such as social impairments and insistence on sameness.
History. The Autism Society was founded in 1965 by Bernard Rimland, Ph.D. His book, Infantile Autism: The Syndrome and Its Implications for a Neural Theory of Behavior, was written in late 1964 and was one of the first of its kind. In 1968, Ruth Sullivan, Ph.D., became the organization’s first elected president. The Autism Society began a nationwide awareness campaign in the early ’70s that was adopted by Congress in 1984 and strengthened by the release of the autism awareness ribbon in 1999.
Autism’s First Child. As new cases of autism have exploded in recent years—some form of the condition affects about one in 110 children today—efforts have multiplied to understand and accommodate the condition in childhood. But children with autism will become adults with autism, some 500,000 of them in this decade alone
Around the same time of Asperger's studies in Austria, American Leo Kanner (1943) began studying what he called early infantile autism.. He was also the first person to use the English word autism in 1943 when he identified 11 children with very similar behaviors. Many of the characteristics that Kanner used to describe early infantile autism are still used today when describing autism, such as social impairments and insistence on sameness.
It was only then that medical professionals began to have a separate understanding of autism in children. From the 1960s through the 1970s, research into treatments for autism focused on medications such as LSD, electric shock, and behavioral change techniques. The term describes conditions in which a person is removed from social interaction -- hence, an isolated self. Eugen Bleuler, a Swiss psychiatrist, was the first person to use the term. He started using it around 1911 to refer to one group of symptoms of schizophrenia.
The word autism, which has been in use for about 100 years, comes from the Greek word autos, meaning self.. The term describes conditions in which a person is removed from social interaction -- hence, an isolated self. Eugen Bleuler, a Swiss psychiatrist, was the first person to use the term. He started using it around 1911 to refer to one group of symptoms of schizophrenia.
An English psychiatrist, Lorna Wing, popularized the term Asperger's syndrome in a 1981 publication; the first book in English on Asperger syndrome was written by Uta Frith in 1991 and the condition was subsequently recognized in formal diagnostic manuals later in the 1990s. Asperger syndrome (AS), an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), is a relatively new diagnosis in the field of autism. It was named in honor of Hans Asperger (1906–80), an Austrian psychiatrist and pediatrician
Doctors have come a long way since 1908, when the word autism was first used. Here's a look at the history of autism spectrum disorder. By Virginia Sole-Smith. 1  Facebook. 2  Pinterest. 3  Google Plus. 4  Email. 5  Print. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Asperger syndrome (AS), an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), is a relatively new diagnosis in the field of autism. It was named in honor of Hans Asperger (1906–80), an Austrian psychiatrist and pediatrician