The 1,249 acres of Naval Air Facility Atsugi lies in the heart of the Kanto Plain on the main island of Japan, Honshu, Kanagawa (Prefecture), Ayase (ah-ya-sey).
Naval Air Facility Atsugi is the largest Naval Air Facility in the Pacific and is home to Carrier Air Wing Five. NAF Atsugi lies in the heart of the Kanto Plain on the main island of Japan, Honshu.
The 1,249 acres of Naval Air Facility Atsugi lies in the heart of the Kanto Plain on Honshu, the main island of Japan. NAF Atsugi has been home to Sailors and their families for nearly 60 years and the only permanently forward deployed, co-located Air Wing, Carrier Air Wing Five for more than 28 years.
Location. The 1,249 acres of Naval Air Facility Atsugi lies in the heart of the Kanto Plain on the main island of Japan, Honshu, Kanagawa (Prefecture), Ayase (ah-ya-sey). Co-located with the Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force (JMSDF), it is located about 16 km west of Yokohama and about 36 km southwest of Tokyo.
Welcome to the Atsugi google satellite map! This place is situated in Kanagawa, Kanto, Japan, its geographical coordinates are 35° 26' 20 North, 139° 21' 35. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Atsugi. See Atsugi photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Atsugi in Japan.
We are located on Naval Air Facility Atsugi. For detailed information about NAF Atsugi, please go to: http://www.cnic.navy.mil/Atsugi/index.htm. NAF Atsugi lies in the heart of the Kanto Plain &#8211 on Honshu Island, the main island of Japan.
Location/Driving Directions. Naval Air Facility Atsugi lies in the heart of the Kanto Plain on the main island of Japan, Honshu, Kanagawa (Prefecture), Ayase (ah-ya-sey). Co-located with the Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force (JMSDF), it is located about 16 km west of Yokohama and about 36 km southwest of Tokyo.
The Atsugi AXT office building lies south of central Atsugi, near the interchange of the Tōmei Expressway. Atsugi (厚木市, Atsugi-shi) is a city located in central Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. As of June 2012, the city has an estimated population of 224,462 and a population density of 2,390 persons per km².