Impingement (impact on bone into rotator cuff tendon or bursa) should not occur during normal shoulder function. When it does happen, the rotator cuff tendon becomes inflamed and swollen, a condition called rotator cuff tendonitis. Likewise if the bursa becomes inflamed, shoulder bursitis will develop. Commonly rotator cuff impingement has the following symptoms: 1  An arc of shoulder pain approximately when your arm is at shoulder height and/or when your arm is overhead. 2  Shoulder pain that can extend from the top of the shoulder to the elbow. 3  Pain when lying on the sore shoulder. 4  Shoulder pain at rest as your condition deteriorates. 5  Muscle 6  ... Pain
Internal impingement is commonly described as a condition characterized by excessive or repetitive contact between the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity of the humeral head and the posterior-superior aspect of the glenoid rim when the arm is placed in extreme ranges of abduction and external rotation. 
While a traumatic injury can occur eg fall, it is repeated movement of your arm into the impingement zone overhead that most frequently causes the rotator cuff to contact the outer end of the shoulder blade (acromion). Commonly rotator cuff impingement has the following symptoms: 1  An arc of shoulder pain approximately when your arm is at shoulder height and/or when your arm is overhead. 2  Shoulder pain that can extend from the top of the shoulder to the elbow. 3  Pain when lying on the sore shoulder. 4  Shoulder pain at rest as your condition deteriorates. 5  Muscle 6  ... Pain
Shoulder impingement syndrome is a condition where your shoulders rotator cuff tendons are intermittently trapped and compressed during shoulder movements This causes injury to the shoulder tendons and bursa resulting in painful shoulder movements. Commonly rotator cuff impingement has the following symptoms: 1  An arc of shoulder pain approximately when your arm is at shoulder height and/or when your arm is overhead. 2  Shoulder pain that can extend from the top of the shoulder to the elbow. 3  Pain when lying on the sore shoulder. 4  Shoulder pain at rest as your condition deteriorates. 5  Muscle 6  ... Pain
A. Shoulder impingement syndrome is a common cause of shoulder pain. It occurs when there is impingement of tendons or bursa in the shoulder from bones of the shoulder. Overhead activity of the shoulder, especially repeated activity, is a risk factor for shoulder impingement syndrome. Examples include: painting, lifting, swimming, tennis, and other overhead sports.
Shoulder impingement can be subdivided into primary and secondary impingement. Primary im-pingement is a mechanical obstruc-tion of the rotator cuff tendons un-der the anterior inferior one-third of the acromion, the coracoacromial ligament, and sometimes the acro-mioclavicular joint (42). 
Shoulder Impingement Syndrome. Primary shoulder impingement occurs when the rotator cuff tendons, long head of the biceps tendon, glenohumeral joint capsule, and/or subacromial bursa become impinged between the humeral head and anterior acromion. Coracoid Impingement syndrome is a less common cause of shoulder pain. Symptoms are presumed to occur when the subscapularis tendon impinges between the coracoid process and lesser tuberosity of the humerus.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, which is sometimes called swimmer’s shoulder or thrower’s shoulder, is caused by the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles becoming impinged as they pass through a narrow bony space called the subacromial space. The subacromial space is so called because it is under the arch of the acromion. There may be pain at the back and front of the shoulder when the arm is held out to the side or abducted and turned outwards into external rotation. Another give away sign of impingement is pain when lifting the arm above 90 degrees, particularly against resistance. See shoulder impingement tests.