On 23 April 1838, the barque Kinnear arrived at Sydney carrying six German wine growing families. Johann Justus, Friedrich Seckold, Johann Stein, Caspar Flick, Georg Gerhard and Johann Wenz, were the first German vinedressers in Australia. Hundreds of Germans followed their arrival in Australia. Born in Dresden in 1802, he arrived in South Australia on the Hermann von Beckerath in 1847. At first he farmed at Macclesfield before moving to Tanunda where he produced table wines.
By the mid-1840s, the German community in South Australia had become large enough to warrant its own German-language newspaper. In 1847, the first German newspaper in Australia, Die Deutsche Post, was founded in Adelaide. Born in Dresden in 1802, he arrived in South Australia on the Hermann von Beckerath in 1847. At first he farmed at Macclesfield before moving to Tanunda where he produced table wines.
In the 2006 Census, there were 106, 530 German-born citizens in Australia, the 9th largest group after United Kingdom, New Zealand, China, Italy, Vietnam, India, Philippines and Greece. South Africa was the 10th largest group. 
In November 1838 Pastor Kavel brought a large group of German Lutheran migrants to South Australia. The first group of 21 Lutherans arrived on the Bengalee on 18 November followed two days later by the main group on the Prince George. Among the convicts he brought to Australia were several Germans. Matthew Flinders named Cape Bauer, near Streaky Bay, after the Austrian botanical artist Ferdinand Lukas Bauer, who produced some 2000 drawings on the Investigator. German settlers were very interesting and valuable immigrants.
German Australians (German: Deutsch-Australier) are Australian citizens of ethnic German ancestry. The German community constitute one of the largest ethnic groups in Australia, numbering 898,700 or 4.5 percent of respondents in the 2011 Census. It is the sixth most identified ancestry in Australia behind 'Australian', 'English, 'Irish, 'Scottish' and 'Italian'. According to census data released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 2004, German Australians are, by religion, 21.7 per cent Catholic, 16.5 per cent Anglican, 32.8 per cent Other Christian, 4.2 Other Religions and 24.8 No Religion. In 2001, the German language was spoken at home by 76,400 persons in Australia.
From the Adelaide Hills to the arid outback. The German connection with Australia goes back a long way, almost as far as that of the Dutch. When Tasman discovered Van Diemen's Land, one of his ships, the Heemskerck was captained by Holleman from Germany. Captain Arthur Phillip, commander of the First Fleet and first Governor of New South Wales, had a German background. Among the convicts he brought to Australia were several Germans. Matthew Flinders named Cape Bauer, near Streaky Bay, after the Austrian botanical artist Ferdinand Lukas Bauer, who produced some 2000 drawings on the Investigator. German settlers were very interesting and valuable immigrants.
It was a much quicker and cheaper journey. When people's wages were only about 1-2 per year, it cost about 6 to sail to the USA but about 15 to get to Australia. 80-90% of German emigrants went to the USA, nevertheless Australia was the destination of a significant number of the remainder. Photo at left: memorial The Emigrants, on the dyke of the River Weser at Bremerhaven. Very many emigrants sailed from Germany via the port of Bremerhaven. After 1865 (which happened to be the end of the American Civil War and the start of free land grants in the frontier parts of the USA) the number of people leaving Germany increased considerably, and some of them were attracted
Courtesy National Archives of Australia. After World War II ended in May 1945 Europe was in chaos. Germany was crushed and the map of Europe was being carved up by the United States and the Soviet Union. Western Europe was supported by the United States while Eastern Europe was invaded by the Soviet Union. Migrants began streaming out of Eastern Europe to places like Australia and the United States to get away from the oppression in their homelands by the Soviet Union. The Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union meant that nuclear war was a real threat and some people saw Australia as a safe place to live. After World War II ended in May 1945 Europe was in chaos. Germany was crushed and the map of Europe was being carved up by the United States and the Soviet Union
German immigrants became prominent in settling South Australia and Queensland. From 1850 until World War I, German settlers and their descendants comprised the largest non-British or Irish group of Europeans in Australia. Born in Dresden in 1802, he arrived in South Australia on the Hermann von Beckerath in 1847. At first he farmed at Macclesfield before moving to Tanunda where he produced table wines.