An aquatic system lacking dissolved oxygen (0% saturation) is termed anaerobic, reducing, or anoxic; a system with low concentration—in the range between 1 and 30% saturation—is called hypoxic or dysoxic. Most fish cannot live below 30% saturation. A healthy aquatic environment should seldom experience less than 80%. Total atmospheric pressure decreases as altitude increases, causing a lower partial pressure of oxygen which is defined as hypobaric hypoxia. Oxygen remains at 20.9% of the total gas mixture, differing from hypoxic hypoxia, where the percentage of oxygen in the air (or blood) is decreased.
Anaerobic Zone. The anaerobic zone is slightly more intense than the aerobic zone. Anaerobic means without oxygen, so don't be surprised if you are unable to speak except for short words at a time in this zone. The anaerobic zone is 80 to 90 percent of your maximum heart rate. Aerobic Zone. The aerobic target zone is 70 to 80 percent of your maximal heart rate. Multiply your maximum heart rate by this percentage to determine the intensity you must maintain to remain in this zone.
Aerobic exercise and fitness can be contrasted with anaerobic exercise, of which strength training and short-distance running are the most salient examples. The two types of exercise differ by the duration and intensity of muscular contractions involved, as well as by how energy is generated within the muscle. Aerobic exercise (also known as cardio) is physical exercise of low to high intensity that depends primarily on the aerobic energy-generating process.
Oxygen deficiency is defined as an atmosphere that contains less than the normal percentage (21 percent is considered normal at sea level) of oxygen found in normal air. Oxygen deficiency has been associated with every major disease. This includes cancer, heart disease, and respiratory disease. Oxygen contributes to ninety percent of our energy. Cancer is believed to have one primary cause and that is that the normal oxygen respiration of the body cells is replaced by oxygen deficient, or anaerobic, cell respiration.
A simple way to determine your maximum heart rate is by subtracting your age from the number 220; for women, the heart rate max calculation is more complex -- 206 minus 88 percent of your age. Working out in the aerobic zone has your heart pumping at between 70 percent and 80 percent of its maximum. Your anaerobic zone is somewhere between 80 percent and 90 percent of your MHR. For example, if you are 40-year-old woman, your MHR is 171. When you train within the aerobic zone, your heart beats between 120 and 137 beats per minute. Exercising in the anaerobic zone has your heart beating between 137 and 154 bpm. If you've just started an exercise program, don't push yourself into the anaerobic zone. ACE indicates that most healthy adults exercise so their heart beats between 50 percent and 80 percent of their MHR. When starting out, keep your target heart rate at the low end of this range, ACE advises.
Prolonged moderate-level aerobic exercise at 65% VO2 max (the heart rate of 150 bpm for a 30-year-old human) results in the maximum contribution of fat to the total energy expenditure. Aerobic exercise (also known as cardio) is physical exercise of low to high intensity that depends primarily on the aerobic energy-generating process.
Aerobic Versus Anaerobic Activities. When you perform short and intense activities that require maximal energy, you rely on your anaerobic metabolism. For example, the energy used to run a 100-meter sprint is about 100 percent anaerobic. The primary nutrient for this type of exercise is carbohydrates. When a glucose molecule is converted into carbon dioxide and water via aerobic metabolism, it produces 39 molecules of ATP. However, glycolysis requires powerful enzymes that compensate for the lower energy efficiency of