The Midas Auto Repair Franchise is one of the best-known and most-trusted automobile brands in the world. Since 1956, we’ve been a dominant force in the tire and auto repair industries, with more than 1,000 auto repair stores in the United States and more than 2,000 worldwide. The brand Americans know and trust. Midas is one of America’s original franchise systems. Like McDonald’s®* and KFC®*, we started franchising the 1950s, and we have been evolving ever since. In 1956, Midas changed the American landscape by creating free-standing auto repair garages. We focused on mufflers and exhausts
1 DO NOT operate the Midas Rex Electric Bone Mill in the presence of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Devices. 2  DO NOT operate the Bone Mill without eye wear protection. 3  DO NOT use any other components except for Medtronic Midas Rex Electric Bone Mill disposables. 4  DO NOT use accessory if package is opened or damaged. Inspect the Midas Rex MR7 System for damage prior to each use: 1  Check the motor’s exhaust hose for cracks or tears. 2  Visually inspect attachments and tools. 3  Do not use bent or damaged tools. 4  Install attachment and dissecting tool, then briefly run motor.
Do not operate the Midas Rex MR7 System in the presence of Magnetic Resonance Imaging devices. Do not use damaged, faulty, or modified Midas Rex MR7 System components. Inspect the Midas Rex MR7 System for damage prior to each use: 1  Check the motor’s exhaust hose for cracks or tears. 2  Visually inspect attachments and tools. 3  Do not use bent or damaged tools. 4  Install attachment and dissecting tool, then briefly run motor.
The Web Based Room Scheduling solution for the effective management of your facilities and resources! MIDAS is a powerful yet easy to use web based scheduling system giving you complete control over your room bookings and resource scheduling, and trusted by organizations and businesses of all sizes across the globe. MIDAS is available to download (to install and run on your own server), or as a cloud based SaaS (Software as a Service) solution, accessible securely online through a short unique URL for your organization (i.e. https://mid.as/ your_organization). Learn More Testimonials FREE Online Demo Pricing.
Electrical Wire Lettering. Timothy Thiele. Understanding electrical wire lettering will help you decide which type wire is best for the installation that you are using. There are many different types of insulation used for residential use. Some of the most commonly used are THHN, THWN, THW and XHHN. THWN is flame-retardant and heat resistant. 
1 Connect the Bone Mill to hospital grade receptacles only. 2  DO NOT operate the Midas Rex Electric Bone Mill in the presence of flammable anesthetics. 3  Avoid potential ignition or explosion of gases. 4  Take care to process bone to the desired partical size. Inspect the Midas Rex MR7 System for damage prior to each use: 1  Check the motor’s exhaust hose for cracks or tears. 2  Visually inspect attachments and tools. 3  Do not use bent or damaged tools. 4  Install attachment and dissecting tool, then briefly run motor.
About Midas. Midas is a retail store designed around the needs of any vehicle owner focusing on various product ranges from parts and accessories through to lifestyle equipment. There are over 300 franchised outlets in Southern Africa, including Swaziland, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Namibia, Lesotho and of course South Africa. 
Midas Rex Legend EHS Stylus High-Speed Surgical Drill. 1  Pneumatic-like power with less noise. 2  Small and lightweight. 3  Quick set-up and easy to use design. 4  Adjustable speed from 200-75,000 rpm. 5  Powered by the Integrated Power Console (IPC®). 1 Quick set-up and easy to use design. 2  Adjustable speed from 200-75,000 rpm. 3  Powered by the Integrated Power Console (IPC®). 4  Works with color-coded, standardized Midas Rex Legend Tools and Attachments for added convenience and quick set-up.