Print article. Verrucas, sometimes called plantar warts or spelled verrucae, are warts that develop on plantar surfaces -- that is, the soles (or bottom) of the feet. The pressure from normal standing and walking tends to force the warts into the skin, and this can make the warts painful. The symptoms of verrucas include: 1  Small, bumpy growths on the soles of the feet, often with a tiny black dot, or dots, on the surface.
A wart on the sole of the foot is called a verruca. The clinical name for a verruca is a plantar wart. Warts are caused by infection with a virus known as the human papilloma virus (HPV). HPV causes keratin, a hard protein in the top layer of the skin (the epidermis) to grow too much. This produces the rough, hard texture of a wart.
Causes. Plantar warts are caused by an infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV) in the outer layer of skin on the soles of your feet. More than 100 types of HPV exist, but only a few cause warts on your feet. Other types of HPV are more likely to cause warts on other areas of your skin or on mucous membranes. 
Warts are caused by an infection with the human papilloma virus (HPV) . The virus causes an excess amount of keratin, a hard protein, to develop in the top skin layer (epidermis). The extra keratin produces the rough, hard texture of a wart. Read more about the causes of warts. 
Causes of warts and verrucas. Warts are caused by certain strains of the human papilloma virus (HPV). The virus is present in the skin cells of a wart. HPV is a family of viruses that affects the skin and moist membranes (mucosa) of the body. There are more than 100 different strains of HPV
Verrucas – Causes, Symptoms and Treatment. Verrucas are warts which grow on the soles of the feet. These are non-cancerous skin growths and are caused due to the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). A verruca is by itself painless, but due to pressure exerted by the body weight, it can produce pain. Verrucas are caused due to the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). They are common among children and teenagers. Direct contact can spread this virus. The virus can lurk in public locker rooms, gyms, public shower rooms, swimming pools and a person walking barefoot can get infected with
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Verrucas (verrucae) or plantar warts are small, rough, raised or flattened lumps that occur over the pressure areas of the feet. These are commonly caused by infections with different strains of the human papilloma virus (HPV). The virus may be isolated from the skin cells of verrucae