vote. California-The Golden State. It is famous for many things everyone knows but also for things that'll probably surprise you. Most of us know that California is the home of movi... Most of us know that California is the home of movie stars (of course Hollywood is there), but very few people know that it is one of the major cheese producing States in the USA! California is a progressive state, with an experimental culture that always thinks ahead, whether in technology, fashion or social issues.
Click to view full Infographic. The cuisine of California is characterized by fresh produce and fusions, from the fertile Salinas Valley, known as the salad bowl of the United States, to the wine countries across the state, and the vast diversity of urban areas like Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay Area. The California roll might be the most famous fusion of California’s cuisine. A sushi roll consisting of crab meat, avocado, cucumber, rice and seaweed, the California roll is a combination of Japanese and California cultures.
California-The Golden State. It is famous for many things everyone knows but also for things that'll probably surprise you. Most of us know that California is the home of movie stars (of course Hollywood is there), but very few people know that it is one of the major cheese producing States in the USA! California is a progressive state, with an experimental culture that always thinks ahead, whether in technology, fashion or social issues.
California is the most populous state (and the third largest by area). To put California's population, approximately 38 million people, in perspective, one out of every eight Americans is from California. 9. The fortune cookie was inspired by the Japanese fortune tradition o-mikuji and invented in California. 10. The U.S. paid Mexico $15 million for war damages. In turn, Mexico ceded nearly half of its territory, including California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and parts of Colorado, Nevada, and Utah. California officially became a state (the 31st) in 1850. 2. California was originally known as the Grizzly Bear State.
Share to: 1  5 Famous California Inventors California is the most populous state in the entire country. 2  It is home to famous landmarks like the Golden Gate Bridge, Alcatraz, and Yosemite National Park. 1 5 Famous California Inventors California is the most populous state in the entire country. 2  It is home to famous landmarks like the Golden Gate Bridge, Alcatraz, and Yosemite National Park. 3  While sunny Cal….
Los Angeles is the biggest city in the state of California and one of the biggest in the US and around the world. This city is known for most of the world as one of the US’ entertainment capital. Hollywood is arguably the district that defines Los Angeles as an entertainment center not only the US but for the rest of
. Los Angeles is the biggest city in the state of California and one of the biggest in the US and around the world. This city is known for most of the world as one of the US’ entertainment capital. Hollywood is arguably the district that defines Los Angeles as an entertainment center not only the US but for the rest of the world.
The word California originally referred to the entire region composed of the Baja California Peninsula of Mexico, the current U.S. states of California, Nevada, and Utah, and parts of Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming. The California Gold Rush of the 1850s is still seen as a symbol of California's economic style, which tends to generate technology, social, entertainment, and economic fads and booms and related busts.