Shares & Saves. Save. Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) is an enzyme that can be found in the heart, brain and skeletal muscle. A high level of CPK is not a good sign and is an indicator of heart attacks, strokes and other serious diseases. How CPK is Tested. CPK levels are tested in the blood. A doctor or nurse will draw blood from the patient and send it off to the laboratory for testing. This test may be ordered up to three times a day for patients who are in the hospital.
Enzymes are complex proteins that facilitate chemical changes in every part of the body. Your body needs enzymes to function. The CPK isoenzymes test is a way to measure the levels of an enzyme called creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in your blood. CPK can be broken down into three distinct parts: 1  CPK-1 comes mainly from the brain and lungs. 2  CPK-2 is mainly from the heart. 3  CPK-3 is from skeletal muscle. 
A creatine kinase (CK) test may be used to detect inflammation of muscles (myositis) or serious muscle damage and/or to diagnose rhabdomyolysis if a person has signs and symptoms, such as muscle weakness, muscle aches, and dark urine. 
The CPK blood test is a laboratory test that measures creatine phosphokinase (CPK), which is one of the enzymes found in the brain, heart, and skeletal muscles. This is a useful test for helping doctors to diagnose problems such as muscle damage, heart attack, and related conditions. slide 1 of 4. Results. There are many conditions that can cause the results of a CPK blood test to be abnormal. These conditions include inflammation of the muscle of the heart; heart attack; stroke; inflammation of the skeletal muscles; muscular dystrophy; death of muscular tissue; and convulsions.
This test measures the amount of an enzyme called creatine kinase (CK) in your blood. CK is a type of protein. The muscle cells in your body need CK to function. Levels of CK can rise after a heart attack, skeletal muscle injury, strenuous exercise, or drinking too much alcohol, and from taking certain medicines or supplements. If this test shows that your CK levels are high, you may have muscle or heart damage.
CPK is an enzyme called creatine kinase. It is mostly found in the heart, brain and muscle tissues. When there is trauma or damage to those tissues the enzyme is released into … the bloodstream where it shows up as an elevated CPK on bloodwork. CPK is often elevated after a heavy workout or any type of crushing injury. 
CPK is the abbreviation for a blood test called creatine phosphokinase. CPK is an enzyme found primarily in muscles. This includes the muscles in the heart. Any muscle injury or damage can cause a rise in the blood level of CPK. For example, a person would likely have a high CPK after a fall.
Creatine Phosphokinase (CPK). Creatine phosphokinase (a.k.a., creatine kinase, CPK, or CK) is an enzyme (a protein that helps to elicit chemical changes in your body) found in your heart, brain, and skeletal muscles. When muscle tissue is damaged, CPK leaks into your blood. 
When the CPK level in the blood is very high, it often means there has been injury or stress to the heart, skeletal muscle tissue, or even the brain. This is because CPK leaks into the bloodstream whenever this type of damage occurs. Results. There are many conditions that can cause the results of a CPK blood test to be abnormal. These conditions include inflammation of the muscle of the heart; heart attack; stroke; inflammation of the skeletal muscles; muscular dystrophy; death of muscular tissue; and convulsions.
CK is an abbreviation for creatine kinase-also known as CPK-or phosphocreatine kinase. Creatine kinase is a muscle enzyme found in three different types in the human body. In skeletal muscle it’s in the form of CK-MM, in the brain, CK-BB, and in the heart muscle, CK-MB. These forms are known as isoenzymes. 