*Sensations : ﻿Sensation: also known as a perception, is a feeling that occurs when the brain interprets sensory impulses. - the sensation depends on which region of the brain recieves the impulse. Projection: the process by which the brain causes a sensation to seem to come from the region of the body being stimulted. 1 pain impulses originating from the head travel on the sensory fibers of cranial nerves. 2  impulses that do not originate from the brain travel on the sensory fibers of spinal nerves and processed in the gray matter, then transmitted to the brain.
Central relay station for sensory impulses ascending from other parts of the nervous system to the cerebral cortex. Receives all sensory impulses (except smell) and channels them to appropriate regions of cortex for interpretation. Produces a general awareness of certain sensations, such as pain, touch, and temperature. Cerebellum. Communicates with other parts of the CNS by means of three pairs of nerve tracts called Cerebellar puduncles. Brings sensory information concerning position of limbs, joints, and other body parts to the cerebellum. Sends correcting impulses to the midbrain.
The sensory nervous system is a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information. A sensory system consists of sensory receptors, neural pathways, and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception. 
How the brain interprets electrical impulses sent by neurons. University of California, San Diego neurobiologists have uncovered evidence that sheds light on the long-standing mystery of how the brain makes sense of the information contained in electrical impulses sent to it by millions of neurons from the body.
The Neuron. The neuron, a nerve cell, is the functional unit of the nervous system that carries the impulse (the message) to the appropriate part of the nervous system or interprets the impulse and allows a response. There are three types of neurons and each has different functions. 3) motor neurons —carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. The Response Mechanism. When a stimulus is received by a sensory neuron, the impulse (or message) is carried through fibrous extensions called dendrites to the cell body.
1 A sensation is a feeling that occurs when the brain interprets sensory impulses. 2  The nerve impulses that travel away from the receptors into the central nervous system are similar, because of this the resulting sensation depends on what part of the brain recieves the impulse. 1 pain impulses originating from the head travel on the sensory fibers of cranial nerves. 2  impulses that do not originate from the brain travel on the sensory fibers of spinal nerves and processed in the gray matter, then transmitted to the brain.
The ventral root contains efferent (motor) fibers that carry messages from the spinal cord to the effectors. Cell bodies of the efferent fibers reside in the spinal cord gray matter. These roots become nerves that innervate (transmit nerve impulses to) muscles and organs throughout the body. Twelve pairs of cranial nerves transmit from special sensory receptors information on the senses of balance, smell, sight, taste, and hearing. Sensory neurons connect sensory receptors to the CNS. The CNS processes the signal, and transmits a message back to an effector organ (an organ that responds to a nerve impulse from the CNS) through a motor neuron. The PNS has two parts: the somatic nervous system and the autonomic nervous system.
cerebrum. The largest section of the brain. It is located in the upper portion and is the area that possesses our thoughts, judgment, memory, and association skills, and the ability to discriminate between items. The outer layer of the cerebrum is the cerebral cortex, which is composed of folds of gray matter. The brain is one of the largest organs in the body and coordinates most body activities. It is the center for all thought, memory, judgment, and emotion. Each part of the brain is responsible for controlling different body functions, such as temperature regulation and breathing.
Sensory neurons receive impulses and carry them from the sense organs to the spinal cord or brain. Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and interpret the impulse. Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. 1  Draw and label the structure of a typical nerve cell. 3) motor neurons —carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. The Response Mechanism. When a stimulus is received by a sensory neuron, the impulse (or message) is carried through fibrous extensions called dendrites to the cell body.
﻿Sensations: 1  A sensation is a feeling that occurs when the brain interprets sensory impulses. 2  The nerve impulses that travel away from the receptors into the central nervous system are similar, because of this the resulting sensation depends on what part of the brain recieves the impulse. 1 pain impulses originating from the head travel on the sensory fibers of cranial nerves. 2  impulses that do not originate from the brain travel on the sensory fibers of spinal nerves and processed in the gray matter, then transmitted to the brain.