1 You should try to drink only water. 2  It depends on the test your having done. 3  If you drink black coffee, with no additives, you can still have fasting labs done. 4  However, coffee will increase your blood pressure and affect some tests .... 1 Of these, the blood sugar and triglycerides are the most variable. 2  They are affected mostly by sugar intake. 3  It is very important to stay hydrated before a fasting blood test so that your blood and urine do not falsely indicate your kidneys are malfunctioning.
Instructions: If you are asked to fast for your test: · Do not eat or drink anything (except water) for at least 8 hours before you go to the laboratory to have your blood taken. If your physician has ordered lipid tests, you must fast for at least 12 hours. You may drink water, but no juice, tea or coffee. · Do not smoke, chew gum, or exercise. You may be required to fast before having a blood test. This is because certain test values change following the digestion of food. The measurement of blood sugar (glucose) and some blood lipids (fats and cholesterol) are common examples.
Patient Information: Fasting Blood Tests. If your doctor orders a fasting blood test, you should not have anything to eat or drink for 12 hours before you go to the laboratory to have your blood taken. Some examples of fasting blood tests are fasting glucose, fasting triglycerides, fasting lipids and glucose tolerance. 
1 If you drink black coffee, with no additives, you can still have fasting labs done. 2  However, coffee will increase your blood pressure and affect some tests 3  .... especially a CRP. 4  Your paying for these tests. 5  I would recommend no coffee 10-12 hours prior if your not sure. 6  The best method is to call the laboratory. 1 Of these, the blood sugar and triglycerides are the most variable. 2  They are affected mostly by sugar intake. 3  It is very important to stay hydrated before a fasting blood test so that your blood and urine do not falsely indicate your kidneys are malfunctioning.
If your health care provider adds non-fasting tests such as red blood cell counts or kidney function tests to a fasting blood profile, you will still have to fast. This means going without food or drink other than water for a certain period of time. 
Each test is different and only your doctor can definitively tell you how to prepare for your blood tests. In what way or manner does drinking coffee before blood tests affect the results. For tests which require pre-test fasting, coffee will affect your blood, your metabolism and your blood test results. Only water is allowed for certain tests, otherwise an inaccurate reading may result. slide 2 of 5
Your doctor will inform you what time your blood test is scheduled, whether to fast and, if so, how long you must fast beforehand, generally between eight and 12 hours. Prepare for a water-only fast by eating a nutritious meal prior to the fasting period. 
1 I am going for a blood test tomorrow morning (consisting of a whole range of sub-tests including cholesterol, thyroid, etc.). 2  My instructions were 12 hours of fasting including all solids and liquids BESIDES water as well as black coffee in the morning... 3  so YES you may have BLACK coffee. 1 Of these, the blood sugar and triglycerides are the most variable. 2  They are affected mostly by sugar intake. 3  It is very important to stay hydrated before a fasting blood test so that your blood and urine do not falsely indicate your kidneys are malfunctioning.
The most accurate test to determine your cholesterol requires fasting for 12 to 14 hours before a blood sample is taken. Fasting is necessary because triglyceride levels--one component of your total cholesterol count--can change dramatically after a meal. 