It’s not unusual for divorce mediators to charge $200-300 as a charge to prepare a memorandum of understanding. I don’t, but most mediators do. Your time in mediation will vary, of course, depending on how complex your affairs are and how easily the two of you reach agreement.
1 Some mediators charge a fee to file a request for mediation, which can cost as much as $50, but most mediators do not charge for the initial request. 2  A written record of mediation sessions can cost extra. 3  Typically stenographers and court reporters charge $5-$10 per page.
Totaling Mediation Costs. A mediation, however, costs at most $2,000 per day and most mediations last on average of no more than two to three days. So, the total cost to you for an average mediation is $6,000 and three days worth of stress.
On average, the cost of simply filing your initial papers for a lawsuit is between $500 and $1500. This price does not include the fees your lawyer charges for researching and drafting the papers.
For the majority of divorcing couples contemplating some variant of client-empowered mediation, the cost of mediation is a function of three things: (1) any introductory, setup, or memorandum charge, (2) the amount of time you spend in mediation, and (3) your mediator’s hourly rate.
Mediation, however, will usually be much less costly than adversarial litigation. A divorce mediator in private practice might charge anywhere from $100 to a couple of hundred dollars an hour, depending on where the mediator practices.
1 Mediation services are generally charged by the hour. 2  Most mediators charge $200-$800 per hour for services. 3  Disputes that are mediated can take from a half a day to several days to resolve, but most are resolved in one 10-hour day or less.
1 Some mediators add a case management fee, which generally costs $100-$200. 2  Some mediators charge a fee to file a request for mediation, which can cost as much as $50, but most mediators do not charge for the initial request. 3  A written record of mediation sessions can cost extra.