I know 32 degrees is freezing...but at what temp. do we experience a *light* frost? The forecast is for 37 degrees tonight..... But, a light frost can form with an average air temperature somewhere between 33 and about 37/38. Some surfaces radiate heat better than others, which is why you will get frost at times on elevated surfaces such as car windshields, blades of grass, roofs, or mulch when nothing else is frosty.
Frost or freezing occurs when the temperature of air falls below the freezing point of water (0 °C, 32 °F, 273.15 K). This is usually measured at the height of 1.2 m above the ground surface. There is a rather subjective scale to show several degrees of frost severity: 1  slight frost: 0 to −3.5 °C (32.0 to 25.7 °F). For example, frost is used sometimes to indicate ice which forms on the ground during cold nights, but other times to indicate air temperature below freezing point. Hoar frost should be used for any frosted surface but it is sometimes reserved to indicate big ice crystals forming on very cold surfaces.
Winter and spring are usually associated with freezing temperatures. A freeze happens when the temperature falls to---or below--32 degrees F. While your fruit trees might withstand temperatures as low as 28 F, a mere three degrees lower may damage leaves, blooms and fruits. 
Now frost is a covering of ice crystals on the surface produced by the depositing of water vapor to a surface cooler than 0° C (32° F). The deposition occurs when the temperature of the surface falls below the frost point. Similarly, dew forms when the air or surface temperature falls below the dew point temperature. Thus, if the temperature on the ground or an object such as a bush or a car windshield near the ground falls below the frost point, frost crystals may form. But the measured  surface temperature  may still be above freezing.
A light frost occurs when the temperature drops to below 32 degrees Fahrenheit, and refers to the conditions that allow a layer of ice crystals to form when water vapor condenses and freezes without first becoming dew. 1 Harvest basil and other tender herbs before a light frost (when the temperature drops to 32 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  Even if they survive the frost, they don't do well in cold temperatures. 3  The same is true for most annuals.
Frost forms when the temperature of a solid surface in the open cools to below the freezing point of water and for the most clearly crystalline forms of frost in particular, below the frost point in still air. Frost is the coating or deposit of ice that may form in humid air in cold conditions, usually overnight. In temperate climates it most commonly appears as fragile white crystals or frozen dew drops near the ground, but in cold climates it occurs in a greater variety of forms.
Frost (also called white or hoarfrost) occurs when air temperatures dip below 32°F and ice crystals form on plant leaves, injuring, and sometimes killing, tender plants. If a frost is predicted, cover your plants, both to retain as much soil heat and moisture as possible and to protect them against strong winds, which can hasten drying and cooling. You can use newspapers, baskets, tarps, straw, and other materials to cover your plants.