Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) may be malignant (cancer) or benign (not cancer). They are most common in the stomach and small intestine but may be found anywhere in or near the GI tract. Some scientists believe that GISTs begin in cells called interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), in the wall of the GI tract. The metastatic tumor is the same type of tumor as the primary tumor. For example, if a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) spreads to the liver, the tumor cells in the liver are actually GIST cells. The disease is metastatic GIST, not liver cancer.
1 Gastrointestinal stromal tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the gastrointestinal tract. 2  Genetic factors can increase the risk of having a gastrointestinal stromal tumor. 3  Signs of gastrointestinal stromal tumors include blood in the stool or vomit.he metastatic tumor is the same type of tumor as the primary tumor. For example, if a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) spreads to the liver, the tumor cells in the liver are actually GIST cells. The disease is metastatic GIST, not liver cancer.
Sex cord-stromal tumors include granulosa cell tumors (which differentiate toward female characteristics), fibroma-thecomas, and Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors (which differentiate toward male characteristics). Granulosa-stromal cell tumors include granulosa cell tumors, thecomas, and fibromas [ 3 ]. They account for 70 percent of ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors. Among granulosa-stromal cell tumors, fibromas are the most common histology. These tumors occur with equal frequency among pre-and postmenopausal women. 
Introduction Sex cord-stromal neoplasms account for ~10% of all ovarian neoplasms. They are composed of various cell types derived from gonadal stroma and sex cords. They account for most of the hormonally active ovarian tumors. Granulosa cell tumors and Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors are the most common. Unlike patients with common epithelial tumors, in which 75% are considered to be at stage III or IV at diagnosis, patients with these tumors are at stage I at diagnosis 70% of the time. Also unlike common epithelial tumors, sex cord-stromal tumors often have more specific symptoms.
Sex cord-stromal tumors are groups of tumors composed of granulosa cells, theca cells, Sertoli cells, Leydig cells, and fibroblasts of stromal origin, singly or in various combinations. Differentials. Sertoliform endometrioid carcinoma, first described by Roth in 1982 refers to a specific type of endometrioid carcinoma that has a pattern similar to that of sex cord-stromal tumors, particularly the Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract.GISTs arise in the smooth muscle pacemaker interstitial cell of Cajal, or similar cells.
Definition. Testicular sex cord stromal tumors include Leydig cell tumors, Sertoli cell tumors, and granulosa cell tumors. Leydig cell tumors (see the image below) are derived from normal Leydig cells that produce testosterone and are located in the interstitium of the testis. Leydig cell tumor. Note the clear cytoplasm. Leydig cell tumor. Boys with Leydig cell sex cord stromal tumors present with endocrinologic symptoms (virilization, gynecomastia), while men present with a testicular mass; some (10-30%) have gynecomastia. In boys, Leydig cell tumors are benign. However, in men, 10-17% of these tumors are malignant.
Stromal cells are connective tissue cells of any organ, for example in the uterine mucosa (endometrium), prostate, bone marrow, and the ovary. They are cells that support the function of the parenchymal cells of that organ. Fibroblasts and pericytes are among the most common types of stromal cells. The interaction between stromal cells and tumor cells is known to play a major role in cancer growth and progression. In addition, by regulating locally cytokine networks (e.g. M-CSF, LIF), bone marrow stromal cells have been described to be involved in human haematopoiesis and inflammatory processes. Certain types of skin cancers (basal cell carcinomas) cannot spread throughout the body because the cancer cells require nearby stromal cells to continue their division. The loss of these stromal growth factors when the cancer moves throughout the body prevents the cancer from invading other organs.
A gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is a type of tumor that occurs in the gastrointestinal tract, most commonly in the stomach or small intestine. The tumors are thought to grow from specialized cells found in the gastrointestinal tract called interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) or precursors to these cells. 
Granulosa cell tumors are more often malignant than thecomas or fibromas, which are most often benign. Ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors of the granulosa-stromal cell type (granulosa cell tumors, fibromas, and thecomas) are reviewed here.ex cord-stromal tumors include granulosa cell tumors (which differentiate toward female characteristics), fibroma-thecomas, and Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors (which differentiate toward male characteristics).