Report Abuse. Can't land-Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune, Uranus are all gas giants-essentially, chemically they're almost like huge balls of farts. Theres a theory that the core may be metallic hydrogen-theres no evidence to support this speculation but its good solid speculation. It does not take too long... and it is not all gas The problem with landing on Jupiter would be its terrible gravity that would crush us long before we got anywhere near something we could land on. It is a huge planet with storms raging .....
Saturn and Jupiter have no solid surface. Something could land on Pluto. The current probe en route to Pluto will not even orbit, because it takes so much fuel to decelerate and enter orbit. Craft have landed on Venus. Jupiter and Saturn have no solid surface to actually land on. Your craft would fall into deeper and deeper more dense layers of atmosphere until it got crushed. Venus would be possible for spacecraft to land on. You would need to take into consideration the immense atmospheric pressure when designing your craft.
Report Abuse. Saturn and Jupiter are gas giants, which means there's really nothing for them to land on, until you get to the icy/rocky core. However, at that point, the pressure will be crushing. Venus poses a problem due to the high heat and atmospheric pressure. Jupiter and Saturn have no solid surface to actually land on. Your craft would fall into deeper and deeper more dense layers of atmosphere until it got crushed. Venus would be possible for spacecraft to land on. You would need to take into consideration the immense atmospheric pressure when designing your craft.
Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun and the largest in the Solar System. It is a giant planet with a mass one-thousandth that of the Sun, but two and a half times that of all the other planets in the Solar System combined. Jupiter is a gas giant, along with Saturn (Uranus and Neptune are ice giants). 
Report Abuse. I do not think that any one will chose Jupiter to land on there are a lot of dangers to be encountered, if a probe is send to land on Jupiter, it will possible be hit by by giant rocks, so a man landing on the planet Jupiter is impossible, Emmanuel M · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down.
We think of a gas as something very. . . well, airy. After all, air is the gas we all know and love. We breathe it and fly planes right through it with no trouble. So it makes sense to think that a gas planet must be like a big, airy cloud floating out in space. But take another look at Jupiter and Saturn—or pictures of them. Notice how round they are. You will never see a cloud on Earth so nearly spherical.
Not on Jupiter proper, because Jupiter is not a rocky planet as is Mercury, Venus, Earth & Mars. Any spacecraft looking to 'land' on Jupiter would never settle on solid land. (In fact, if Jupiter had been more massive it would have been a star in its on right.) The MOONS of Jupiter are a worthy destination though! It does not take too long... and it is not all gas The problem with landing on Jupiter would be its terrible gravity that would crush us long before we got anywhere near something we could land on. It is a huge planet with storms raging .....
Jupiter is one of the four 'gas giant' planets. Unlike rocky worlds like Earth, Jupiter is composed almost entirely of gas. Inside this swirling ball of gas lies a small core of solid rock. Jupiter is a 'gas giant', so it's not possible to land a ship on its surface. Travelling far below the clouds of this planet is not advised. Temperatures and pressures soon begin to rise. So far, no probes have survived over 150 metres below the surface of Jupiter. No. Nothing can land on Jupiter as it does not have a solid  surface. However, one atmosphereic probe was sent to Jupiter in  1995, and the Galileo space probe was deliberat … e burned up in  Jupiter's atmosphere in 2002. 1 person found this useful.
No. Nothing can land on Jupiter as it does not have a solid  surface. The Galileo spacecraft orbited Jupiter from 1995 until  2002. In 1995 an atmospheric probe with the Gal … ileo mission entered  Jupiter's atmosphere to study it. No. Nothing can land on Jupiter as it does not have a solid  surface. However, one atmosphereic probe was sent to Jupiter in  1995, and the Galileo space probe was deliberat … e burned up in  Jupiter's atmosphere in 2002. 1 person found this useful.