© 2002 AAEP. 1. Introduction Clostridial myositis, myonecrosis, cellulitis, and ma-lignant edema are synonymous terms used to de-scribe severe necrotizing soft tissue infectionsassociated with Clostridium spp. in horses. Perkins, DVM., Diplomate ACVIM Clostridial myonecrosis is an infrequent but life-threatening complication of intramuscular or inad-vertent perivascular injections in horses. Rapid diagnosis and aggressive therapeutic intervention canimprove chances of recovery.
Description of Clostridial myonecrosis. Clostridial myonecrosis: (pathology) a deadly form of gangrene usually caused by Clostridium bacteria that produce toxins that cause tissue death; can be used as a bioweapon. Source: WordNet 2.1. 
Necrotic myofibers. Rhabdomyolysis (literally dissolution of striated muscle) is myonecrosis on a massive scale with leakage of myofiber contents, including myoglobin, CK, and other proteins into the circulation. Myonecrosis is caused by two basic mechanisms, mechanical physical injury and energy depletion. Failure of ATP-powered pumps allows influx of calcium into the myofiber. Calcium activates proteases and phospolipases, leading to disintegration of plasma membrane, contractile filaments, and other myofiber contents.
Gangrene is the death of body tissue. Gas gangrene, also known as clostridial myonecrosis, is a fast-spreading and potentially life-threatening form of gangrene caused by a bacterial infection. Signs and symptoms of gas gangrene include: 1  air under the skin. 2  pain. 3  swelling. 4  pale skin that turns gray, brownish-red, or black. 5  blisters with foul-smelling discharge. 6  a crackly sensation when you touch your skin in the affected area. 7  fever. 8  perspiration.
These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Myonecrosis: 
the death of muscle fibers. Progressive, or clostridial, myonecrosis is caused by the anaerobic bacteria of the genus Clostridium. Seen in deep wound infections, progressive myonecrosis is accompanied by pain, tenderness, a brown serous exudate, and a rapid accumulation of gas within the muscle tissue. The affected muscle turns a blackish green.
Causes of Gas Gangrene. Gas gangrene is caused by bacteria called Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) . In some cases, it can be caused by Group A Streptococcus. Gas gangrene generally occurs at a recent surgical or injury site. Rarely, it happens spontaneously, without apparent cause. Signs and symptoms of gas gangrene include: 1  air under the skin. 2  pain. 3  swelling. 4  pale skin that turns gray, brownish-red, or black. 5  blisters with foul-smelling discharge. 6  a crackly sensation when you touch your skin in the affected area. 7  fever. 8  perspiration.
Diabetic myonecrosis or diabetic muscle infarction (DMI) is a rare diabetic complication. It occurs in poorly controlled diabetic patients. It is generally caused by an infarcted muscle tissue, usually in the thigh muscle. It is usually found in adults and in association with neuropathy, nephropathy, retinopathy and hypertension. The major symptom of diabetic myonecrosis is the severe onset of muscle pain, generally occurs in the thigh muscle. Diabetic muscle infarction usually occurs in the later stages of diabetes. There are several causes why diabetics may feel the pain and muscle pain is a common pain complaint