Tombola. A tombola is a must have at the summer fair but is also a good fit with many other fundraising events. A tombola is a must have for any school, church or youth group fundraising event and is often a major fundraiser at fetes and fundraising fairs. The basic idea is very simple. A tombola is a must have at the summer fair but is also a good fit with many other fundraising events. A tombola is a must have for any school, church or youth group fundraising event and is often a major fundraiser at fetes and fundraising fairs
tombola. n. 1. (Gambling, except Cards) Brit a type of lottery, esp at a fete, fête in which tickets are drawn from a revolving. [Drum: c19 From, italian from tombolare to; somersault see]. tumble tombola. n. 1. (Gambling, except Cards) Brit a type of lottery, esp at a fete, fête in which tickets are drawn from a revolving. drum
tombola. n. 1. (Gambling, except Cards) Brit a type of lottery, esp at a fete, fête in which tickets are drawn from a revolving. [Drum: c19 From, italian from tombolare to; somersault see]. tumble 
Tombola is Bingo in Italian. If you ment on Neopets, It is a game where you can pull out a random ticket from the box (For free) and win a prize. You can only play once per day and sometimes you may not win anything :(.
Tombola is a raffle which originates in Southern Italy and which is mostly played at Christmas time. Prizes are often only symbolic. With the Italian massive emigration of the 19th and 20th centuries, the game was exported abroad and it took different forms and names such as Bingo. In the UK, a tombola is a raffle in which the prizes are already assigned to winning tickets before the start (typically all the winning tickets end with the same digit-or if being strict with a five or a zero).
A game in which people pick tickets out of a revolving drum and certain tickets win immediate prizes, typically played at a fete or fair: entrance includes a tombola and raffle [mass noun]: traditional games such as tombola or bingo. More example sentences. 
Fundraising Information Sheet-Running a Tombola Introduction Running a tombola is one of the most traditional ways of fund-raising and one of the most popular. And they are extremely effective at making money. A general tombola can include anything. And they’re fun as you might win a bottle of wine or a tin of beans – or nothing. Themed tombolas are popular but make sure that you match the type of prize to the type of people who will be at the event.