The measure of photochemical efficiency is made by meauring the amount of oxygen produced by leaves following exposure to various wavelengths. It is evident from these absorption and output plots that only the red and blue ends of the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum are used by plants in photosynthesis. The reflection and transmission of the middle of the spectrum gives the leaves their green visual color. The measured rate of photosynthesis as a function of absorbed wavelength correlates well with the absorption frequencies of chlorophyll a, but makes it evident that there are some other contributors to the absorption.
The wavelength of light determines its color. For example, The wavelength of red is about 700 nm and the wavelength of blue light is about 470 nm. Visible light is a part of a larger spectrum of radiation called the electromagnetic spectrum. Plants require visible light with wavelengths in the range of 400 to 700 nanometers for growth and photosynthesis Ultraviolet radiation (UV) is dangerous to cells because it breaks chemical bonds. They do not participate directly in photosynthetic reactions but are able to pass their energy to chlorophyll a. Visible Light is one small part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Electromagnetic Spectrum is a set of types of radiation. Radiation is energy that travels and spreads out as it goes.
Concept 2: Electromagnetic Energy. The solar energy called visible light drives photosynthesis. Solar radiation is composed of electromagnetic energy that travels through space in a manner analogous to the motion of waves in water. The distance between the crests of waves is called the wavelength. 
Photosynthesis depends upon the absorption of light by pigments in the leaves of plants. The most important of these is chlorophyll-a, but there are several accessory pigments that also contribute. The measured rate of photosynthesis as a function of absorbed wavelength correlates well with the absorption frequencies of chlorophyll a, but makes it evident that there are some other contributors to the absorption.
EM Spectrum. The electromagnetic spectrum ranges from the shorter wavelengths (including gamma and x-rays) to the longer wavelengths (including microwaves and broadcast radio waves). There are several regions of the electromagnetic spectrum which are useful for remote sensing. It is important to note how small a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum is represented by the visible region. Radiation Interaction with the Earth. Radiation that is not absorbed or scattered in the atmosphere can reach and interact with the Earth's surface.
Accessory pigments include chlorophyll b and a group of pigments called carotenoids. They do not participate directly in photosynthetic reactions but are able to pass their energy to chlorophyll a. Visible Light is one small part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Electromagnetic Spectrum is a set of types of radiation. Radiation is energy that travels and spreads out as it goes.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. Chlorophyll, the green pigment common to all photosynthetic cells, absorbs all wavelengths of visible light except green, which it reflects to be detected by our eyes. Black pigments absorb all of the wavelengths that strike them.
Leaves appear green because chlorophyll molecules in leaf cells reflect green and yellow wavelengths of light, and absorb the other wavelengths.. The color of the things comes from the wavelengths of light reflected (in other words, those not absorbed). Source(s): GreenyGreen · 5 years ago. They do not participate directly in photosynthetic reactions but are able to pass their energy to chlorophyll a. Visible Light is one small part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Electromagnetic Spectrum is a set of types of radiation. Radiation is energy that travels and spreads out as it goes.
1 Glossary: Absorption Spectrum: results from the ability of pigments to absorb incident electromagnetic radiation. Like the action spectrum, the parameter of interest (light absorbed) is plotted as a function of the wavelength of the radiation. Various chlorophylls and accessory pigments have characteristic absorption spectra. The action spectrum of photosynthesis relates to the relative electron-exciting effectiveness of different wavelengths of light.