Children may also exhibit a higher number of speech interjections as they develop their language formulation abilities. Stuttering typically consists of speech disfluencies along with tension, struggle, secondary behaviors, or negative reactions to disfluencies (e.g., frustration). Disruptions in the forward flow of speech may consist of: 1  Repetitions: repeating of a syllable, sound, word, or phrase (e.g., “li-li-li-like this”). 2  Prolongations: holding onto a sound for an extended period of time (e.g, “lll
(February 2008). A speech disfluency, also spelled speech dysfluency, is any of various breaks, irregularities, or non-lexical vocables that occurs within the flow of otherwise fluent speech. Fillers are parts of speech which are not generally recognized as purposeful or containing formal meaning, usually expressed as pauses such as uh, like and er, but also extending to repairs (He was wearing a black—uh, I mean a blue, a blue shirt), and articulation problems such as stuttering.
The types of stuttering and frequency of the disfluencies dictate how “fluent” a person’s speech is perceived to be. Some types of disfluencies are typical in preschoolers as language emerges. Others, such as part-word repetitions (“Sat-sat-Saturday”) or prolongations (“sssssssssaturday”) are not. As children develop speech and language, variations of disfluencies can appear and disappear. Paying attention to the time since onset and the types of stuttering can be helpful in deciding whether or not an evaluation is needed.
Stuttering occurs when the flow of speech is broken by abnormal stoppages, repetitions, or prolongations of sounds and syllables. Disruptions in the forward flow of speech may consist of: 1  Repetitions: repeating of a syllable, sound, word, or phrase (e.g., “li-li-li-like this”). 2  Prolongations: holding onto a sound for an extended period of time (e.g, “lll
Stuttering is a speech/language impairment characterized by disruptions in the forward flow of speech (or speech disfluencies), such as repetitions of whole words or parts of words, prolongations of sounds, or complete blockages of sound. 
Summarizing. Cluttering is a language based fluency disorder. When language production is relatively easy a person with cluttering is capable to produce fluent and intelligible speech. When language production is more difficult, speech rate should be adjusted to the language complexity. Cluttering is a disorder of speech fluency, in which a person is not capable enough to adjust his/her speech rate to the syntactical (grammar) or phonological (word structure) demands of the moment. (Van Zaalen, 2009).
For many, certain life events are thought to trigger fluency difficulty. One of the triggers for developmental stuttering may be the development of grammar skills. Between the ages of 2 and 5 years, children learn many of the grammatical rules of language. At the same time, however, stuttering can affect more than just a person's observable speech. Some characteristics of stuttered speech are not as easy for listeners to detect. As a result, diagnosing stuttering requires the skills of a certified speech-language pathologist (SLP).
Neurogenic stuttering is a type of fluency disorder in which a person has difficulty in producing speech in a normal, smooth fashion. Individuals with fluency disorders may have speech that sounds fragmented or halting, with frequent interruptions and difficulty producing words without effort or struggle. 
Stuttering is a disruption in the forward flow of speech that is typically accompanied by physical tension, secondary behaviors, avoidance of communication, and/or negative reactions on the part of the speaker. Disruptions in the forward flow of speech may consist of: 1  Repetitions: repeating of a syllable, sound, word, or phrase (e.g., “li-li-li-like this”). 2  Prolongations: holding onto a sound for an extended period of time (e.g, “lll
Speech and language impairment are basic categories that might be drawn in issues of communication involve hearing, speech, language, and fluency. A speech impairment is characterized by difficulty in articulation of words. Examples include stuttering or problems producing particular sounds. 