This is the speed a rocket should attain in order to be able to escape from the Earth’s gravitational field and fly to other planets. It follows from the laws of orbital mechanics that the escape velocity (11.2 km/s) is equal to the orbital speed (7.9 km/s) multiplied by 1.414 (i.e. by the square root of 2). Week 6. Speed determines the possible trajectories around the Earth. If a rocket is launched from the surface of the Earth, it needs to reach a speed of at least 7.9 kilometres per second in order to reach space.
A rocket launched from earth has to reach 7.9 kilometers per second  in order to overcome earth's gravity and reach space. The space  station generally zips along at 17,000 … miles per hour. The Saturn V rocket that carried Apollo 11 in the rocket's final stage (the stage when it was actually in space) burnt for 6 minutes and probelled to rocket to aprox. 25,000 m … iles per hour. 16 people found this useful. .
If a rocket is launched from the surface of the Earth, it needs to reach a speed of at least 7.9 kilometers per second (4.9 miles per second) in order to reach space. This speed of 7.9 kilometers per second is known as the orbital velocity, it corresponds to more than 20 times the speed of sound. © GFDL. The 'second cosmic velocity' is the so-called escape velocity from the Earth: 11.2 kilometers per second. This is the speed a rocket should attain in order to be able to escape from the Earth’s gravitational field and fly to other planets. It follows from the laws of orbital mechanics that the escape velocity (11.2 km/s) is equal to the orbital speed (7.9 km/s) multiplied by 1.414 (i.e. by the square root of 2)
Any rocket can achieve a very high speed if it accelerates for a long time. A conventional rocket has a hard time doing this because a huge amount of fuel must be carried into space in order for this to happen. This may make the rocket too heavy to lift off. Conventional rockets are generally designed to meet the speeds necessary for them to go where they need to go, and not go much faster. Generally, a conventional rocket has to be going about 17,000 mph for it to achieve orbit; otherwise known as LEO -- Low Earth Orbit. This is the minimum speed for a spacegoing rocket. The farther from the Earth, the faster it needs to go
A rocket ship, on its way to the moon, can get up to almost 25,000 miles per hour in order to escape the Earths atmosphere. However, it does not go that fast the whole way. Also, the ship cannot fly directly from the Earth straight to the moon surface. 
A rocket launched from earth has to reach 7.9 kilometers per second  in order to overcome earth's gravity and reach space. The space  station generally zips along at 17,000 … miles per hour. 
This really depends on what you mean by into space. If you just want to get into orbit around the Earth, you need to reach speeds of at least 4.9 miles per second, or about 17,600 miles per hour. If you want to completely escape Earth's gravity and travel to another moon or planet, though, you need to be going even faster-at a speed of at least 7 miles per second or about 25,000 miles per hour. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmos. 2  Learn how