Magnesium oxide is a mineral supplement used to treat or prevent low levels of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is important for many systems in the body, but it is especially vital for healthy muscles and bones. Some people use magnesium oxide to relieve heartburn or indigestion. The supplement may also be used short-term as a laxative. The supplement is available over-the-counter (OTC) without a prescription.
2.Magnesium oxide and magnesium citrate are used as laxatives. 3.Magnesium oxide and magnesium citrate are used before surgeries to clean the intestines from stools. In addition, these drugs, in milder form, alleviate constipation. Also, these drugs/ supplements prevent and cure hypomagnesemia. Summary: 1.Magnesium citrate and magnesium oxide are the most widespread type of magnesium supplements available in the market. Among the two, magnesium oxide is the most commonly found in supplements since it is known to be the most economical mineral produced. Magnesium citrate is a type of organic salt chelating with citric acid whereas magnesium oxide is an inorganic salt. Magnesium oxide and magnesium citrate are used as laxatives. Magnesium oxide is absorbed by the body with less percent that is why some of it remains in the intestines and functions as laxative. Magnesium oxide and magnesium citrate are used before surgeries to clean the intestines from stools
It has an empirical formula of Mg O and consists of a lattice of Mg 2+ ions and O 2− ions held together by ionic bonding. Magnesium hydroxide forms in the presence of water (MgO + H 2 O → Mg(OH) 2), but it can be reversed by heating it to separate moisture. Magnesium oxide is easily made by burning magnesium ribbon, which produces a very bright white light, and a powdery ash. The bright flame is very hard to extinguish and it emits a harmful intensity of UV light. Inhalation of magnesium oxide fumes can cause metal fume fever.
Magnesium oxide (Mg O), or magnesia, is a white hygroscopic solid mineral that occurs naturally as periclase and is a source of magnesium (see also oxide). Magnesium oxide is easily made by burning magnesium ribbon, which produces a very bright white light, and a powdery ash. The bright flame is very hard to extinguish and it emits a harmful intensity of UV light. Inhalation of magnesium oxide fumes can cause metal fume fever.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Rhett Trappman. Confidence votes 886. Magnesium oxide (MgO) is a compound which is formed when oxygen (a gas & non-metal) from the air reacts with magnesium (a metal) to form a white powder known as magnesium oxide, a non-metal. Usually, heat is what makes the two elements (magnesium and oxygen) react. In food, magnesium oxide is used to prevent caking. 
Magnesium oxide is a type of dietary supplement most commonly prescribed by doctors for low magnesium levels in the body. Magnesium oxide may also be used as an antacid or as a strong laxative right before surgery. Although it is available without a prescription, a doctor should be consulted before taking this supplement. Magnesium is important to the body as it helps maintain the health of muscles and nerves. Magnesium oxide is sometimes used as an antacid. When a person has a magnesium deficiency, she may exhibit symptoms such as muscle weakness and fatigue. Nuts are typically a good source of magnesium. Eating bananas can help boost magnesium levels without taking supplements. Avocados are
This medication is a mineral supplement used to prevent and treat low amounts of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is very important for the normal functioning of cells, nerves, muscles, bones, and the heart. Usually, a well-balanced diet provides normal blood levels of magnesium. However, certain situations cause your body to lose magnesium faster than you can replace it from your diet.
Magnesium oxide is produced by the calcination of magnesium carbonate or magnesium hydroxide or by the treatment of magnesium chloride with lime followed by heat. Calcining at different temperatures produces magnesium oxide of different reactivity. Magnesium oxide is easily made by burning magnesium ribbon, which produces a very bright white light, and a powdery ash. The bright flame is very hard to extinguish and it emits a harmful intensity of UV light. Inhalation of magnesium oxide fumes can cause metal fume fever.
Magnesium Oxide Warnings. You should not take more magnesium oxide than your doctor or the product label recommends. Too much magnesium in the blood can cause serious side effects. Before taking magnesium oxide, you should tell your doctor if you are allergic to it, antacids, laxatives, or any other drugs. Some people use magnesium oxide to relieve heartburn or indigestion. The supplement may also be used short-term as a laxative. The supplement is available over-the-counter (OTC) without a prescription.