The Karakoram Range. The Karakoram is a large mountain range spanning the borders between Pakistan, India and China, located in the regions of Gilgit-Baltistan (Pakistan), Ladakh (India), and Xinjiang (China). It is actually the northwestern extension of the Himalaya. 
Xinjiang is divided into the Dzungarian Basin in the north and the Tarim Basin in the south by a mountain range. Only about 4.3% of Xinjiang's land area is fit for human habitation. The autonomous region of the PRC was established on October 1, 1955, replacing the province. In 1955 (the first modern census in China was taken in 1953), Uyghurs were counted as 73% of Xinjiang's total population of 5.11 million.
K2, part of the Karakmoram mountain range, is located in the southwest corner of Xinjiang along the borders of Pakistan and China. The name literally means “mountains of gold” and the area is well-known for the minerals – including gold – that it provides. Josh is a writer, musician and entrepreneur who currently resides in Urumqi, capital of China's western province of Xinjiang.
En route to K2. K2 (28,251'), the second highest mountain on earth, is surrounded by some of the longest glaciers on earth. Bactrian camels carry our gear to K2 Base Camp at 12,900 feet, from where we don our backpacks for a 4-day trek to Advance Base Camp. We fly to Beijing, then on to Kashgar via Urumqi, the capital of China’s Xinjiang Province. Kashgar was once a fabled oasis on the Great Silk Route. We explore Kashgar’s photogenic Sunday marketplace, one of the largest in Central Asia.
Xinjiang is an autonomous region of the People's Republic of China. It is a large, sparsely populated area which takes up about one sixth of the country's territory. Xinjiang borders three provinces of China including the Tibet Autonomous Region to the south and Qinghai and Gansu provinces to the southeast. In addition, it borders eight separate countries: Mongolia to the east, Russia to the north, and Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India to the west. As part of the People's Republic of China, the official name of the region today is the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, although it is often called Xin for short. Among Uyghur activists who seek independence from China, the region is also referred to as Uyghuristan.
K2 is in the Karakoram mountain range. It lies partly in the Uygur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang of China and partly in the Northern Areas, the portion of the disputed Kashmir … region under the administration of Pakistan. Some skis are made there, a few from China. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Best Ski Vacations and Resorts in the United States Skiing is one of America's favorite pastimes.
Josh and the blogger who posted the pictures are right. Damo is wrong. the original blogger clearly stated that K2 is located along the “borders of China and Pakistan”. the geo political map clearly shows that. Damo was wrong to state that “K2 is in Pakistan” because it is not, it locates BOTH in Pakistan and China. The name literally means “mountains of gold” and the area is well-known for the minerals – including gold – that it provides. Josh is a writer, musician and entrepreneur who currently resides in Urumqi, capital of China's western province of Xinjiang.
#1 K2 in Xinjiang 乔戈里峰. You’d never know it from this picture, but K2 – the peak in the distant left – comes in second place for both the “world’s highest” category (after Mt. Everest) and the “world’s deadliest” (which is held by Annapurna). The name literally means “mountains of gold” and the area is well-known for the minerals – including gold – that it provides. Josh is a writer, musician and entrepreneur who currently resides in Urumqi, capital of China's western province of Xinjiang.
It contains the disputed territory of Aksai Chin administered by China. Xinjiang contains China's smaller border with Russia (which is 40 km/24 mi long; the remainder of the China-Russia border is 3,605 km/2,240 mi long, and is taken up by the Inner Mongolia and Heilongjiang provinces). The autonomous region of the PRC was established on October 1, 1955, replacing the province. In 1955 (the first modern census in China was taken in 1953), Uyghurs were counted as 73% of Xinjiang's total population of 5.11 million.