con·gen·i·tal. adj. 1. Of or relating to a condition that is present at birth, as a result of either heredity or environmental influences: a congenital heart defect; congenital syphilis. 2. 
In this article. Congenital heart defect is another way of saying your heart had a problem in its structure when you were born. You may have a small hole in your heart or something more severe. Although these can be very serious conditions, many can be treated with surgery. Congenital heart defect is another way of saying your heart had a problem in its structure when you were born. You may have a small hole in your heart or something more sever
A CHD means a child is born with an abnormally structured heart and/or large vessels. Such hearts may have incomplete or missing parts, may be put together the wrong way, may have holes between chamber partitions or may have narrow or leaky valves or narrow vessels. The warning signs of Congenital Heart Disease in infants and children may include a heart murmur or abnormal heart sound, cyanosis (a bluish tint to the skin, fingernails and/or lips), fast breathing, poor feeding, poor weight gain, an inability to exercise and excessive sweating.
congenital. existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation. Cf. hereditary. congenital heart defect a structural defect of the heart or great vessels or both, present at birth. Any number of defects may occur, singly or in combination. They result from improper development of the heart and blood vessels during the prenatal period
1 A congenital physical anomaly is an abnormality of the structure of a body part. 2  An anomaly may or may not be perceived as a problem condition. 3  Many, if not most, people have one or more minor physical anomalies if examined carefully. Congenital anomalies of the gastrointestinal system include numerous forms of stenosis and atresia, and perforation, such as gastroschisis .. Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) include renal parenchyma, kidneys, and urinary collecting system.
Autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness is a disorder of the retina, which is the specialized tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color. People with this condition typically have difficulty seeing and distinguishing objects in low light (night blindness). The night blindness associated with this condition is congenital, which means it is present from birth. This vision impairment tends to remain stable (stationary); it does not worsen over time.
Congenital disorder, also known as congenital disease, birth defect or anomaly, is a condition existing at or before birth regardless of cause. Of these diseases, those characterized by structural deformities are termed congenital anomalies and involve defects in a developing fetus. Birth defects vary widely in cause and symptoms. Any substance that causes birth defects is known as a teratogen. Congenital anomalies of the gastrointestinal system include numerous forms of stenosis and atresia, and perforation, such as gastroschisis .. Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) include renal parenchyma, kidneys, and urinary collecting system.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of congenital defect): ablepharia (a congenital absence of eyelids (partial or complete)). meningocele (a congenital anomaly of the central nervous system in which a sac protruding from the brain or the spinal meninges contains cerebrospinal fluid (but no nerve tissue)). Meaning: A defect that is present at birth. Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Synonyms: birth defect; congenital abnormality; congenital anomaly; congenital defect; congenital disorder.
home medterms medical dictionary a-z list congenital anomaly definition. is defined as an unusual anatomic feature that is of no serious medical or cosmetic consequence to the patient. A minor anomaly of the feet might, for example, be curvature of the second toe so it overlaps the third toe a little. , by contrast, might be a cleft lip and palate, a birth defect of serious medical and cosmetic consequence to the child.