1 Neeps-Place the turnips in a large saucepan, cover with cold water, add a pinch of salt, cover the pan with a lid. 2  Bring the turnips to the boil, reduce to a simmer and cook until tender (approx 20 mins). 3  Drain the turnips and keep to one side. 1 Cook the haggis first by placing the haggis in a large pot and cover with cold water. 2  Cover the pan with a lid, bring to the boil, then reduce to a simmer and cook for 40 mins per 1b/450g. 3  Cook the Potatoes and Turnips at the Same Time as Follows.
Haggis is a savoury pudding containing sheep's pluck (heart, liver and lungs); minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, traditionally encased in the animal's stomach though now often in an artificial casing instead. Dickson Wright suggests that haggis was invented as a way of cooking quick-spoiling offal near the site of a hunt, without the need to carry along an additional cooking vessel. The liver and kidneys could be grilled directly over a fire, but this treatment was unsuitable for the stomach, intestines, or lungs.
1 Cook the Potatoes and Turnips at the Same Time as Follows. 2  Tatties-Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover with cold water, add a pinch of salt, cover the pan with a lid. 3  Bring the potatoes to the boil, reduce to a simmer and cook until tender (approx 20 mins). 4  Drain the potatoes and keep to one side. 1 Cook the haggis first by placing the haggis in a large pot and cover with cold water. 2  Cover the pan with a lid, bring to the boil, then reduce to a simmer and cook for 40 mins per 1b/450g. 3  Cook the Potatoes and Turnips at the Same Time as Follows.
1 Add the nutmeg and stir well to create a smooth, creamy mash. 2  Neeps-Place the turnips in a large saucepan, cover with cold water, add a pinch of salt, cover the pan with a lid. 3  Bring the turnips to the boil, reduce to a simmer and cook until tender (approx 20 mins). 4  Drain the turnips and keep to one side. 1 Cook the haggis first by placing the haggis in a large pot and cover with cold water. 2  Cover the pan with a lid, bring to the boil, then reduce to a simmer and cook for 40 mins per 1b/450g. 3  Cook the Potatoes and Turnips at the Same Time as Follows.
'Neeps' are better known as swedes, the traditional Scottish accompaniment to haggis. This may be deverting from the trational neeps and tatties, but I also add carrots into the combo. Seems like an awful lot of work to make a simple veg mash. I just peel the swede and cut in to small chunks and combine with the unpeeled potatoes which have been cut into a little larger pieces (as they cook quicker).
A traditional haggis recipe describes haggis as sheep's 'pluck' (heart, liver and lungs), minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, and traditionally encased in the animals stomach and boiled. Dickson Wright suggests that haggis was invented as a way of cooking quick-spoiling offal near the site of a hunt, without the need to carry along an additional cooking vessel. The liver and kidneys could be grilled directly over a fire, but this treatment was unsuitable for the stomach, intestines, or lungs.
It's a staple vegetable in Scottish cuisine. By Mike Lewis. Turnip (left) and neeps. Photo of neeps by Magnus Manske. You can't venture far in Scotland without coming across neeps. This distinctive root vegetable crops up in several Scottish recipes, and is also eaten as an accompaniment to other dishes. And both can be boiled and mashed, preferably in the company of potatoes or other root vegetables. But in traditional Scottish dishes such as clapshot, skirlie-mirlie and bashed neeps, it's the yellow variety that's the authentic ingredient.
Cooking neeps. When it comes to cooking, both items can be treated in much the same way. They both make a useful addition to soups and stews. And both can be boiled and mashed, preferably in the company of potatoes or other root vegetables. But in traditional Scottish dishes such as clapshot, skirlie-mirlie and bashed neeps, it's the yellow variety that's the authentic ingredient.
Confidence votes 1.1K. The well-known Scottish Tatties (potato) and Neeps (turnip or swede) are mashed potatoes and mashed turnips or swede. Traditionally, they are mashed separately and served with haggis, but can be served with anything else. 