Most contractors include overhead in this estimate, as well as the cost of storing the materials, delivering to the site, paying the workers for the installation, and cleaning up the job. The cost of labor for drywall is typically broken down by square foot, and this number varies by location. As of the time of this article, in the Bay area, drywall labor can cost as much as $1.30 per square foot, especially when choosing a licensed and bonded contractor. 
The cost to install drywall is about $1.50 per square foot. After material and labor are added in, the cost per panel can range from around $40.00 to $60.00. A typical 12x12 room, for example, will use 12 panels. 
1 The Drywall-The room described above is going to demand around 600 square feet of drywall to cover the walls and the ceilings. 2  These will be sheets sized at 4'x8' and cost around $9 each. 3  This means that roughly 20 sheets are required for this project, which will cost around $180 total. 
All dried joint compound shall be flat, smooth and free of tool marks and ridges. Note that surface texturing or skim coating is NOT included in this estimate. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Drywall ranges between $1.43 - $1.76 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Cost to Install Drywall-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors.
Every remodeling project associated with small drywall repair priced base on work complexity, time spent, and hourly rate of a drywall installer. Average cost of a new drywall to get installed will vary from $41.5 to $60.0 per 4'x8'x5/8 sheet including labor and materials or from $1.30 to $1.88 per square foot. Custom work on a multilevel ceiling, hanging and finishing drywall on arches, or other supplementary house design details will increase the cost of installation up to 100% or even more.
Complication of work is a main factor of establishing the total cost to install a drywall. Custom work on a multilevel ceiling, hanging and finishing drywall on arches, or other supplementary house design details will increase the cost of installation up to 100% or even more.
Labor Cost. Installers will determine the drywall prices by how much labor it will take to hang and finish the total finished area. They will then add in whatever profit they think is reasonable, and divide the total by how many sheets they will actually install and finish. Hence, the cost-per-sheet. You can pay for anywhere from $25 a sheet ($12.50 to hang, and $12.50 to finish) on the cheaper side, on up the scale to as much as $60 a sheet to finish drywall for the pricier projects such as wide arches, vaulted ceilings, etc. Anything that involves high elevation will require extra cost for lift equipment rentals.
Using this type of method to determine drywall install and finish costs is pretty common in the new construction industry, but does have a place within large remodeling projects as well. Installing and finishing drywall will cost around 85¢ to $1.15 per sq.ft. for drywall prices, with an average of about $1 per sq.ft. You should expect to pay, however, about $30/sheet for a decent quality hanging and finishing job. You can pay for anywhere from $25 a sheet ($12.50 to hang, and $12.50 to finish) on the cheaper side, on up the scale to as much as $60 a sheet to finish drywall for the pricier projects such as wide arches, vaulted ceilings, etc. Anything that involves high elevation will require extra cost for lift equipment rentals.
1 Do-It-Yourselfers can bring the costs down to $150-$250 for a 12x12 room and $1,000-$3,000 for a small house, but hanging drywall requires a lot of heavy lifting by at least two people, and getting a good finish on drywall requires a lot of patience and practice. Additional costs: 1  Drywall sheets are heavy, so installation often requires at least two workers or specialized skills, tools and hoists. 2  Because each coat of joint compound has to dry thoroughly, any drywall project other than a small repair patch usually takes at least three days.