Numerological Value: 3. Click To Enlarge. Numerological Analysis: Represents lucky people, emotional, creative, cordial with pleasant personality, optimistic, talented, friendly, love people, with charisma, good sense of humor, use imagination. Do not care orders, frames, rules and therefore may be scattered. Young forever
Klein writes that yovel's meaning of ram derived from the root יבל, meaning to bear, carry and therefore the word originally meant leader of the flock, bellwether. We find yovel being used as another term for a shofar in Shmot 19:13: בִּמְשֹׁךְ, הַיֹּבֵל, הֵמָּה, יַעֲלוּ בָהָר - When the yovel sounds a long blast, they may go up the mountain..
Traditionally, it was thought that the English term Jubilee derives from the Hebrew term yobel (via Latin Jubilaeus), which in turn derives from yobhel, meaning ram; the Jubilee year was announced by a blast on a shofar, an instrument made from a ram's horn, during that year's Yom Kippur. You shall then sound a ram's horn abroad on the tenth day of the seventh month; on the day of atonement you shall sound a horn all through your land. You shall thus consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim a release through the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you (Leviticus 25:1-4, 8-10, NASB).
That is the meaning of the original and eternal Name of the Messiah. It is the name given by the Father to the Son. As we blow the Shofar, the Yovel-it is the Sound and Voice of Yeshua that is released into the atmosphere. It is the FORCE OF SALVATION, FORGIVENESS, RELEASE, DELIVERANCE and RESTORATION.
Jubilee’s Meaning. The word “jubilee” in the Old Testament is from the Hebrew word “yobel” or yovel” meaning “a ram’s horn, trumpet” or “coronet.” If someone announced the Jubilee, they would be actually blowing a trumpet and all of the congregation of Israel would be able to hear it. The Septuagint translation of the Bible, renders the word Jubilee in Hebrew “yobel” or yovel” as “a trumpet blast of liberty” but today the Day of Atonement is no longer observed in Israel and is presently called Yom Kipper or “Day of “ (yom) “Atonement” (“kippur” or release).
Biblical context. The Biblical baby name Jubilee is the English version of the Hebrew word yobel and its meaning is shout of joy or trumpet made of ram's horn. Jubilee is pronounced ju-be-lee. Jubilee was a year of rest, celebrated every 50 years to commemorate the liberation of the Jews from Egypt. The year of Jubilee was inaugurated by the blowing of ram's horn in every household. In this year, the land was not tilled nor fruit gathered from trees.
[ syll. yo-vel, yov-el ] The baby boy name Yovel is pronounced as Y OW VAHL †. Yovel's origin and use are both in the Hebrew language. Yovel is a variant form of the English name Jubal. Yovel is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Yovel include Yuvale, Jabylo, and Jubylo. † approx English pronunciation for Yovel: Y as in you (Y.UW) ; OW as in oak (OW.K) ; V as in vow (V.AW) ; AH as in mud (M.AH.D) ; L as in lay (L.EY).
Yovel is the true name for Jubilee and it means: A RAM’S HORN. From the horns of this animal that is a male SHEEP, the SHOFAR trumpet is made. When the Angel of God stopped Abraham from sacrificing Isaac, YHVH provided a RAM instead. It is the name given by the Father to the Son. As we blow the Shofar, the Yovel-it is the Sound and Voice of Yeshua that is released into the atmosphere. It is the FORCE OF SALVATION, FORGIVENESS, RELEASE, DELIVERANCE and RESTORATION.
At the time, I didn't think Yuval was related to yovel, but in researching this post, I have found a connection. Yuval was the son of Lemech, and was known as the ancestor of all who play the lyre and the pipe (Bereshit 4:21). The Daat Mikra mentions a number of theories as to the origin of his name. One of them makes a connection between Yuval and yovel-an early musical instrument. We find yovel being used as another term for a shofar in Shmot 19:13: בִּמְשֹׁךְ, הַיֹּבֵל, הֵמָּה, יַעֲלוּ בָהָר - When the yovel sounds a long blast, they may go up the mountain..