Let's hope there's no strychnine in it! Precipitates can form when two soluble salts react in solution to form one or more insoluble products-as discussed in the famous example below. The insoluble product separates from the liquid and is called a precipitate. Precipitates can also form when the temperature of a solution is lowered.
The definition of precipitation is any form of water-liquid or solid-falling from the sky. It includes rain, sleet, snow, hail and drizzle plus a few less common occurrences such as ice pellets, diamond dust and freezing rain. 
In meteorology, precipitation is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour that falls under gravity. The main forms of precipitation include drizzle, rain, sleet, snow, graupel and hail. Precipitation occurs when a portion of the atmosphere becomes saturated with water vapour, so that the water condenses and precipitates. Thus, fog and mist are not precipitation but suspensions, because the water vapour does not condense sufficiently to precipitate.
Chemical Precipitation. Precipitation is the creation of a solid. When the reaction occurs in a liquid solution, the solid formed is called the 'precipitate'.The chemical that causes the solid to form is called the 'precipitant'. The silver chloride (AgCl) has formed a solid, which is observed as a precipitate. This reaction can be written emphasizing the dissociated ions in a combined solution. This is known as the ionic equation.
A precipitate is an insoluble solid that emerges from a liquid solution. The emergence of the insoluble solid from solution is called precipitation. Often the precipitate emerges as a suspension. Precipitates can form when two soluble salts react in solution to form one or more insoluble products-as discussed in the famous example below. The insoluble product separates from the liquid and is called a precipitate. Precipitates can also form when the temperature of a solution is lowered
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Precipitate Definition: to form an insoluble compound either by reacting two salts or by changing the temperature to affect the solubility of the compound. Also the name given to the solid that is formed as a result of a precipitation reaction. Example: Mixing silver nitrate and sodium chloride in water will cause silver chloride to precipitate out of solution as a solid. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index
The most common meaning of precipitation is rain, snow, or sleet. It can also mean the product of certain chemical reactions, such as a solid is formed in a solution. When diffusion or a chemical reaction results in the creation of a solid, this is known as precipitation. It is most commonly used to refer to rain. A precipitation reaction is one in which two solutions react to form an insoluble solid called a precipitate and a precipitate is an insoluble solid which is formed on mixing … certain solutions.