The market value for sea urchins in Japan ranges from $2.20 to $43.00 per tray. In 1994, Japan imported over 6130 metric tons of sea urchins, totaling a value of 251 million dollars. Sea urchin harvesting is one of the highest valued fisheries in California, bringing about 80 million dollars in export value per year. Purple sea urchins are found on the pacific coastline from Alaska to Cedros Island, Mexico. Above the low tide line, these urchins often live in rounded depressions in the rock which slowly erode with their teeth and spines.
The shell, or test, of sea urchins is round and spiny, typically from 3 to 10 cm (1.2 to 3.9 in) across. Common colors include black and dull shades of green, olive, brown, purple, blue, and red. Sea urchins move slowly, and feed on mostly algae. Sea otters, starfish, wolf eels, triggerfish, and other predators hunt and feed on sea urchins. Their roe is a delicacy in many cuisines. Sea urchins or urchins (/ˈɜrtʃɪnz/), archaically called sea hedgehogs, are small, spiny, globular animals that, with their close kin, such as sand dollars, constitute the class Echinoidea of the echinoderm phylum. About 950 species of echinoids inhabit all oceans from the intertidal to 5000 m deep.
Body of sea urchins has radial symmetry. That means that each sea urchin can be divided in five equal parts. Color of sea urchins depends on the species. Majority of species are black, brown, purple, red or green in color. Sea urchins have 5 rows of paired tube feet on the bottom side of the body. They end with suckers which facilitate adhesion to rocks, hunt and movement on the ocean floor
The primary urchin harvesting company in California sends 75% of the harvest to Japan.The market value for urchins in Japan ranges from $2.20 per tray to $43.00 per tray. In 1994, Japan imported 6, 130 metric tons of sea urchins at a total value of 251 million dollars. 
Sea stars, urchins, cucumbers, sand dollars, brittle stars. 157975. Purple sea urchins are found on the pacific coastline from Alaska to Cedros Island, Mexico. Above the low tide line, these urchins often live in rounded depressions in the rock which slowly erode with their teeth and spines.
The purple sea urchin is found in the Pacific Ocean along the coast of North America, ranging from Alaska to Cedros Island, Mexico. The purple sea urchin inhabits exposed rocky shores in the intertidal zone, usually along open coastlines in shallow waters and tide pools, down to depths of 160 metres. 
The purple sea urchins are equipped with a test which is made up of calcium carbonate and then covered with skin which protects the sea urchins internal organs. The calcite which is used to keep the plates of the endoskeleton together is rich in magnesium, therefore allowing the endoskeleton to strengthen. Habitat: The purple sea urchins are found in shallow areas of water usually along a coast with strong waves. They are mainly found along the coast line of Alaska all the way down the Pacific Coast to Mexico. They tend to live in kelp forests where they ingest their main source of food, kelp
About. The purple sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, lives along the eastern edge of the Pacific Ocean extending from Ensenada, Mexico to British Columbia, Canada. This sea urchin species is deep purple in color and lives in lower intertidal and nearshore subtidal communities. It normally grows to a diameter of about 4 inches and may live as long as 70 years. Read more at Wikipedia. This entry is from. , the user-contributed encyclopedia.