The majority of marine protected areas in the United States are multiple-use sites, meaning fishing, boating, surfing, diving, and other recreational activities are allowed. Marine protected areas (MPAs) in the U.S. come in a variety of forms and are established and managed by all levels of government. MPAs may be established to protect ecosystems, preserve cultural resources such as shipwrecks and archaeological sites, or sustain fisheries production. There is often confusion and debate regarding what the term marine protected area really means.
Marine protected areas (MPA) are protected areas of seas, oceans or large lakes. MPAs restrict human activity for a conservation purpose, typically to protect natural or cultural resources. For protected regions of environmental or cultural value in general, see protected area. Milford Sound, New Zealand is a strict marine reserve (Category Ia) Mitre Peak, the mountain at left, rises 1,692 m (5,551 ft) above the sea.
The National Marine Sanctuary System consists of 14 marine protected areas that encompass more than 170,000 square miles of marine and Great Lakes waters from Washington State to the Florida Keys, and from Lake Huron to American Samoa. 
Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are versatile management tools that can be used to help conserve marine natural and cultural resources, and can be an integral part of an ecosystem approach to management. The Council’s focus on marine reserves as “no fishing” areas (or areas where only certain types of fishing are allowed) reflects its area of regulatory authority: fishing. Hypothetical example of a marine protected area, a marine reserve, and a no-take marine reserve.
National system of MPAs. With different federal, state, tribal and local agencies managing the more than hundreds of marine protected areas (MPAs) located all over the U.S., what is going on in each can get a little disjointed and opportunities to coordinate or share lessons learned can be missed. One question many people have about marine protected areas (MPAs) is whether or not there are restrictions associated with the use of these areas. The answer is that...it depends. MPAs are established for the conservation of their natural or cultural resources.
The government is setting up a network of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) to protect examples of our different marine habitats and ecosystems, as well as those that are outstanding or rare. 
Definition of MPA. A marine protected area (MPA) is essentially a space in the ocean where human activities are more strictly regulated than the surrounding waters-similar to parks we have on land. For example, there are many different kinds of MPAs in U.S. waters including national parks, wildlife refuges, monuments and marine sanctuaries, fisheries closures, critical habitat, habitat areas of particular concern, state parks, conservation areas, estuarine reserves and preserves, and numerous others.
MPAs act as safe havens for marine life. There are many different types of MPAs including national marine sanctuaries and national estuarine research reserves. Marine protected areas (MPAs) are areas of the oceans or Great Lakes that are protected for a conservation purpose. If you have ever gone fishing in central California, diving in the Florida Keys, or boating in Thunder Bay, you have visited one of these MPAs. One question many people have about marine protected areas (MPAs) is whether or not there are restrictions associated with the use of these areas. The answer is that...it depends. MPAs are established for the conservation of their natural or cultural resources.