V-Shaped valleys are found in the upper course of the river and are a result of both erosion by the river and weathering. V-Shaped valleys are deep river valleys with steep sides that look like a letter V when a cross section of them is taken, hence the name. Meanders are bends in a river that form as a river’s sinuosity increases. The sinuosity of a river is a measurement of how much a river varies from a straight line. It’s a ratio between the channel length and displacement (straight line distance) between two points in the river’s course:
Potholes. Potholes are cylindrical holes drilled into the bed of a river that vary in depth & diameter from a few centimetres to several metres. They’re found in the upper course of a river where it has enough potential energy to erode vertically and its flow is turbulent. In the upper course of a river, its load is large and mainly transported by traction along the river bed. Meanders are bends in a river that form as a river’s sinuosity increases. The sinuosity of a river is a measurement of how much a river varies from a straight line. It’s a ratio between the channel length and displacement (straight line distance) between two points in the river’s course:
pothole, in geology, cylindrical pit formed in the rocky channel of a turbulent stream. It is formed and enlarged by the abrading action of pebbles and cobbles that are carried by eddies, or circular water currents that move against the main current of a stream. 
The hollows are called dolines or shakeholes. The shakehole is then eroded by streams and a vertical hole known as a pothole or swallow hole is formed. These holes can, in turn, be enlarged by heavy rainfall or glacial meltwater. Gaping Gill, in the Yorkshire Dales, is an example of an enlarged swallow hole. 
Noun. 1. pothole-a pit or hole produced by wear or weathering (especially in a road surface). chuckhole. hollow, hole-a depression hollowed out of solid matter. 1. A hole or pit, especially one in a road surface. Also called chuckhole. 2. A deep round hole worn in rock by loose stones whirling in strong rapids or waterfalls. 3. Western US A place filled with mud or quicksand that is a hazard to cattle.
Best Answer: Potholes are hollows formed underground by the action of water erosion. this usually occurs in porous limestone type rock where a fissure or crack allows the ingress of water from a river or stream to flow in. 
Potholes form mainly in the upper course of the river, in high altitude where the river channel cuts directly into the bedrock. Potholes are the direct consequence of vertical erosion and processes of abrasion. As has already been described, rejuvenating rivers form as a result of a fall in sea level, either as a result of an increase in ice storage or due to isotatic rise or tectonic shifts. Either way the result is a relative fall of sea level to land. Isostatic rise or rebound is caused by the landmass rising.
pothole. in geology, cylindrical pit formed in the rocky channel of a turbulent stream. It is formed and enlarged by the abrading action of pebbles and cobbles that are carried by eddies, or circular water currents that move against the main current of a stream. Any bowl-shaped, cylindrical, or circular hole formed by the grinding action of a stone in the rocky bed of a river or stream. Also known as churn hole; colk; eddy mill; evorsion hollow; kettle; pot. A vertical, or nearly vertical shaft in limestone.
4. Traffic can break the pavement. A pothole is a type of failure in an asphalt pavement, caused by the presence of water in the underlying soil structure and the presence of traffic passing over the affected area. Introduction of water to the underlying soil structure first weakens the supporting soil. 
Potholes are cylindrical holes drilled into the rocky bed of a river by burbulent high-velocity water loaded with pebbles. The pebbles become trapped in slight hollows and vertical eddies in the water are strong eneough to allow the sediment to grind a hole into the rock be abrasion (corrasion). Potholes can vary in width from a few centimetres to several metres. They are generally found in the upper or early-middle course of a river. This is where the valley lies well above base level, giving more potential for downcutting, and where the river bed is more likely to be rocky in nature.