Scaphoid fractures are usually diagnosed by an x-ray of the wrist; however, x-rays do not always show scaphoid fractures. A break in the bone that cannot be seen on x-ray yet is called an “occult” fracture.
The symptoms of a fresh fracture of the scaphoid bone usually include pain in the wrist and tenderness in the area just below the thumb. You may also see swelling around the wrist. The swelling occurs because blood from the fractured bone fills the wrist joint. Thin people will see a bulging of the joint capsule.
A scaphoid fracture is usually caused by a fall on an outstretched hand, with the weight landing on the palm. The end of one of the forearm bones (the radius) may also break in this type of fall, depending on the position of the hand on landing. Fractures of the scaphoid occur in people of all ages, including children.
The scaphoid is a small bone in the wrist on the thumb side. It is located in the thumb side of the wrist. If you put your thumb up in the air (like a hitchhiker) you will make a small depression at the base of your thumb.
Because most navicular fractures do not cause the wrist to look broken and many cause only minor symptoms, it can be hard to know if your navicular bone is broken. If the bone is broken, you may have: 1  Pain, tenderness, or swelling on the thumb side of your wrist.
Pain and swelling in the wrist will usually cause a person with a scaphoid fracture to see a doctor. X-rays can show if a bone is broken and whether there is displacement (a gap between broken bones). Sometimes, a broken scaphoid does not show up on an x-ray right away.
Page 2 tenderness in the soft space on the thumb side of your wrist, your doctor may splint your hand and have you return in 2 weeks for more x-rays. More tests, such as a CT scan, bone scan or MRI, may be done if the repeat x-rays do not show a fracture, but signs still indicate a problem.
If the scaphoid is broken in the middle of the bone (waist) or closer to the forearm (proximal pole), healing is more difficult. These areas of the scaphoid do not have a very good blood supply. If your doctor treats this type of fracture with a cast, the cast will probably include the thumb.
The scaphoid is one of the small bones in the wrist. It is the wrist bone that is most likely to break. The scaphoid is located on the thumb side of the wrist, in the area where the wrist bends. The scaphoid is located at the base of the thumb, just above the radius bone.