Significance. In addition to breaking down food, stomach acid and enzymes also help to kill bacteria or other infectious organisms that you may have eaten. The stomach is protected from corrosive stomach acid by a layer of mucus lining its walls. This mucus layer also protects other internal organs from stomach acid.
The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia. The fundus stores undigested food and also the gases released from the chemical digestion of food.
After food is chewed and moistened in the mouth, it passes through the esophagus into the stomach. This is the second step in the digestion of everything you consume. Food is mixed with stomach acid and enzymes to break the food down into smaller pieces. This combination of food and stomach juices is called chyme.
The function of the stomach wall is to protect your stomach from eating itself. It has a coating of mucus on the inside that renews itself every three days and stops t … he hydrochloric acid in your stomach from dissolv
The stomach's main function is digestion. It does this by: The stomach uses pepsin (enzyme) and peptidase (another enzyme) to break down proteins in your food. The acid released by the stomach doesn't break down food it only provides a good environment for the enzymes to work in.
By this point the food is mushy and the stomach then passes this mixture on to the small intestine which will further break down the food. 1  Storing the food we eat. 2  Breaking down the food into a liquidy mixture called chyme. 3  Mixing enzymes and stomach acids which is are chemicals that break down food.
Function of the stomach. 1  The stomach is J-shaped and it can expand to temporarily store food. 2  Partial digestion of the food takes place here. 3  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner.
The stomach is a muscular organ located on the left side of the upper abdomen. The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food.
1 Storing the food we eat. 2  Breaking down the food into a liquidy mixture called chyme. 3  Mixing enzymes and stomach acids which is are chemicals that break down food. 4  Slowly empties a liquidy mixture into the small intestine.