A. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other.
One of the most common knee injuries is an anterior cruciate ligament sprain or tear. Athletes who participate in high demand sports like soccer, football, and basketball are more likely to injure their anterior cruciate ligaments. This type of sprain is most commonly referred to as a complete tear of the ligament. The ligament has been split into two pieces, and the knee joint is unstable. Partial tears of the anterior cruciate ligament are rare; most ACL injuries are complete or near complete tears.
Description. About half of all injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament occur along with damage to other structures in the knee, such as articular cartilage, meniscus, or other ligaments. Injured ligaments are considered sprains and are graded on a severity scale. Grade 1 Sprains. This type of sprain is most commonly referred to as a complete tear of the ligament. The ligament has been split into two pieces, and the knee joint is unstable. Partial tears of the anterior cruciate ligament are rare; most ACL injuries are complete or near complete tears.
Treatment of a ruptured cruciate ligament. If the ligament is completely torn, the dog (especially a large dog) is generally treated with surgery. There are several different methods used to repair the knee joint when an anterior ligament is torn. A rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). When the anterior cruciate ligament ruptures (is torn), the joint becomes unstable and the femur and tibia can move back and forth across each other. The anterior cruciate ligament is commonly torn when the dog twists on his hind leg.
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of a pair of cruciate ligaments (the other being the posterior cruciate ligament) in the human knee. They are also called cruciform ligaments as they are arranged in a crossed formation. The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the four main ligaments of the knee, and the ACL provides 85% of the restraining force to anterior tibial displacement at 30 degrees and 90 degrees of knee flexion.
The information that follows includes the details of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) anatomy and the pathophysiology of an ACL tear, treatment options for ACL injuries along with a description of ACL surgical techniques and rehabilitation, potential complications, and outcomes. 
An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. 
Treatment Overview. The goals of treatment for an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury are to: 1  Restore normal or almost normal stability in the knee. 2  Restore the level of function you had before the knee injury. 3  Limit loss of function in the knee. 4  Prevent injury or more damage to other knee structures. 5  Reduce pain. What type of other treatment you have depends on: 1  How much of your ACL is torn (whether it is a grade I, II, or III sprain). 2  When the injury occurred and how stable your knee is. 3  Whether other parts of the knee are injured.
Topic Overview. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other.