Turnover in business refers to the net rate at which an employer gains, loses and, by implication, retains employees. The cost of employee turnover to employers can be high, and involves many factors that are often overlooked by the employers. 
(June 2014). In business, revenue (net sales) is the income that a company receives from its normal business activities, usually from the sale of goods and services to customers. Revenue is also referred to as sales or turnover. Some companies receive revenue from interest, royalties, or other fees. 
How to Calculate Business Turnover. Business turnover is more commonly known as a company's gross income. Creatas/Creatas/Getty Images. Business turnover is a numeric value representing total sales. It is essentially the value of sales you make in a set period. It is generally measured over a year's period, whether that's the calendar year, tax year or fiscal year. 
· For GST purposes, an entity should consider both its current annual turnover (turnover made in the last twelve months) and projected annual turnover (turnover that is expected to be made within the next twelve months). Note: turnover is not the same as profit. Profit generally means the amount of turnover remaining after all business expenses have been deducted. In comparison, turnover is generally the gross amount of income received by the business. http://www.gstwize.com.au/Visitors/Questions/annual_turnover.htm#Annual_Turnover Answer · In general, an entity's annual turnover means the value of all supplies that are made within a twelve-month period
Net turnover is a value that can express a number of different figures in business. A company may use net turnover to measure the total volume of sales as well as the influx of new employees. Net turnover also can provide information about a company's success with consumers in the open market. A business owner paying attention to these figures can correct mistakes before they become serious errors.
Best Answer: Turnover and revenue both mean gross sales revenue. Net profit or net income is sales revenue less cost of sales and overheads including depreciation. The stock exchange is where the shares of public companies are traded for example the London Stock Exchange see: http://www.londonstockexchange.com/en-gb... Revenue in British speak is turnover. Revenue comprises of all the $ a company receives for its gods and services [sales]. Net Profit is Revenues-Expenses-Taxes.
BREAKING DOWN 'Turnover'. 1. In accounting, turnover often refers to inventory or accounts receivable. A quick turnover is desired because it means that inventory is not sitting on the shelves for too long. 2. In a portfolio, a small turnover is desired because it means the investor is paying less in commissions to the broker
Turnover in Business Accounting. In business accounting, net turnover is the measure of annual sales volume minus all costs, including state sales tax and discounts. The resulting figure represents how much net profit a business brings in from the sale of its goods and services. Net turnover also can provide information about a company's success with consumers in the open market. A business owner paying attention to these figures can correct mistakes before they become serious errors.