Baby names meanings search results: The name Tristan is a baby boy name. The name Tristan comes from the Celtic origin. In Celtic The meaning of the name Tristan is: Tumult; outcry. From the Celtic name Tristan. In Arthurian legend Tristan was a Knight of the Round Table and tragic hero of the medieval tale Tristram and Isold
Meaning of Tristen. Celtic name. In Celtic, the name Tristen means-Tumult; outcry. From the Celtic name Tristan. In Arthurian legend Tristan was a Knight of the Round Table and tragic hero of the medieval tale Tristram and Isolde.. Other origins for the name Tristen include-Celtic, American, English, French, English.The name Tristen is most often used as a boy name or male name. Celtic Name Meaning-Tumult; outcry
The name Tristan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tristan is: A knight. Latin Meaning: The name Tristan is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Tristan is: Full of sorrows. Celtic Meaning: The name Tristan is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Tristan is: Tumult; outcry. From the Celtic name Tristan. In Arthurian legend Tristan was a Knight of the Round Table and tragic hero of the medieval tale Tristram and Isolde. English Meaning: The name Tristan is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Tristan is: Tumult; outcry.
From a Celtic name. In Arthurian legend, Tristan (sometimes called Tristram) was a Knight of the Round Table and the tragic hero of the medieval tale Tristan and Isolde. 
Tristan or Tristram is a given name of Welsh origin. It originates from the Brythonic name Drust or Drustanus. It derives from a stem meaning noise, seen in the modern Welsh noun trwst (plural trystau) and the verb trystio to clatter. It became popularized through the character of Tristan, one of the Knights of the Round Table in Arthurian legend. Tristan is the 87th most popular baby name in the United States, and has been consistently among the top 1,000 names given to baby boys since 1971. There are various alternate forms of the name (popularity in parentheses): Tristen (1432), Triston (326), Tristin (536), Tristian (423), Trystan (5000), and Trysten (1).
Origin of the name Tristan: From the Old French Tristran, which is from the Gaelic Drystan, a name derived from drest (tumult, riot). The name was borne in medieval legend by a knight who was sent to Israel by King Mark of Cornwall to bring Isolde back to be the king's bride. Meanings and history of the name Tristan : | Edit. It is of Celtic origin. Meaning: Tumult; outcry. From a Celtic name in Arthurian legend, Tristan (sometimes called Tristram) was a Knight of the Round Table and the tragic hero of the medieval tale Tristan and Isolde. The tale has been retold in many poems and operas.
Origin of the name Tristan: From the Old French Tristran, which is from the Gaelic Drystan, a name derived from drest (tumult, riot). The name was borne in medieval legend by a knight who was sent to Israel by King Mark of Cornwall to bring Isolde back to be the king's bride. 
The name Tristan is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Tristan is: Tumult; outcry. From the Celtic name Tristan. In Arthurian legend Tristan was a Knight of the Round Table and tragic hero of the medieval tale Tristram and Isolde. English Meaning: The name Tristan is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Tristan is: Tumult; outcry.