Paul M. Gaston, University of Virginia. What is now the city of Fairhope, Baldwin County, was established in 1894 as a model community based on what Ernest Berry Gaston, a young Iowa journalist and Populist Party officer, called cooperative individualism, a term he introduced to the lexicon of American reform. 
10 a.m. to 2 p.m., Downtown Fairhope. Children are invited to wear their Halloween costume and trick or treat in Downtown Fairhope. Just look for the Pumpkin Sign in the window to see who is participating. Parents drop by the Welcome Center for pictures and don’t forget your camera. For more information call 251-929-1466. 
Recently, Fairhope was featured in a Wall Street Journal article and also in a piece in the Toronto News of Canada extolling the. many advantages of Fairhope and its unique history as America's only Single Tax Colony.. If you're not familiar with Fairhope, you owe it to yourself to discover our beloved community. In addition, the Fairhope area was recently named by the respected Policom Economics Research Group as one of the strongest small market economies in America!
Our Resort. Treat yourself to a memorable experience at the Grand Hotel Marriott Resort, Golf Club & Spa. Located near Fairhope, Alabama in the picturesque beach hamlet of Point Clear, our resort offers guests opportunities for both relaxation and entertainment. Challenge yourself at one of two renowned golf courses at the Lakewood Club, or spend the day finding balance at our 20,000 square-foot Grand Spa. 
Fairhope-area historical tornado activity is below Alabama state average. It is 19% greater than the overall U.S. average. On 10/13/2001, a category F3 (max. wind speeds 158-206 mph) tornado 14.8 miles away from the Fairhope city center caused $250,000 in damages. (11 replies). Moving to Fairhope (1 reply). Latest news from Fairhope, AL collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: United States (14.6%), English (14.5%), German (11.7%), Irish (11.4%), French (6.7%), Scottish (4.0%).
Fairhope. A vibrant town that lies on Alabama’s Gulf Coast, Fairhope has long been known for its lovely parks and its sweeping panoramic views of Mobile Bay. Make sure to visit the shops, boutiques, cafes, art galleries, gift shops and fabulous seafood restaurants in Fairhope and the surrounding area. Home to the South’s largest crape myrtle, this area of Fairhope invites you to relax, enjoy live music and browse the unique shops.
Fairhope is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States, on a sloping plateau, along the cliffs and shoreline of Mobile Bay. The 2010 census lists the population of the city as 15,326. Fairhope is a principal city of the Daphne-Fairhope-Foley micropolitan area, which includes all of Baldwin County. 1 The University of South Alabama has a branch campus in Fairhope providing graduate and upper-level undergraduate courses in education, counseling, nursing and business alongside non-credit and community service programs.
According to our research of Alabama and other state lists there were 17 registered sex offenders living in Fairhope, Alabama as of October 05, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Fairhope to the number of sex offenders is 969 to 1. (11 replies). Moving to Fairhope (1 reply). Latest news from Fairhope, AL collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: United States (14.6%), English (14.5%), German (11.7%), Irish (11.4%), French (6.7%), Scottish (4.0%).
Fairhope is also home to an abundance of public art and miles of public bay front parks with walking trails and a pier that extends over the water nearly a mile. Whether you’re after a romantic getaway, a unique meeting destination or a family vacation, find what you’re looking for in Fairhope, Alabama. Perfectly placed along Mobile Bay, Fairhope is known as the jewel of the Eastern Shore. Fairhope boasts a charming flower filled downtown shopping district, filled with art galleries, restaurants and over 80 unique shops.
Welcome to Fairhope, Alabama. Here in beautiful Fairhope, AL we want to share with you the many emotional and stunning and simply charming locations in this gorgeous village, situated on the eastern shore of Mobile Bay. 