Full Definition of OSCILLATION. 1. : the action or state of oscillating. 2. : variation, fluctuation. 3. : a flow of electricity changing periodically from a maximum to a minimum; especially: a flow periodically changing direction. 4. : a single swing (as of an oscillating body) from one extreme limit to the other. 
Oscillation. Oscillation is the repetitive variation, typically in time, of some measure about a central value or between two or more different states. Familiar examples include a swinging pendulum and AC power. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: oscillation (Noun). the act of oscillating or the state of being oscillated. oscillation (Noun). a regular periodic fluctuation in value about some mean. oscillation (Noun). a single such cycle.
By Andrew Zimmerman Jones. Definition: Oscillation is a motion that repeats itself in a regular cycle, such as a sine wave or pendulum. Also Known As: periodic motion. 
• OSCILLATION (noun). The noun OSCILLATION has 3 senses: 1. the process of oscillating between states. 2. (physics) a regular periodic variation in value about a mean. 3. a single complete execution of a periodically repeated phenomenon. Familiarity information: OSCILLATION used as a noun is uncommon.
An oscillation is defined as a periodic phenomenon or vibration around a point of equilibrium. There are two primary types of oscillations, but both follow the aforementioned definition. For instance, a compressional wave is technically an oscillation, but it is somewhat hard to observe its periodic motion unless one can either see it from the right angle or knows that for which to look. An easy way to check if something is an oscillation is to see if the phenomenon has an equilibrium point.
Definition. An oscillation is defined as a periodic phenomenon or vibration around a point of equilibrium. There are two primary types of oscillations, but both follow the aforementioned definition. An oscillation is always periodic, meaning that it goes back and forth in some manner. For instance, a compressional wave is technically an oscillation, but it is somewhat hard to observe its periodic motion unless one can either see it from the right angle or knows that for which to look. An easy way to check if something is an oscillation is to see if the phenomenon has an equilibrium point.
Oscillation is the repetitive variation, typically in time, of some measure about a central value (often a point of equilibrium) or between two or more different states. The term ' vibration ' is precisely used to describe mechanical oscillation but used as a synonym of 'oscillation' too. Familiar examples include a swinging pendulum and alternating current power. Oscillation of a sequence (shown in blue) is the difference between the limit superior and limit inferior of the sequence. The mathematics of oscillation deals with the quantification of the amount that a sequence or function tends to move between extremes.
The simplest mechanical oscillating system is a weight attached to a linear spring subject to only weight and tension. Such a system may be approximated on an air table or ice surface. The system is in an equilibrium state when the spring is static. Oscillation of a sequence (shown in blue) is the difference between the limit superior and limit inferior of the sequence. The mathematics of oscillation deals with the quantification of the amount that a sequence or function tends to move between extremes.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: oscillation (noun). the process of oscillating between states. oscillation, vibration (noun). (physics) a regular periodic variation in value about a mean. cycle, oscillation (noun). a single complete execution of a periodically repeated phenomenon. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: oscillation (Noun). the act of oscillating or the state of being oscillated. oscillation (Noun). a regular periodic fluctuation in value about some mean. oscillation (Noun). a single such cycle.
Oscillations are happening all around you. In fact, every particle is oscillating at a frequency specific to that particle. However, on a more apparent note, oscillations define such phenomenons as pendulums, spinning tops and many other every-day sights. For instance, a compressional wave is technically an oscillation, but it is somewhat hard to observe its periodic motion unless one can either see it from the right angle or knows that for which to look. An easy way to check if something is an oscillation is to see if the phenomenon has an equilibrium point.