For many adjunct faculty, the next step in their career path is to be named an assistant or associate professor with the goal of gaining tenure as a professor. Tracking down opportunities for professional development may give adjuncts a leg up when interviewing for full-or part-time positions. It can also be based on the degree held by the teacher applying. Wages also vary by institution type: Typically adjunct faculty earn higher wages in traditional four-year institutions, compared to those who work at community colleges. Here is a snapshot of average salaries for adjunct faculty: 1  Glassdoor.com: $30,709.
As an adjunct, you're often also exempt from the politics, publishing requirements and administrative duties that go along with tenured teaching positions. If you've recently completed graduate school, adjunct teaching can be a good way to get valuable teaching experience. Career Information At a Glance. Adjunct professors teach classes at colleges and junior colleges on a part-time or contract basis. Take a look at the following chart for an overview of how to enter the field.
The position of adjunct professor is an important one. Colleges need instructors, and this position allows prospective academics the opportunity to try out the role of professor. Adjunct professors are hired by schools on a contractual, part-time basis as opposed to the traditional university model of full-time employment. It can also be based on the degree held by the teacher applying. Wages also vary by institution type: Typically adjunct faculty earn higher wages in traditional four-year institutions, compared to those who work at community colleges. Here is a snapshot of average salaries for adjunct faculty: 1  Glassdoor.com: $30,709.
The pay for adjunct professors is usually low, and the work can be challenging. Still, the nonmonetary rewards that come with teaching can be substantial. Often, people need a minimum of a master’s degree to work as adjunct professors, whether at two-or four-year colleges. 
Essential Information. Individuals looking to become an adjunct professor need to be enrolled or have completed a master's, doctoral or terminal degree program. Some programs may prefer students who have an academic background in more than one area, so they can teach a variety of subjects. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an adjunct professor. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Many of the duties expected of tenure-track professors are not required by adjuncts. Contingent faculty do not have to conduct research, publish papers or attend staff meetings and events. It is important for adjunct faculty to know what they are specifically responsible for. It can also be based on the degree held by the teacher applying. Wages also vary by institution type: Typically adjunct faculty earn higher wages in traditional four-year institutions, compared to those who work at community colleges. Here is a snapshot of average salaries for adjunct faculty: 1  Glassdoor.com: $30,709.
PhotoObjects.net/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images. An adjunct professor is someone who teaches on a part-time basis at a community college, four-year college or university. Some adjunct professors teach one class while others teach two or more classes. 
Explore the career requirements for adjunct professors. Get the facts about job duties, education requirements, professional licensure, salary and employment outlook to determine if this is the right field for you. Schools offering Adult Education degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Career Information At a Glance. Adjunct professors teach classes at colleges and junior colleges on a part-time or contract basis. Take a look at the following chart for an overview of how to enter the field.