There is no better way to explore the city of Amsterdam as well as the surrounding areas than by purchasing an Amsterdam and Region Day Ticket. It is essentially a specially prepared, highly economical 24-hour pass, intended for traveling by public transport viz., trams, metros and buses. The moment you buy this ticket, you are provided gratis with an authentic copy of the Public Transport Guide for The Amsterdam Region. It is a PDF file that is full of sightseeing highlights and a whole array of useful tips, that makes your travel easy and highly enjoyable.
Amsterdam's main attractions, including its historic canals, the Rijksmuseum, the Van Gogh Museum, Stedelijk Museum, Hermitage Amsterdam, Anne Frank House, Amsterdam Museum, its red-light district, and its many cannabis coffee shops draw more than 5 million international visitors annually. As the commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) study group. The city is also the cultural capital of the Netherlands.
VA Amsterdam & Region Day TicketWhere to buyOther tickets The Amsterdam & Region Day Ticket entitles you tounlimited travel in Amsterdam and its whole region-day and night-on bus, tram and metro, for 24 hours.The day card is valid for 24 hours from first check in. 
Amsterdam is located in the western Netherlands, in the province of North Holland. The river Amstel terminates in the city centre and connects to a large number of canals that eventually terminate in the IJ. Amsterdam is situated 2 metres below sea level. As the commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) study group. The city is also the cultural capital of the Netherlands.
This unique and convenient ticket is fully valid for a period of 24 hours on each and every route specified in the Public Transport Guide available in PDF format. Thus it is very easy to use an Amsterdam and Region Day Ticket as explained below. These tickets are good for a full 24 hours. As soon as you check in on a bus, metro or tram for the first time, your ticket is automatically activated. The moment you buy this ticket, you are provided gratis with an authentic copy of the Public Transport Guide for The Amsterdam Region. It is a PDF file that is full of sightseeing highlights and a whole array of useful tips, that makes your travel easy and highly enjoyable.
The Waterland and Zaan Region [1] [2] is located in the province of North-Holland in the West of the Netherlands, just to the north of Amsterdam. It offers every stereotype one would expect from the country: flat pasture land with dikes, canals, windmills, green-painted houses, wooden shoes and cheese. 1 But it is best to explore the defence line by bike, and see how it is integrated into the polder landscape. 2  Only the northern part of the Stelling van Amsterdam is located in the Waterland and Zaan Region, the rest of it is found in the regions of Kennemerland, Amstelland and the Gooi and Vecht Region.
Ships sailed from Amsterdam to the Baltic Sea, North America, and Africa, as well as present-day Indonesia, India, Sri Lanka, and Brazil, forming the basis of a worldwide trading network. Amsterdam's merchants had the largest share in both the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch West India Company. As the commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) study group. The city is also the cultural capital of the Netherlands.
The cost of an Amsterdam & Region Day Ticket is an economic €13.50 and is readily available with all Visitor Information Centers spread around the city of Amsterdam, certain selected campsites and hotels as well as ticket booths of every public transport organization, that are part of the deal including: The moment you buy this ticket, you are provided gratis with an authentic copy of the Public Transport Guide for The Amsterdam Region. It is a PDF file that is full of sightseeing highlights and a whole array of useful tips, that makes your travel easy and highly enjoyable.
Region. Amsterdam is not the only place worth visiting. Also be sure to explore the Dutch country side on an organized tour of the country. Visit the coast, the beaches, the beautiful nature and the large forests. Travel outside of Amsterdam to see the quintessentially Dutch landscape with windmills, dikes and green pastures. The most famous part of the Defense Line of Amsterdam is the island of Pampus. Pampus is still part of the country of Muiden. You can visit the island with a ferry that navigates the IJsselmeer. Together with the scenic city center, the Muiderslot is one of the most popular attractions.