Definition of Social Stratification. Social stratification refers to a system by which a society ranks categories of people in a hierarchy. In the United States, it is perfectly clear that some groups have greater status, power, and wealth than other groups. These differences are what lead to social stratification. Social stratification refers to a system by which a society ranks categories of people in a hierarchy. Theoretically, we can analyze social stratification from three major perspectives.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: stratification (noun). the act or process or arranging persons into classes or social strata. stratification, social stratification (noun). the condition of being arranged in social strata or classes within a group. stratification (noun). the act or process of laying in strata, or the state of being laid in the form of strata, or layers. Stratification (noun). the deposition of material in successive layers in the growth of a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance. Origin: [Cf.
Stratification is the process of dividing members of the population into homogeneous subgroups before sampling. The strata should be mutually exclusive: every element in the population must be assigned to only one stratum. The strata should also be collectively exhaustive: no population element can be excluded.
In modern Western societies, social stratification typically is distinguished as three social classes : (i) the upper class, (ii) the middle class, and (iii) the lower class; in turn, each class can be subdivided into strata, e.g. the upper-stratum, the middle-stratum, and the lower stratum. Social mobility is the movement of individuals, social groups or categories of people between the layers or strata in a stratification system.
The categorization of people by social strata occurs in all societies, ranging from the complex, state-based societies to tribal and feudal societies, which are based upon socio-economic relations among classes of nobility and classes of peasants. Social mobility is the movement of individuals, social groups or categories of people between the layers or strata in a stratification system.
Stratification (noun). the act or process of laying in strata, or the state of being laid in the form of strata, or layers. Stratification (noun). the deposition of material in successive layers in the growth of a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance. Origin: [Cf.
Stratification is the building up of layers, and can have several meanings Social stratification, is the dividing of a society into levels based on wealth or power. Stratification in archaeology is the formation of layers (strata) in which objects are found. Stratification of rock layers (strata) is part of the geologic field of Stratigraphy. Stratification (botany), where seeds are pretreated to simulate winter conditions so that germination may occu
• SOCIAL STRATIFICATION (noun). The noun SOCIAL STRATIFICATION has 1 sense: 1. the condition of being arranged in social strata or classes within a group. Familiarity information: SOCIAL STRATIFICATION used as a noun is very rare.
The noun STRATIFICATION has 5 senses: 1. the act or process or arranging persons into classes or social strata. 2. the condition of being arranged in social strata or classes within a group. 3. forming or depositing in layers. 4. a layered configuration. 5. the placing of seeds in damp sand or sawdust or peat moss in order to preserve them or promote germination. Familiarity information: STRATIFICATION used as a noun is common. Nouns denoting acts or actions. Hypernyms (stratification is a kind of...): assortment; categorisation; categorization; classification; compartmentalisation; compartmentalization (the act of distributing things into classes or categories of the same type).