When embarking on a weight loss journey, alcohol is often first on the “no-no” list. Although it’s possible to drink alcohol in moderation and still lose weight, regular or excessive alcohol can significantly hinder your weight loss efforts. It’s not just the calories in alcohol itself that cause disruptions in weight loss, but also the calories that come from mixers like soda and sugary syrups. While a 4-ounce glass of red wine contains 95 calories, a margarita packs a whopping 550 calories.
One of the most profound effects of weight loss is the evident appearance. Alcoholism is a disease, explains the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Because of this the toll it takes on the body can be extreme. It does this by creating additional problems in addition to the direct effects of the disease. Causes. One of the main causes of weight loss with alcohol abuse is the impact the alcohol has directly on the body. Eioba explains that alcohol in the stomach can trick the stomach into feeling that it is full, therefore less food and nutrients are consumed.
Alcohol, whenever taken in, is the first fuel to burn. While that’s going on, your body will not burn fat. This does not stop the weight loss, it simply postpones it, since the alcohol does not store as glycogen, you immediately go back into ketosis/lipolysis after the alcohol is used up. Alcoholic beverages have calories because alcohol has a lot of calories—not because of carbs. The implication that low-carb beers and wine or carb-free spirits are a boon on a weight-loss program is simply deceptive advertising.
Alcohol Also Causes Weight Loss. Alcohol can also cause weight loss in those who drink heavily over the long term. Alcohol continues to slow the metabolism of long term drinkers, but it also causes inflammation in the organs of the digestive tract. If you drink heavily in the long term, alcohol can impair your body's ability to absorb nutrients. Your body sends alcohol to the liver, which produces the enzymes necessary for the oxidation and metabolism of alcohol. Not only does alcohol not contain any nutrients of its own, but it can impair your body's ability to absorb nutrients and vitamins from the food you eat. Alcohol irritates your gastrointestinal tract, and can damage your body's ability to absorb nutrients, vitamins and minerals from the food you eat
The consumption of one standard drink will result in a peak in BAC within 35 to 45 minutes. A 150-pound person with normal liver function metabolizes about 7 to 14 grams of alcohol per hour, which is approximately 100 to 200 mg/kg of body weight per hour. 
So you get hit twice — once from the calories in the alcoholic drink, and then again from the subsequent increase in appetite and calorie intake. You can drink alcohol and still lose weight, just as long as you’re sensible about it. In one German study, 49 overweight subjects were assigned to one of two 1500-calorie diets [6]. The first diet included a glass of white wine every day and the other a glass of grape juice. 
Alcohol consumption actually can hinder your weight loss efforts, but in an indirect way. While alcohol itself basically can’t be stored as body fat, it blocks fat oxidation, which in turn accelerates the rate at which your body stores dietary fat as body fat. Alcohol and its relation to health and fitness is a tricky subject. In small amounts—a drink or two a day—it has potential health benefits like improved insulin sensitivity, cardiac function, and blood lipids (fatty substances in your blood, which when lowered, reduces your risk of heart disease).
Drinking alcohol also interferes with the way your body burns fat, a vital component to successful weight loss. Normally, the liver metabolizes fat calories allowing you to use them for energy. When you drink alcohol, fat metabolism takes a backseat to the breakdown of the alcohol. It’s not just the calories in alcohol itself that cause disruptions in weight loss, but also the calories that come from mixers like soda and sugary syrups. While a 4-ounce glass of red wine contains 95 calories, a margarita packs a whopping 550 calories.
With 20 grams of alcohol x 5.7 calories + the total amount of carbs, you end up with a drink that contains 150 calories. The range of caloric intake for beers ranges from 64-250+. Wine and shots also average about the same amount of calories. Our brains are seemingly wired to desire a cold refreshing alcoholic beverage after a tough day at work. But, the truth is that alcohol, when not consumed in moderation (1-2 drinks a few times per week) has very negative effects on weight loss.