All types of people were affected by the Great Depression. After the stock market crash in 1929, the country changed drastically. Many people lost their jobs because of this downturn in the economy.
Dad s family was middle class, but the Depression affected everyone. Food and jobs were hard to get and many people stood in lines for government hand-outs. A lot of people lived on powdered milk, dried beans, and potatoes. In Chicago, a crowd of men fought over a barrel of garbage -- food scraps for their families.
The Great Depression in the 1930s affected American families in many ways. Some of these ways include the unemployment rate rising to 25%. Many couples put off marriage, and some men walked out on their families completely as they couldn't cope without having jobs.
The Great Depression affected everyone. From the very young to the old, everyone s lives were changed drastically by the events of this period. Many people found themselves out of work and searching for a better life. Children had to deal with changes in their education if they could attend school.
What was it like growing up during the Great Depression? For many people, life was a daily struggle. At the peak of the Depression, 25% of the nation's workers -- one out of four -- were unemployed. No job meant no money to pay the mortgage or buy food and clothes for the family.
The Great Depression in the 1930's affected American families in many ways. Some of these ways include the unemployment rate falling to 25%.
The longterm effects on families during the Great Depression was  that people took a while to get back on their feet, and many  families were homeless because of the job los … s and some had family  members who had committed suicide. + 16 others found this useful.
In Florida, there were over 90,000 families affected by the depression. During the first years of the Great Depression, Florida's government did little to help people. But the federal government gave help by providing Floridians with financial aid called relief.