Download .xls. Our cost of living indices are based on a US average of 100. An amount below 100 means Idaho, Idaho is cheaper than the US average. A cost of living index above 100 means Idaho, Idaho is more expensive. Overall, Idaho, Idaho cost of living is 98.10
COST OF LIVING OVERVIEW. Our cost of living indices are based on a US average of 100. An amount below 100 means Idaho, Idaho is cheaper than the US average. A cost of living index above 100 means Idaho, Idaho is more expensive. Overall, Idaho, Idaho cost of living is 98.10
Again, costs vary by state, but the average monthly cost for an assisted living center in most states is between $1000 and $3000 per month. Monthly costs in Alaska, Hawaii, Vermont, Washington D.C. and Wyoming are higher than average, sometimes up to $5000 per month. 
In general, smaller senior populations mean less options for assisted living, independent living and nursing homes. On the upside, the cost of living in Idaho is very low with a cost of living index of 93 compared to the nationwide average of 100. This includes a lower than average cost of living for health care and housing.
Just as the cost of real estate varies by geographic area, assisted living costs also vary nationwide. In the 2015 Cost of Care Survey conducted by Genworth Financial, assisted living showed an increase of 2.86% compared to the 2014 costs and the national median monthly rate is $3,600. Ranging from $1,000 to $5,000, this fee is non-refundable and covers administrative expenses and the cost of apartment renovations between residents. Other assisted living costs may include fees for private transportation, off-site activities, guest meals and use of a guest apartment within the community.
Cost of Idaho Assisted Living Facilities. According to the 2015 Genworth Financial cost of care survey, the average cost of assisted living in Idaho is $3,240 per month. The monthly base rate for Idaho assisted living is typically lower when compared to neighboring states. Idaho is also less expensive compared to the national average. This cost is the base cost for a one-bedroom assisted living unit in Idaho. Additional fees beyond the base rate may apply.
Assisted Living Costs in Boise, ID. Cost for a single bedroom in Boise runs between $1,381 to $5,020 a month. Availability is almost guaranteed but you can request information online by filling out the form to the right or call us at (866) 333-8391 for a no-cost, in-depth assessment of your senior care needs. 
Assisted living communities in Idaho provide room, board, dietary services, medication assistance, housekeeping and recreation. In Idaho there are 88 Assisted Living Facilities. We can help you find the best matches for your needs. The average cost of Assisted Living in Idaho is $3,240 per month. Residential care and assisted living facilities in Idaho are communities for seniors 60 years of age and older who require supervision but do not need 24-hour skilled nursing.
Idaho Assisted Living. Assisted living in Idaho is for seniors 60 years of age and older who require supervision and personal care services but do not need the 24-hour skilled nursing services that are typically provided in a nursing home. Residential care and assisted living facilities in Idaho are communities for seniors 60 years of age and older who require supervision but do not need 24-hour skilled nursing.