Co-Signer. Another option that could help in lowering rates on a used car loan is to get a co-signer that has a better credit rating. Loan companies base their credit decision upon the rating of the co-signer, even if they are not the ones to pay the car loan. Used car loan rates are hovering around 6.8 percent, varying slightly by the length of time on the loan term. 48-month loans average around 6.87 percent while 36-months average 6.96 percent.
Car loan interest rates in, New-Jersey. First time car owners can find it challenging to get the best interest loans for their car loans in, NJ. This is because; they may not be knowledgeable on how to find the lowest interest rates. This is because the current car interest loans are reliable on the pricing of cars. It makes more sense to have higher interest rates for more costly cars. The car interest rates can be lowered by buying an average car.
If you are considering buying a used car, be aware that auto loan pricing varies widely. Differences in rates of 2 percentage points are not uncommon. The following is an example of rates which apply to late model used cars in the 1 to 3-year age bracket: 1  San Francisco, CA - 8.07 percent. 2  Boston, MA - 8.57 percent. Used car loan rates are hovering around 6.8 percent, varying slightly by the length of time on the loan term. 48-month loans average around 6.87 percent while 36-months average 6.96 percent.
Auto Loan Rates | Car Loan Interest Rates. Find current car loan rates and compare the best auto loans by using this simple form. Select your city, state or zip code then select your car loan product to compare interest rates from several lenders. 1. Select your location. 1  State & City. 
Auto loan rates in Newark, New Jersey. Here are the auto loan rates in Newark, NJ, as of 10 a.m. on Friday. The 48-month new-car loan rates vary from 1.99 percent to 2.24 percent. Use our auto loan calculator to check your monthly car payment. And all three lenders in this survey are offering rates below that average. Use our tools to shop for auto loan rates in Newark, NJ. One lender in this survey recently has been offering 1.99 percent. But to get the best rates, it's important to correct errors on your credit report before you shop for a loan.
The average 48-month new-car loan rate is currently at 4.08 percent. And all three lenders in this survey are offering rates below that average. Use our tools to shop for auto loan rates in Newark, NJ. One lender in this survey recently has been offering 1.99 percent. But to get the best rates, it's important to correct errors on your credit report before you shop for a loan.
Auto loan rates in Paramus, NJ, are low. The average national 48-month new-car loan rate is now at 4.09 percent. And there are five lenders in this survey offering rates lower than that average. You will find one lender in this survey offering 1.99 percent. But before you settle on a lender, make sure to check out the conditions and fees for each loan. Here are the auto loan rates in Paramus, NJ, as of 11 a.m. on Thursday. The 48-month new-car loan rates vary from 1.99 percent to 4.04 percent.
National data, broken out into 36 month, 48 month and 60 month series of averages are available at low cost, including historical information. Please call for more information. Six-month graphs of national average auto loan rates can be found on our Statistical Release page. Every month, HSH collects the latest information on new and used auto loan rates from lenders in dozens of metropolitan areas around the US. The sampling of averages listed here includes only a few of the areas we survey.