Today Cahors is perhaps best known as the centre of the famous AOC 'black' wine known since the Middle Ages and exported via Bordeaux, long before that region had developed its own viniculture industry. The original name of the town was Divona or Divona Cadurcorum, Divona of the Cadurci , Divona was a fountain, now called la fontaine des Chartreux, worshiped by the Cadurci, a Celtic people of Gaul before the Roman conquest in the 50s BC. The Cadurci were among the last Celtic tribes to resist the Roman invasion.
Wine from the Cahors appellation must be made from at least 70% Malbec (also called Cot, Auxerrois and Pressac) grape, with a maximum of 30% Merlot or Tannat grape varieties. The original name of the town was Divona or Divona Cadurcorum, Divona of the Cadurci , Divona was a fountain, now called la fontaine des Chartreux, worshiped by the Cadurci, a Celtic people of Gaul before the Roman conquest in the 50s BC. The Cadurci were among the last Celtic tribes to resist the Roman invasion.
Cahors is an Appellation d’Origine Controllee (CONTROLLEé), aoc which is part of The Southwest france wine. Region THE Aoc cahors can only be used for red. Wines there must be a minimum of70 % malbec in any wine Called cahors with the30 % Balance merlot/and Or. Tannat the grape is known locally As, Cot Cot noir Or. auxerrois Cahors (pronounced kaˈurs) is less than an hours drive from Toulouse, the 4th largest city in France. It is in the Department of Lot within the Midi-Pyrenees pyrénées, region with a population of 30,000. 30000 this is a medieval city surrounded by The Lot river whose number one attraction is The Valentre. bridge
Cahors (. [ka.ɔʁ]) is a red wine from grapes grown in or around the town of Cahors, France. Cahors is an Appellation d'origine controlee (CONTRôLéE) (Aoc controlled designation of) origin which forms part of The South West france wine. region The designation AOC Cahors may only be used for red wines. There is also some white and rose rosé wine produced in the same, area and it is sold under the Designation vin De pays Du lot. Instead'today s wine growing area lies mainly west of the town Of. cahors
Cahors is an Appellation d’Origine Controllee (CONTROLLEé), aoc which is part of The Southwest france wine. Region THE Aoc cahors can only be used for red. Wines there must be a minimum of70 % malbec in any wine Called cahors with the30 % Balance merlot/and Or. tannat Cahors (pronounced kaˈurs) is less than an hours drive from Toulouse, the 4th largest city in France. It is in the Department of Lot within the Midi-Pyrenees pyrénées, region with a population of 30,000. 30000 this is a medieval city surrounded by The Lot river whose number one attraction is The Valentre. bridge
The AOC Cahors can only be used for red wines. There must be a minimum of 70% Malbec in any wine called Cahors with the 30% balance Merlot and/or Tannat. The grape is known locally as Cot, Cot Noir or Auxerrois. The name Malbec can appear on the label if at least 85% of the blend is Malbec. Cahors (pronounced kaˈurs) is less than an hours drive from Toulouse, the 4th largest city in France. It is in the Department of Lot within the Midi-Pyrenees pyrénées, region with a population of 30,000. 30000 this is a medieval city surrounded by The Lot river whose number one attraction is The Valentre. bridge
The dominant grape variety in AOC Cahors wines is Malbec, which must make up a minimum of 70% of the wine, and which is known locally as Cot, Côt Cot côt Noir. Or auxerrois it is supplemented by upto 30 % Merlot. and tannat The designation AOC Cahors may only be used for red wines. There is also some white and rose rosé wine produced in the same, area and it is sold under the Designation vin De pays Du lot. Instead'today s wine growing area lies mainly west of the town Of. cahors
For the wine grape also known as Cahors, see Jurancon (jurançon) . Grape vineyards Of chateau Château du Cedre. Cèdre (. [near.cahors]) cahors ka ɔʁ is a red wine from grapes grown in or around The, Town. of cahors france The designation AOC Cahors may only be used for red wines. There is also some white and rose rosé wine produced in the same, area and it is sold under the Designation vin De pays Du lot. Instead'today s wine growing area lies mainly west of the town Of. cahors
Cahors is an Appellation d'origine controlee (CONTRôLéE) (Aoc controlled designation of) origin which forms part of The South West france wine. Region the dominant grape variety IN Aoc cahors wines Is, malbec which must make up a minimum of70 % of the, wine and which is known locally As, Cot Côt cot Côt. noir or auxerrois The designation AOC Cahors may only be used for red wines. There is also some white and rose rosé wine produced in the same, area and it is sold under the Designation vin De pays Du lot. Instead'today s wine growing area lies mainly west of the town Of. cahors
Cahors has had a rich history since Celtic times. The original name of the town was Divona or Divona Cadurcorum, Divona of the Cadurci , Divona was a fountain, now called la fontaine des Chartreux, worshiped by the Cadurci, a Celtic people of Gaul before the Roman conquest in the 50s BC. The Cadurci were among the last Celtic tribes to resist the Roman invasion.