No two websites agree on the ideal cooking time for a given temperature. Typically I fry thighs and drummies. I've found that for thighs, 10 minutes per side at an average temp of 340 or so gets me close, though I will try 12 minutes next time since the last batch was not completely done right at the bone. Place half of chicken pieces skin-side down in oil, cover, reduce heat to medium, and fry until deep golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes; after about 3 minutes, lift chicken pieces with tongs to check for even browning; rearrange if some pieces are browning faster than others.
One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes. 
Directions. Place chicken pieces into a plastic container and cover with buttermilk. Cover and refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours. Melt enough shortening (over low heat) to come just 1/3-inch up the side of a 12-inch cast iron skillet or heavy fry pan. Once shortening liquefies raise heat to 325 degrees F. Do not allow oil to go over 325 degrees F. Drain chicken in a colander.
When you add the chicken to the hot oil, the temperature will drop drastically. Raise the heat to high once the chicken is in the pot. The temperature should level off at around 300 degrees F. Fry the chicken until golden brown and the meat is cooked all the way through, about 7 to 8 minutes. Be sure to return the oil to 360 to 370 degrees F before frying another batch of chicken. Continue this process until all of the chicken is fried.
How long do you deep-fry chicken wings? If the temperature of the oil is 375°F (190°C), it should take 8 to 10 minutes for the wings to turn golden brown and be cooked through. You can check that they are done by taking out the thickest piece and cutting into it, to verify that the juice is no longer pink. It is very important that you do not overfill the fryer when you add chicken. You do not want the temperature of the oil to drop much below the 375° mark, or the wings will fry poorly, soak up more oil, and taste greasy.
When the oil is heated, drop CAREFULLY the chicken pieces into the oil. When the chicken floats and turns over and is a dark golden brown, it is cooked completely. The oil always decreases in temperature after each 'batch' of chicken you cook, so wait a few minutes for the oil to heat up again before cooking more. If, when you cut into a piece, there is pink, you can microwave the chicken for a minute or so until it isn't pink anymore.
(Spot-check oil temperature; after first 6 minutes of frying, oil should be about 325 degrees. Adjust burner if necessary.) Turn chicken pieces over and continue to fry, uncovered, until chicken pieces are deep golden brown on second side, 6 to 8 minutes longer. Place half of chicken pieces skin-side down in oil, cover, reduce heat to medium, and fry until deep golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes; after about 3 minutes, lift chicken pieces with tongs to check for even browning; rearrange if some pieces are browning faster than others.
Stop! Don’t start breading that chicken straight from the fridge—if you fry it now, the temperature of the oil will drop and your chicken won’t cook evenly (plus, you can forget about crispy skin). Instead, let the meat sit at room temperature for 30 minutes. Now you may proceed!
The oil should come half way up the pan. Cook chicken until golden brown on each side, approximately 10 to 12 minutes per side. More importantly, the internal temperature should be right around 180 degrees. (Be careful to monitor shortening temperature every few minutes.). Drain chicken on a rack over a sheet pan. Cover and refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours. Melt enough shortening (over low heat) to come just 1/3-inch up the side of a 12-inch cast iron skillet or heavy fry pan. Once shortening liquefies raise heat to 325 degrees F. Do not allow oil to go over 325 degrees F. Drain chicken in a colander.
Add 8 pieces of chicken at a time to the seasoned flour and shake to evenly coat. Remove from the bag and place on a wire rack set over a sheet pan. Continue to coat the wings and allow them to sit for 10 to 15 minutes before proceeding. Fry the chicken in batches, about 10 to 12 pieces at a time. The temperature should level off at around 300 degrees F. Fry the chicken until golden brown and the meat is cooked all the way through, about 7 to 8 minutes. Be sure to return the oil to 360 to 370 degrees F before frying another batch of chicken. Continue this process until all of the chicken is fried.