Technically, it's the bride's family's prerogative to throw the first engagement party, but that doesn't mean they have to. It may be a bit early, but on the other hand, since the wedding is so far off, it might be nice to celebrate the fact that the couple is engaged now. Q: We are being pressured by the mother of the groom to have an engagement party for our newly engaged daughter and future son-in-law. The wedding is a ways away, after college graduation and jobs are secured. I say throwing a wedding engagement party now is precipitous, and I would like to wait.
If the groom's family resides in a distant hometown, they may also host an engagement party for the couple. It is not traditional engagement etiquette to throw an engagement party. Nor is it part of the tradition to give engagement gifts. However, if you do decide you want a party, then there are some important engagement party etiquette rules and guidelines to follow: 1. 
Agree on a host. Traditionally the parents of either the groom or the bride will host the engagement party, but it is also common for the couple themselves to host the party. Other options include a friend of the couple, both families co-hosting the party or even the groom planning the celebration. An engagement party is a once-in-a-lifetime event to celebrate a couple's plans to marry. It is the opportunity for people to congratulate you and introduce the bride and groom’s friends and families to one another.
1. Who throws this party? The bride’s parents traditionally host the engagement party, but the groom’s parents, a friend or even the couple themselves can also throw one. It should be held within four month of the proposal, but at least six months before the wedding. 2.
When to Have It. The engagement party should fall within a few months of the proposal, right in the sweet spot between carefree, just-engaged life and the start of serious wedding planning. You'll want to give guests about a month's notice, so about 9 to 11 months before the wedding is the ideal time frame.
Traditionally, the bride’s family throws the engagement party, but often the groom’s family likes to share in the festivities by cohosting the affair or holding one of its own. Part of the fun of an engagement party is letting your two families get to know each other. 1  done! 2  Pick a date. 1 Traditionally, the bride’s family throws the engagement party, but often the groom’s family likes to share in the festivities by cohosting the affair or holding one of its own. 2 
1 While the best man or maid of honor can throw the engagement party, it is usually better for the families or the couple themselves to throw the party since the maid of honor and best man will have to organize other parties later on. An engagement party is a once-in-a-lifetime event to celebrate a couple's plans to marry. It is the opportunity for people to congratulate you and introduce the bride and groom’s friends and families to one another.
Best Answer: An engagement party is party just like any other. Anyone can host one. The traditional hosts (and still the most common), are the Bride's parents. But the groom's parents, close friends, or the couple themselves can also throw the party. The engagement party celebrates the news of the couple's long-awaited engagement to the ones who are nearest and dearest to them.