Ticci-Toby Encounter. Last weekend after a friends party, I'd been walking home. Of course most people would find the city creepy at night, while the breeze blew signs around making them creak on their hinges. I passed under a flag that flagged eerily in the wind. But I knew this city well. Very well. 
*next Ticci Toby walks into the room with a plate of waffles* Toby: hey guys! umm are u doing another quiz? Juju: ahhh h-hi toby *she falls over and faints* Ciwi: well, ill get her on the couch.... Sky: ok.. ask a question Toby Toby: umm do you like waffles? 
Bio Edit. As a young child, Toby Rogers was diagnosed with Tourette's syndrome, which caused uncontrollable ticking. Because of this, he was bullied to the point where he had to homeschooled. Toby ended up in a car crash, and while he survived, his sister did not. Toby blamed it on his father. Creepy Finishers Edit. 1  Axe You A Question-Toby smacks the opponent with his hatchet, making him/her hit the ground. 2  The opponent tries to crawl away, but Toby walks up and crushes his/her head with a mighty slam of his hatchet. 3  Clean and Jerk-Toby implants his hatchet in the opponent's head.
46 pages on this wiki. Artist: Kastoway. Ticci-Toby (real name: Tobias Erin Toby Rogers) is a fictional Proxy of the Slender Man from the creepypasta of the same name written by Kastoway. The story focuses on Toby's descent into madness and his first encounter with The Slender Man. Note: Ticci Toby does not have a page on the main wiki because he is not considered part of the mythos. He has not made a major impact on the Slender Man Mythos in any way and has never appeared in a canon series. He is essentially an extremely popular fan-character created
Unconsciously replaying everything he had remembered before he blacked out, over and over again. Toby had been the lucky one, when his sister hadn't been so lucky. When the thought of his older sister came, he couldn't help but let his eyes begin to tear up. The horrible memories replayed in his mind. His mother caught onto his stare towards his father and elbowed him slightly. Toby looked over at her slightly and look down at his uneaten food, in which he didn't touch. Toby laid in bed, he pulled his covers over his head and stared at the window.
Original story and Ending artwork: http://kastoway.deviantart.com/art/Ticci-Toby-373,384,541 http://kastoway.deviantart.com/art/bloodyeahawesome-376,815,435. Video Artwork: Myhatisblue.tumblr.com. 
Ticci-Toby (real name: Tobias Erin Toby Rogers) is a fictional Proxy of the Slender Man from the creepypasta of the same name written by Kastoway. The story focuses on Toby's descent into madness and his first encounter with The Slender Man. Note: Ticci Toby does not have a page on the main wiki because he is not considered part of the mythos. He has not made a major impact on the Slender Man Mythos in any way and has never appeared in a canon series.
At one night, Toby Rogers, (Ticci Toby) got out from his room and decided to kill his father with a sharp knife. After he killed hi father he ran away with only taking two hatchet, a box of Matches and a gallon of gasoline. He burned the entire neighbourhood. As soon the cops came to arrest Ticci Toby. But when Toby tried to escape from the cops, the fire was so big that he cannot escape When he looked around to escape, he found a tall dark shadow leading him into the woods. But that was not a shadow... it was a tall man who wears black. He looked at the mans face.
Report Abuse. The name Ticci Toby was made by the kids who bullied Toby. 'Ticci' was a name from his Tourette Syndromes by cracking his neck and fingers to controll his stress. After the accident, happen he lock himself in his room and barely eat. As soon the cops came to arrest Ticci Toby. But when Toby tried to escape from the cops, the fire was so big that he cannot escape When he looked around to escape, he found a tall dark shadow leading him into the woods. But that was not a shadow... it was a tall man who wears black. He looked at the mans face.