The term hip hop music is sometimes used synonymously with the term rap music, though rapping is not a required component of hip hop music; the genre may also incorporate other elements of hip hop culture, including DJing, turntablism, and scratching, beatboxing, and instrumental tracks. Wonky is a subgenre of hip hop that originated around 2008, but most notably in the United States and United Kingdom, and among international artists of the Hyperdub music label, under the influence of glitch hop and dubstep.
Hip hop or hip-hop is a cultural movement that formed during the late 1960s among African American youths residing in the South Bronx in New York City. DJ Afrika Bambaataa of the hip hop collective Zulu Nation outlined the pillars of hip hop culture, to which he coined the terms: MCing or Emceein, DJing or Deejayin, B-boying and graffiti writing or Aerosol Writin.
Rap music originated in the middle of the 1970’s, though the music genre did not get nationwide attention until the early 1980’s. Origins Of Rap Music. In New York City dance clubs in the Bronx in the late-1970’s, club Djs began to isolate and sample the sounds from the disco and funk music of the 1970’s.
Hip-hop started in the South Bronx. Hip hop singers, and break dancing was a way to be heard without violence. It is also said that Hip hop and even graffiti was a way to speak out against putting up the South Bronx express way. Graffiti was intentionally put on the trains so that it would be seen throughout New York. Lyrics  rhyme, and common themes in hip-hop are life in the ghetto,  including drugs and violence. However, rap lyrics can range over a  variety of topics. There is concious rap, political rap, comedy  rap, trap music, pop rap, etc.
Therefore, “rap” is the most famous part of hip hop culture, but “hip hop” comprises more than just rapping and rappers. These days, though, people often use the term “hip hop” when discussing music which combines rapping and Dj, and the term “hip hop” can be considered a proper definition of rap. Origins Of Rap Music. In New York City dance clubs in the Bronx in the late-1970’s, club Djs began to isolate and sample the sounds from the disco and funk music of the 1970’s.
In the 1970s, an underground urban movement known as Hip Hop began to develop in the South Bronx in New York City. It focused on emceeing (or MCing), breakbeats, and house parties. Jamaican-born DJ Clive Kool Herc Campbell was highly influential in the pioneering stage of hip hop music. DJ Afrika Bambaataa of the hip hop collective Zulu Nation outlined the pillars of hip hop culture, to which he coined the terms: MCing or Emceein, DJing or Deejayin, B-boying and graffiti writing or Aerosol Writin.
A hip hop enthusiast from New York City has always heard that 1520 Sedgwick Avenue in the Bronx is the birthplace of hip hop. 
Hip Hop originated in the streets of the South Bronx. Hip Hop was created to stop the youth from joining gang. Moreover, it was created by Puerto Ricans and Blacks people in the South Bronx. Noticed that I say blacks because Jamaicans, Nigerians, African Americans etc.. help to build what we know today as Hip Hop. Hip Hop have elements.
The new school of hip hop was the second wave of hip hop music, originating in 1983–84 with the early records of Run-D.M.C. and LL Cool J. As with the hip hop preceding it (which subsequently became known as old school hip hop), the new school came predominately from New York City. Wonky is a subgenre of hip hop that originated around 2008, but most notably in the United States and United Kingdom, and among international artists of the Hyperdub music label, under the influence of glitch hop and dubstep.
Hip hop as music and culture formed during the 1970s when block parties became increasingly popular in New York City, particularly among African American youth residing in the Bronx. At block parties DJs played percussive breaks of popular songs using two turntables to extend the breaks. Wonky is a subgenre of hip hop that originated around 2008, but most notably in the United States and United Kingdom, and among international artists of the Hyperdub music label, under the influence of glitch hop and dubstep.