Democrats now use deception and government handouts to keep blacks from voting for Republicans. In his book, Dreams From My Father, Obama described what he and other Democrats do to poor blacks as plantation politics.The racist Democrats of the 1950's and 1960's that Republicans were fighting died Democrats. It'll be Reconstruction all over again.Little known by many today is the fact that it was Republican Senator Everett Dirksen from Illinois, not Johnson, who pushed through the 1964 Civil Rights Act. In fact, Dirksen was instrumental to the passage of civil rights legislation in 1957, 1960, 1964, 1965 and 1968.
Georgia did not switch until 2004, and Louisiana was controlled by Democrats until the election of Republican Bobby Jindal, a person of color, as governor in 2007. It'll be Reconstruction all over again.Little known by many today is the fact that it was Republican Senator Everett Dirksen from Illinois, not Johnson, who pushed through the 1964 Civil Rights Act. In fact, Dirksen was instrumental to the passage of civil rights legislation in 1957, 1960, 1964, 1965 and 1968.
So, sometime between the 1860s and 1936, the (Democratic) party of small government became the party of big government, and the (Republican) party of big government became rhetorically committed to curbing federal power. by Natalie Wolchover | September 24, 2012 01:39pm ET. Abraham Lincoln, the 16th U.S. President and a Republican (left), and Franklin Roosevelt, the 32nd U.S. President and a Democrat. The Republican and Democratic parties effectively switched platforms between their presidencies. Credit: Public domain View full size image
The Republican Party was also formed by a massive party switch in 1854 when northern members of the Whig, American and Free Soil parties, along with a few northern Democrats, formed the Republican Party, and many Southern Whigs became Democrats. When this party fell apart in the 1820s, its members all switched to various political parties, including the United States Whig Party, as well as the Democratic, National Republican, Anti-Jackson and Anti-Mason Parties.
In fact, the racist Democrats declared they would rather vote for a “yellow dog” than a Republican because the Republican Party was known as the party for blacks. From the time of its inception in 1854 as the anti-slavery party, the Republican Party has always been the party of freedom and equality for blacks. Democrats first used brutality and discriminatory laws to stop blacks from voting for Republicans. Democrats now use deception and government handouts to keep blacks from voting for Republicans. In his book, “Dreams From My Father,” Obama described what he and other Democrats do to poor blacks as “plantation politics.”.
Georgia did not switch until 2004, and Louisiana was controlled by Democrats until the election of Republican Bobby Jindal, a person of color, as governor in 2007. Democrats first used brutality and discriminatory laws to stop blacks from voting for Republicans. Democrats now use deception and government handouts to keep blacks from voting for Republicans. In his book, “Dreams From My Father,” Obama described what he and other Democrats do to poor blacks as “plantation politics.”.
Best Answer: They haven't switched sides on the issues in that sense. Democrats are the modern party of racism-both promoting the idea that blacks are not as capable as whites and seeking to prohibit them from self defense by banning guns, especially in the hands of blacks. This led southern Whites to be Democrats. In reaction to that, Blacks became Republicans. The Dem party was long schitzy, with northern Dems being liberal, and Dixie-crats (as they used to be called) being conservative, especially on race issues.
When did republicans and democrats switch sides? During the civil war of 1861-1865, the republican party was the one that fought for civil rights and the abolition of slavery. When did the parties switch, so that the republicans are now clearly the a$$holes and the democrats are the good guys? 
A massive party switch occurred in the 19th century and 1810s when many members of the United States Federalist Party joined the United States Democratic-Republican Party. When this party fell apart in the 1820s, its members all switched to various political parties, including the United States Whig Party, as well as the Democratic, National Republican, Anti-Jackson and Anti-Mason Parties.