Overview. Carotid stenosis is a narrowing of the carotid arteries, the two major arteries that carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the brain. Also called carotid artery disease, carotid stenosis is caused by a buildup of plaque inside the artery wall that reduces blood flow to the brain. The process of plaque buildup is called atherosclerosis. Carotid stenosis is a major risk factor for stroke and can lead to brain damage. Carotid stenosis is a progressive narrowing of the carotid arteries in a process called atherosclerosis. Normal healthy arteries are flexible and have smooth inner walls. As we age, hypertension and small injuries to the blood vessel wall can allow plaque to build up.
Overview. Carotid stenosis is a narrowing or blockage of the carotid arteries. Located in the side of the neck, the left and right carotids are two large arteries that carry oxygen-rich blood to your brain. You can feel your carotids pulsate when you place your index finger right below the angle of your ja
Intracranial stenosis is a narrowing of the arteries inside the brain. Similar to carotid stenosis in the neck, it is caused by a buildup of plaque in the inner wall of the blood vessels. Intracranial stenosis is a narrowing of an artery inside the brain that can lead to stroke. Stenosis is caused by a buildup of plaque inside the artery wall that reduces blood flow to the brain. The process of plaque buildup is called atherosclerosis.
Carotid artery stenosis occurs when the carotid arteries narrow. The carotid arteries are major arteries found on each side of the neck. They supply blood from the heart to the brain. This condition is a major risk factor for ischemic stroke. Ischemic stroke is when blood flow to the brain is blocked due to blood clots. 
By Sally Robertson, BSc. Carotid artery stenosis or coronary artery disease refers to a narrowing of the carotid arteries, the major arteries in the neck that supply the brain with blood from the heart. 
The narrowing usually results from atherosclerosis, or a build-up of plaque on the inside of the arteries. Over time, stenosis can advance to complete blockage of the artery. Risk factors for carotid artery stenosis include age, smoking, high blood pressure, diabetes, obesity and an inactive lifestyle.
In this article. Carotid artery disease is also called carotid artery stenosis. The term refers to the narrowing of the carotid arteries. This narrowing is usually caused by the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol deposits, called plaque. Carotid artery occlusion refers to complete blockage of the artery.
Carotid stenosis is a narrowing or constriction of the inner surface (lumen) of the carotid artery, usually caused by atherosclerosis. 