English naturalist George Montagu described the roseate tern in 1813. Genetically, it is most closely related to the white-fronted tern (S. striata), with their common ancestor a sister lineage to the black-naped tern (S. sumatrana). The roseate tern (Sterna dougallii) is a seabird of the tern family Sternidae.
Clutches of 3 or more eggs, and most 2-egg clutches laid less than 2 days apart, usually are the result of 2 or more females laying eggs at a single nest-site. For Roseate Terns, incubation usually takes 23-24 days (2 days longer than for Common Terns), and chicks usually fledge 25-28 days after hatching. About 2,500-2,800 Roseate Terns nested at Great Gull Island, New York, about 280-360 nested at Falkner Island, Connecticut, and about 300 nested on the south shore of Long Island, mostly at Cedar Beach and Shinnecock Bay, New York.
They are slender, lightly built birds with long, forked tails, narrow wings, long bills, and relatively short legs. Most species are pale grey above and white below, with a contrasting black cap to the head, but the marsh terns, the Inca tern, and some noddies have dark plumage for at least part of the year. The sexes are identical in appearance, but young birds are readily distinguishable from adults. Most species feed on fish caught by diving from flight, but the marsh terns are insect-eaters, and some large terns will supplement their diet with small land vertebrates. Many terns are long-distance migrants, and the Arctic tern may see more daylight in a year than any other animal.
The roseate tern is significantly affected by this hunting, with adult survival 10% lower than would otherwise be expected. In the West Indies, the eggs of roseate and sooty terns are believed to be aphrodisiacs, and are disproportionately targeted by egg collectors. Most species feed on fish caught by diving from flight, but the marsh terns are insect-eaters, and some large terns will supplement their diet with small land vertebrates. Many terns are long-distance migrants, and the Arctic tern may see more daylight in a year than any other animal.
The Roseate Spoonbill, a large wading bird with pink plumage and a distinctive spatulate bill, is one of the most striking birds found in North America. They stand 85 cm tall and have a 1.3 m wingspan. 
They nest among rocks and cliffs. The nests are made up of shells and debris or of dead vegetation. Clutch size is 3, on average, and the chicks hatch in 3 to 4 weeks. Young fledge in 27 to 30 days. Common tern chicks are able to fly by the time they are a month old but do not reach sexual maturity for 3 years. Common terns are found from northern Canada south to the Caribbean Sea, as well as throughout Europe, Northern Asia, North Africa, and the Middle East. Some populations of common terns winter in the south to Peru and Argentina. (Ehrlich, et al., 1988; Malling Olsen and Larsson, 1995).
Roseate Tern chicks often leave the nest site after only 3-7 days to find new hiding places. Young Roseate Terns usually do not return to their nests or hiding sites once they fledge (i.e., become capable of sustained flight), and they may leave the colony with one or both parents a few days later. About 2,500-2,800 Roseate Terns nested at Great Gull Island, New York, about 280-360 nested at Falkner Island, Connecticut, and about 300 nested on the south shore of Long Island, mostly at Cedar Beach and Shinnecock Bay, New York.
The roseate tern population in the UK experienced the most dramatic decline of any seabird species between Operation Seafarer (1969-70) and the SCR Census (1985-88). It also has one of the most restricted ranges of any seabird around the British Isles, with most of the population breeding in just a few colonies. The UK roseate tern population decreased from 950 pairs in 1969-70 to 320 in 1985-88 and fell further between 1986 and 1991, mostly due to mortality of immature birds in their winter quarters in west Africa, which reduced subsequent recruitment into the breeding population.