Facet Joints Video. Facet Hypertrophy is the term used to describe a degeneration and enlargement of the facet joints. The facet joints, which are a pair of small joints at each level along the back of the spine, are designed to provide support, stability, and flexibility to the spine. 
Facet hypertrophic change is a term commonly found in x-ray and MRI reports concerning the condition of the spine. A facet is a type of joint found at the back or rear porti … on of the spine that gives support and strength to the spinal column while still allowing the spine to move. Facet joints are the joints which connect the vertebrae to one  another. Degeneration of the facet joints is commonly caused by  arthritis and is a cause of pain and loss of … mobility.
Hypertrophy is a word which means abnormal enlargement of the joint structures. Hypertrophy of the spinal facet joints is the process which is theorized to enact painful symptoms and is usually ﻿﻿diagnosed as facet joint syndrome﻿﻿. The condition is a normal degenerative process that occurs in the spine as we age. Facet hypertrophy is a diagnosis which is often blamed for creating the ideal circumstances for chronic back pain. After all, hypertrophic changes to the spinal joints will not get better with time.
Sections. Facet joint hypertrophy is a condition in which the facet joints of the spine become enlarged. Facet joints are cartilage-encased hinges that hold adjacent vertebrae together. The pain of facet joint hypertrophy doesn’t come from the inflammation itself, but rather from the effect the inflammation has on surrounding spinal nerves. The vertebrae are surrounded by openings called foramina, through which our spinal nerves pass on their way to and from the muscles and sensory organs.
Facets are tiny joints in your spinal column. Sclerosis means hardening. So, mild facet sclerosis means mild hardening (or calcification) of the tiny joints in your spinal col … umn. This is a degenerative change that occurs in older people, in people with osteoarthritis, or in response to trauma. Facet joints are the joints which connect the vertebrae to one  another. Degeneration of the facet joints is commonly caused by  arthritis and is a cause of pain and loss of … mobility.
Facet Hypertrophy: Definition. Facet Hypertrophy is an enlargement of the facet joint. It can increase to the point where. nerves in the spine come under pressure and can cause lateral recess stenosis with subsequent radiculopathy. The hypertrophic degenerated joint is also a pain generator of its own. Facet Hypertrophy in a CT. The inferior articular process of a vertebra with the superior articular processes of the adjacent. lower vertebra forms a facet joint, also known as the zygapophysial joint. The facet joint is a synovial joint, as opposed to cartilaginous or fibrous joint.
Confidence votes 494. Facet hypertrophic change is a term commonly found in x-ray and MRI reports concerning the condition of the spine. A facet is a type of joint found at the back or rear portion of the spine that gives support and strength to the spinal column while still allowing the spine to move. In the case of facet hypertrophic changes, the ligaments would typically thicken and the bones in and around the joint would become more dense or harder, and extra bone tissue might be laid down to increase the size of the boney projections that make up the facet joint.