Best Answer: Cardiac muscle does have several unique features. Present in cardiac muscle are intercalated discs, which are connections between two adjacent cardiac cells. Intercalated discs help multiple cardiac muscle cells contract rapidly as a unit. This is important for the heart to function properly. Cardiac muscle also can contract more powerfully when it is stretched slightly. When the ventricles are filled, they are stretched beyond their normal resting capacity.
Intercalated discs Definition. These are transverse bands that separate the adjacent ends in cardiac muscle fibers. Normally these structures appear as stained irregular lines at 90 degrees to the striped sarcomeric pattern. Intercalated discs Location. As mentioned earlier, these discs connect the individual heart cells called cardiomyocytes to form the atrial syncitium. In fact, both intercalated discs and pacemaker cells are characteristic of cardiac muscle tissues. Similarly, these transverse bands and striations are characteristic of cardiac muscle
Intercalated discs support synchronised contraction of cardiac tissue. They occur at the Z line of the sarcomere and can be visualized easily when observing a longitudinal section of the tissue. Three types of cell junction make up an intercalated disc — fascia adherens, desmosomes and gap junctions. 1  Fascia adherens are anchoring sites for actin, and connect to the closest sarcomere. 2  Desmosomes stop separation during contraction by binding intermediate filaments, joining the cells together.
The heart of the human beings is made up of cardiac muscles which are different from smooth and skeletal muscles. Inside the cardiac muscles is the intercalated discs which is known to join various adjacent cells together. There are a number of functions of intercalated discs. It is only when it functions properly that the heart can work effectively. The human heart is made up of cardiac muscle. In the intercalated discs the various cardiac cells are said to be intertwined to each other followed by gap junctions. This position helps in the stabilisation of the positions of the cells as well as helps to maintain the three dimensional structure of the cells. The intercalated disc is made up of double membrane.
intercalated disc. Definitions: 1. a specialized intercellular attachment of cardiac muscle cells comprising gap junctions, fascia adherens, and occasionally desmosomes. The definition information for intercalated disc is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
Intercalated discs are microscopic identifying features of cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle consists of individual heart muscle cells (cardiomyocytes) connected by intercalated discs to work as a single functional organ or syncytium. Three types of cell junction make up an intercalated disc — fascia adherens, desmosomes and gap junctions. 1  Fascia adherens are anchoring sites for actin, and connect to the closest sarcomere. 2  Desmosomes stop separation during contraction by binding intermediate filaments, joining the cells together.
Muscle: Cell Junctions. There are several kinds of cell-cell junctions. A description of these can be found here. Cardiac cells are special, amongst the muscle types, because they are connected to each other by intercalated discs-structures that are only found in cardiac muscle cells. These can be seen in this diagram, as darkly staining irregular lines, at 90 degrees to the striped sarcomeric pattern.