Evaluation of Foot Drop. Definitions: When there is paralysis of the dorsal extensor muscles of the foot and the toes (tibialis anterior, extensor digitorum longus, and extensor hallucis longus), which are innervated by the deep peroneal nerve, foot drop occurs. 
The chief movements of the foot distal to the ankle joint are inversion and eversion. In inversion, the sole of the foot is directed medially. In eversion, the sole is turned so that it faces laterally (see fig. 17-6). The word ankle refers to the angle between the leg and the foot. The foot functions in support and in locomotion, whereas the hand is a tactile and grasping organ. The toes are numbered from one to five, beginning with the great toe, or hallux. Thus, the pre-axial digit in either the hand or the foot is numbered one.
The muscles that invert your foot at the subaltar joint are your anterior tibialis and extensor hallucis longus and your posterior tibialis, flexor hallucis longus and flexor digitorum longus. I don't really understand that mix of extensor and flexors and it slightly offends my sense of order, but so it is. Inversion is when you lift the inner edge of your foot, not at the ankle joint, but at the subaltar joint below the ankle joint, and eversion is when you lift the outer edge of your foot. Technically this is a foot joint and movement, but functionally you still probably think of it as your ankle.
The talus and the calcaneus are the two most posterior bones in the foot, as well, as the largest of the tarsal bones of the foot. The talus articulates with the distal tibia and fibula above to form the mortise joint of the ankle. It articulates below with the calcaneus. No muscles actually insert on the talus. These are all muscles that run from the lower leg and attach on the medial aspect of the foot. When these muscles contract they pull the insertion toward the origin and thus pull the sole of the foot toward the inside or medial aspect of the body.
Muscles. The muscles that control ankle movement originate in the lower leg. They are responsible for foot and ankle movement up and down (dorsiflexion and plantar flexion) and turning in and out (inversion and eversion). The muscle bellies are located in the lower leg while the tendons travel and attach to the foot and ankle
In human anatomy, the tibialis anterior (/ˌtɪbiˈeɪlɨs/ or /ˌtɪbiˈaelɨs/) ˌtɪbiˈælɨs is a muscle that originates in the upper-two thirds of the (lateral) outside surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the. Foot it acts to dorsiflex and invert the. foot This muscle is mostly located near the shin. It is situated on the lateral side of the tibia; it is thick and fleshy above, tendinous below. The tibialis anterior overlaps the anterior tibial vessels and deep peroneal nerve in the upper part of the leg.
This muscle is the strongest dorsiflexor of the foot and ankle. It also assists with inversion of the ankle. This muscle passes down the front of the lower leg and attaches on the inside (medial) aspect of the foot so when it contracts it pulls the foot up and in. These are all muscles that run from the lower leg and attach on the medial aspect of the foot. When these muscles contract they pull the insertion toward the origin and thus pull the sole of the foot toward the inside or medial aspect of the body.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In human anatomy, the tibialis anterior (/ˌtɪbiˈeɪlɨs/ or /ˌtɪbiˈaelɨs/) ˌtɪbiˈælɨs is a muscle that originates in the upper-two thirds of the (lateral) outside surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the. foot This muscle is mostly located near the shin. It is situated on the lateral side of the tibia; it is thick and fleshy above, tendinous below. The tibialis anterior overlaps the anterior tibial vessels and deep peroneal nerve in the upper part of the leg.
It assists in plantar flexion of the foot, flexion of the four small toes, and inversion of the foot. The flexor digitorum longus tendon serves the flexor digitorum longus muscle, which extends from the back surface of the tibia to the foot. Its tendon passes along the plantar surface of the foot. There, it divides into four parts that attach to the terminal bones of the four small toes.
The posterior tibialis is located on the inside of the ankle, and supports the arch of the foot and helps turn the ankle in (inversion). The anterior tibialis muscle attaches to the front of the foot, and helps lift it up (dorsiflexion). The muscles that control ankle movement originate in the lower leg. They are responsible for foot and ankle movement up and down (dorsiflexion and plantar flexion) and turning in and out (inversion and eversion).