A major function is the modifying, sorting and packaging of proteins for secretion. It is also involved in the transport of lipids around the cell, and the creation of lysosomes. The sacs or folds of the Golgi apparatus are called cisternae. Typically there are five to eight cisternae but as many as sixty have been observed. The cisternae stack has five functional regions: the cis-Golgi network, cis-Golgi, medial-Golgi, trans-Golgi, and trans-Golgi network.
The main function of the Golgi apparatus is to be responsible for handling the macromolecules that are required for proper cell functioning. It processes and packages these macromolecules for use within the cell or for secretion. Primarily, the Golgi apparatus modifies proteins that it receives from the rough endoplasmic reticulum, however, it also transports lipids to vital parts of the cell and creates lysosomes. As part of eukaryotic cells, the Golgi apparatus works in unison with the endomembrane system.
The Golgi apparatus (/ˈɡoʊldʒiː/), also known as the Golgi complex, Golgi body, or simply the Golgi, is an organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. It was identified in 1897 by the Italian physician Camillo Golgi and named after him in 1898. Part of the cellular endomembrane system, the Golgi apparatus packages proteins into membrane-bound vesicles inside the cell before the vesicles are sent to their destination.
The Golgi Apparatus is an organelle found in most Eukaryotic cells. It was identified in 1897 by the Italian physician Camillio Golgi and named after him. The function of the Golgi is to make proteins for the cell. The Golgi apparatus job is to send the packages elsewhere in the cell or to the outside of the cell. The Golgi body receives proteins and amino acids from the Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) and packages them in vesicles and sends them out to other areas of the cell where they are needed. It is often called the processing center of the cell.
It is a part of a complex internal sorting and distributing system in the cell. One of the most important functions of the Golgi apparatus is the formation of lysosomes (single membrane bounded organelles containing hydrolytic enzymes). The Golgi is made of stacks of membrane bound bodies known as the cisternae. In plant cells, these stacks are usually found as individuals, called dictyosomes. In one plant stack, there are about 4 to 8 cisternae and in the animal cell 40 to 100 per stack. The Golgi body receives proteins and amino acids from the Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) and packages them in vesicles and sends them out to other areas of the cell where they are needed. It is often called the processing center of the cell.
Golgi Apparatus. A major organelle in most eukaryotic cells is the structure of membrane-bound sacs called the Golgi apparatus (or Golgi body, Golgi complex, dictyosome). It acts to process and package the macromolecules such as proteins and lipids that are synthesized by the cell. It has been likened to the cell's post office. The sacs or folds of the Golgi apparatus are called cisternae. Typically there are five to eight cisternae but as many as sixty have been observed. The cisternae stack has five functional regions: the cis-Golgi network, cis-Golgi, medial-Golgi, trans-Golgi, and trans-Golgi network.
Guide to the Structure and Function of the Golgi Apparatus. written by: Jason C. Chavis•edited by: Paul Arnold •updated: 7/29/2010. The Golgi apparatus is a part of the cellular structure that assists in the modification and delivery of proteins and other macromolecules. Made up of flat membranes called cisternae, the Golgi apparatus also protects against cell destruction known as apoptosis. Primarily, the Golgi apparatus modifies proteins that it receives from the rough endoplasmic reticulum, however, it also transports lipids to vital parts of the cell and creates lysosomes. As part of eukaryotic cells, the Golgi apparatus works in unison with the endomembrane system.
The Golgi Apparatus. The Golgi apparatus (GA), also called Golgi body or Golgi complex and found universally in both plant and animal cells, is typically comprised of a series of five to eight cup-shaped, membrane-covered sacs called cisternae that look something like a stack of deflated balloons. The Golgi apparatus is often considered the distribution and shipping department for the cell's chemical products. It modifies proteins and lipids (fats) that have been built in the endoplasmic reticulum and prepares them for export outside of the cell or for transport to other locations in the cell.