The term 'wilderness' is used to describe large, natural areas of land that, together with their native plant and animal communities, remain essentially unchanged by modern human activity. Wilderness areas represent the largest, most pristine areas in the state's reserve system. 
It might also be called a wild or natural area. Especially in wealthier, industrialized nations, it has a specific legal meaning as well: as land where development is prohibited by law. Many nations have designated Wilderness Areas, including Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. In the United States, a Wilderness Area is an area of federal land set aside by an act of Congress. Human activities in wilderness areas are restricted to scientific study and non-mechanized recreation; horses are permitted but motorized vehicles and equipment are not.
Full Definition of WILDERNESS. 1. a (1) : a tract or region uncultivated and uninhabited by human beings (2) : an area essentially undisturbed by human activity together with its naturally developed life community c: a part of a garden devoted to wild growth. 2. obsolete: wild or uncultivated state. 3
Full Definition of WILDERNESS AREA. : an often large tract of public land maintained essentially in its natural state and protected against introduction of intrusive artifacts (as roads and buildings). See wilderness area defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. : a large area of public land that is kept in its natural state. : an often large tract of public land maintained essentially in its natural state and protected against introduction of intrusive artifacts (as roads and buildings).
Activities on the margins of specific wilderness areas, such as fire suppression and the interruption of animal migration also affect the interior of wildernesses. Especially in wealthier, industrialized nations, it has a specific legal meaning as well: as land where development is prohibited by law. The word wilderness derives from the notion of wildness—in other words, that which is not controlled by humans. The mere presence or activity of people does not disqualify an area from being wilderness.
The WILD Foundation states that wilderness areas have two dimensions: they must be biologically intact and legally protected. The World Conservation Union (IUCN) classifies wilderness at two levels, Ia (Strict Nature Reserves) and Ib (Wilderness Areas). The word wilderness derives from the notion of wildness—in other words, that which is not controlled by humans. The mere presence or activity of people does not disqualify an area from being wilderness.
A wilderness area is a region where the land is in a natural state; where impacts from human activities are minimal—that is, as a wilderness. In the United States, a Wilderness Area is an area of federal land set aside by an act of Congress. Human activities in wilderness areas are restricted to scientific study and non-mechanized recreation; horses are permitted but motorized vehicles and equipment are not.
Wilderness areas are to be primarily affected by the forces of nature, though the Wilderness Act does acknowledge the need to provide for human health and safety, protect private property, control insect infestations, and fight fires within the area. 