Many know to press Ctrl-Z when they want to undo their last entry. But, what if you press undo by accident? Fortunately, you can revert to your last entry by using the redo command. Redo is a fast and easy way to undo the undo you did not want to do. 1 You can undo and redo up to 100 actions in the 2007 Microsoft Office programs, Word, PowerPoint, and Excel.  2 Redo is the opposite of undo, not a command to repeat your last entry or action.
You might not think that the keyboard shortcuts for cut, copy, paste and undo are that much of an improvement over using your mouse to perform the same task, but think of it this way: With a keyboard shortcut, I can do in half a second what it would take several seconds to do using a mouse. Undo – Ditto on the CTRL button. This time, you’re pressing Z instead. Cut – Same on CTRL, but swap Z for X. Undo is particularly useful in that it lets you get rid of the last bit of text you typed out without picking your hand up off the keyboard.
Most of us know about [Ctrl]+Z, the keystroke shortcut for the Undo command (on the Edit menu and the toolbar). Simply press [Ctrl]+Z to undo your last action(s). But you might not realize that there's an equally convenient counterpart to this keystroke. Pressing [Ctrl]+Y repeats your last action. If you use this feature a lot, add Repeat to the toolbar instead of using the keyboard shortcut or the menu command. In 2003, do the following: Repeat is on the Word 2007 Quick Access Toolbar by default. This keystroke shortcut works in all of the Office applications, but it's most helpful in Word.
By pressing a combination of keys, you can do things that normally need a mouse, trackpad, or other input device. To use a keyboard shortcut, hold down one or more modifier keys while pressing the last key of the shortcut. For example, to use the shortcut Command-C (copy), hold down Command, press C, then release both keys. Mac menus and keyboards often use symbols for certain keys, including the modifier keys: 1  Command 2  ⌘. Shift ⇧.
Redo actions that you undid. To redo an action that you undid, click Redo on the Quick Access Toolbar. Keyboard shortcut Press CTRL+Y or F3. For the F3 function key to redo your last action, you might need to press the F-Lock key. For more information about the Quick Access Toolbar, see Customize the Quick Access Toolbar. Note. Some actions can't be undone, such as clicking commands on the File tab or saving a file. If you can't undo an action, the Undo command changes to Can't Undo. In Excel, to cancel an entry in a cell or the formula bar before you press ENTER, press ESC.
Undo the last action or actions that you made. To undo an action, do one or more of the following: Click Undo on the Quick Access Toolbar. Keyboard shortcut Press CTRL+Z or F2. For the F2 function key to undo your last action, you might need to press the F-Lock key. For more information about the Quick Access Toolbar, see Customize the Quick Access Toolbar. 
1 Redo is the opposite of undo, not a command to repeat your last entry or action. 2  The redo keystrokes also work in other text environments such as email and Facebook, and Twitter. 1 You can undo and redo up to 100 actions in the 2007 Microsoft Office programs, Word, PowerPoint, and Excel.  2
Note: This document is for traditional computer keyboards and not laptop keyboards. If you're trying to remove a laptop keyboard see removing keyboard key and keycap steps. Caution: Before removing any of the keyboard keys unplugged it from the computer or turn off the computer. Removing a standard keyboard key is simple. Start by pressing down on the key in front of the key you want to remove and insert a flat object such as a car key as shown in the picture or a small flathead screw driver below the key.
Undo the last action or actions that you made. To undo an action, do one or more of the following: Click Undo on the Quick Access Toolbar. Keyboard shortcut Press CTRL+Z or F2. For the F2 function key to undo your last action, you might need to press the F-Lock key. Note. Some actions can't be undone, such as clicking commands on the File tab or saving a file. If you can't undo an action, the Undo command changes to Can't Undo. In Excel, to cancel an entry in a cell or the formula bar before you press ENTER, press ESC.
To learn how to add a redo button to your toolbar, click Help and search for customize toolbar.. 2. Use the drop-down Edit menu. If you have Microsoft Office 2003, or older, you can access the redo command in the Edit drop-down menu. 1  With the menu, you may also see a list of your recent undo's and redo's. 1 You can undo and redo up to 100 actions in the 2007 Microsoft Office programs, Word, PowerPoint, and Excel.  2 Redo is the opposite of undo, not a command to repeat your last entry or action.