Cramps are more likely the result of a mineral deficiency of the body. Try to add a couple of mineral tablets to your diet. On the other hand thyroid problems can also lead to … this and you may need to talk with your doctor. 13 people found this useful. 
Photo Credit Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. Cramps that occur in the fingers have a variety of causes. For example, overusing the fingers during activities such as writing, playing instruments or typing, can cause muscle fatigue and unwanted spasms that interfere with normal motor performance. Stretch your fingers to relieve cramping and increase muscle flexibility in the hands. For example, hold your hand parallel to the floor and use the index finger on your other hand to gently lift each finger upward for five seconds before releasing.
The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Hand cramps as a symptom. Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments. Hand cramps: The occurrence of muscular cramps that occur in the hand. See detailed information below for a list of 1 causes of Hand cramps, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Hand cramps: Causes.
Cramps in your hand can arise from a number of different causes. Hand cramps develop as a result of conditions affecting muscles and nerves in your hand. Trauma or injury to a nerve in your hand can also cause hand cramps. Even breathing too fast (hyperventilation) can result in hand cramps, as carbon dioxide levels in the blood become too low. Everyday, simple reasons, such as fatigue from overuse, can lead to temporary, acute cramps in the
In some situations, hand cramps can occur as a result of chronic medical conditions that affect your entire body, such as thyroid disorders, dystonia (abnormal prolonged muscle contractions), or diabetes. Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care. Trauma or injury to a nerve in your hand can also cause hand cramps. Even breathing too fast (hyperventilation) can result in hand cramps, as carbon dioxide levels in the blood become too low.
The most common causes of hand or finger cramps or spasms are muscle spasm, diabetes, and carpal tunnel syndrome. Other possible causes, such as multiple sclerosis, are more rare. Within all the people who go to their doctor with hand or finger cramps or spasms, 47% report having hand or finger pain, 34% report having foot or toe cramps or spasms, and 34% report having leg cramps or spasms. 1  Hand or finger pain 47. 2  Foot or toe cramps or spasms strong predictor 34. 3  Headache 34.
Acute causes of hand cramps. Hand cramps can also be caused by acute problems that affect the muscles and nerves of the hand including: Anxiety or panic due to hyperventilation. Damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or to multiple nerves (polyneuropathy) that are connected to muscles in the hand. Questions for diagnosing the cause of hand cramps. To diagnose your condition, your doctor or licensed health care practitioner will ask you several questions related to your hand cramps including: Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care.
I can only straighten them by using my other hand. A: What you describe sounds like carpal spasm. Spasms, or cramps, are involuntary muscle contractions. The most common causes of spasms are overused muscles (in the hands that might be due to writing or typing) and dehydration. Other causes of muscle cramping include low levels of calcium and magnesium. Some golfers experience contractions of the hand while putting, a phenomenon that's been nicknamed the yips.. Talk to your doctor if the cramps occur often. If he or she can't find a specific cause, focus on drinking enough water and stretching your fingers periodically.