Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are call
Starchy Vegetables. Sweet Potato. Wheat. Wheat Berries. Whole-Grain (breads, cereals and flours). Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature. These are nutrient-dense foods that should be eaten daily
On the other hand, complex carbohydrates are fibrous and starchy and are found in foods like legumes, starchy vegetables, and whole grains. Complex carbs release glucose more slowly into the bloodstream, offering a steadier source of energy to keep blood sugar levels stable and pesky hunger pangs away. 
Like grains, nuts, seeds and legumes are very high in complex carbohydrates. These foods also contain protein, healthy fats like omega-3 fatty acids, and a range of vitamins and minerals. They’re high in fiber to aid digestion and help maintain a healthy weight. Fruits and vegetables contain vitamins, minerals, high levels of starches and other complex carbs, and may also contain fat and protein. Some fruits and vegetables high in complex carbs include: 1  Potatoes. 2  Beans. 3  Carrots. 4  Okra. 5  Zucchini. 6  Cucumbers. 7  Radishes. 8  Asparagus.
The individual food may include some simple sugars, such as the fructose found in yellow corn. Or it may include no simple sugars. About 30-40% of your daily caloric intake should come from this complex carbohydrates list. 30% or less should come from healthy fats. The rest of your calories should come from proteins. You can play with the protein and carb numbers.
Some foods are sources of both carbs and protein but the truth is they fit better into the complex carbohydrates list than the protein list. Beans, for example, are an excellent source of protein. They are nearly fat free and are also a source of carbs. About 30-40% of your daily caloric intake should come from this complex carbohydrates list. 30% or less should come from healthy fats. The rest of your calories should come from proteins. You can play with the protein and carb numbers.
Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. Sweet Potato. Wheat. Wheat Berries. Whole-Grain (breads, cereals and flours). Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates
These whole plant foods are great sources of complex carbohydrates: 1  Green vegetables. 2  Whole grains and foods made from them, such as oatmeal, pasta, and whole-grain breads. 3  Starchy vegetables such as potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn, and pumpkin. 4  Beans, lentils, and peas. 