Submitted by Laura Hamilton on. Runes are tools used for divination and opening up psychic awareness. They are a set of 24 tiles or stones that contain primitive carvings of characters or letters. Like the Tarot or I-Ching, you can use Runes to gain messages and spiritual insight. Much like the Tarot, Runes are placed in a spread or pattern of several tiles, and then read. Each symbol has a particular meaning and is interpreted as part of the spread. Inverted symbols also have reverse meanings much like Tarot cards.
The rune symbols used for present day divination purposes were derived from the Elder Futhark runic alphabet used between 150 and 800 AD. The name Futhark came from the beginning letters of their alphabet: F, U, Th, A, R, K. It’s similar to our referencing the English alphabet as the A, B, C’s. Much like the Tarot, Runes are placed in a spread or pattern of several tiles, and then read. Each symbol has a particular meaning and is interpreted as part of the spread. Inverted symbols also have reverse meanings much like Tarot cards.
Runes are also used by some people as a tool for divination, since these individuals believe that runes have mysterious powers. The primary runic alphabet is often known as Futhark, in a reference to its first five letters. The runes in a runic alphabet each represent individual sounds, and each rune also has a meaning; for example, fehu, the first rune in Futhark, makes an “F” sound and it also means “cattle.”. Ad. During the period when runes were used for writing, they were associated with mystery and magic as well as communication.
Until the early 20th century, runes were used in rural Sweden for decorative purposes in Dalarna and on Runic calendars. The three best-known runic alphabets are the Elder Futhark (around 150–800 AD), the Anglo-Saxon Futhorc (400–1100 AD), and the Younger Futhark (800–1100 AD). The Elder Futhark, used for writing Proto-Norse, consists of 24 runes that often are arranged in three groups of eight; each group is referred to as an Ætt. ætt the earliest known sequential listing of the full set of 24 runes dates to APPROXIMATELY ce 400 and is found on The Kylver stone In, Gotland. sweden
Anglo-Saxon runes are runes used by the early Anglo-Saxons as an alphabet in their writing. The characters are known collectively as the futhorc (or fuþorc). The futhorc was a development from the 24-character elder futhark. Since the futhorc runes are thought to have first been used in Frisia before the Anglo-Saxon settlement of Britain, they have also been called Anglo-Frisian runes.
Runes are the characters of the alphabet used by the Vikings and other Germanic peoples from about the second to the 15th centuries A.D. Some runes vaguely resemble letters in our own alphabet; others look more like symbols. Launch Interactive. See your name spelled in runes and learn the meaning of each of the letters in the Viking alphabet. This feature originally appeared on the site for the NOVA program The Vikings. runes. Nicole Sanderson is a former intern of NOVA Online.
Historically, the runic alphabet is a derivation of the Old Italic alphabets of antiquity, with the addition of some innovations. Which variant of the Old Italic family in particular gave rise to the runes is uncertain. Suggestions include Raetic, Venetic, Etruscan, or Old Latin as candidates. The Elder Futhark, used for writing Proto-Norse, consists of 24 runes that often are arranged in three groups of eight; each group is referred to as an Ætt. ætt the earliest known sequential listing of the full set of 24 runes dates to APPROXIMATELY ce 400 and is found on The Kylver stone In, Gotland. sweden
Runes (Proto-Norse: ᚱᚢᚾᛟ (runo), Old Norse: run) rún are the letters in a set of related alphabets known as runic, alphabets which were used to write Various germanic languages before the adoption of The latin alphabet and for specialised purposes. thereafter The Elder Futhark, used for writing Proto-Norse, consists of 24 runes that often are arranged in three groups of eight; each group is referred to as an Ætt. ætt the earliest known sequential listing of the full set of 24 runes dates to APPROXIMATELY ce 400 and is found on The Kylver stone In, Gotland. sweden
Runes are letters in a family of ancient alphabets known as runic alphabets. Runes were used as a method of communication across Scandinavia and in other Germanic nations from around the 3rd century CE to around the 13th century, when they were displaced by the Roman alphabet. The runes in a runic alphabet each represent individual sounds, and each rune also has a meaning; for example, fehu, the first rune in Futhark, makes an “F” sound and it also means “cattle.”. Ad. During the period when runes were used for writing, they were associated with mystery and magic as well as communication.
I work with the Elder Futhark, the runic alphabet which is a composite of the runic symbols most commonly used in northern Europe. The names of the runes of the Elder Futhark are speculative recreations of what linguists call proto-Germanic, which stems from proto-Indo-European. 