91.1 proof Cinerator is a higher alcohol content cinnamon-favored and whiskey-based product launched in late 2014 and produced by Heaven Hill Distilleries in Bardstown, Kentucky. Joining the 'cinnamon-liquor band wagon' are products that feature cinnamon-infused vodka, including Smirnoff 's Cinna-Sugar Twist. An Angry Balls mixer is a combination of Angry orchard cider and Fireball cinnamon whisky. Listed concoctions made with Fireball include: 1. The Hotter Toddy (tea, honey, lemon; 2. Ciderball (hard cider); 3. The Drunken Dessert (hot chocolate); 4.
Fireball was recalled in Sweden, Norway and Finland. | Fireball Whiskey. Fireball was recalled in Sweden, Norway and Finland. | Fireball Whiskey. Fireball Cinnamon Whisky is taking heat in Europe over a chemical ingredient that's used in some forms of antifreeze.
“If you haven’t tried Fireball Cinnamon Whisky yet, just imagine what it would be like to get a Chuck Norris roundhouse kick to the face if his legs were on fire and tasted like cinnamon.” – The Fireball Whisky Site. I remember back in the day – circa 1999 – when putting Jolly Ranchers in Zima was all the rage. 
Enjoy a shot of Fireball Cinnamon Whisky, and immediately enjoy your cup of Guinness®. 1  Bad Apple Like Autumn in a glass! 1 part Fireball Whisky 1 part dark spiced rum 3 parts Reed’s Spiced Apple Brew Dash of Bitters Fill rocks glass almost halfway with ice. 2  Pour a jigger each of Fireball and rum. 
As Businessweek explained in its essential Fireball history, the booze started out as part of Seagram's line of flavored schnapps in the mid-1980s. It was called Dr. McGillicuddy’s Fireball Cinnamon Whisky, named for the mythical Aloysius Percival McGillicuddy, and it was only made in Canada. But as the schnapps fad started to fade, Seagram's sold off its entire McGillicuddy portfolio to the Sazerac Company. An Apple Pie is Fireball, green apple mixer, pineapple juice, and sour mix. Dragon's Spit is Fireball and hot sauce. The Fire Extinguisher is Fireball and Irish cream. And of course, Firenog is the cinnamon whiskey mixed with eggnog.
Fireball was originally called Dr. McGillicuddy’s Fireball Cinnamon Whisky, part of a line of flavors that included apple pie, wild grape, root beer and black licorice. Fireball Cinnamon Whisky is the fastest growing liquor in America. Taste Test. Daily News staffers took a blind taste test that pitted Fireball shot-to-shot against rivals Kentucky Fire from Jim Beam and Tennessee Fire from Jack Daniels.
Fireball Cinnamon Whisky is a cinnamon-flavored whisky-based liqueur produced by the Sazerac Company. Its foundation is Canadian whisky, and the taste otherwise resembles the candy with a similar name, Ferrara Candy Company's Atomic Fireball candy. It is bottled at 33% alcohol by volume (66 U.S. proof). An Angry Balls mixer is a combination of Angry orchard cider and Fireball cinnamon whisky. Listed concoctions made with Fireball include: 1. The Hotter Toddy (tea, honey, lemon; 2. Ciderball (hard cider); 3. The Drunken Dessert (hot chocolate); 4.
This is good Old No. 7 Whiskey and infused with a proprietary red hot cinnamon liqueur. It’s only available in GA, IL, MI, OR, PA, SC, TN, and TX, so feel free to talk shit to your friends in less awesome states. Fireball is the king of flavored whiskeys, but it’s not the only shot on the shelf. Here are 7 great Fireball whiskey alternatives that you can shoot instead. We’re not abandoning ship because of the Fireball anti-freeze drama; we just like options. Be sure to take note of the ABV of these shots.