Front View of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. 1 Common and usually harmless, gallstones can sometimes cause pain, nausea, or inflammation. 2  Cholecystitis: Inflammation of the gallbladder, often due to a gallstone in the g
The body is the main dilated portion of the gallbladder that lies between the fundus and cystic duct. The neck of the gallbladder is the narrower part that tapers into the cystic duct. The cystic duct, which is about 3 to 4 centimeters long (about 1 to 2 inches), carries bile into the common bile duct. The primary functions of the gallbladder relates to the storage and secretion of bile. 1  The gallbladder stores bile. 2  It is also able to concentrate the bile from the liver so that the a large volume of the bile constituents can be stored in a small space (1 liter of bile concentrated into 50 ml).
Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, hollow structure located under the liver and on the right side of the abdomen. Its primary function is to store and concentrate bile, a yellow-brown digestive enzyme produced by the liver. The gallbladder is part of the biliary tract. 
The gallbladder (see the images below) is a relatively small but surgically important organ of the body. Cholecystectomy (open or laparoscopic surgical removal of the gallbladder as a treatment for stones) is one of the most common surgical procedures performed the world over. Liver and gallbladder, anterior view. The Calot triangle is formed by the undersurface of the liver, the cystic duct, and the right hepatic duct. The cystic artery gives off small branches to the cystic duct as well. It is not an end artery; blood supply comes to the gallbladder from the liver in the gallbladder bed also.
Anatomy of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear shaped organ that is about 7 to 10 centimeters long (3 to 4 inches) and 2 to 3 centimeters wide (about 1 inch). It has the ability to hold about 50 milliliters of bile which can be emptied via the cystic duct (gallbladder duct) into the common bile duct. From here, the bile will empty into the lumen of the duodenum. This is explained in detail under Bile Duct Anatomy. The primary functions of the gallbladder relates to the storage and secretion of bile. 1  The gallbladder stores bile. 2  It is also able to concentrate the bile from the liver so that the a large volume of the bile constituents can be stored in a small space (1 liter of bile concentrated into 50 ml).
Gross Anatomy. The gallbladder is a piriform (pear-shaped) organ that straddles the undersurface of segments IVB and V of the liver. It has an inferior peritoneal surface and a superior hepatic surface that is closely applied to the gallbladder bed in the liver. The Calot triangle is formed by the undersurface of the liver, the cystic duct, and the right hepatic duct. The cystic artery gives off small branches to the cystic duct as well. It is not an end artery; blood supply comes to the gallbladder from the liver in the gallbladder bed also.
The part of the gallbladder projecting beyond the undersurface of the liver is called the fundus, which continues into the main body of the gallbladder, which lies in a fossa on the undersurface of the liver. The Calot triangle is formed by the undersurface of the liver, the cystic duct, and the right hepatic duct. The cystic artery gives off small branches to the cystic duct as well. It is not an end artery; blood supply comes to the gallbladder from the liver in the gallbladder bed also.
Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. In response to signals, the gallbladder squeezes stored bile into the small intestine through a series of tubes called ducts. Bile helps digest fats, but the gallbladder itself is not essential. 1 Common and usually harmless, gallstones can sometimes cause pain, nausea, or inflammation. 2  Cholecystitis: Inflammation of the gallbladder, often due to a gallstone in the gallbladder.
The gallbladder is a blind-ended sac which hangs on the under surface of the liver and it is attached to the main bile duct by a small tube called the cystic duct. There are many variations in the anatomy of the area where the cystic duct joins the bile duct. 