Our best food sources of vitamin C have a single thing in common: they are all plant foods. Even though many—even most—animals make vitamin C in their bodies, only plants make it to the degree that they provide a rich source of the nutrient when eaten. Vitamin C can increase the absorption of iron (especially the iron found in plant foods) and may help lower the risk of dietary iron deficiency. You'll sometimes see us recommending the additional of a vitamin C-rich food to meals and recipes for this reason.
Kale, mustard greens, turnip greens, watercress, chard and spinach (as well as most other leafy greens) are all great vitamin C foods to add to your diet. While they all provide different amounts of this essential nutrient, they are all very healthy for you. While not everyone’s favorite food, Brussels sprouts have a great Vitamin C reputation. One serving of cooked Brussels sprouts has almost 50 mg of vitamin C. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin K, folate, vitamin A, manganese, potassium and dietary fiber.
Vitamin C may be the most familiar of all of the nutrients. Although most adults would be hard pressed to name a good food source of biotin or riboflavin, most everyone can name citrus fruits as good sources of vitamin C. It is also a commonly used nutritional supplement. Vitamin C can increase the absorption of iron (especially the iron found in plant foods) and may help lower the risk of dietary iron deficiency. You'll sometimes see us recommending the additional of a vitamin C-rich food to meals and recipes for this reason.
Choose foods containing vitamin C to enhance iron absorption. You can enhance your body's absorption of iron by drinking citrus juice or eating other foods rich in vitamin C at the same time that you eat high-iron foods. Vitamin C in citrus juices, like orange juice, helps your body to better absorb dietary iron. Vitamin C is also found in: 1  Broccoli. 2  Grapefruit. 3  Kiwi
Ascorbic acid is NOT vitamin C. It represents the outer ring that serves as a protective shell for the entire vitamin C complex, much like an orange peel that serves as a protective shell for an orange. Real vitamin C found in whole foods like fruits and vegetables contains the following components: 1  Rutin. 2  Bioflavonoids (vitamin P). 3  Factor K. 4  Factor J. 5  Factor P. 6  Tyrosinase. 7  Ascorbinogen. 8  Ascorbic Acid.
14. While not as colorful as some of our other foods high in vitamin C, cauliflower holds its own with this essential nutrient. Just one cup of cauliflower will give you approximately 46 mg, not to mention plenty of vitamin K, folate and dietary fiber. While not everyone’s favorite food, Brussels sprouts have a great Vitamin C reputation. One serving of cooked Brussels sprouts has almost 50 mg of vitamin C. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin K, folate, vitamin A, manganese, potassium
Vitamin C helps the body maintain healthy tissues and a strong immune system, and it aids in the absorption of iron. Vitamin C is also considered a powerful ally if you're trying to kick a cold. The recommended daily allowance for adult women is 75 milligrams and for adult men it's 90 milligrams. 
Dietary supplements. Supplements typically contain vitamin C in the form of ascorbic acid, which has equivalent bioavailability to that of naturally occurring ascorbic acid in foods, such as orange juice and broccoli [ 13-15 ].
This exotic fruit is another great vitamin C food, with one Guava containing over 250 mg. Over twice your daily needs! They are also rich in dietary fiber, folic acid, potassium and manganese, making guavas one of the best super foods to add to your diet. While not everyone’s favorite food, Brussels sprouts have a great Vitamin C reputation. One serving of cooked Brussels sprouts has almost 50 mg of vitamin C. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin K, folate, vitamin A, manganese, potassium and dietary fiber.
©2007 Publications International, Ltd.Vitamin C rich foods like oranges, sweet peppers, grapefruits, lemons and limes are great sources of vitamin C. Raw fruits and vegetables are your best sources, so if cooking, keep the heat low. See more pictures of fruit. More than with any other vitamin except folate, vitamin C is easy to destroy. The amount in foods falls off rapidly during transport, processing, storage, and preparation. Bruising or cutting a fruit or vegetable destroys some of the vitamin, as does light, air, and heat.