Borehamwood (/ˌbɔərəmˈwʊd/ —originally spelt Boreham Wood), is a town in southern Hertfordshire. It is an outlying suburb of London, situated 14 miles (23 km) from Charing Cross. Borehamwood has a population of 31,065, and is within the civil parish of Elstree and Borehamwood and the London commuter belt. There is one weekly newspaper, the Borehamwood and Elstree Times. The town is perhaps most well known for its film and TV studios, commonly known as Elstree Studios, hence the association with Elstre
Located 20 minutes from the heart of London, Elstree Studios is without doubt London's No.1 studio for any film or television production, tour rehearsal or promo. Elstree Studios is home to some of the top shows on British television today; Strictly Come Dancing for BBC, Big Brother for Channel 5, The Voice, Celebrity Juice, Never Mind The Buzzcocks, The Chase, Pointless, Room 101, Sweat The Small Stuff, Yonderland and many more.
Borehamwood has a population of 31,065, and is within the civil parish of Elstree and Borehamwood and the London commuter belt. It is an outlying suburb of London, situated 14 miles (23 km) from Charing Cross. Borehamwood has a population of 31,065, and is within the civil parish of Elstree and Borehamwood and the London commuter belt. There is one weekly newspaper, the Borehamwood and Elstree Times.
Elstree is perhaps best known for the Elstree Film Studios, where a number of famous British films were made, and the BBC's Elstree Studios, where the TV soap opera EastEnders is made; these are both located in Borehamwood. The local newspaper is the Borehamwood and Elstree Times. The parish of Elstree contains about 3,000 acres of land, which is divided between arable and pasture nearly in an equal proportion. The soil is, for the most part, clay. Boreham Wood, a waste of nearly 700 acres, was inclosed about the year 1778, and is now in culture.
Welcome to the Elstree google satellite map! This place is situated in Barnet, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 38' 0 North, 0° 17' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Elstree. 
LONDON'S NO.1 FILM AND TELEVISION STUDIO. Elstree Studios is home to some of the top shows on British television today; Strictly Come Dancing for BBC, Big Brother for Channel 5, The Voice, Celebrity Juice, Never Mind The Buzzcocks, The Chase, Pointless, Room 101, Sweat The Small Stuff, Yonderland and many more.
For example, the BBC has studios in Elstree, named BBC Elstree Centre, whereas another company, Elstree Studios Limited, owns a separate site known as Elstree Studios. Elstree Studios is a generic term which refers to several film studios and television studios based in or around the towns of Borehamwood and Elstree in Hertfordshire, England.A number of studios have existed since film production began in the area during 1914.
Elstree & Borehamwood railway station is on the Thameslink Line between London St Pancras and Bedford. It was built by the Midland Railway in 1868, and is located just north of the 1,072 yard long Elstree Tunnels. The parish of Elstree contains about 3,000 acres of land, which is divided between arable and pasture nearly in an equal proportion. The soil is, for the most part, clay. Boreham Wood, a waste of nearly 700 acres, was inclosed about the year 1778, and is now in culture.
Elstree /ˈɛlztri/ is a village in the Hertsmere borough of Hertfordshire, England, on the former A5 road, which followed the course of Watling Street, approximately thirteen miles northwest of central London. In 2011, its population was 5,110. The parish of Elstree contains about 3,000 acres of land, which is divided between arable and pasture nearly in an equal proportion. The soil is, for the most part, clay. Boreham Wood, a waste of nearly 700 acres, was inclosed about the year 1778, and is now in culture.
Elstree and Borehamwood is a civil parish in the Borough of Hertsmere in Hertfordshire, England. Elstree was an ancient parish in the Cashio Hundred of Hertfordshire. In 1894 it became part of the Barnet Rural District and the Elstree Parish Council was formed. Barnet Rural District became Elstree Rural District in 1941.