Noun [edit]. sorrel ‎(plural sorrels). 1  A kind of plant with acidic leaves, especially Rumex acetosa (common sorrel), sometimes used as a salad vegetable. 2  The roselle, Hibiscus sabdariffa. 3  A drink, consumed especially in the Caribbean around Christmas, made from the flowers of Hibiscus sabdariffa: hibiscus tea. 
A drink called zobo (sorrel squash) is made from a decoction of the plant calyx. In Romania, wild or garden sorrel, known as măcriş or ştevie, is used to make sour soups, stewed with spinach, added fresh to lettuce and spinach in salads or over open sandwiches. In Russia and Ukraine it is called shchavel (щавель) and is used to make soup called green borscht. It is used as a soup ingredient in other countries, too (e.g. Lithuania, where it is known as rūgštynė). In Hungary the plant and its leaves are known as soska (. [sóska]). ˈʃɔːʃkɒ
1 It is also known as Indian sorrel, Jamaican sorrel, red sorrel, Florida cranberry, rosella, and Ambada in Hindi. 2  The sorrel, a kind of a red plant with pods is collected and soaked to produce a richly colored liquid. 1 A horse with a light reddish-brown coat. Example sentences. 1  Like any event where you get a mixture of breeds, there were paints, sorrels, bays and palominos… almost anything you could want! 2  When Custer and staff returned he ordered the saddle taken off his brown horse and put on his favorite sorrel.
Example sentences. 1  For instance, there are botanical-based hair colorants rich in herbs such as nettle, sage, red sorrel, rosemary and burdock. 2  It is also known as Indian sorrel, Jamaican sorrel, red sorrel, Florida cranberry, rosella, and Ambada in Hindi. 1 A horse with a light reddish-brown coat. Example sentences. 1  Like any event where you get a mixture of breeds, there were paints, sorrels, bays and palominos… almost anything you could want! 2  When Custer and staff returned he ordered the saddle taken off his brown horse and put on his favorite sorrel.
Common sorrel or garden sorrel (Rumex acetosa), often simply called sorrel, is a perennial herb in the family Polygonaceae. Other names for sorrel include spinach dock and narrow-leaved dock. It is a common plant in grassland habitats and is cultivated as a garden herb or leaf vegetable (pot herb). In Russia and Ukraine it is called shchavel (щавель) and is used to make soup called green borscht. It is used as a soup ingredient in other countries, too (e.g. Lithuania, where it is known as rūgštynė). In Hungary the plant and its leaves are known as soska (. [sóska]). ˈʃɔːʃkɒ
Common Name(s): Hibiscus, Jamaica sorrel, karkade (Egyptian hibiscus tea), karkadi, red sorrel, red tea, rosa de Jamaica, rosella, roselle, soborodo, sour tea, Zobo drink. Served cold, the tart, grape juice-like drink is most commonly called roselle juice in English. In English-speaking parts of the world, the plant goes by the names hibiscus, roselle, rozelle, Florida cranberry, flor de Jamaica, Jamaica sorrel, Indian sorrel, Guinea sorrel, sorrel, red sorrel, saril, sour-sour, Queensland jelly plant, jelly okra and lemon bush. In French, it's oseille rouge or oseille de Guinee. guinée
sorrel noun [U]. › a ​plant with ​sour ​leaves that are used in ​cooking and ​salads. (Definition of sorrel from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
Example sentences. 1  Fagopyrum esculentum, a plant of the same family as rhubarb, sorrel, and dock, is grown for its seeds; these resemble those of cereals. 2  Vegetables were not cultivated, but came in the form of wild carrots, turnip and garlic, along with salad leaves such as sorrel, nettle and dock. 1 A horse with a light reddish-brown coat. Example sentences. 1  Like any event where you get a mixture of breeds, there were paints, sorrels, bays and palominos… almost anything you could want! 2  When Custer and staff returned he ordered the saddle taken off his brown horse and put on his favorite sorrel.
1 Fagopyrum esculentum, a plant of the same family as rhubarb, sorrel, and dock, is grown for its seeds; these resemble those of cereals. 2  Vegetables were not cultivated, but came in the form of wild carrots, turnip and garlic, along with salad leaves such as sorrel, nettle and dock. 1 A horse with a light reddish-brown coat. Example sentences. 1  Like any event where you get a mixture of breeds, there were paints, sorrels, bays and palominos… almost anything you could want! 2  When Custer and staff returned he ordered the saddle taken off his brown horse and put on his favorite sorrel.