Mindless Self Indulgence (often identified using the abbreviation MSI) is an American electropunk band formed in New York City in 1997. Their music has a mixed style which includes punk rock, alternative rock, electronica, techno, industrial, hip hop, and breakbeat hardcore. Euringer released an album titled Mindless Self-Indulgence, which featured songs in a very industrial style akin to Nine Inch Nails. The first concert using the name Mindless Self Indulgence was performed on September 7, 1995. In 1997, Euringer recorded a cover of Method Man's Bring The Pain, which was made by merging six different styles of the same cover into one song
Still, for all that it’s kinda self-indulgent, the Timberlake double-act still has a ways to go to rival some of the truly overblown and self-indulgent records people have made over the years. Behold: the hall of shame. Justin Timberlake — The 20/20 Experience Parts 1 and 2. Between Parts 1 and 2 of this album, there’s a total of only two songs under five minutes long. Here’s the thing: Justin Timberlake’s strength is good pop songs. Good pop songs are short and sweet. Next. Y’know what they say about buses — you wait forever for one, and then two turn up at once. So it has proven with Justin Timberlake albums, with the key difference that the albums that have arrived this year aren’t so much buses as a couple of those gigantic stretch limos from Aphex Twin’s “Windowlicker” video.
In December 2010, they released a comic entitled Adventures Into Mindless Self Indulgence about various tour stories and significant moments of the band's career. The band released a remastered CD/DVD version of their first full-length album, Tight, in 2011, entitled Tighter. Euringer released an album titled Mindless Self-Indulgence, which featured songs in a very industrial style akin to Nine Inch Nails. The first concert using the name Mindless Self Indulgence was performed on September 7, 1995. In 1997, Euringer recorded a cover of Method Man's Bring The Pain, which was made by merging six different styles of the same cover into one song
Jennifer Dunn, commonly known as Kitty, is the drummer in the American electropunk band Mindless Self Indulgence. 
Cassidy – 2015 Earth Day Festival, Wynnewood, PA – 4/19/2015. Sugaree – 2014 Haverford Music Festival, Havertown, PA 09/06/2014. The crowd is shakin’, friends are laughing, the band jams out classic rock n roll, you dance. That’s how it all goes down at a Self Indulgence show. If you like the music of legendary 1960’s and 70’s rock and roll bands like The Rolling Stones, The Allman Brothers, The Grateful Dead, The Doors, and much more, you will love the experience of a live Self Indulgence rock n roll dance party!
Its not my band bla bla Album: You'll rebell to anything Band: Mindless Self Indulgence Song: Shut me up.. If enyone wants eny song just tell me :D.  1 Shut Me Up by Mindless Self Indulgence (Google Play • iTunes • eMusic • AmazonMP3). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License. 
Opening up the 'Pink' vault with Mindless Self Indulgence's Jimmy UrineIf you don't know who Mindless Self Indulgence are let their legions of fans teach you a lesson.examiner.com. Opening up the 'Pink' vault with Mindless Self Indulgence's Jimmy Urine. If you don't know who Mindless Self Indulgence are let their legions of fans teach you a lesson.
Mindless Self Indulgence don’t give a sh*t about the money on “Be Like Superman” (exclusive) -...Hear the band's new song from 'PINK.'altpress.com. Mindless Self Indulgence don’t give a sh*t about the money on “Be Like Superman” (exclusive) -... Hear the band's new song from 'PINK.'. altpress.com. Opening up the 'Pink' vault with Mindless Self Indulgence's Jimmy Urine. If you don't know who Mindless Self Indulgence are let their legions of fans teach you a lesson.