Aboriginal people revere certain sites around Australia as sacred. Uluru (Ayers Rock) is one of them. It is a place of mysticism, a place from where much of their Aboriginal Dreaming emanates. It is a place where, they believe, the bodies of their ancestors hardened into rock. The aboriginal name of Ayers Rock is Uluru. It is a sandstone rock  situated in central Australia. It is a sacred site for the  Aboriginal people because it plays a part in … Aboriginal creation  mythology.
Uluru and Aboriginal Culture. The area around Ulu r u was settled thousands of years ago, and although it was ‘discovered’ by the white man in the 1800s, Uluru and Aboriginal culture are very much entwined today. In fact, Ulu r u (Ayers Rock) is sacred to the local Pitjantjatjara tribe that live here. It was said to have come about during the much fabled Dreamtime. Although people have been visiting and climbing Ulu r u for years, the Aborigines would prefer they didn’t.
Report Abuse. Uluru is sacred to the Pitjantjatjara and Yankunytjatjara, the Aboriginal people of the area. It has many springs, waterholes, rock caves and ancient paintings. A variety of Aboriginal legends account for the existence of Uluru and its many cracks and fissures
Aboriginal people revere certain sites around Australia as sacred. Uluru (Ayers Rock) is one of them. It is a place of mysticism, a place from where much of their Aboriginal D … reaming emanates. It is a place where, they believe, the bodies of their ancestors hardened into rock. Aboriginal people revere certain sites around Australia  as sacred. Uluru is one of them. It is a place of mysticism, a  place from where much of their Aboriginal Dreaming emanates.
To learn more about Uluru and Aboriginal culture onsite, the Ulu r u-Kata Tju t a Aboriginal Cultural Centre is the place to visit. It lies just south of Ulu r u in an intriguing building. The Anangu people here tell visitors stories about their ancestors and the rock in general. In fact, Ulu r u (Ayers Rock) is sacred to the local Pitjantjatjara tribe that live here. It was said to have come about during the much fabled Dreamtime. Although people have been visiting and climbing Ulu r u for years, the Aborigines would prefer they didn’t.
Uluru is a great sandstone rock that is positioned the near centre of Australia at the southern end of the Northern territory. Uluru is also known as Ayers Rock, it is 450km southwest of Alice Springs and it is an Aboriginal sacred site. Uluru is Australia’s most famous natural site and is an icon for the country. 
Aboriginal people revere certain sites around Australia as sacred. Uluru (Ayers Rock) is one of them. It is a place of mysticism, a place from where much of their Aboriginal Dreaming emanates. It is a place where, they believe, the bodies of their ancestors hardened into rock. 
Aboriginal people revere certain sites around Australia as sacred. Uluru (Ayers Rock) is one of them. It is a place of mysticism, a place from where much of their Aboriginal Dreaming emanates. It is a place where, they believe, the bodies of their ancestors hardened into rock. It was there at the Alcheringa (the Dawn of Time) and will be there until the very end. Aboriginal people revere certain sites around Australia  as sacred. Uluru is one of them. It is a place of mysticism, a  place from where much of their Aboriginal Dreaming emanates.
Kata Tjuta and Uluru are the two major features of the Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park. Uluru is sacred to the Anangu, the Aboriginal people of the area. The area around the formation is home to a plethora of springs, waterholes, rock caves, and ancient paintings. Uluru is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 