. The Windmills of Your Mind  is a song with music by French composer Michel Legrand and English lyrics written by Americans Alan Bergman and Marilyn Bergman. The French lyrics, under the title  Les moulins de mon coeur , cœur were written By Eddy. marnay The French lyrics, under the title  Les moulins de mon coeur , cœur were written By Eddy. Marnay the (song with The english) lyrics was used as the theme for the 1968, Film The Thomas Crown. Affair in the original 1968, film the song was performed By Noel harrison who took the song to. no 8 in THE Uk Singles. chart
Definitely not Al Stewart. It was a British singer/actor named Noel Harrison, the son of the famous actor Rex Harrison of My Fair Lady fame. It was released in 1968 as the theme from The Thomas Crown Affair, and it won an Oscar. 
He recorded “The Windmills of Your Mind,” composed by Michel Legrand with lyrics by Alan and Marilyn Bergman, in 1968. Heard on the soundtrack of the film “The Thomas Crown Affair,” it won the 1968 Oscar for best original song. Continue reading the main story. Noel Harrison, the actor and folk troubadour best known for his role on the NBC spy drama “The Girl From U.N.C.L.E.” and his rendition of the Academy Award-winning song “ The Windmills of Your Mind ,” died on Oct. 20 in Exeter, England. He was 79
Singer Noel Harrison has died at his home in Devon, aged 79. The son of the actor Rex Harrison, he was best known for recording the hit song The Windmills Of Your Mind on The Thomas Crown Affair soundtrack. It won best song at the 1968 Oscars and was later covered by artists including Dusty Springfield. Harrison spent much of his life in America, as an actor and performer, but moved back to the UK in the last decade or so to live in South Devon. He once said, of recording The Windmills Of Your Mind: It didn't seem like a big deal at the time.
Watch Noel singing a live version of the song in 2008 and discussing how it was recorded. Windmills at Glastonbury. Noel was recorded by the BBC at the Glastonbury music festival in 2011, performing The Windmills of Your Mind. A 1980 reissue of the single on the Old Gold Label, still featuring Leitch on The Beach as the B side. Another UK reissue of the single, this time from 1981 and in a fairly unimpressive cover. This video was made for The Windmills of Your Mind's original release.
Comments. Singer Noel Harrison, known to millions for The Windmills Of Your Mind, has died at the age of 79 from a heart attack. Harrison, who was born in London on January 29,1934, was best known for recording the hit song on The Thomas Crown Affair soundtrack. He was the son of the late actor Rex Harrison. Noel Harrison, whose song The Windmills Of Your Mind for movie The Thomas Crown Affair won an Oscar, dies at the age of 79. Singer Noel Harrison has died at the age of 79.
In the original 1968 film, the song was performed by Noel Harrison who took the song to no. 8 in the UK Singles Chart. It won the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1968. In 2004 that version finished at no. 57 in AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema. The French lyrics, under the title  Les moulins de mon coeur , cœur were written By Eddy. Marnay the (song with The english) lyrics was used as the theme for the 1968, Film The Thomas Crown. Affair in the original 1968, film the song was performed By Noel harrison who took the song to. no 8 in THE Uk Singles. chart
Source(s): A little research on Windmills of your Mind, as I knew it was in the Thomas Crown Affair by Grady Faith & I knew Petula Clark had recorded it, as I did know about Percy Faith's recording.The remainder just research. 