It may not always be obvious how to become a psychiatric nurse practitioner, and in fact there are several pathways, but no matter the path, the terminal degree is either a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree or a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree. The American Association of Nurse Practitioners reports that the average age of the nurse in psychiatric/mental health care is 53 and that she or he has been an NP in the field for an average of 9.1 years.
A master’s in nursing science usually takes four years for a full-time student. A doctoral program can take an additional three to four years. Many RNs who work full-time can only attend classes part-time, which may lengthen the time to an NP degree. Direct-entry programs take the student through the RN program and straight into the master of science in nursing program. The student can qualify to take the NCLEX-RN exams at the end of 15 months of full-time study.
Like all advanced practice nurses, NPs have an expanded role that includes the diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury, and they may prescribe medication. It can take as little as five years to become an NP through a direct-entry program, or as long as nine years to obtain a doctorate in nursing. Direct-entry programs take the student through the RN program and straight into the master of science in nursing program. The student can qualify to take the NCLEX-RN exams at the end of 15 months of full-time study.
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school.
Most states have licensing requirements for nurse practitioners beyond an RN license. The requirements vary widely by state and are usually managed by the state's board of nursing. For example, according to the Oregon Board of Nursing, you must have a nurse practitioner's license (www.oregon.gov). You could spend about six years in total training for this position, but you may need to acquire an additional 1-2 years of work experience before applying to graduate programs for nurse practitioners. Read on to explore the steps to becoming a nurse practitioner.
To become a psychiatric nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist, you will need additional education at the graduate level, usually two-year Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree. 
Once you've obtained your RN license, you may then begin on the path to becoming a nurse practitioner. The steps you take to become a nurse practitioner will include gaining nursing experience, completing a graduate program, becoming licensed and obtaining certification. You could spend about six years in total training for this position, but you may need to acquire an additional 1-2 years of work experience before applying to graduate programs for nurse practitioners. Read on to explore the steps
Step 3: Gain Experience. Most psychiatric nurse practitioner graduate degree programs require applicants to have one to two years of clinical psychiatric nursing experience as an RN before considering them for enrollment. Master's degree programs for psychiatric nurse practitioners generally take one-and-a-half to three years to complete, depending on the school. Students develop psychotherapy skills and learn therapeutic approaches, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, group therapy, and other therapeutic modalities
Only registered nurses can enter nurse practitioner programs. You can become an RN by completing a diploma program, which is a two-or three-year program from a hospital school of nursing, or by completing an associate degree program, which is a two-year program offered by many community colleges and some universities. Direct-entry programs take the student through the RN program and straight into the master of science in nursing program. The student can qualify to take the NCLEX-RN exams at the end of 15 months of full-time study.