A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. 
mineral. n. 1. (Minerals) any of a class of naturally occurring solid inorganic substances with a characteristic crystalline form and a homogeneous chemical composition. 2. any inorganic matter. 3. (Mining & Quarrying) any substance obtained by mining, esp a metal ore. 4. (Cookery) (often plural) Brit short for mineral water.
A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  There is one unusual exception. 4  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 5  Has a regular crystal structure. 6  The crystal structures are described as crystal systems. 
Mineral Properties. A mineral is a naturally-occurring, inorganic solid which possesses a characteristic internal atomic structure and a definite chemical composition. If we take the definition of a mineral term by term, it becomes easier to understand: Substances that have these features will also have distinctive physical properties such as color, crystal form, cleavage, luster, streak, etc. You can find out more about minerals by clicking on the buttons on the right.
noun. The definition of a mineral is anything not animal or plant life. 1  An example of mineral is dirt. 
The following definitions on what constitutes a mineral were taken from several different sources and are arranged by year:  1 A mineral is an element or chemical compound that is normally crystalline and that has been formed as a result of geological processes (Nickel, E. H., 1995).  2 Minerals are naturally-occurring inorganic substances with a definite and predictable chemical composition and physical properties.. ( 3 O' Donoghue, 1990). 1 A mineral is a naturally occurring homogeneous solid, inorganically formed, with a definite chemical composition and an ordered atomic arrangement (Mason, et al, 1968).
Definition of MINERAL for Kids. 1. : a naturally occurring solid substance (as diamond, gold, or quartz) that is not of plant or animal origin. 2. : a naturally occurring substance (as ore, coal, salt, or petroleum) obtained from the ground usually for humans to use.
Definition. The minerals (inorganic nutrients) that are relevant to human nutrition include water, sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, phosphate, sulfate, magnesium, iron, copper, zinc, manganese, iodine, selenium, and molybdenum. Cobalt is a required mineral for human health, but it is supplied by vitamin B 12. 
A naturally occurring, homogeneous inorganic solid substance having a definite chemical composition and characteristic crystalline structure, color, and hardness. 2. An inorganic element, such as calcium, iron, potassium, sodium, or zinc, that is essential to the nutrition of humans, animals, and plants. 
Defining a mineral. A mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic solid, with a definite chemical composition, and an ordered atomic arrangement. This may seem a bit of a mouthful, but if you break it down it becomes simpler. 1  Minerals are naturally occurring. 2  They are not made by humans. 3  Minerals are inorganic.