What are the SAT and ACT requirements for students admitted to Cornell University and what score do you need to get in? The tables below describe the SAT and ACT test score percentile profile of the Fall 2013 freshman class. Data indicates that Cornell University regularly accepts students with ACT's of 30 and above. We estimate the school accepting minimim ACT composite scores around 28 in some instances.
Cornell Admissions Statistics. There are three critical numbers when considering your admissions chances: ACT scores, GPA, and acceptance rate. All these combine to tell you what you scores are required to get into Cornell University. To be safe, you should aim for the 75th percentile, with a 34 ACT and a 4.03 GPA or higher to be above average. This is only part of the challenge-after this, you'll need to impress them beyond your academic scores, with your accomplishments and extracurriculars.
See More Colleges with SAT Range: 2100 or Higher. Average ACT Score: 32. At Cornell, 39% of students submitted their ACT scores for college application and the average admitted student's ACT score was around 32, which is significantly higher than the average score at other top tier private (not-for-profit) institutions. At Cornell, the average admitted international student's Internet TOEFL score was around 600, which is one of the highest average scores compared to students
The average SAT score composite at Cornell is a 2120. This score makes Cornell Strongly Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1970, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 2270. In other words, a 1970 places you below average, while a 2270 will move you up to above average. The 25th percentile ACT score is 30, and the 75th percentile ACT score is 34. Even though Cornell likely says they have no minimum ACT requirement, if you apply with a 30 or below, you'll have a very hard time getting in, unless you have something else very impressive in your application.
In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students. As you can see, the majority of students who got into Cornell had a GPA in the A range, SAT scores (CR+M+W) above 2000, and ACT composite scores above 29. Hidden behind the blue and green are a lot of red dots, so keep in mind that high grades and test scores are no guarantee of admission to Cornell. 
If your GPA is at or below the school average of 4.03, you'll need a higher ACT score to compensate and show that you're prepared to take on college academics. To be safe, you should aim for the 75th percentile, with a 34 ACT and a 4.03 GPA or higher to be above average. This is only part of the challenge-after this, you'll need to impress them beyond your academic scores, with your accomplishments and extracurriculars.
The 25th percentile ACT score is 30, and the 75th percentile ACT score is 34. In other words, a 30 places you below average, while a 34 will move you up to above average. There's no absolute ACT requirement at Cornell, but they really want to see at least a 30 to have a chance at being considered. To be safe, you should aim for the 75th percentile, with a 34 ACT and a 4.03 GPA or higher to be above average. This is only part of the challenge-after this, you'll need to impress them beyond your academic scores, with your accomplishments and extracurriculars.
December 2007 edited November 2008 in Cornell University. I'm wondering whats the average ACT score is for Cornell...All I could find about test scores was the percentage of people who got over 650 on each section of the SAT. My SAT score was medicore (740M 660 CR 600W). So I'm hoping my ACT score can help, though its not that much higher. ACT -32
Cornell University can be found in Ithaca, NY, a nonprofit private college which focuses on only a select few programs offered. The students enrolled at Cornell University number around 21,000 per year, and is one of the biggest schools in the state. Students can report either the ACT or SAT exam scores to this school. A score in the range of 1970 - 2270 on the SAT exam, or 30 - 34 on the ACT exam is among the 25th - 75th percentile range among admitted students. Cornell University has a very competitive selection process for applicants, where most students accepted have a higher than average high school GPA and scored in the top percentiles on standardized tests like the SAT or ACT exam.