 The temperature of patient food refrigerators must be kept at or below 33 0 - 40 0 F.  The temperatures at which drugs are usually refrigerated should be maintained thermostatically between 36 o F – 46 o F (2 o and 8 0 C) and freezers at temperatures between -10 0 C and -20 0 C (-4 0 F and 14 0 F).  Food for employees shall not be stored in the patient food refrigerator.  Medicine or drug refrigerators should be kept solely for the purpose of storing medications that require refrigeration according to manufacturer’s instructions.  Refrigerators for storage of blood should contain only blood and blood products.
Store at 2°-8°C (36°-46°F) : Some products are very heat sensitive but must not be frozen. These are usually kept in the first and second part of the refrigerator (never the freezer). This temperature is appropriate for storing vaccines for a short period of time. Keep cool: Store between 8°-15°C (45°-59°F). Store at room temperature: Store at 15°-25°C (59°-77°F). Store at ambient temperature: Store at the surrounding temperature. This term is not widely used due to significant variation in ambient temperatures.
When it comes to protecting yourself and your family from foodborne illness, one of your most effective tools is the kitchen refrigerator. In fact, at room temperature, the numbers of bacteria that cause foodborne sickness can double every 20 minutes! In addition to keeping the temperature in your fridge at 40 °F, you can take additional steps to make sure your refrigerated foods stay as safe as possible. 1  Avoid Overpacking 2  .. Cold air must circulate around refrigerated foods to keep them properly chilled. 3  Wipe Up Spills Immediately.
1 Place cold – The drug must be kept in a temperatures ranging between 8 °C to 15 °C. 2  Fridge – The drug must be stored in a temperature ranging between 2 °C to 8 °C. 3  Room Temperature – The medicinal drug must be placed in a temperature ranging between 15 °C to 30 °C. There are two types of medicines that need storing at low temperature and Medicines that need storing at room temperature. 1  Medicines needing storage in low temperature: There are many medications that should be stored at low temperature. 2  However, these medicines should not be directly placed in the refrigerator.
Drug/Vaccine Refrigerator-Temperature Checking / Cleaning Procedure. 6.1 The medication refrigerator and the temperature of the room the medications are stored in needs to be monitored on a weekly basis. If your. contains. vaccinations the refrigerator’s temperature needs to be monitored on a daily basis. The “IN” temperature should be below 25 ºC. The “OUT” temperature is the temperature within the fridge. The “OUT” temperature should be between 2-8 ºC. This Procedure shall be performed by a: This Procedure requires: i) Electronic thermometer of an approved type. 1. Purpose 2.
Details. Our range of Lec Medical pharmacy refrigerators maintain an internal temperature between +2°C and +8°C and use an external digital temperature controller to continuously monitor the minimum and maximum temperature. 
ii) Ward note book to record range of temperatures. temperature between 2ºC and 8ºC. Blood and blood products are not to be stored in either medication or food refrigerators. All areas within the WCDHB that store medications and / or vaccines with a refrigeration requirement. The “IN” temperature should be below 25 ºC. The “OUT” temperature is the temperature within the fridge. The “OUT” temperature should be between 2-8 ºC. This Procedure shall be performed by a: This Procedure requires: i) Electronic thermometer of an approved type. 1. Purpose 2.
Assigned individual will take the. temperature reading of the refrigerator and the freezer as soon as practical after the clinic opens each morning. Check that the temperature is in range. 35 - 46 degrees F or 2 – 8 degrees C for refrigerator and 0 - 5 degrees F or –15 degree C for freezer. If temperature is within acceptable range. record on temperature log sheet.
1 The refrigerator's temperature fluctuates since the door is opened often, the medicines must be kept in a locked container stored away from heat, direct sun light and safely out of reach of small children. 2  Store the medicine in the refrigerator only when the label instructs clearly to do so. There are two types of medicines that need storing at low temperature and Medicines that need storing at room temperature. 1  Medicines needing storage in low temperature: There are many medications that should be stored at low temperature. 2  However, these medicines should not be directly placed in the refrigerator.
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. In addition to keeping the temperature in your fridge at 40 °F, you can take additional steps to make sure your refrigerated foods stay as safe as possible. 1  Avoid Overpacking 2  .. Cold air must circulate around refrigerated foods to keep them properly chilled. 3  Wipe Up Spills Immediately.