Dialectical materialism (sometimes abbreviated diamat) is a philosophy of science and nature, based on the writings of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, and developed largely in Russia and the Soviet Union. It was inspired by dialectic and materialist philosophical traditions. 1 Bertell Ollman, Dance of the Dialectic: Steps in Marx's Method. 2  Biel, R. and Mu-Jeong Kho (2009), The Issue of Energy within a Dialectical Approach to the Regulationist Problematique, Recherches & Regulation Régulation Working, PAPERS Rr SERIE série-id, 2009 1 & Association: recherche-regulation.  régulation 1 21
Dialectic or dialectics (Greek: διαλεκτική, dialektikḗ), also known as the dialectical method, is a discourse between two or more people holding different points of view about a subject but wish to establish the truth through reasoned arguments. Another way to understand dialectics is to view it as a method of thinking to overcome formal dualism and monistic reductionism. For example, formal dualism regards the opposites as mutually exclusive entities, whilst monism finds each to be an epiphenomenon of the other. Dialectical thinking rejects both views.
Marx's criticism of Hegel asserts that Hegel's dialectics go astray by dealing with ideas, with the human mind. Hegel's dialectic, Marx says, inappropriately concerns the process of the human brain; it focuses on ideas. 1 Bertell Ollman, Dance of the Dialectic: Steps in Marx's Method. 2  Biel, R. and Mu-Jeong Kho (2009), The Issue of Energy within a Dialectical Approach to the Regulationist Problematique, Recherches & Regulation Régulation Working, PAPERS Rr SERIE série-id, 2009 1 & Association: recherche-regulation.  régulation 1 21
for the right of the world spirit is above all special privileges.' Author/historian William Shirer, quoting Georg Hegel in his The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich. In 1847 the London Communist League (Karl Marx and Frederick Engels) used Hegel's theory of the dialectic to back up their economic theory of communism. Now, in the 21st century, Hegelian-Marxist thinking affects our entire social and political structure. 
By Paul D'Amato | October 25, 2002 | Page 13. MARXISM IS, in a nutshell, the theory and practice of working-class emancipation. Marxism is also a method of looking at the world. One of the most important foundations of Marx's method was dialectical thought. From German philosophy--in particular that of Hegel--Marx took dialectics. Hegel was an idealist who believed that the whole of human history was a continual movement, through contradiction, toward absolute reason. 
In putting Marx's philosophy of internal relations and his use of the process of abstraction--two little-studied aspects of dialectics--at the center of this account, Ollman provides a version of Marx's method that is at once systematic, scholarly, clear and eminently useful. Thorough analysis of Marx s use of the dialectical method from the leading authority on dialectics and Marx s method. Bertell Ollman has been hailed as this country's leading authority on dialectics and Marx's method by Paul Sweezy, the editor of Monthly Review and dean of America's Marx scholars
Hegel's thought is in fact sometimes called dialectical idealism. Marx believed that dialectics should deal not with the mental world of ideas but with the material world, the world of production and other economic activity. For Marx, human history cannot be fitted into any neat a priori schema. 1 Bertell Ollman, Dance of the Dialectic: Steps in Marx's Method. 2  Biel, R. and Mu-Jeong Kho (2009), The Issue of Energy within a Dialectical Approach to the Regulationist Problematique, Recherches & Regulation Régulation Working, PAPERS Rr SERIE série-id, 2009 1 & Association: recherche-regulation.  régulation 1 21
The term dialectical materialism was coined in 1887, by Joseph Dietzgen, a socialist tanner who corresponded with Marx, during and after the failed 1848 German Revolution. As a philosopher, Dietzgen had constructed the theory of dialectical materialism independently of Marx and Engels. 1 Bertell Ollman, Dance of the Dialectic: Steps in Marx's Method. 2  Biel, R. and Mu-Jeong Kho (2009), The Issue of Energy within a Dialectical Approach to the Regulationist Problematique, Recherches & Regulation Régulation Working, PAPERS Rr SERIE série-id, 2009 1 & Association: recherche-regulation.  régulation 1 21
Please try again later. The Dialectic Process is a diagram that Marx uses to explain how society changes from where it is to a state of more rational thinking. An explanation of the steps of the dialectic and how to apply the steps of this process to society. 