A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Several other diseases have symptoms similar to osteoarthritis (OA). They include: A doctor can often distinguish between OA and other conditions using a physical exam and x-rays. 1  Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that can cause pain in the joints. 1 Lupus, an autoimmune disease like RA, that causes inflammation in the joints, as well as in the tendons, skin and other connective tissues. 2  Gout, which occurs when uric acid crystals build up in the joints, and causes joint inflammation, pain and tenderness.
Adult Still’s disease is a rare type of inflammatory arthritis that is similar to rheumatoid arthritis. It shares characteristics of systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis, but it begins in adulthood. Inflammation may affect a few joints at first, but may advance to include more joints over time. 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory disease that causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints. It occurs when the immune system, which normally defends the body from invading organisms, turns its attack against the membrane lining the joints. In rheumatoid arthritis, the synovium becomes inflamed, causing warmth, redness, swelling, and pain. As the disease progresses, the inflamed synovium invades and damages the cartilage and bone of the joint. Surrounding muscles, ligaments, and tendons become weakened.
Like many other rheumatic diseases, rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease (auto means self), so-called because a person’s immune system, which normally helps protect the body from infection and disease, attacks joint tissues for unknown reasons. In rheumatoid arthritis, the synovium becomes inflamed, causing warmth, redness, swelling, and pain. As the disease progresses, the inflamed synovium invades and damages the cartilage and bone of the joint. Surrounding muscles, ligaments, and tendons become weakened.
1 Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that can cause pain in the joints. 2  RA occurs when the immune system attacks the joints and muscles causing joint pain and stiffness. 3  Lupus, an autoimmune disease like RA, that causes inflammation in the joints, as well as in the tendons, skin and other connective tissues. 1 Lupus, an autoimmune disease like RA, that causes inflammation in the joints, as well as in the tendons, skin and other connective tissues. 2  Gout, which occurs when uric acid crystals build up in the joints, and causes joint inflammation, pain and tenderness.
Other Conditions With Symptoms Similar to Rheumatoid Arthritis. Joint pain and stiffness can be caused by health problems other than rheumatoid arthritis. These include: 1  Osteoarthritis. 2  This is the most common form of arthritis. 3  Gout and pseudogout. 4  Lupus. 5  Polymyalgia rheumatica. 6  Inflammation of blood vessels in the body (vasculitis). 7  Spondyloarthropathies. 
The disease that may be most similar to osteoarthritis is rheumatoid arthritis. While their symptoms are similar, the causes of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis are strikingly different. The former occurs primarily due to wear and tear on the joint. 1 Lupus, an autoimmune disease like RA, that causes inflammation in the joints, as well as in the tendons, skin and other connective tissues. 2  Gout, which occurs when uric acid crystals build up in the joints, and causes joint inflammation, pain and tenderness.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes premature mortality, disability and compromised quality of life in the industrialized and developing world (1). Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic inflammatory disease which manifests itself in multiple joints of the body. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it. 