Struts need to be replaced if any of the three components wear out. Struts are not often thought of as a normal replacement item – unlike your oil filter, brakes, or spark plugs, which we all know and expect to have to replace. Wear and tear. Struts need to be replaced if any of the three components wear out. Struts are not often thought of as a normal replacement item – unlike your oil filter, brakes, or spark plugs, which we all know and expect to have to replace. But, like your brakes and spark plugs, they are not made to last forever.
There are signs you need new shocks that are right under your nose. Once you know them you’ll be able to determine if you need to take your vehicle to the workshop. Here are 6 tell-tale signs you can notice for when to replace shock absorbers.
The cost to replace struts can run from $600 to $850 per pair. When struts are replaced, in most cases the wheel alignment must also be performed. The wheel alignment costs from $80 to $150. Replacing struts involves removing the coil springs that are under high tension. It’s best to trust this job to your mechanic as most repair shops have a special spring compressor tool that can safely assemble or disassemble a loaded strut. Replacing shock absorbers is cheaper: $280-$420 for both. In most cars, you don’t need to do the wheel alignment when the shock absorber is replaced.
What we call shock absorbers are really dampers.. The springs in a vehicle's suspension absorb bumps and other road shocks by compressing, and the shock absorbers control the amount of bouncing created when the springs rebound. One way to test shocks is to push down hard on each corner of a vehicle. If the car continues to bounce after you let go, your shocks need replacing. However, this test may require quite a bit of strength, and with many high-riding SUVs and pickups it isn't easy to get the leverage you need.
A strut or a shock absorber doesn’t need to be replaced unless there is a problem with it or if you just want to upgrade your ride with new shock absorbers. The most common problem with shocks and struts is when they start leaking. See this photo: leaking rear shock absorber. It’s best to trust this job to your mechanic as most repair shops have a special spring compressor tool that can safely assemble or disassemble a loaded strut. Replacing shock absorbers is cheaper: $280-$420 for both. In most cars, you don’t need to do the wheel alignment when the shock absorber is replaced.
Instead, you should have a qualified mechanic check your shock absorbers when your car is on a lift, such as when you have tires rotated. The mechanic will be able to see if there are major leaks (shock absorbers are filled with fluid), worn mounts or bushings, or physical damage such as dents. One way to test shocks is to push down hard on each corner of a vehicle. If the car continues to bounce after you let go, your shocks need replacing. However, this test may require quite a bit of strength, and with many high-riding SUVs and pickups it isn't easy to get the leverage you need.
By Rick Popely, Cars.com. Struts don't need to be replaced unless your vehicle is bouncing like it's on a pogo stick or bottoms out in potholes and over railroad tracks, or unless a mechanic finds that they're leaking fluid or have been damaged. In a strut-type suspension, the struts are the shock absorbers mounted inside coil springs. They control the amount of bouncing created by bumps, dips and peaks in the road and making a hard or sudden stop. 
Despite advice to replace shocks at specific intervals (often from those who sell replacements), such as every 50,000 miles, when you need to do it can vary by vehicle and how and where you drive. One way to test shocks is to push down hard on each corner of a vehicle. If the car continues to bounce after you let go, your shocks need replacing. However, this test may require quite a bit of strength, and with many high-riding SUVs and pickups it isn't easy to get the leverage you need.
If you’re not 100% sure that your shocks are working properly, the best thing to do is to get in contact with your nearest Repco Authorised Service centre. Related links: Shock absorber replacement by Repco Authorised Service. The dangers of worn shock absorbers. Once you know them you’ll be able to determine if you need to take your vehicle to the workshop. Here are 6 tell-tale signs you can notice for when to replace