Indigenous religions do not constitute a “world religion” in the same way as, for example, Buddhism or Christianity. Central to indigenous traditions is an awareness of the integral and whole relationship of symbolic and material life. For a new article, click here. Certain qualifying considerations need to be made in any discussion of indigenous religions. The term “indigenous” is a generalized reference to the thousands of small scale societies who have distinct languages, kinship systems, mythologies, ancestral memories, and homelands.
The term ‘indigenous’ means originating or occurring naturally in a country, region, etc. Indigenous religions do not constitute a “world religion” in the same way as, Buddhism, Islam or Christianity does. Therefore, an indigenous religion would be loosely defined as a spiritual or religious belief system that originated or began in a certain geographic region, and was inherently native to its inhabitants.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An indigenous belief is a religion or form of worship which was formed within a specific location and practised there. For instance, in Israel, both Judaism and Christianity are an indigenous belief-anywhere else in the world they are not. Best Answer: An indigenous belief is a religion or form of worship which was formed within a specific location and practised there
Many Indigenous peoples refer to spirituality rather than religion and for most Aboriginal people, religious beliefs are derived from a sense of belonging to the land, the sea and nature. Aboriginal people see themselves as part of the natural world; that they are part of the land and the land is part of them. 
Indigenous religions, if grouped collectively, would make up the world’s sixth largest religion, and they are by far the oldest religious traditions on earth. In Asia, religious traditions are particularly complex. Because of the key role that Indigenous spirituality plays in holding together communities, explaining ancient traditions, and celebrating nature and life, First Peoples Worldwide focuses on supporting Indigenous-led programs that include a spiritual component as part of our grant-making initiative.
An ethnic religion is generally defined by the ethnicity of its adherents, and conversion essentially equates to cultural assimilation into that ethnoreligious group. Ethnic religions are distinguished from religions that actively seek converts worldwide, regardless of ethnic affiliation. Since ethnic religions were simply the religion for each ethnic group, most simply called it religion (or belief or piety or way or similar) and in that sense most ethnic religions did not historically have distinguishing names.
Indigenous Religions. The word indigenous refers to anything that is native to a particular geographical region. This includes people, cultures, languages, or species of plants or animals. The Aborigines of Australia, for example, are an indigenous people, in contrast to the European settlers who arrived on the continent long after. Similarly, American Indians are the indigenous peoples of North America.
Orientation Themes. Themes which provide orientation for understanding the relations between indigenous religions and ecology are kinship, spatial and biographical relations with place, traditional environmental knowledge, and cosmology. For a new article, click here. Certain qualifying considerations need to be made in any discussion of indigenous religions. The term “indigenous” is a generalized reference to the thousands of small scale societies who have distinct languages, kinship systems, mythologies, ancestral memories, and homelands.