Able Fax Tif View allows to view, edit and convert FAX, TIF (TIFF), PDF, DCX, EPS, PS, AI, JBIG, DICOM and GIF files. You can send the fax by printing to FAX printer (Windows Fax Driver). Able Fax Tif View software is a small, fast and efficient viewer and converter for Windows 9x/Me/NT/2K/XP/Vista/Win7/Win8.
Tiff Viewer is a free software that enables you to open and view TIFF files. It’s a handy and easy to use TIFF Viewer, with a simple user interface. The program window contains a folder-explorer that allows you to easily browse folders on your system that contains desired
Able Fax Tif View is a multi-page TIF (TIFF), PDF, DCX, EPS, PS, AI, DICOM, JBIG and GIF viewer, editor and converter. Program allows to view, edit, print, draw, save, convert your files (for Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, XP and older systems).
1 When the program loads, go to Tools – Options and click on the Other tab. 2  If you click the Reset button, it will change your Windows file associations so that .TIF and .TIFF files always open using Microsoft Document Imaging.
Instructions for Office 2007. If you get a .TIFF file that you can’t open, the easiest fix is for those people who have Microsoft Office 2007. All you have to do is: 1  Click the Start button, then go to Programs – Microsoft Office – Microsoft Office Tools – Microsoft Office Document Imaging.
I want to open the tiff files using Microsoft Office Picture Viewer and I have set my default for opening tiff and tif files to Microsoft Office Picture Manager.
.tiff Extension-List of programs that can open .tiff files. In the following table, you can find a list of programs that can open files with .tiff extension.This list is created by collecting extension information reported by users through the 'send report' option of FileTypesMan utility.
A. User replied on October 21, 2009. Right click on the .tiff file and click Open With then click Microsoft Office Picture Manager and it will open in that program without you needing to uninstall QuickTime.
I do not understand why making Microsoft Office Picture Manager the default program for .tiff files in File Associations doesn't work to open those files automatically using that program (I don't see how QuickTime is overriding the setting). I haven't heard of this problem before.
Imagistik Image Viewer is another free software to view TIFF images. It’s a handy and reliable application that supports opening single and multi-page TIFF files. Apart from that, it also supports opening PDF, BMP,JPEG, GIF, and PNG files. It provides thumbnail display of pages contained in a multi-page TIFF file.