The National Association of Tax Professionals in their 2014 study found that average tax preparation fees ranged from $142 for a Form 1040 personal tax return to $566 for a Form 1120 corporate tax return. 1 A set fee for each tax form or schedule, 2  A fee based on last year's fee plus an additional fee for any changes in a client's tax situation, 3  A minimum tax return fee, plus an additional fee based on the complexity of the client's situation, 4  A value-based fee based on the subjective value of the tax preparation service,
1 The average additional fee charged if you don't provide your information at least two weeks before a filing deadline is about $93. 2  The average additional fee for expediting a tax return is $88. 3  And the average fee for filing for an extension is $42. Finally, some firms may charge a flat fee per return. Be aware as well that you should avoid certain fee setups. For example, don't use a tax preparer who bases the fee on a percentage of your tax refund.
1 A minimum tax return fee, plus an additional fee based on the complexity of the client's situation, 2  A value-based fee based on the subjective value of the tax preparation service, 3  An hourly rate for time spent preparing the tax return, and. 4  A set fee for each item of data entry. 1 A set fee for each tax form or schedule, 2  A fee based on last year's fee plus an additional fee for any changes in a client's tax situation, 3  A minimum tax return fee, plus an additional fee based on the complexity of the client's situation, 4
The average fee for a Form 1040 with Schedule A and a state tax return in the various sections of the U.S. are: 1  $237 in New England (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont). 2  $258 in the Middle Atlantic (New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania). Rates for non-itemized returns are also low, as the average cost to prepare a Form 1040 and state return without itemized deductions being only $143. If a tax professional can catch even one deduction or credit a taxpayer would otherwise have missed, it can easily pay for the tax preparation fee.
Here is the average fee for an itemized Form 1040 with Schedule A and a state tax return in different U.S. census districts: 1  New England (CT, ME, MA, NH, RI, VT) – $237. 2  Middle Atlantic (NJ, NY, PA) – $258. 3  South Atlantic (DE, DC, FL, GA, MD, NC, SC, VA, WV) – $253. 4  East South Central (AL, KY, MS, TN) – $279. According to the survey, the average cost to prepare an itemized Form 1040 with a Schedule A (for itemized deductions) and a state tax return is $246. The average rate for a return without itemized deductions is lower: $143.
NEW YORK (MainStreet) — The National Society of Accountants reports that the average cost of hiring a tax professional to prepare your Form 1040 with a Schedule A and state tax return is $246. Rates for non-itemized returns are also low, as the average cost to prepare a Form 1040 and state return without itemized deductions being only $143. If a tax professional can catch even one deduction or credit a taxpayer would otherwise have missed, it can easily pay for the tax preparation fee.
By 2003, the share of self-prepared returns without software haddropped by two-thirds to only 13 percent. The tax software share tripled ina decade to 25 percent in 2003, while paid preparer use—the most commonpreparation method—rose to 62 percent (Toder, 2005). 
The average fee at the national tax service firms H&R Block and Liberty Tax Service is $147 per return and $191 per return, respectively, according the firms' annual reports (information for Jackson Hewitt wasn't available, but it should be in that range). Finally, some firms may charge a flat fee per return. Be aware as well that you should avoid certain fee setups. For example, don't use a tax preparer who bases the fee on a percentage of your tax refund.
Price. There is no way around the fact that you will pay less for a software package than you will to hire a CPA or another qualified tax professional. The price of tax preparation software ranges from the $10 to $120 range to websites that offer the service for free. On the other hand, the least expensive tax preparers will cost at least $100 and a CPA is likely to charge at least twice that amount. The upfront savings of using tax software over an accountant is one of the most attractive benefits of filing your own taxes. 