The AVANTE high temperature RFID tag is ideal for harsh environments and situations, such as high temperature sterilization for medical devices and tools. The AVANTE high temperature UHF tags withstand continuous exposure at temperatures as high as 250°C while maintaining a long read distance as far as 10-20 ft. The AVANTE high temperature metal compatible RFID tag is ideal for high temperature processing, such as baking of paints or heat treatments. AVANTE also offers a high temperature metal compatible RFID that can withstand 250°C continuously. Both the standard and high temperature RFID tags are also functional at low temperatures of below minus 50°C.
Data can also be downloaded and reviewed using the optional RFID docking station and free Windows based Track-It Software. Purchase an optional high temperature battery to extend the temperature range from 60 C (140 F) to 80 C (176 F). Track-It RFID water resistant temperature and humidity data logger with battery and NIST traceable calibration certificate.
High Temperature RFID Tags. GAO RFID provides a selection of RFID tags designed to reliably perform in high temperature conditions. These high temperature tags are perfect for applications such as air cargo tracking, weapon tracking, toxic waste dump tracking, and industrial laundry. 
Fx: (603) 886-3300. Track-It RFID Data Loggers are battery powered stand alone compact devices that record from 22.5 hours to 337.5 days of temperature or temperature and humidity data. The wireless RFID technology makes it ideally suited for use in supply chain monitoring applications. Track-It RFID water resistant temperature and humidity data logger with battery and NIST traceable calibration certificate.
AVANTE incorporates the high temperature stable RFID tags with direct soldered inlays with chips based on UHF ISO 18000-6C EPC Generation 2 protocol into specialty metal and liquid compatible tags for direct attachment on metal parts and containers of liquids. AVANTE also offers a high temperature metal compatible RFID that can withstand 250°C continuously. Both the standard and high temperature RFID tags are also functional at low temperatures of below minus 50°C.
RFID Temperature Dataloggers: CAEN RFID’s semi-passive UHF data loggers measure and record product temperature so that workers can quickly read the data using an RFID reader. Using an EPC C1G2 RFID interface, these highly accurate sensors have a read range of 10m in air @ 2W ERP. Track Temperature History Through the Length of the Cold Chain. CAS DataLoggers and CAEN RFID now offer our all-new Easy2log © RFID Temperature Data Logger UHF Tags for storing and shipping your pharmaceutical and life science products.
Metal compatible AVANTE RFID tags are available for standard operations below 80C. AVANTE also offers a high temperature metal compatible RFID that can withstand 250°C continuously. Both the standard and high temperature RFID tags are also functional at low temperatures of below minus 50°C.
Identiv Offers NFC RFID Temperature-Tracking Solution. The system—consisting of the disposable uTrust Sense Temperature Tracker tag and an app for Android smartphones and tablets—is designed to serve as a low-cost data-logger. By Claire Swedberg. 