The average weight of a commercially caught Patagonian toothfish is 7–10 kg (15–22 lb), depending on the fishery, with large adults occasionally exceeding 100 kilograms (220 lb). They are thought to live up to fifty years and to reach a length up to 2.3 m (7.5 ft). The name Chilean Seabass was invented by a fish wholesaler named Lee Lantz in 1977. He was looking for a name that would make it attractive to the American market. He considered Pacific sea bass and South American sea bass before settling on Chilean sea bass.
Dissostichus eleginoides, the Patagonian toothfish, is a species of cod icefish found in cold waters (1–4 °C or 34–39 °F) between depths of 45 m (148 ft) and 3,850 m (12,631 ft) in the southern Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans and Southern Ocean on seamounts and continental shelves around most sub-Antarctic islands. The name Chilean Seabass was invented by a fish wholesaler named Lee Lantz in 1977. He was looking for a name that would make it attractive to the American market. He considered Pacific sea bass and South American sea bass before settling on Chilean sea bass.
If there’s one thing you should know about Chilean sea bass, it’s that it’s not sea bass. Its real name is actually Patagonian toothfish, which is so unappetizing-sounding that even though it’s delicious, nobody was buying it. So in 1977 a fish wholesaler named Lee Lantz, after considering the names Pacific sea bass and South American sea bass, went and completely invented the name Chilean sea bass. 
This species is also sold under the trade names Chilean Seabass in the USA and Canada; Merluza negra in Argentina, Peru and Uruguay; Legine australe in France; Mero in Japan and Spain, and Bacalao de profundidad in Chile. The name Chilean Seabass was invented by a fish wholesaler named Lee Lantz in 1977. He was looking for a name that would make it attractive to the American market. He considered Pacific sea bass and South American sea bass before settling on Chilean sea bass.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Chilean sea bass, also called Patagonian toothfish, is a fish species that became very popular for human consumption in the 1990s. It is a deep water species, and technically not a member of the bass family at all. The Chilean sea bass is not an extraordinarily attractive fish, with a distinctly prehistoric appearance. It has large eyes, a thrusting jaw, and a muddy skin color.
The Chilean sea bass is not the type of fish you find on the menu at Red Lobster or Long John Silver’s. Instead, you’re more likely to choose it out of a lineup that includes filet mignon and lobster risotto -- and to pay top dollar for its buttery, melt in your mouth flavor. Until 1977, the name Chilean sea bass didn’t exist and few people ate the fish before the 1990s. Prior to that, scientists knew the fish by the less mouth-watering name of Patagonian or Antarctic toothfish.
CORVINA: This indeed is a bass, but not a Chilean seabass. Try a regular old sea bass that swims around in most of the world’s oceans. This is lovely, firm, white fish that works in ceviche, roasted, seared with just about everything. 
But only a minority of Chilean sea bass come from the coast of Chile. Many fish sold under the name hail from arctic regions. Moreover, the fish isn’t even a type of bass; it’s a cod. Until 1977, the name Chilean sea bass didn’t exist and few people ate the fish before the 1990s. Prior to that, scientists knew the fish by the less mouth-watering name of Patagonian or Antarctic toothfish.
And that leads us to your Chilean sea bass, which is not a bass at all, but, according to ichthyologists, the Patagonian toothfish. It is found only in the southern hemisphere and usually weighs about 20 pounds. 