HAVING cost-reflective electricity tariffs has the potential to attract a lot of investors in the energy sector. Mr Chisambi says the only way to achieve a sustainable cost reflective tariff, was to resolve the price differential system for electricity tariffs to stop subsidising commercial and industrial entities in the country.
Cost Reflective Tariffs. During 2006 the Directorate collated information on the electricity demand profiles of large consumers of electricity to assist the preparation of proposals for Cost Reflective Tariffs, the structure of which would be as shown in Figure 6.
Other steps taken by the Authority to support the introduction of Cost Reflective Tariffs include: (i) implementation of price controls to provide transparency in the separation of electricity generation, transmission, distribution and Supply costs. Consultation Paper: 1/2009 Public Consultation on proposals for Cost Reflective Tariffs for Commercial and Industrial consumers of Electricity October 2009. Page 3 Contents Glossary of Terms .............................................................
Cost Reflective Tariffs. Cost Reflective Tariffs encouraged people to move their electricity consumption from peak times to off-peak periods by adjusting the price charged at certain times each day. This helped reduce the overall peak load and is referred to as load shifting, a common practice in many other places in Australia. Cost reflective tariffs better represent the cost to generate and provide power to customers during peak and off-peak periods. As part of the Alice Solar City project a cost reflective trial was conducted. This trial concluded on 31 May 2013 and residents could claim the No Worse off Safety Net until 14 June 2013
Stakeholders in the electricity industry have long been calling for cost-reflective tariffs in the country to attract more investment in the sector. In Zambia, Zesco carries almost all the functions in the electricity value chain. Mr Chisambi says the only way to achieve a sustainable cost reflective tariff, was to resolve the price differential system for electricity tariffs to stop subsidising commercial and industrial entities in the country.
With a Cost Reflective Tariff, annual electricity purchase costs are 2 mRO at an average tariff of 11.6 baisa/kWh. Switching demand from peak to off peak periods further reduces the average Cost Reflective Tariff to 10.8 baisa/kWh and provides annual savings of 140,000 RO. Consultation Paper: 1/2009 Public Consultation on proposals for Cost Reflective Tariffs for Commercial and Industrial consumers of Electricity October 2009. Page 3 Contents Glossary of Terms .............................................................
A cost reflective tariff is one which reflects the true cost of supplying electricity and removes the reliance on State Government subsidies to cover the variance between the current tariff and the true cost of supply of electricity. Most customers of Horizon Power pay a tariff that is much lower than the actual cost of purchasing or generating, distributing and retailing electricity. The difference between the tariffs most customers pay and the actual cost is subsidised by the State Government.
(3) In order to design fully cost-reflective tariff structures for a Distributor/service provider, electricity supply costs must be unbundled into energy purchases, network (transmission purchases and distribution costs) and retail /service components. RSA Distribution Code Version 5.1 Page 7 of 35 (1) For tariff design purposes, the ring fenced electricity revenue requirement of a Distributor shall typically be segmented into the following categories as per an accepted cost allocation methodology such as NRS 058.