The Delaware cop who went viral with a video of him lip-syncing to Taylor Swift’s “Shake It Off” in his patrol car one-ups himself with another performance recorded on the dance floor at a local event on Saturday.
This completely explains itself. In 1976, the Soviet Union had perfected a humanoid robot who's primary function was to entertain and overwhelm. You can see why this controversial video has until now, been kept vaulted away. It's potential effects on the planet's collective consciousness can not be understated.
But Taylor Swift was delighted, tweeting LOLOLOLOL THE SASS. Shake It Off debuted at number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 in September and reached number one in a half a dozen other countries, including Australia and New Zealand.
PHOTOS: Taylor Swift's Shake It Off. Style. The video joins several other Shake It Off tributes that have gone viral, notably a clip made by college frat guys in Kentucky and footage of Victoria's Secret models dancing and singing along to the song in a promo for the 2014 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.
In 1976, the Soviet Union had perfected a humanoid robot who's primary function was to entertain and overwhelm. You can see why this controversial video has until now, been kept vaulted away. It's potential effects on the planet's collective consciousness can not be understated.
This cop likes to play, play, play, play, play! An officer of the Dover Police Department in Delaware was recently filmed lip-syncing to Taylor Swift's 2014 hit Shake It Off while driving a squad car through town. And the cop, Master Cpl. Jeff Davis, really gets down to this.
Taylor Swift appears to love a US cop's performance of her hit song Shake It Off, captured on an official police dashboard camera. The police officer, Jeff Davis, is from the Dover police department in Delaware, east of Washington DC and a YouTube video of his performance has gone viral.
The song from this Target commercial is called: Alouette. This song is an old children’s song that originated in France. This song became more widely known in America after World War I, when american soldier learned the song while serving in France. Many brought it home with them and sang it to their children.