A mermaid is a legendary aquatic creature with the upper body of a female human and the tail of a fish. Mermaids appear in the folklore of many cultures worldwide, including the Near East, Europe, Africa and Asia. The first stories appeared in ancient Assyria, in which the goddess Atargatis transformed herself into a mermaid out of shame for accidentally killing her human lover. Thereafter, she took the form of a mermaid — human above the waist, fish below — although the earliest representations of Atargatis showed her as a fish with a human head and arm, similar to the Babylonian god Ea.
:: MERMAID HISTORY :: Mermaids-History of Mermaids Mermaids have long fascinated humans, right from the days of Hans Christian Anderson’s novel, The Little Mermaid, to the children of today that read about Mermaids and Mermen in J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter books. The fascination of humans with these peculiar creatures is not restricted to the West.
Mermaids have been a popular subject of art and literature in recent centuries, such as in Hans Christian Andersen 's well-known fairy tale . The Little Mermaid  (1836). They have subsequently been depicted in operas, paintings, books, films and comics. Thereafter, she took the form of a mermaid — human above the waist, fish below — although the earliest representations of Atargatis showed her as a fish with a human head and arm, similar to the Babylonian god Ea.
~ Captain Ahab on Mermaid Wenches. Mermaids are super-cool species that is half-fish, half-woman. Males, which are much rarer, are called mermen. They are commonly seen in the sea or, more and more frequently, in fresh water lakes. edit Merman. The male counterpart to the mermaid is the merman. Greek mermen usually have green seaweed-like hair, a beard, and a trident. Mermen are extinct in Ireland, where they were described as extremely ugly, sexually unattractive creatures with pointed green teeth, pig-like eyes, green hair, and a red nose.
Mermaids are female water dwellers that are human from the waist up but with the tail of a fish. The male equivalent to mermaid are known as mermen. They are believed to be wilder and uglier than their counterparts and possess less interest in humans. Merfolk are classified under the heading of the fae. This video gives some information on mermaids.
. The Little Mermaid  (Danish: Den lille havfrue) is a fairy tale by the Danish author Hans Christian Andersen about a young mermaid willing to give up her life in the sea and her identity as a mermaid to gain a human soul and the love of a human prince. The Little Mermaid dwells in an underwater kingdom with her father (the sea king or mer-king), her dowager grandmother, and her five older sisters, each of whom had been born one year apart.
A mermaid is a mythological creature with a female human head and upper body and the tail of a fish. Mermaids live mostly in the water, although sometimes they are known to come out and sit on the rocks above the sea. 
Top 10 facts about the world. A mermaid is a mythical sea creature with the head and torso of a human woman and the tail of a fish. The male version is known as a merman, and the generic term is merfolk. The mermaid appears in folklore from all over the world, including Europe, the Middle East, the Caribbean, West and Central Africa, and Japan.
A mermaid is a mythical creature that is half woman and half fish. The name comes from 'mer' meaning sea. The male version is called a merman. Although some mermaids are described as monstrous and ugly, they are more usually very beautiful. Above the waist they appear as a lovely young woman, whilst from the waist down, they are like a fish with fins and a spreading tail.