Confidence votes 40.4K. D.O. is Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, a graduate of a different medical training program with licensure as a different type of medical professional than an M.D ., or Medical Doctor. However, for most purposes the training and licensure are equal to one another. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Designation is one's professional certification or official qualification, therefore you're being asked for a reference and to give the referee's profession e.g. your Vicar; or if was your employer, then Sales Manager, that kind of thing; or Bank Manager if it's your banker. Source(s): 
Finally I found that a large majority of the business cards had no professional designation. A senior person in a mutual fund company once cautioned me about the value of professional designations saying that “letters after a person’s name do not guarantee the quality of the advice or investment performance”. In terms of financial planners, this is the platinum standard. Candidates for the CFA must pass 3 very tough exams (with pass rates in the 35% to 45% range) and have a minimum of four years of work experience.
Professional Designations-A. Use this tool to decode the letters that sometimes follow a financial professional’s name. You can also see whether the issuing organization requires continuing education, takes complaints or has a way for you to confirm who holds the credential.
Best Answer: Designation is one's professional certification or official qualification, therefore you're being asked for a reference and to give the referee's profession e.g. your Vicar; or if was your employer, then Sales Manager, that kind of thing; or Bank Manager if it's your banker. Source(s): wiki//. 
If a business has LLC in its name, it means it is a limited liability company. That designates the organizational structure of the business to distinguish it from a corporation. Including LLC in the name is one of the requirements for creating an LLC, a popular form for small businesses because of its simplicity. It doesn't require incorporation, stock issues or many other formalities. An LLC is formed under state laws, so there are 50 variations, but in general it is a simple structure created with Article of Organization that describe its owners -- known as members -- and business activity.
RE: what does designation mean in a cv? I am filling a CV and i am asked to fill my work experience and I have to fill my designation and i can't understand what is designation in CV. Pls help me thx. In terms of your professional designations, mention the name of the institution from which that designation comes from and the year you obtained that designation. See the full template..http://workbloom.com/resume/resume-templ...
Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, often called simply certification or qualification, is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task. Certifications are usually earned from a professional society or educational institute, not the government. However, a government agency can decree a certification is required by law for a person to be allowed to perform a task or job.
Best Answer: Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, often called simply certification or qualification, is a designation earned by a person to assure that he/she is qualified to perform a job or task. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video.