In pharmaceutics, triethanolamine is the active ingredient of some ear drops used to treat impacted earwax. It also serves as a pH balancer in many different cosmetic products-ranging from cleansing creams and milks, skin lotions, eye gels, moisturizers, shampoos, shaving foams etc. Triethanolamine is used primarily as an emulsifier and surfactant. It is a common ingredient in formulations used for both industrial and consumer products. The triethanolamine neutralizes fatty acids, adjusts and buffers the pH, and solubilises oils and other ingredients that are not completely soluble in water.
Triethanolamine: Uses and Safety Information. Triethanolamine is an organic compound that is comprised of ethylene oxide and ammonia. This chemical compound is commonly found in a number of cosmetic products and is also used in several different medical applications. If you have any concerns about the dangers of triethanolamine, there are a number of ways to lower your risk of exposure. Using Triethanolamine Safely. Although triethanolamine is used in a number of different cosmetic, health, and beauty products, it is also considered moderately dangerous.
First let’s see what Wikipedia says on the subject: Triethanolamine, often abbreviated as TEA, is a viscous organic compound that is both a tertiary amine and a triol. A triol is amolecule with three alcohol groups. Triethanolamine is a strong base. Triethanolamine can also be abbreviated as TEOA, which can help to distinguish it from triethylamine. Triethanolamine is used primarily as an emulsifier and surfactant. It is a common ingredient in formulations used for both industrial and consumer products. The triethanolamine neutralizes fatty acids, adjusts and buffers the pH, and solubilises oils and other ingredients that are not completely soluble in water. 
This article discusses what it is and dispells some of the mistruths about this soap ingredient. Triethanolamine is used as a pH balancer in cosmetic preparations in a variety of different products-ranging from skin lotion, eye gels, moisturizers, shampoos, shaving foams etc. It is used widely in transparent soap. It is sometimes listed on the ingredient label as TEA. 
Triethanolamine is an amine produced by reacting ethylene oxide (considered highly toxic) with ammonia (another known toxin). It is used as a buffering agent, masking and fragrance ingredient, and surfactant, in addition to its primary use as a pH adjuster. 
Triethanolamine is produced from the reaction of ethylene oxide with aqueous ammonia, also produced are ethanolamine and diethanolamine. The ratio of the products can be controlled by changing the stoichiometry of the reactants. Triethanolamine is used primarily as an emulsifier and surfactant. It is a common ingredient in formulations used for both industrial and consumer products. The triethanolamine neutralizes fatty acids, adjusts and buffers the pH, and solubilises oils and other ingredients that are not completely soluble in water.
Triethanolamine, often abbreviated as TEA, is a viscous organic compound that is both a tertiary amine and a triol. A triol is a molecule with three alcohol groups. Triethanolamine is a strong base. Triethanolamine can also be abbreviated as TEOA, which can help to distinguish it from triethylamine. Triethanolamine is used primarily as an emulsifier and surfactant. It is a common ingredient in formulations used for both industrial and consumer products. The triethanolamine neutralizes fatty acids, adjusts and buffers the pH, and solubilises oils and other ingredients that are not completely soluble in water.
CAS No. 102-71-6. Triethanolamine is 99% pure triethanolamine. Often abbreviated as TEA, it is an amine, an organic compound derived from ammonia which is used in low concentrations as as an alkalizing agent to increase the pH of cosmetic formulations. Add to wish list. Triethanolamine CAS No. 102-71-6 Triethanolamine is 99% pure triethanolamine. Often abbreviated as TEA, it is an amine, an organic compound derived from ammonia which is used in low concentrations as as an alkalizing agent to increase the pH of cosmetic formulations.