Multicellular organisms fall within three of these kingdoms: plants, animals and fungi. Kingdom Protista contains a number of organisms that may at times appear multicellular, such as algae, but these organisms lack the sophisticated differentiation typically associated with multicellular organisms. Although many protists are single-celled, mulitcellular algae are sometimes placed within this kingdom alongside the single-celled algae. Differences between algae and plants include the lack of specialized body parts. Perhaps the most vivid example of multicellular algae lies in the kelp forests in some coastal areas.
Fungi. The fungi kingdom (Fungi in Latin) is made up of multicellular organisms as well as some single-celled organisms. Members of the fungi kingdom reproduce by spores and have cell walls surrounding their cells, similar to plants but with the cell walls being made of different materials. Species in the plant kingdom consist of complex cells and are multicellular. Species within this kingdom are also autotrophs, meaning that they produce their own food. Some examples of species within the plant kingdom include trees, flowers, and even fruits and vegetables.
Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, can be multicellular or unicellular, autotrophic or heterotrophic, reproduce sexually or asexually, and have cell walls made of a variety of different things? These organisms are the oddballs of the scientific world. Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, multicellular, heterotrophic, can reproduce sexually or asexually, and have NO CELL WALL? Mammals, amphibians, reptiles, birds, fish, mollusks, and insects are all included in this kingdom.
Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, can be multicellular or unicellular, reproduce sexually and asexually, and have cell walls made of chitin? Organisms in this kingdom include mushrooms, molds, and yeasts. Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, multicellular, heterotrophic, can reproduce sexually or asexually, and have NO CELL WALL? Mammals, amphibians, reptiles, birds, fish, mollusks, and insects are all included in this kingdom.
Protist Kingdom. The Protist Kingdom consists of mostly unicellular organisms that can have characteristics similar to plants, animals or fungi. Characteristics of Protists: mostly unicellular, few multicellular, eukaryotic, can be heterotrophic or autotrophic. Ex: algae, Paramecium, kelp (multicellular).   . Plant Kingdom. The Plant Kingdom is made up of organisms that can perform photosynthesis to make food. Characteristics of the Plant Kingdom: multicellular, eukaryotic, autotrophic, and mostly green in color.
All species in the animal kingdom are also multicellular and the cells of the species in this kingdom have a nucleus but no chloroplasts or cell wall. Examples of species within the animal kingdom would include all mammals, reptiles, birds, insects, and more. 1  The Animal Kingdom. Species in the plant kingdom consist of complex cells and are multicellular. Species within this kingdom are also autotrophs, meaning that they produce their own food. Some examples of species within the plant kingdom include trees, flowers, and even fruits and vegetables.
Confidence votes 46. The kingdoms that are multicellular are Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia,protista. The kingdoms that are unicellular are Eubacteria, Archaebacteria. 
Plants are all multicellular and consist of complex cells. In addition plants are autotrophs, organisms that make their own food. With over 250,000 species, the plant kingdom is the second largest kingdom. Plant species range from the tiny green mosses to giant trees. 
Confidence votes 2.4K. There is no single kingdom that is unicellular. All prokaryotes (organisms with no cell nucleus) are unicellular, and they belong to two domains, bacteria and archaea. The Whittaker version of Kingdom Plantae is all multicellular. However, Plantae has been recently changed to Viridiplantae and now includes the green algae, which contain many … unicellular forms.