In most cases, programs usually last around 24 weeks, or roughly six months or 600 hours. Some programs may last up to 12 months, depending on the complexity of the program. Taking some of your courses online can make a difference in how soon you finish, with online courses allowing you to work at your own pace. These professionals require specialized training, but do not need as much education as a nurse. They perform basic tasks like helping the patient move or groom, as well as taking vitals and gathering patient information. Some also perform clerical duties. In most cases, you can become a PCT in a year or less.
It takes someone special to become a PCT, you have to have a heart of gold and a passion for people.A patient care technician also adopts the skills of a phlebotomy technician, EKG technician and patient care skills. The exam can be taken by the NCCA National Certification Career Association, for one. Ad. A Patient Care Tech or PCT, is a CNA that works in a hospital. They work in almost every department in the hospital helping patients use the restrooms and meeting their needs as best they can.
So, how long will it take you to become a patient care technician? Based on the most recent revised curriculum, PCT training programs provided by accredited institutions require completion of 900 hours of combined classroom-based studies and internship experience. There are 14 modules to complete and a student must attend at least 90 percent of hours in each module.
Career Information at a Glance. Patient care technicians make sure that patients are happy, healthy and well cared for in health care facilities. Learn how to start your education to become a patient care technician, and read about the job outlook for the career. Explore the career requirements for a Patient Care Technician. Get the facts about education, training, and job outlook to determine if this is the right career for you.
In these programs, you learn your skills by working under a licensed nurse or nurse aide. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, this type of training can be as short as just a few days, depending on exactly what the employer wants you to do as a patient care technician. These professionals require specialized training, but do not need as much education as a nurse. They perform basic tasks like helping the patient move or groom, as well as taking vitals and gathering patient information. Some also perform clerical duties. In most cases, you can become a PCT in a year or less.
The fastest route to becoming a patient care technician is to learn in an on-the-job program. You may be able to become a certified PCT in as little as six weeks, but depending on which program you enter, your training could last up to a year. These professionals require specialized training, but do not need as much education as a nurse. They perform basic tasks like helping the patient move or groom, as well as taking vitals and gathering patient information. Some also perform clerical duties. In most cases, you can become a PCT in a year or less.
In addition to your training, you must take competency and certification exams. Depending on your state's requirements and the organization you go through to take the exams, completing the tests and getting your scores back can take as little as a day or as long as four to six weeks. These professionals require specialized training, but do not need as much education as a nurse. They perform basic tasks like helping the patient move or groom, as well as taking vitals and gathering patient information. Some also perform clerical duties. In most cases, you can become a PCT in a year or less.
Patient care technicians are licensed to perform a multitude of tasks including drawing blood samples from patients, processing specimen prior laboratory testing, and the use of EKG equipment to identify any heart anomalies. Based on the most recent revised curriculum, PCT training programs provided by accredited institutions require completion of 900 hours of combined classroom-based studies and internship experience. There are 14 modules to complete and a student must attend at least 90 percent of hours in each module.
A patient care technician is an important job in the medical profession. A technician will provide help to patients in hospitals, doctor’s offices and nursing homes. A nurse or doctor normally supervises the technician; however, the individual will spend the most time with patients. A patient care technician will check blood pressure, heart rate and pulse. She will also check temperature.
1. Become a CNA. A person must become a CNA before they can apply to be a PCT at a hospital. Most community colleges have a program that can train the student and make them eligible for National Certification Exam to be a certified patient care technician by National Certification Career Association. 1  Schooling generally only takes a few months but it can be done in as little as 4 weeks. A Patient Care Tech or PCT, is a CNA that works in a hospital. They work in almost every department in the hospital helping patients use the restrooms and meeting their needs as best they can.