They are often called sugars. Other carbohydrate molecules are very large (polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose). Carbohydrates are: 1  a source of energy for the body e.g. glucose and a store of energy, e.g. starch in plants. 2  building blocks for polysaccharides (giant carbohydrates), e.g. cellulose in plants and glycogen in the human body. 3  components of other molecules eg DNA, RNA, glycolipids, glycoproteins, ATP.
Confidence votes 43. Yes, a polysaccharide is a carbohydrate. Carbohydrates have a ratio of 2 hydrogen to 1 oxygen. Examples of polysaccharides include cellulose, which is in plant cell walls, starch, which stores energy in plants, glycogen, which stores energy in animals, and chitin, which is in exoskeletons. Hope that helps! For example, blood sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, table sugar is the disaccharide sucrose, and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration).   Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living things.
Starch and cellulose are two common carbohydrates. Both are macromolecules with molecular weights in the hundreds of thousands. Both are polymers (hence  polysaccharides ); that is, each is built from repeating units, monomers, much as a chain is built from its links. 
1 The cell walls of bacteria are mainly made up of polysaccharides (types of carbohydrate). 2  Cellulose (a type of carbohydrate) makes up most of plant cell walls. 3  Carbohydrates are linked to many proteins and lipids (fats), where they are vitally involved in cell interactions. Cellulose. The structural constituents of plants are made mainly from cellulose-a type of polysaccharide. Wood is mostly made of cellulose, while paper and cotton are almost pure cellulose. Lignin, derived from wood, is a key component in the secondary walls of plant cells.
Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen, and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin. Polysaccharides are often quite heterogeneous, containing slight modifications of the repeating unit. Polysaccharides contain more than ten monosaccharide units. Definitions of how large a carbohydrate must be to fall into the categories polysaccharides or oligosaccharides vary according to personal opinion. Polysaccharides are an important class of biological polymers.
Polysaccharides are complex carbohydrate polymers consisting of more than 2 monosaccharides linked together covalently by glycosidic linkages in a condensation reaction. Being comparatively large macromolecules, polysaccharides are most often insoluble in water. Amylose and Amylopectin are polysaccharides of starch. Amylose has a linear chain structure made up of hundreds of glucose molecules that is linked by a alpha 1,4 glycosidic linkage. Due to the nature of these alpha 1,4 bonds, the macromolecule often assumes a bent shape.
Polysaccharide are large numbers of carbohydrates found in or made by living organisms and microbes. They are large, complex molecules of hundreds to thousands of glucose mole … cules bonded together in ong long chainlike molecule.    Polysaccharide is a polymeric carbohydrate structure. For example, blood sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, table sugar is the disaccharide sucrose, and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration).   Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living things.
Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'. Polysaccharides contain more than ten monosaccharide units. Definitions of how large a carbohydrate must be to fall into the categories polysaccharides or oligosaccharides vary according to personal opinion. Polysaccharides are an important class of biological polymers.
Plants synthesize a structural polysaccharide called cellulose. Although cellulose is made with glucose, the glycosidic linkages between glucose monomers are different from the bonds in glycogen and starch. This unique bond structure causes cellulose chains to form linear flat strands instead of coils. Plants synthesize two types of polysaccharides, starch and cellulose. The glycosidic bonds between glucose units in plant starch are similar to those in animal glycogen. Accordingly, starch molecules are structurally similar, forming compact coils, and play a similar role in energy storage for plants.