A supply chain planner is responsible for ensuring that a company receives the materials or supplies they need quickly, efficiently, and within budget. To do this, they must monitor the company’s inventories and track the performance of current supply methods. A Supply Chain Planner earns an average salary of $59,339 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases somewhat, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. $41,137 - $81,668
1 Master’s Degree: Qualifying for a senior-level global supply chain planner position may require an advanced degree, such as a Master of Science in Supply Chain Management or a Master’s in Business Administration (MBA). 2  These advanced degrees typically take an additional one to two years beyond the bachelor’s level. If so, then you may be interested in preparing to become a global supply chain planner. Working in a wide variety of settings and industries, these professionals assist management in reaching organizational goals by analyzing global resources and predicting future requirements to balance supply with customer demand.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A supply chain planner is responsible for making sure a company or organization has enough inventory on hand to meet established sales and service objectives. Planners must resolve potential shortages or surpluses of products by managing or adjusting manufacturing output or inventory levels at the warehouse level. To do this, they must work closely with suppliers, managers, and other company personnel to create unified production plans based on inventory forecasts. Ad.
A supply planner is responsible for making sure an organisation has enough inventory on hand to meet its objectives. Supply chain planners generate and monitor production schedules and works closely with a master production scheduler to ensure policies are being followed. A supply planner is responsible for managing inventory targets in order to ensure a steady level of supply, manufacturing, or product availability. It is vital to create and implement accurate distribution plans. Good attention to detail and being proactive in solving problems is also important. The Certified Demand Driven Planner Program was created by a global partnership between the International Supply Chain Education Alliance (ISCEA) and the Demand Driven Institute (DDI).
Demand planning is a multi-step operational supply chain management (SCM) process used to create reliable forecasts. Effective demand planning can guide users to improve the accuracy of revenue forecasts, align inventory levels with peaks and troughs in demand, and enhance profitability for a given channel or product. 
Supply chain planning (SCP) is the component of supply chain management (SCM) involved with predicting future requirements to balance supply and demand. SCM is sometimes broken down into the stages of planning, execution and shipping. Supply chain planning and supply chain execution (SCE) are the two main categories of SCM software. SCP products may include supply chain modeling, and design, distribution and supply network planning.
An individual who wants to become a supply chain planner should pursue the right kinds of degrees and certifications, as well as other qualifications related to experience in this field. These and similar kinds of jobs can also be called demand planner jobs or logistics planning job roles. One of the first steps for an individual who is interested in logistics, and wants to become a supply chain planner, is to get a college degree in business. Alternative paths to this job title may include degrees in engineering or more technical fields.
A supply chain planner must also identify and order items from supplemental sources to cover inventory shortages when necessary. Inventory forecasting may include creating a distribution plan for a company's export business as well. Managing inventory targets in order to ensure a steady level of supply, manufacturing, or product availability is vital for this job, as is creating and implementing accurate distribution plans. Planners must resolve potential shortages or surpluses of products by managing or adjusting manufacturing output or inventory levels at the warehouse level. To do this, they must work closely with suppliers, managers, and other company personnel to create unified production plans based on inventory forecasts. Ad.
To become a supply chain planner, a bachelor’s degree is usually required. Companies typically prefer degrees in supply chain, business, operations, or a related field. A master’s degree in business administration may be helpful, especially if the applicant hopes to rise to a senior level in the company. A Supply Chain Planner earns an average salary of $59,339 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases somewhat, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. $41,137 - $81,668