Other names: Ligament tear, knee strain. A knee sprain simply means that one of the knee ligaments has been overstretched and that some or all of the fibres have been damaged. This usually occurs when there is a force through the knee eg a tackle in sport or sudden twisting of the knee eg when falling awkardly. The most common symptoms of a sprained knee are pain, swelling, bruising and stiffness which may make it difficult to move the knee and/or walk. With more severe injuries, there may also be some instability around the knee causing it to give way.
Knee Sprain. What is a Knee Sprain: When one of the four knee ligaments overstretches which tears. Symptoms: knee ligament pain, swelling, instability, difficulty bending and straightening the knee. Causes: force through the knee or sudden twisting. Treatment: PRICE, exercises. The most common symptoms of a sprained knee are pain, swelling, bruising and stiffness which may make it difficult to move the knee and/or walk. With more severe injuries, there may also be some instability around the knee causing it to give way.
A knee sprain is an injury to the ligaments in the knee, which are the tough, elastic-like bands in the knee that connect your bones together and hold your joints in place. A sprain can effect many of the ligaments in your knee by tearing the fibers of the tissues, which usually causes pain, swelling, and bruising. 
A sprain is a stretch and/or tear of a ligament, a strong band of connective tissue that connect the end of one bone with another. Ligaments stabilize and support the body's joints. For example, ligaments in the knee connect the thighbone with the shinbone, enabling people to walk and run. A sprained ankle can occur when your foot turns inward, placing extreme tension on the ligaments of your outer ankle. A sprained knee can be the result of a sudden twist, and a wrist sprain can occur when falling on an outstretched hand. A twisting force to the lower leg or foot is a common cause of ankle sprains.
3) MCL Sprain: Force through the outer side of the knee pushing the knee inwards. 4) LCL Sprain: A blow to the inner side of the knee. If the force is great enough, more than one ligament may be damaged as well as the knee cartilage. The most common combination is an ACL and MCL tear. The most common symptoms of a sprained knee are pain, swelling, bruising and stiffness which may make it difficult to move the knee and/or walk. With more severe injuries, there may also be some instability around the knee causing it to give way.
A sprain is a stretch and/or tear of a ligament (a band of fibrous tissue that connects two or more bones at a joint). One or more ligaments can be injured at the same time. The severity of the injury will depend on the extent of injury (whether a tear is partial or complete) and the number of ligaments involved. This type of sprain is called an inversion injury. The knee is another common site for a sprain. A blow to the knee or a fall is often the cause; sudden twisting can also result in a sprain (see fig. 2). Sprains frequently occur at the wrist, typically when people fall and land on an outstretched hand.
A ligament is a band of tough tissue that holds bones together and supports joint motion. Four ligaments are important in maintaining the stability and function of the knee joint, the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments and the medial and lateral collateral ligaments. Knee and ankle sprains are among the most common types of sprains that occur in the body. A knee sprain typically occurs as a result of trauma, and sports injuries are one of the most common causes of knee sprain.
A Lateral ligament sprain sprain will result in pain on the outside of the knee joint and is often caused by an impact on the inside of the knee. The cruciate ligaments cross over in the middle of the knee and provide forwards and backwards stability. Knee sprain treatment. Treament of knee sprains is the same for grade 1 and 2 injuries although more severe injuries will take longer in each stage of treatment. Grade 3 injuries are more difficult to treat and may require surgery, especially if any other injuries are involved.
The sprain will occur in one or more of the knee ligaments. A Medial ligament sprain will cause pain on the inside of the knee and is usually a result of an impact on the outside of the knee. Knee sprain treatment. Treament of knee sprains is the same for grade 1 and 2 injuries although more severe injuries will take longer in each stage of treatment. Grade 3 injuries are more difficult to treat and may require surgery, especially if any other injuries are involved.
Your ligaments are tough, elastic-like bands that connect bone to bone and hold your joints in place. A sprain is an injury to a ligament caused by tearing of the fibers of the ligament. The ligament can have a partial tear, or it can be completely torn apart. Of all sprains, ankle and knee sprains occur most often. Sprained ligaments often swell rapidly and are painful. Generally, the greater the pain and swelling, the more severe the injury is. For most minor sprains, you probably can start initial injury treatment yourself