If you're desperate, you could ask to be referred privately to a different consultant. (Original post by ------Amy). Weell I found out that the consultant doesn't see private patients.. and the waiting list is actually 10 weeks long. Grr. So it's back to the referral process again for me. TEN WEEKS is a very long time to wait!! Private treatment is usually offered at a different hospital such as BUPA. Ring the consultant's secretary. If he/she knows the number of the consultant's private secretary he/she will be able to give you their number and you'll get the ball rolling quickly. Usually about 3 weeks.
Posts: 1,033. IVF under the NHS is now part of the 18 weeks rule. This means that you should wait no longer than 18 weeks from referral from consultant to starting treatment at fertility clinic. Now the rule is that 95% of referrals should fall under 18 weeks, so obviously, this means that up to 5% might fall outside and wait longer. Chanel after gp referral i was seen by fs at hosp after i think 6-8 weeks. Then i had a lap 8wks later then left for 4 months to see if anything happened. It never so now we have been placed on the iui and ivf waiting lists.
My consultant said the waiting list was 13 weeks, I have been waiting 6 months now. I have spoken to his secretary several times, each time she is apologetic and tells me waiting lists don't work like that!!! She said that there are a lot of cancer patients to see, so I have to wait. As the waiting list is over 6 months, you can ask for your surgery to be done privately. jody2015 - the Constitution allows you to request to be treated at a private hospital at the NHS's expense. Contact the medical secretary of your Consultant in the first instance.
You have the legal right to start your non-emergency NHS consultant-led treatment within a maximum of 18 weeks from referral, unless you choose to wait longer or it is clinically appropriate that you wait longer. As the waiting list is over 6 months, you can ask for your surgery to be done privately. jody2015 - the Constitution allows you to request to be treated at a private hospital at the NHS's expense. Contact the medical secretary of your Consultant in the first instance.
The right to treatment within 18 weeks from your referral date does not include maternity services or non-medical consultant-led mental health services. There are also some exceptions where the right to treatment within 18 weeks does not apply. Examples include if: 1  you choose to wait longer. You will be given an outpatient appointment to see the consultant at a hospital, but you won’t have to stay overnight. Waiting times may vary between hospitals. Your choice of hospital may depend on a range of factors, including: 1  your GP's recommendation. 2  how soon you need to start treatment.
(Original post by ------Amy) Weell I found out that the consultant doesn't see private patients.. and the waiting list is actually 10 weeks long. Grr. So it's back to the referral process again for me 10 weeks isn't actually that long a waiting list btw. I had to wait 4 weeks to see a private rheumatologist! TEN WEEKS is a very long time to wait!! Private treatment is usually offered at a different hospital such as BUPA. Ring the consultant's secretary. If he/she knows the number of the consultant's private secretary he/she will be able to give you their number and you'll get the ball rolling quickly. Usually about 3 weeks.
Well, it depends on the consultant-it can cost around £200 for the initial consultation and £100 for followups thereafter. If you go private and are self-funded, you will be expected to pay for ALL treatment including any scans (at least I think so), where things like MRIs can amount to £1000. TEN WEEKS is a very long time to wait!! Private treatment is usually offered at a different hospital such as BUPA. Ring the consultant's secretary. If he/she knows the number of the consultant's private secretary he/she will be able to give you their number and you'll get the ball rolling quickly. Usually about 3 weeks.
Non-emergency treatment. For non-urgent matters, you have the right to start treatment within 18 weeks from the date your GP, dentist or other healthcare professional refers you (unless you want to wait longer or waiting longer is clinically right for you). This will be led by a consultant. You will be given an outpatient appointment to see the consultant at a hospital, but you won’t have to stay overnight. Waiting times may vary between hospitals. Your choice of hospital may depend on a range of factors, including: 1  your GP's recommendation. 2  how soon you need to start treatment.
@ soreback75. No, you do not have to wait a further 18 weeks as you have not received any treatment. You need to find out when the hospital received the referral from your GP, that is when your 18 week clock starts. As the waiting list is over 6 months, you can ask for your surgery to be done privately. jody2015 - the Constitution allows you to request to be treated at a private hospital at the NHS's expense. Contact the medical secretary of your Consultant in the first instance.