See also: Prose types. Many types of prose exist, including nonfictional prose, heroic prose, prose poem, polyphonic prose, alliterative prose, prose fiction, and village prose in Russian literature. A prose poem is a composition in prose that has some of the qualities of a poem. Many forms of creative or literary writing use prose, including novels and short stories. Writer Truman Capote thought that the short story was the most difficult and disciplining form of prose writing extant.
Prose is a form of language that exhibits a grammatical structure and a natural flow of speech rather than a rhythmic structure (as in traditional poetry). A prose poem is a composition in prose that has some of the qualities of a poem. Many forms of creative or literary writing use prose, including novels and short stories. Writer Truman Capote thought that the short story was the most difficult and disciplining form of prose writing extant.
As a result, it has characteristics of both genres. Prose poetry is written like prose, in paragraphs rather than verse, but contains the characteristics of poetry, such as poetic meter, language play, and a focus on images rather than narrative, plot, and character. Meter is the rhythm of a poem, including syllables per line and which syllables are emphasized. 
Prose is any type of written word that is not poetry. Therefore, prose could be a play, a novel, a short story, an advice column, a letter, etc. 
Prose Definition. Prose is a form of language that has no formal metrical structure. It applies a natural flow of speech, and ordinary grammatical structure rather than rhythmic structure, such as in the case of traditional poetry. Normal every day speech is spoken in prose and most people think and write in prose form. Some Common Types of Prose. 1. Nonfictional Prose: A literary work that is mainly based on fact although it may contain fictional elements in certain cases. Examples are biographies and essays. 2. Fictional Prose: A literary work that is wholly or partly imagined or theoretical. Examples are novels
1 Dictionary definition: Prose (n)—the ordinary form of spoken or written language, without metrical structure, as distinguished from poetry or verse. 2  Philosophical texts: Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. 
Prose connotes spoken or written discourse that is not patterned into metric or free verse. To put it simply, prose is writing or speech that is not poetry. Prose exists on a variety of different levels. For instance, at one end of the spectrum is ordinary, colloquial speech. In contrast, at the other end is distinguished written discourse, or what John Dryden called “that other harmony of prose.”. There are a variety of different types of prose. These include: 1  Nonfictional Prose: A piece of writing based on fact. 2  Examples include autobiographies, biographies, and non-fiction essays. 3  Fictional Prose: Imaginative writing. 4  Examples include novels, parables, short stories, and most drama.
prose. 1. the ordinary form of spoken or written language, without metrical structure, as distinguished from poetry or verse. 2. matter-of-fact, commonplace, or dull expression, quality, discourse, etc. 3. of, in, or pertaining to prose. 4. commonplace; prosaic. 5. to turn into or express in prose. 