1 Anemia is a medical condition in which the red blood cell count or hemoglobin is less than normal. 2  For men, anemia is typically defined as hemoglobin level of less than 13.5 gram/100 ml and in women as hemoglobin of less than 12.0 gram/100 ml. Anemia facts. 1 
Anemia (uh-NEE-me-uh) is a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells. Anemia also can occur if your red blood cells don't contain enough hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin). Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that gives blood its red color. This protein helps red blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. If you have anemia, your body doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. As a result, you may feel tired or weak. You also may have other symptoms, such as shortness of breath, dizziness, or headaches. Severe or long-lasting anemia can damage your heart, brain, and other organs in your body.
Anemia is a condition that develops when your blood lacks enough healthy red blood cells or hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a main part of red blood cells and binds oxygen. If you have too few or abnormal red blood cells, or your hemoglobin is abnormal or low, the cells in your body will not get enough oxygen. Symptoms of anemia -- like fatigue -- occur because organs aren't getting what they need to function properly. Anemia is the most common blood condition in the U.S. It affects about 3.5 million Americans. Women, young children, and people with chronic diseases are at increased risk of anemia.
If your red blood cell count is low, you might be told you have anemia. Anemia means your blood has too little hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the part of the red blood cell (RBC) that carries oxygen to all the cells in your body. Normal levels of hemoglobin can vary a bit based on age, sex, and which lab does the test. 
Anemia develops when you don’t have enough robust, healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen throughout your body. The blood cells may lack enough hemoglobin, the protein that gives blood its red color. Anemia affects one in 10 teen girls and women. It also develops in men and children and is linked to some illnesses. Symptoms of anemia -- like fatigue -- occur because organs aren't getting what they need to function properly. Anemia is the most common blood condition in the U.S. It affects about 3.5 million Americans. Women, young children, and people with chronic diseases are at increased risk of anemia.
Anemia describes the condition in which the number of red blood cells in the blood is low. For this reason, doctors sometimes describe someone with anemia as having a low blood count. A person who has anemia is called anemic. Blood is comprised of two parts: a liquid called the plasma and a cellular part. The cellular part contains several different cell types. One of the most important and the most numerous cell types are red blood cells.
Anemia is a medical condition in which a person’s red blood cell count is below normal, which can cause a range of health concerns and risks. Human blood is made up of both red and white cells. While white blood cells fight infection, red blood cells are responsible for transporting oxygen throughout the body. But it all depends on what is the cause of your anemia. It could be many things. Maybe your hemoglobin levels are low, your folate levels are low or you are deficient in iron so your oxygen can't flow properly to the blood. So follow the steps to make sure you have folate, B vitamins and magnesium and iron in your diet.
Anemic: Relating to anemia, the condition of having less than the normal number of red blood cells or less than the normal quantity of hemoglobin in the blood. The oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood is, therefore, decreased. A person can become anemic by three mechanisms. One or more of these mechanisms must be operating to produce anemia: 1  Hemorrhage -- bleeding. 2  Hemolysis -- excessive destruction of red blood cells.
The most common cause of anemia is low iron levels in the blood – iron-deficiency anemia. Without iron, your red blood cells may become low in a protein called hemoglobin, which carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. You essentially begin to suffocate from within. 
Anemia is the most common disorder of the blood with it affecting about a quarter of people globally. Iron-deficiency anemia affects nearly 1 billion. In 2013 anemia due to iron deficiency resulted in about 183,000 deaths – down from 213,000 deaths in 1990. Anemia goes undetected in many people, and symptoms can be minor or vague. The signs and symptoms can be related to the underlying cause or the anemia itself. Most commonly, people with anemia report feelings of weakness, or fatigue, general malaise, and sometimes poor concentration.