Hurricanes are not just restricted to the North Atlantic and Eastern Pacific, but also occur in other parts of the world where they are either called typhoons (Western Pacific Ocean) or tropical cyclones (Indian Ocean, South Pacific, or South Atlantic Ocean). The time of the year when hurricanes occur in a particular region is considered the 'hurricane season' for that region. For instance, the hurricane season for the North Atlantic Ocean begins on June 1 and ends on November 30. The same for the Eastern Pacific begins on May 15 and ends on November 30.
The Atlantic Coast, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Hawaiian islands are the most vulnerable to hurricanes. The top 10 most hurricane-prone cities in the U.S. are the following: 1  Cape Hattaras, North Carolina. 2  Delray Beach, Florida. 3  Hollywood, Florida. 4  Deerfield Beach, Florida. 5  Boca Raton, Florida. 6  Florida City, Florida. 
Hurricanes (by whatever name) are by far most common in the Pacific Ocean, with the western Pacific being most active. In some years, the Philippines are struck by more than 20 tropical storms and typhoons. The term applied to various storms depends on their location. ATLANTIC: Hurricane season in the Atlantic runs from June 1 to November 30. Storms outside of these dates are not unheard of. As you can see from the graph, based on the average of 150 years of storms, activity ramps up in August, and peaks once in early September, then again in October.
What is a hurricane? Well, a hurricane is a tropical cyclone that occurs in the North Atlantic Ocean or the Northeast Pacific Ocean and remains east of the International Dateline. Tropical cyclones are characterized by a large low pressure center and numerous thunderstorms. These produce strong winds and heavy rain. 
Most U.S. landfalling hurricanes occur when the Bermuda high is stronger allowing for the hurricanes to take a farther west track. Eastern North Pacific Ocean Hurricane season: May 15 - November 30. This is the second most active region for tropical cyclones in the world. The hurricanes and tropical storms that form in this area mostly move into the open eastern Pacific Ocean. They can also affect western Mexico and the southern Baja. Recently this was seen as Hurriance Odile hit the southern Baja. This is the most active basin in the world. Most typhoons form between July through November. The tropical cyclones that form here can affect the Philippines, Guam, southeast Asia (including China and Taiwan), and Japan. This basin produced the strongest tropical cyclone on record-Typhoon Tip in 1979
During this peak hurricanes can form in the Atlantic ocean, Gulf of Mexico or Caribbean Sea. Locations that may be affected are the Caribbean, Bermuda, Central America including eastern Mexico, the eastern and Gulf coasts of the United States, and eastern Canada. This is the most active basin in the world. Most typhoons form between July through November. The tropical cyclones that form here can affect the Philippines, Guam, southeast Asia (including China and Taiwan), and Japan. This basin produced the strongest tropical cyclone on record-Typhoon Tip in 1979
1 Tropical cyclones occur in the tropical regions over warm ocean water. 2  In the North Atlantic, they are called hurricanes; in the North Pacific, they are called typhoons; and in the Indian Ocean, they are called cyclones. 3  Hurricanes start as tropical depressions with wind speeds of at least twenty-five miles per hour. 1 In the North Atlantic, they are called hurricanes; in the North Pacific, they are called typhoons; and in the Indian Ocean, they are called cyclones. 2
An Atlantic hurricane or tropical storm is a tropical cyclone that forms in the Atlantic Ocean, usually in the summer or fall. Tropical cyclones can be categorized by intensity. 