The arytenoid cartilages, which anchor the vocal cords at the rear of your larynx, play a major role in tightening and moving your vocal cords in and out to vary the pitch of the sounds you make. A fold of tissue, called the ventricular fold, lies directly above your vocal cords. The ventricular fold is sometimes called a 'false vocal cord,' but it does not participate in phonation. It probably helps close the upper part of your larynx during swallowing. Muscles of the Larynx. The muscles of your larynx are divided into two main groups. The extrinsic muscles (extrinsic means 'outside') move your larynx as a whole unit. There are nine pairs of extrinsic laryngeal muscles that elevate (lift) or depress (lower) your larynx.
The larynx is another name for the voice box. It is a tube about 2 inches (5cm) long in adults. The larynx sits above the windpipe (trachea) in the neck, in front of the upper part of the food pipe (pharynx). The larynx is where the breathing and digestive systems separate. When the epiglottis is closed, food and drink can go down your food pipe and into your stomach. The vocal cords are two bands of muscle that form a V shape inside the larynx. These vibrate together when air passes between them. This produces the sound of your voice.
The larynx /ˈlaerɪŋks/ (ˈlærɪŋks plural; larynges from The greek λάρυγξ), larynx lárynx commonly called the, voice box is an organ in the neck, of, amphibians reptiles and mammals involved, in breathing, sound production and protecting the trachea against. food aspiration The larynx houses the vocal folds (vocal cords), which are essential for phonation.
Laryngeal cancer occurs when cancerous (malignant) cells form on the tissues of the larynx, or voice box. The larynx contains the vocal folds. The vocal folds vibrate. This makes sound when air is directed against them. A person's voice is heard when this sound echoes through the throat, mouth, and nose. 
Inferior to the epiglottis is the glottis region of the larynx, which contains the vocal folds. The largest cartilage in the larynx, the thyroid cartilage, supports the glottis. The thyroid cartilage is semicircular in shape with a prominent ridge extending from its anterior surface. The larynx is also the body’s “voice box” as it contains the vocal folds that produce the sounds of speech and singing. Anatomy The larynx is a short, epithelium-lined tube formed by nine pieces of cartilage and several ligaments that bind them together.... Click to read more below.
24. Gases in the alveoli must cross two layers of epithelium and a layer of fused basement membrane to reach the blood. True. False. 25. There are two folds of muscle and connective tissue in the larynx called the vocal cords or vocal folds; the inferior pair are the true vocal cords involved in speech. 
The larynx /ˈlaerɪŋks/ (ˈlærɪŋks plural; larynges from The greek λάρυγξ), larynx lárynx commonly called the, voice box is an organ in the neck, of, amphibians reptiles and mammals involved, in breathing, sound production and protecting the trachea against. Food aspiration it manipulates pitch. and volume The larynx houses the vocal folds (vocal cords), which are essential for phonation.
The PHARYNX is a fibromuscular tube which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (at which point it becomes the esophagus). Portions of the pharynx lie posterior to the nasal cavity (nasal pharynx), oral cavity (oral pharynx) and larynx (laryngeal pharynx). The LARYNX is an apparatus made up of cartilage, ligaments, muscles, and mucous membrane, which guards the entrance to the lower respiratory passages (trachea, bronchi, and lungs) and houses the vocal cords. Figure 4 shows the major cartilaginous and ligamentous structures which make up the larynx.
Voice Disorders. A voice disorder is when the voice has a problem with pitch, volume, tone, and other qualities. These problems occur when the vocal cords don't vibrate normally. Your voice is the sound that air makes when it is forced out of your lungs and passes over your vocal cords. In order to make normal speech, your vocal cords need to touch together smoothly inside your larynx. Anything that interferes with vocal cord movement or contact can cause a voice disorder. Many voice disorders can be cured with treatment when diagnosed early.
What your larynx does. The larynx is another name for the voice box. It is a tube about 2 inches (5cm) long in adults. It sits above the windpipe (trachea) in the neck and in front of the food pipe. The food pipe in the upper part of the neck is called the pharynx. When the epiglottis is closed, food and drink can go down your food pipe and into your stomach. The vocal cords are two bands of muscle that form a V shape inside the larynx. These vibrate together when air passes between them. This produces the sound of your voice.