Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Financial Aid Counselor-Higher Ed. in the United States. Helps students and parents with the application process. Has discretionary role in awarding scholarships, grants, and other monetary rewards. Audits financial aid accounts. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 2-4 years of direct experience in the field.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Financial Aid Counselor-Higher Ed. may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Helps students and parents with the application process. Has discretionary role in awarding scholarships, grants, and other monetary rewards. Audits financial aid accounts. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 2-4 years of direct experience in the field.
(United States). College Financial Aid Counselors in the United States may have to scrimp and save; the median compensation is $37K annually. The pay spectrum stretches from $27K to $48K per year. Work is enjoyable for College Financial Aid Counselors, who typically claim high levels of job satisfaction. The vast majority of College Financial Aid Counselors (84 percent) who participated in the survey are women. Most report receiving medical coverage from their employers and a strong majority collect dental insurance. The data for this synopsis comes from respondents who took the PayScale salary survey.
(United States). Financial Aid Counselors in the United States can expect only a modest salary, with average pay of just $36K annually. Lower pay rates hover around $28K, and the higher rates verge on $47K per year. Experience level is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by geography. There are far more female Financial Aid Counselors who answered the questionnaire than men, making up 80 percent.
Relatively untried employees who have less than five years' experience have a median salary of $35K. Those who have been around for five to 10 years can expect to take home more — $37K on average. Financial Aid Counselors bring in $39K after working for 10 to 20 years. Lower pay rates hover around $28K, and the higher rates verge on $47K per year. Experience level is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by geography. There are far more female Financial Aid Counselors who answered the questionnaire than men, making up 80 percent.
The most common promotion for Financial Aid Counselors is a College Financial Aid Counselor position, which usually brings in $33K a year. Another standard transition for Financial Aid Counselors seeking advancement is to assume an Assistant Director of Financial Aid role, where pay is often $44K. Lower pay rates hover around $28K, and the higher rates verge on $47K per year. Experience level is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by geography. There are far more female Financial Aid Counselors who answered the questionnaire than men, making up 80 percent.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Financial Aid Counselor-Higher Ed. in the United States is $39,714 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Financial Aid Counselor-Higher Ed. in the United States are expected to make less than $39,714. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Helps students and parents with the application process. Has discretionary role in awarding scholarships, grants, and other monetary rewards. Audits financial aid accounts. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 2-4 years of direct experience in the field.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Financial Aid Counselor-Higher Ed. in the United States that make less than that annual salary. Helps students and parents with the application process. Has discretionary role in awarding scholarships, grants, and other monetary rewards. Audits financial aid accounts. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 2-4 years of direct experience in the field.