Type 2 diabetes also has a genetic component, so if one of your parents developed the condition you are at greater risk of developing it too. Type 2 diabetes is another risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. Family history. Family history and cardiovascular disease. If a first-degree male relative (e.g. father, brother) has suffered a heart attack before the age of 55, or if a first-degree female relative has suffered one before the age of 65, you are at greater risk of developing heart disease.
1 Coronoary artery disease is the most common cause of heart disease and a leading cause of death in the United States. 2  Coronary artery disease is caused by plaque buildup, plaque rupture or a clot that blocks the coronary arteries, causing a lack of oxygen to the heart, preventing it from functioning effectively. 1 Arrhythmias are diseases that affect the heart's electrical system and the heart's ability to properly squeeze and relax. 2  Hereditary arrhythmias can result in a heartbeat that is too fast, too slow or irregular.
Cardiovascular Disease is a disease of the heart and circulatory system, it can be caused by the coronary disease where the fat builds up and deposits on the walls in the coro … nary arteries and the narrows the wall. Heart; blood vessels. 29 people found this useful. 
When members of a family pass traits from one generation to another through genes, that process is called heredity. Genetic factors likely play some role in high blood pressure, heart disease, and other related conditions. Some other characteristics that you cannot control, like your age, sex, and race or ethnicity, can affect your risk for heart disease. 1  Age. 2  Your risk for heart disease increases as you get older. 3  Sex.
At the Stanford Center for Inherited Cardiovascular Disease, we specialize in the care of patients and families with genetic disorders of the heart and blood vessels. Our care extends from the youngest to the oldest members of your family. 
Both men and women can have heart disease. Some other characteristics that you cannot control, like your age, sex, and race or ethnicity, can affect your risk for heart disease. 1  Age. 2  Your risk for heart disease increases as you get older. 3  Sex. 4  Heart disease was the number one killer of both men and women in 2013
In the United States, coronary heart disease (CHD) is a leading cause of death for both men and women. Each year, about 375,000 Americans die from CHD. Certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for CHD. 
Heredity is a factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD); if one or both of your parents had heart disease, stroke, or other diseases of the cardiovascular system, you're at increased risk as well. Thus, if you have a family history of CVD, it's imperative that you take control of those risk factors that can be changed. Congenital (with birth) heart disease is a type of cardiovascular disease that individuals are born with. There are hereditary forms that can occur in multiple family members.
Yes, many types of congenital heart disease are. Congenital (with birth) heart disease is a type of cardiovascular disease that individuals are born with. There are hereditary forms that can occur in multiple family members. It is one of the most common congenital problems seen in pediatric medicin