As paper reached West Asia, people began to make it into books, instead of the scrolls that people used in China and India. That plan spread eastward, and by about 1000 AD, people were making books even in China and India. 
The History of Paper. In few years, the Chinese began to use paper for writing. Around 600 A.D. woodblock printing was invented and by 740 A.D., The first printed newspaper was seen in China. To the east, papermaking moved to Korea, where production of paper began as early as the 6th century AD. The Arabs learned the paper making from the Chinese prisoners and built the first paper industry in Baghdad in 793 A.D. They, too, kept it a secret, and Europeans did not learn how to make paper until several centuries later. The Egyptians learned the paper making from the Arabs during the early 10th century.
The History Of Paper Airplanes. It is widely believed and accepted that the history of paper airplanes finds it roots in ancient China, where paper was used to create the first flying kites. We’ve all heard of Origami, the art of folding pieces of paper into works of art. 
Once the folding paper fan was introduced into ancient Chinese society, it was immediately adopted. Everyone had to have a folded paper fan. Fans were embroidered and painted and decorated and hung. It was more than a fad. 
Paper makers traveled great distances to pay their respects. Paper Folding in Chinese Culture. The name origami is a Japanese term from the words oru (to fold) and kami (paper). In China, the art of folding paper is referred to by the Chinese name zhezhi. Chinese paper folders tend to focus more on making inanimate objects, such as boats or small dishes. Japanese paper folders tend to favor examples of living things, such as the origami crane or a pretty paper flower. Paper folding was first used in China for ceremonial purposes. At funerals, people would burn folded paper representations of the golden nuggets used as currency until the 20th century.
Paper bills were first used by the Chinese, who started carrying folding money during the Tang Dynasty (A.D. 618-907)  mostly in the form of privately issued bills of credit or exchange notes  and used it for more than 500 years before the practice began to catch on in Europe in the 17th century. As a result, China eliminated paper money entirely in 1455 and wouldn't adopt it again for several hundred years. Another not-so-well-known fact: the word cash was originally used to describe the type of round bronze coins with square holes commonly used in the Tang Dynasty, called kai-yuans.
Paper was first invented by Cai Lun in the Eastern Han Dynasty in China. In the 6th century, Buddhist monks carried paper to Japan. The earliest document showing paper folding is a picture of a small paper boat in an edition of Tractatus de sphaera mundi from 1490 by Johannes de Sacrobosco. It is possible that paper folding came to Japan from China when paper was introduced but there is no evidence for this. The paper folding of China has typically been of objects like dishes, hats or boats rather than animals or flowers of Japan.
Origami: A Brief History of the Ancient Art of Paperfolding. No one really knows when and where origami was invented. Some origami historians argue that since the invention of paper is credited to Ts'ai Lun of China in A.D. 105, paper folding must have been invented soon after. Paper was then introduced to Japan in the late sixth century by Buddhist monks, and paper folding was brought along with it. However, since there are no known Chinese records of paper folding, and since the oldest Japanese records date only to the 18th century, other historians claim that origami is definitely a Japanese invention.
Origami is the ancient art of Japanese paper folding, an art form spanning over 1,000 years. Origami is unique among paper crafts in that it requires no materials other than the paper itself. Cutting, gluing, or drawing on the paper is avoided, using only paper folding to create the desired result. Ori means folded and kami means paper. Paper-folding as a traditional folding art pervaded the Japanese culture more strongly than any other. But traditional paper-folding did not exist in Japan alone. Papermaking was developed in China two thousand years ago but the Chinese did not readily share this knowledge.