Introduction. Bowel polyps are small growths on the inner lining of the colon (large bowel) or rectum. They are common, affecting 15-20% of the UK population, and don't usually cause symptoms. Polyps are usually less than 1cm in size, although they can grow up to several centimetres. There are various forms:
Polyps are benign growths (noncancerous tumors or neoplasms) involving the lining of the bowel. They can occur in several locations in the gastrointestinal tract but are most common in the colon. They vary in size from less than a quarter of an inch to several inches in diameter. 
The Polyp Biopsy. When you have a polyp, your doctor may want to perform a biopsy to find out if it is cancerous or noncancerous. In a biopsy, a sample of tissue is removed and analyzed under a microscope. Depending on where the polyp or polyps are located, various procedures are used to obtain a sample. Most polyps are noncancerous (benign). However, because polyps are due to abnormal cell growth, they can eventually become cancerous (malignant). Whether or not a polyp is cancerous can be determined with a biopsy.
A polyp is an abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane. If it is attached to the surface by a narrow elongated stalk, it is said to be pedunculated. If no stalk is present, it is said to be sessile. Polyps are commonly found in the colon, stomach, nose, sinus(es) , urinary bladder and uterus. They may also occur elsewhere in the body where mucous membranes exist like the cervix, vocal folds, and small intestine. Adenomatous polyps, or adenomas, are polyps that grow on the lining of the colon and which carry a high risk of cancer. The adenomatous polyp is considered pre-malignant, i.e., likely to develop into colon cancer. The other types of polyps that can occur in the colon are the hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps.
Colon polyps are growths in your large intestine (colon) . The cause of most colon polyps is not known, but they are common in adults. Over time, some polyps can turn into colon cancer. It usually takes many years for that to happen. 
An elevated 'tumor' mass, which is usually epithelial, and often neoplastic; polyps are common in the colon, ♀ genital tract, nasopharynx, stomach See Bladder polyp, Cervical polyp, Colon polyp, Hairy polyp, Inflammatory polyp, Inflammatory fibroid polyp, Juvenile polyp, Pseudopolyp, Retention polyp. 
The cause of cervical polyps is not entirely understood. They may result from infection. They can also result from long-term (chronic) inflammation, an abnormal response to an increase in estrogen levels, or congestion of blood vessels in the cervical canal. 
1 Only a small proportion of polyps cause symptoms or signs. 2  When they do, the symptoms and signs usually are the result of bleeding from the polyp and may include. 3  red blood mixed with stool. 4  red blood on the surface of stools. 5  black stools. 6  weakness. 7  light-headedness, 8  fainting, and. 9  pale skin. 
Polyps are abnormal growths of tissue that can be found in any organ that has blood vessels. They are most often found in the colon, nose, or uterus. Most polyps are noncancerous (benign). However, because polyps are due to abnormal cell growth, they can eventually become cancerous (malignant). Whether or not a polyp is cancerous can be determined with a biopsy.