The annual salary for someone with the job title School Superintendent may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Job Description for School Superintendent. Directs and manages a school district. Oversees all aspects of the district's operational policies, objectives, initiatives. Responsible for the attainment of short-and long-term financial and operational goals.
What is the average annual salary for Field Superintendent-Construction? The annual salary for someone with the job title Field Superintendent-Construction may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title School Superintendent in the United States. Job Description for School Superintendent. Directs and manages a school district. Oversees all aspects of the district's operational policies, objectives, initiatives. Responsible for the attainment of short-and long-term financial and operational goals.
The median expected salary for a typical Superintendent in the United States is $74,733. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. Establishes, plans, and directs the policies, procedures and programs for the school district. May require a Ph.D in education with at least 10 years of experience in the field. Generally manages a group of exempt and/or nonexempt employees. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Field Superintendent-Construction in the United States is $90,520 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Field Superintendent-Construction in the United States are expected to make less than $90,520. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. The annual salary for someone with the job title Field Superintendent-Construction may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Marine Superintendent Salary. Marine Superintendent average salary is $82,259, median salary is $79,975 with a salary range from $27,500 to $168,000. Marine Superintendent salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 
Construction Superintendent Salary. (United States). Construction Superintendents in the United States tend to be well-versed in their field, and between two-thirds and three-fourths have more than 10 years of experience. Average salary is expected to be around $71K annually, but may range from $46K to $108K per year. Workers in their first five years can expect to earn $54K, but people who have been around for five to 10 years earn a noticeably bigger sum of $66K. People with 10 to 20 years of experience make an average of about $73K in this role.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical School Superintendent in the United States is $148,007 so 50% of the people who perform the job of School Superintendent in the United States are expected to make less than $148,007. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $148,007. Job Description for School Superintendent. Directs and manages a school district. Oversees all aspects of the district's operational policies, objectives, initiatives. Responsible for the attainment of short-and long-term financial and operational goals.
A School Superintendent earns an average salary of $111,724 per year. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Leadership, Human Resources, Budgeting, and People Management. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).). X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Average General Superintendent salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average General Superintendent salaries for job postings nationwide. 