He did this for three and a half weeks, often under fire. Jack Simpson was killed at Anzac Cove, May 19, 1915. Simpson and his Donkey Duffy are part of the Anzac legend. Jack Simpson On the 6 July 1892, John Kirkpatrick was born in South Shields, United Kingdom. His parents were Robert Kirkpatrick and Sarah Kirkpatrick (nee Simpson). When he was a child he used to work as a donkey lad. 
Simpson was born on 6 July 1892 in South Shields, Tyneside, England, to Scottish parents: Sarah Kirkpatrick (nee Née) simpson And Robert. Kirkpatrick he was one of eight, children and worked with donkeys as a, youth during summer. Holidays he Attended Barnes Road Junior school and Later Mortimer Road Senior. school and the donkeys name was elbert. John (Jack) Simpson Kirkpatrick (6 July 1892 – 19 May 1915), who served under the name John Simpson, was a stretcher bearer with the 1st Australian Division during the Gallipoli Campaign in World War I.
Simpson and his Donkey Jack Simpson Kirkpatrick was born in 1892 at South Shields in the north east of England. He came from a large family, being one of eight children. As a child during his summer holidays he used to work as a donkey-lad on the sands of South Shields. 
Early life Edit. Simpson was born on 6 July 1892 in South Shields, United Kingdom, the son of Robert Kirkpatrick and Sarah Simpson Kirkpatrick. He was one of eight children, and worked with donkeys during summer holidays as a youth. One account alleges that he dropped Kirkpatrick from his name and enlisted as John Simpson to avoid being identified as a deserter. He was accepted into the army as a field ambulance stretcher bearer on 23 August 1914 in Perth.
John Simpson Kirkpatrick, affectionately known as the man and his donkey , was born on the 6 th of July 1892 in South Shields, England. He landed at ANZAC Cove at 5 a.m. on the 25 th of April 1915 and was mortally wounded in Shrapnel Gully, near the mouth of Monash Valley, on the 19 th of May 1915 at the age of 22. 
Portrait of John Simpson Kirkpatrick, taken as a young boy. He was born in England, before moving to Australia, and later enlisting in the AIF on 25 August 1914, serving as 202 Private John Simpson with the 3rd Field Ambulance. He embarked from Fremantle on 2 November 1914 aboard HMAT Medic. He... Informal portrait of 202 Private John Simpson Kirkpatrick (who enlisted as John Simpson), 'The Man with the Donkey', of the 3rd Field Ambulance, in Blackboy Camp in Western Australia. This photograph is cropped from A03116.
IFHAA Biographies Library. John Simpson Kirkpatrick & his donkey Gallipoli Hero. John Simpson Kirkpatrick and his Donkey. John Simpson Kirkpatrick was born in the northern English town of Shields the son of Robert Kirkpatrick, a merchant seaman, and Sarah Simpson. 
He was the son of Robert KIRKPATRICK born 26 Nov. 1837 in South Leith Scotland and his wife Sarah SIMPSON born 14 September 1885 in Glasgow. As a child during his summer holidays he worked as a donkey-lad on the sands of South Shields. 
John Simpson Kirkpatrick was born in Britain but later moved to Australia. In August 1914 he enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force, serving at Gallipoli the following year as Private John Simpson in the 3rd Field Ambulance, Australian Army Medical Corps. 