There are no countries on the Antarctic continent. Therefore, there are no native languages or indigenous populations. Scientists from all over the world work there temporarily, and speak the languages of their home countries. Most science research on the continent is formalized in English and some in French. Governments representing 80% of the earth's population conduct science on Antarctica, and of course, conduct this research in their own language. The continent is preserved for science under the directives of The Antarctic Treaty.
Most people in Canada speak English, then French. English and french are the most commonly spoken languages in Canada, some provinces speak one more than the other (example, f … rench is the more prominent language in Quebec, while English is more prominent in Toronto). 1 person found this useful. The language most used by all people's of the world is English. In the control towers of the worl … ds airports, English is the first language spoken when communicating with aircraft.
The most-spoken language of Antarctica is Russian, which is an official language of Bellinsgauzenia, New Devon, and Ognia. English is the most widespread language, officially spoken in the Balleny Islands, Eduarda, New Devon, New South Greenland, and the Ross Dependency. The continent's other major languages include German in New Swabia, French in Kerguelen, Norwegian and Swedish in Maudland, and Spanish in New South Greenland. The Free Territory of the South Pole officially recognizes all languages, though English and Russian are by far the most common languages in this area.
Best Answer: No one lives on Antarctica, therefore there is no language in Antarctica. No humans=No language. If people do one day go to and live on Antarctica, they would speak whatever language they spoke before they went there. Yes I'm sure, no people live on Antarctica. It is too cold for human life to exist. The link up there is a joke. Don't believe any of that
The scientists working there temporarily are from almost every country in the world. The most common languages used include English, Spanish, French, Italian, Russian, Japanese, and Chinese -- and whatever language is native to the country that supports a particular research station. Most science research on the continent is formalized in English and some in French. Governments representing 80% of the earth's population conduct science on Antarctica, and of course, conduct this research in their own language. The continent is preserved for science under the directives of The Antarctic Treaty.
Australian and Chinese researchers (Photo: Cath). At Australian stations, we speak English but there are many people undertaking research in Antarctica from all over the world. 
Official languages of Antarctica. Various languages are spoken on the continent of Antarctica, most of which are non-native, brought from Europe or the Americas by colonizers; though the Native Antarctic indigenous languages are still spoken widely in the mostly native-populated country of Ognia. The continent's other major languages include German in New Swabia, French in Kerguelen, Norwegian and Swedish in Maudland, and Spanish in New South Greenland. The Free Territory of the South Pole officially recognizes all languages, though English and Russian are by far the most common languages in this area.
The correct answer is Chinese, due to the massive population of that country. The language most used by all people's of the world is English. In the control towers of the worl … ds airports, English is the first language spoken when communicating with aircraft.
English is the official national language of Australia. In practise, we all speak Australian English which differs slightly from British and American English and has major influences from both. You are joking aren't you. Our official language is English but many people speak their own language from where they have come from. Oh and different states pronounce words different as well.
There are a lot of languages spoken in India, over a thousand, but most of them speak Hindi. Though English is becoming widely popular. Other major languages of India are Punj … abi, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Bengali, Telugu, and lots of others. The language spoken depends on the region of India you're in. The language most used by all people's of the world is English. In the control towers of the worl … ds airports, English is the first language spoken when communicating with aircraft.