This report describes the typical weather at the Vancouver International Airport (Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) weather station over the course of an average May. It is based on the historical records from 1977 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Sun. Over the course of May, the length of the day is increasing. From the start to the end of the month, the length of the day increases by 1:18 hours, implying an average day-over-day increase of 2.5 minutes.
Vancouver in the Summer. In June, July and August, Vancouver warms up considerably. The weather during the summer months is usually warm and pleasant, with daytime average temperatures around 20°C. July and August are the driest months of the year, but you'll still see rain on around 6 days each month. Spring comes early in Vancouver, and it's not uncommon to see blossom in February. March, April and May are the true spring months, with temperatures of between 11 and 17°C during the daytime, and high single figures at night. It can still be chilly, however, and windy.
The average temperature for May in Vancouver is 12 degrees C. 1  Hottest Temps: The average daytime high is 16 C. 2  Coolest Temps: The average nighttime low for the month of May is 8 C. The month of May average rainfall in Vancouver is. 62 mm. On average, there are about 12 rain days in Vancouver for the month of May (but for most of those, the amount is only about 3 or 4 mm).
Rain Statistics for May weather in Vancouver. The month of May average rainfall in Vancouver is. 62 mm. On average, there are about 12 rain days in Vancouver for the month of May (but for most of those, the amount is only about 3 or 4 mm).
1 The BC coast’s climate is the most moderate in Canada, but there is rain -- lots of it. 2  In May, Vancouver has rain about 13 days out of 31. 1 Warmer weather means visitors can enjoy more of Vancouver great outdoor offerings. 2  May in Vancouver is less rainy than average. 3  Springtime means the full throng of summer visitors has not yet arrived. 4  Spring ski season runs to the end of May at Whistler and other BC ski destinations.
May Weather in Vancouver. 1  Average maximum daytime temp: 17ºC / 64ºF. 2  The BC coast’s climate is the most moderate in Canada, but there is rain -- lots of it. 1 Warmer weather means visitors can enjoy more of Vancouver great outdoor offerings. 2  May in Vancouver is less rainy than average. 3  Springtime means the full throng of summer visitors has not yet arrived. 4  Spring ski season runs to the end of May at Whistler and other BC ski destinations.
Vancouver: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Vancouver with an average temperature of 18°C (64°F) and the coldest is January at 4°C (38°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in July. The wettest month is November with an average of 200mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 14°C (57°F).
Weather in Vancouver, WA. Vancouver, Washington, offers a year-round mild climate. The summer temperatures average in the upper 70’s and the winter temperatures rarely dip below freezing. The Vancouver area averages 39.2 inches of rain annually, which is about the national average. 
Average May Temperatures in British Columbia. Average temperatures for May at cities and towns throughout British Columbia are given below. The tables list the normals for maximum and minimum monthly temperatures, in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit, based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. 
May Weather in Vancouver Island Vancouver Island temperatures in May are similar to that of Vancouver and the Lower Mainland. The average high temperature for Victoria, BC is 16 C (61 F) and the low is 8 C (46 F), for an average May temperature of 12 C (54 F). The month of May average rainfall in Vancouver is. 62 mm. On average, there are about 12 rain days in Vancouver for the month of May (but for most of those, the amount is only about 3 or 4 mm).