Olaplex’s directions for a standalone treatment include saturating dry hair with a mix of 15% No. 1 and 85% water, i.e. 1/2 oz (15 ml) of No. 1 and 3 oz (90 ml) of water, or 1/4 oz No. 1 and 1.5 oz water, etc. Scientifically, there’s no need for a 3-step system. The only effect that happens when there are minerals in the hair is that Olaplex is unable to penetrate through the buildup. Any sort of mineral “reaction” is caused by lighteners/color and the minerals themselves. This is something that has been happening over the years and is not caused by Olaplex.
1 Add Olaplex No. 1 Bond Multiplier to your pre-mixed lightener and mix thoroughly. 2  Note: You may add more bleach powder to achieve desired consistency. 3  Mix a new bowl of lightener and Olaplex No. 1 Bond Multiplier if more than 2oz (60g) of bleach powder is needed to ensure consistent mixing ratios.laplex is free of silicone, sulfates, phthalates, DEA, aldehydes, gluten and is never tested on animals. Olaplex reconnects broken disulfide sulfur bonds in the hair. Hair bonds are broken during thermal, mechanical and chemical services.
In this video, I finally do my long awaited video review about Olaplex. The in-salon treatment for better blonding and lighting with no breakage and no Brass. I have now started offering it as a service in my Salon in San Francisco.
Go Blonder. Push the envelope further without compromising the integrity of hair. From the photo shoot to the salon chair, colorists are set free from the fear of damaged hair. You can use Olaplex as a tool or a new service. The choice is yours. As a tool, use the Olaplex Bond Multiplier No.1 adding it to lightener or color and finish by applying Bond Perfector No.2 after color is rinsed from the hair to dramatically reduce breakage with every color service. Optimize Olaplex by offering it as a new salon service.T'S SO SIMPLE TO USE. You start with the Olaplex Bond Multiplier No.1 by adding directly into lightener or color. After rinsing color from hair, you apply the Olaplex Bond Perfector No. 2 for a minimum of 5 minutes then rinse, shampoo, and condition.
Olaplex No. 3 Hair Perfector is your client's retail portion of the Olaplex System and contains the same active ingredient as both the No.1 and No. 2. This enables the client to repair and maintain strong, healthy hair in between services as it continues to link bonds within the hair.laplex is free of silicone, sulfates, phthalates, DEA, aldehydes, gluten and is never tested on animals. Olaplex reconnects broken disulfide sulfur bonds in the hair. Hair bonds are broken during thermal, mechanical and chemical services.
It’s a revolutionary new hair product additive that enhances our color formulation for all hair textures. It multiples, reconnects broken disulfide, bonds making hair stronger, healthier and leaves the color lasting longer with more vibrancy.
Olaplex is a hair repair treatment that’s getting heaps of buzz in the hair community, especially with people who have damaged hair from excessive bleach. It’s available in a couple of forms – Olaplex can be mixed in with colouring products to minimise damage, or used as a separate treatment. The only effect that happens when there are minerals in the hair is that Olaplex is unable to penetrate through the buildup. Any sort of mineral “reaction” is caused by lighteners/color and the minerals themselves. This is something that has been happening over the years and is not caused by Olaplex.
Olaplex is a bond multiplier containing a single active ingredient, Bis-Aminopropyl Diglycol Dimaleate. Olaplex works by finding single sulfur hydrogen bonds and cross linking them back together to form disulfide bonds before, during and after services. Disulfide bonds are broken via chemical, thermal, and mechanical processes. Olaplex is the only product of its kind with 8 worldwide patents publishing soon. Olaplex is free of silicone, sulfates, phthalates, DEA, aldehydes, and is never tested on animals.
IT'S SO SIMPLE TO USE. You start with the Olaplex Bond Multiplier No.1 by adding directly into lightener or color. After rinsing color from hair, you apply the Olaplex Bond Perfector No. 2 for a minimum of 5 minutes then rinse, shampoo, and condition. You can even leave it in the hair to use as a cutting lotion.
You can use Olaplex as a tool or a new service. The choice is yours. As a tool, use the Olaplex Bond Multiplier No.1 adding it to lightener or colour and finish by applying Bond Perfector No.2 after color is rinsed from the hair to eliminate breakage with every colour service. Optimise Olaplex by offering it as a new salon service.