The origin of the name Kaylee is: American Alternate spellings: Kaylie, Kailee, Kaleigh, Caylee, Cailegh Notes: An alternate spelling of Chaeli (from Michaela) or a combination of the names Kay and Lee. Report Abuse. The name Kaylee is a baby girl name. The name Kaylee comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kaylee is: Variant of Katherine. 'Pure. ' Variant of Kay and Kayla 'keeper of the keys; pure. '
Report Abuse. Kaylee The name Kaylee is a baby girl name. The name Kaylee comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kaylee is: Variant of Katherine. 'Pure. ' Variant of Kay and Kayla 'keeper of the keys; pure. '. Report Abuse. The name Kaylee is a baby girl name. The name Kaylee comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kaylee is: Variant of Katherine. 'Pure.
Kaylee /kay-lee/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAY-lee. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kaylee is slender. From Caollaidhe. Variant of Kayla with the popular-ley ending, much favored in spelling variants. May also be considered a combination of Kay with Lee. See also Cayla and Kaylin. Kaylee is a very popular first name for females (#1800 out of 4276, Top 42%) but a unique surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Kaylee for girls. Kaylee entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its top rank of #26 in the U.S. in the year 2009, and is presently at #52.
Kaylee is a variant spelling of Kayley. The name Kayley is of recent origin and uncertain derivation. It is possibly a form of the Hebrew name Kayla. It may have also been derived from the Irish Gaelic name O Caollaidhe meaning descendant of Gaolladhe, a personal name drawn from the element caol, meaning slender. The meaning of Kaylee is modern invented name. It is also of Irish origin, where its meaning is descendant of Caolladhe, slender and Hebrew origin, where its meaning is crown of laurels.
The name Kaylee is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kaylee is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Kaylee is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaylee is: Pure. English Meaning: The name Kaylee is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kaylee is: Pure. ' Variant of Kay and Kayla 'keeper of the keys; pure.
Kaylee (also commonly spelled Kaley, Kayley, and Kayleigh) is a female given name formed through the combination of the names Kay and Lee. Alternately, it is sometimes considered as an Anglicized version of the Gaelic ceilidh, céilidh a type of social dance or party In. scotland 
Best Answer: well I googled and got this: The name Kaylee is a baby girl name. The name Kaylee comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kaylee is: Variant of Katherine. 'Pure. ' Variant of Kay and Kayla 'keeper of the keys; pure. '. Report Abuse. The name Kaylee is a baby girl name. The name Kaylee comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kaylee is: Variant of Katherine. 'Pure.
What does Kaylee mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kaylee is of English origin. The meaning of Kaylee is modern invented name. It is also of Irish origin, where its meaning is descendant of Caolladhe, slender and Hebrew origin, where its meaning is crown of laurels.