It is Louis Pasteur. In France in the late 1870s, anthrax was a severe disease that destroyed flocks of sheep. This influenced Louis Pasteur to direct his attention to the stu … dy of anthrax. The protective antigen dissolves protein, which can allow the bacterium to punchthrough the membrane surrounding cells of the host, such as the epithelial cells that line the lung. One inside the cells, a bacterium is safe from the host's immune defenses.
Anthrax does not spread directly from one infected animal or person to another; rather, it is spread by spores. These spores can be transported by clothing or shoes. The body of an animal that had active anthrax at the time of death can also be a source of anthrax spores. An outbreak of anthrax in humans who had eaten meat from a dead carabao was reported in Cagayan Province in the Philippines in early 2010, with over 400 cases of illness and at least two fatalities. B. anthracis bacterial spores are soil-borne.
Anthrax is caused by the organism Bacillus anthracis. In some parts of the world, this can be found in cattle or other hoofed mammals. It is infrequent in western Europe and the US, and is more likely to be found in animals in south and central America, south and east Europe, Asia and Africa. 
Anthrax is an acute disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. Most forms of the disease are lethal, and it affects mostly animals. It is contagious and can be transmitted through contact or consumption of infected meat. An outbreak of anthrax in humans who had eaten meat from a dead carabao was reported in Cagayan Province in the Philippines in early 2010, with over 400 cases of illness and at least two fatalities. B. anthracis bacterial spores are soil-borne.
The agent of anthrax is a bacterium called Bacillus anthracis. While other investigators discovered the anthrax bacillus, it was a German physician and scientist, Dr. Robert Koch, who proved that the anthrax bacterium was the cause of a disease that affected farm animals in his community. Ingestion of anthrax can cause serious, sometimes fatal disease. The most deadly form is inhalation anthrax. If the spores of anthrax are inhaled, they migrate to lymph glands in the chest where they proliferate, spread, and produce toxins that often cause death. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 2/18/2015.
Yes, Its a bacterial disease caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Transmission of the bacteria usually occurs during vaginal, anal or oral sex. The syphilis bacteria a … re passed from person to person through direct contact. The protective antigen dissolves protein, which can allow the bacterium to punchthrough the membrane surrounding cells of the host, such as the epithelial cells that line the lung. One inside the cells, a bacterium is safe from the host's immune defenses.
Your question is a little vague. Anthrax, refers to a pulmonary disease that is caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. humans can acquire anthrax from exposure to the nat … ural reservoirs of the microorganism; live-stock such as sheep or cattle or wild animals. The protective antigen dissolves protein, which can allow the bacterium to punchthrough the membrane surrounding cells of the host, such as the epithelial cells that line the lung. One inside the cells, a bacterium is safe from the host's immune defenses.
Anthrax. Anthrax is the disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis, which lives in soil. The bacterial cell lives as a hardy spore to survive harsh conditions. The spores germinate into thriving colonies of bacteria once inside an animal or person. 
Bacillus anthracis: The bacterium that causes anthrax. Anthrax differs from most bacteria in that they exist in an inactive (dormant) state called spores. The spores are found in soil, animal carcasses and feces (including sheep, goats, cattle, bison, horses, and deer), and animal products (e.g., hides and wool). 
Bacillus anthracis is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, aerobic bacterium about 1 by 9 μm in size. It was shown to cause disease by Robert Koch in 1876 when he took a blood sample from an infected cow, isolated the bacteria and put them into a mouse. An outbreak of anthrax in humans who had eaten meat from a dead carabao was reported in Cagayan Province in the Philippines in early 2010, with over 400 cases of illness and at least two fatalities. B. anthracis bacterial spores are soil-borne.