Order entry/processors are a customer facing part of the supply chain. They work for companies and take orders from individuals or large clients and input those orders into supply chain software so that order fillers or other warehouse workers can complete the process and get materials moving to the customer.
[No authors listed]. Computerized provider order entry (CPOE) systems are designed to replace a hospital's paper-based ordering system. They allow users to electronically write the full range of orders, maintain an online medication administration record, and review changes made to an order by successive personnel
Computerized physician order entry (CPOE) is the process of a medical professional entering medication orders or other physician instructions electronically instead of on paper charts. A primary benefit of CPOE is that it can help reduce errors related to poor handwriting or transcription of medication orders. The time and money it takes to install a CPOE system are two commonly cited drawbacks of the technology. CPOE adoption has been slow due to provider resistance, largely because of the disruption to existing care settings and the cost of implementation, which includes CPOE training.
Computerized provider order entry (CPOE) refers to any system in which clinicians directly enter medication orders (and, increasingly, tests and procedures) into a computer system, which then transmits the order directly to the pharmacy. These factors contributed to the high-profile failure of an expensive computerized order entry system. However, as institutions gain experience with CPOE implementation, greater awareness of the potential unintended consequences of this technology will likely avoid these problems.
CPOE decreases delay in order completion, reduces errors related to handwriting or transcription, allows order entry at the point of care or off-site, provides error-checking for duplicate or incorrect doses or tests, and simplifies inventory and posting of charges. CPOE is a form of patient management software. The order entry workflow corresponds to familiar paper-based ordering to allow efficient use by new or infrequent users. Regulatory compliance and security. Access is secure, and a permanent record is created, with electronic signature.
URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/336/Automated_Order_Entry_System.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited. 
Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE) defined Computerized Physician Order Entry or CPOE is the process of capturing a physician's instructions for a patient's care electronically to improve the efficiency of care delivery. Since computerized physician order entry was introduced as a vital part of their technology armamentarium, physicians have argued that, in order for CPOE to be effective, support and guidance are essential.
Definition. This is a process of recording an order into the company's entry system. Once an order has been entered, the company can view information about this order and make necessary changes for the entry. Nearby Terms. 1  oral toxicity. 2  oral will. 3  orbit. 4  order. 5  order bill of l... 6  order book. 7  order card. 8  order cycle tim... 9  order entry. 10  order fill. 11  order filling c... 12  order for accou... 13  order fulfillme... 14  order generatio... 15  order getter. 16  order intake. 17  order lead time.