Small intestine. The muscles of the small intestine mix food with digestive juices from the pancreas, liver, and intestine and push the mixture forward to help with further digestion. The walls of the small intestine absorb the digested nutrients into the bloodstream. The blood delivers the nutrients to the rest of the body.
Food enters the mouth and passes to the anus through the hollow organs of the GI tract. The liver, pancreas, and gallbladder are the solid organs of the digestive system. The digestive system helps the body digest food. Bacteria in the GI tract, also called gut flora or microbiome, help with digestion.
Digestive System Home. As you chew your food and swallow, the food travels through your esophagus -- which is the passageway that connects your mouth to your stomach. In the stomach, strong acids and enzymes digest, or break down, the food into small particles.
3 of 8 in Series: The Essentials of Biological Processes. The human digestive system breaks down the food you consume, using as much of the nutrients as possible to fuel the body. After the energy is extracted from food through digestion and metabolism, the remainder is excreted, or removed.
A Journey Through the Digestive System. As you chew your food and swallow, the food travels through your esophagus -- which is the passageway that connects your mouth to your stomach. In the stomach, strong acids and enzymes digest, or break down, the food into small particles.
Digestion of large nutrients into smaller molecules takes place  throughout the digestive system. Wherever there are enzymes  secreted, you can be sure that the break down of substances is  taking place. Specific organs where this takes place include the  mouth, the stomach and the small intestine.
The reproductive system breaks down food and  takes nutrients out of it so they can used by the body. The  nutrients are transported throughout the body by the circulatory  … system.   Digestion of large nutrients into smaller molecules takes place  throughout the digestive system. Wherever there are enzymes  secreted, you can be sure that the break down of substances is  taking place.