Many patients ask about the best type of magnesium supplement to take for the prevention of migraines and other symptoms. Research studies have compared magnesium oxide with chelated magnesium and a slow release form of magnesium chloride and showed that all three types are absorbed equally well. I usually recommend starting with 400 mg of magnesium oxide but chelated magnesium is also very inexpensive and either one can be effective.
If you decide to take supplemental magnesium, the recommended starting dose is 400-500 mg/day in divided doses. The limiting factor for most people is diarrhea. If you are on a migraine preventative medication that is constipating, like amitriptyline or verapamil, this might be a plus. It’s always wise to check with your doctor before starting on magnesium, especially if you are on medication. It is best not to take magnesium at the same time as medications. If you have concerns about whether or not you should be taking magnesium, or about the timing of magnesium and your medications, your pharmacist may be of help in advising you.
Migraines are extremely painful, recurring headaches that are sometimes accompanied by other symptoms, such as visual disturbances, for example, seeing an aura or nausea. There are 2 types of migraine -- migraine with aura, formerly called common migraines, and migraine without aura, formerly called classic migraines. Pregnancy. Many of the medications, herbs, and supplements used to prevent or treat migraines should not be used during pregnancy. Talk to your doctor before using any medication, over-the-counter or prescription, or any complementary therapy before or during your
No, there is no advantage in magnesium sulfate over chloride when given intravenously, although there is a little more magnesium in 1 gram of magnesium chloride than in 1 gram of magnesium sulfate. We use magnesium sulfate for our migraine and cluster headache patients. Research studies have compared magnesium oxide with chelated magnesium and a slow release form of magnesium chloride and showed that all three types are absorbed equally well. I usually recommend starting with 400 mg of magnesium oxide but chelated magnesium is also very inexpensive and either one can be effective.
However, if one type of magnesium causes upset stomach or diarrhea, another one should be tried. Chelated magnesium is a form of magnesium which is attached to an amino acid and depending on the amino acid it is called magnesium aspartate, glycinate, gluconate, orotate, malate, and other. Besides chelated and magnesium oxide, magnesium citrate or carbonate can be tried. Research studies have compared magnesium oxide with chelated magnesium and a slow release form of magnesium chloride and showed that all three types are absorbed equally well. I usually recommend starting with 400 mg of magnesium oxide but chelated magnesium is also very inexpensive and either one can be effective.
Some headache patients who use magnesium report relief from migraines. However, studies regarding the effectiveness of magnesium for migraines are limited. Authors of a 1996 German study wrote that “high-dose oral magnesium appears to be effective in treating migraine (Peikert et al., 1996). Magnesium is thought to affect changes in the blood vessels in the brain. Magnesium supplements are sometimes recommended to prevent migraines. They are also recommended to treat acute
Researchers have been investigating the magnesium migraines connection because of magnesium's role in stabilizing blood vessels walls. Magnesium is also an important mineral when it comes to helping you get to sleep. Symptoms of low magnesium... Magnesium is important to the body, and so low magnesium can cause a host of problems, such as: irregular heartbeats, loss of appetite, insomnia (a killer for migraineurs!), weakness, shortness of breath, PMS, anxiety, dizziness, nausea, and poor coordination.
A 2002 study demonstrated that intravenous magnesium sulfate helped relieve migraines in patients with or without an “aura,” and a 1996 German trial showed that a single daily dose of 600 mg oral trimagnesium citrate decreased the frequency of migraine attacks by over 40 percent among the study's subjects. Magnesium is an essential mineral that has demonstrated some benefit in treating and preventing migraine headache. The Institute of Medicine’s recommended daily allowances for magnesium range from 30 to 420 milligrams, depending on your age, gender and pregnancy status.
As to what to take, I tend to use magnesium citrate in practice, and usually aim for a dose of about 300-400 mg of magnesium each day (this equates to about 1750-2350 mg of magnesium citrate each day). References: 1. Maukop A, et al. Why all migraine patients should be treated with magnesium. For example, magnesium deficiency can make constriction in blood vessels more like (magnesium normalises the function of the ‘smooth’ muscle that lines blood vessels). It is thought that constriction and then dilation of blood vessels around the brain can be at the root of some migraine headaches.
Magnesium is found in many foods, but some of the best include wheat germ, beans, soy products, whole grains, seafood, dark green leafy vegetables, bananas (warning: bananas are a major migraine trigger for some people) and milk. Symptoms of low magnesium... Magnesium is important to the body, and so low magnesium can cause a host of problems, such as: irregular heartbeats, loss of appetite, insomnia (a killer for migraineurs!), weakness, shortness of breath, PMS, anxiety, dizziness, nausea, and poor coordination.