1 Applicants need not be residents of the county in which they apply for a marriage license unless one of them is a minor. 2  If either applicant is 16 or 17 years old, one or both of his or her parents must sign a consent form. 3  Such applicants must provide a long form birth certificate reflecting the birth parents names. 1 Applicants for a marriage license must appear together in person. 2  The cost of the application is $50.00. 3  Certified copies of the marriage license record can be pre-ordered at the time of application at a cost of $10.00 each.
Marriage license Laws in the state of Pennsylvania, here is what you need to bring with you, and what you need to know about the Pennsylvania marriage laws before applying for a Pennsylvania marriage license application. If the marriage of a Pennsylvania resident is to take place in another state or United States territory, the marriage requirements for that state or territory apply to both parties. A license obtained in Pennsylvania may only be used in this state.
1 If you or your significant other is a foreign national, you must present a valid and unexpired passport at the time you apply for the license. 2  If one of the applicants does not speak English, a 3rd party translator who is at least 18 years old must be present at the time of the application. Gather all required documents before you apply for your marriage license. In addition to a government issued photo ID, there are several other documents that you may need depending on your situation. 1  Both parties must possess a valid Social Security number.
Don't let the marriage license laws of Pennsylvania put a dent in your wedding plans. Here's what you need to know and what documents to bring with you before you apply for a Pennsylvania marriage license. We recommend getting this legal aspect of your wedding out of the way about a month before your wedding date. 
Applicants must be 18 years of age in order to apply for a marriage license. This rule applies to both male and female applicants. Applicants between 16-18 years of age must be accompanied by the custodial parent or guardian to provide written consent. 
$50.00. 1  Applicants must be 18 years of age in order to apply for a marriage license. 2  This rule applies to both male and female applicants. 3  Applicants between 16-18 years of age must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to provide written consent to the marriage. 1 Applicants should take the necessary steps to obtain a marriage license two to three weeks before the scheduled date of their marriage ceremony. 2  When you apply for license, you may take it with you. 3  The license is not valid until three days after application.
1. Make sure that you and your significant other meet the age requirements to get married in Pennsylvania. In order to get married in Pennsylvania, you and your significant other must be at least 18 years-old with a government-issued photo ID as evidence of age, or follow the procedures for an underage marriage. Gather all required documents before you apply for your marriage license. In addition to a government issued photo ID, there are several other documents that you may need depending on your situation. 1  Both parties must possess a valid Social Security number.
Apply For A Pennsylvania Marriage License. Yes, all couples will need to apply for and receive a marriage license before their wedding in order to be legally married in Pennsylvania. Marriage licenses are issued at the county level in Pennsylvania. You and your fiance will need to apply together at the County Courthouse in order to receive your license. 
1 Applicants must be 18 years of age in order to apply for a marriage license. 2  This rule applies to both male and female applicants. 3  Applicants between 16-18 years of age must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to provide written consent to the marriage. 1 Applicants should take the necessary steps to obtain a marriage license two to three weeks before the scheduled date of their marriage ceremony. 2  When you apply for license, you may take it with you. 3  The license is not valid until three days after application.
You cannot apply for your marriage license unless a divorce decree was granted at least 30 days before you apply. The marriage license will be issued at the time of application, but is not valid for three days after application. The marriage license is only valid for 60 days. 