Costs. In addition to the cost of a mosaic glass tile backsplash, consumers need to be wary of other expenses involved with installing this type of design in a kitchen. There are many supplies needed to install this item including primer, sealant and construction adhesive.
The average costs of these supplies is $2.42 to $2.80 per square foot of a mosaic glass tile backsplash. Professional installers are also needed to install this type of backsplash because installation involves heavy duty equipment. The average cost of one hour of labor for a mosaic glass tile backsplash is $38 to $50. Most installation is completed in 10 to 15 hours depending on the size of a kitchen. In addition to the cost of a mosaic glass tile backsplash, consumers need to be wary of other expenses involved with installing this type of design in a kitchen. There are many supplies needed to install this item including primer, sealant and construction adhesive.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Kitchen Backsplash Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Kitchen Backsplash ranges between $18.28 - $32.43 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 Costs for testing and remediation of hazardous materials (asbestos, lead, etc). 2  General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Kitchen Backsplash Installation. 3  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
The cost to install backsplash averages $23.52 – $40.28 per square foot based on data 2014 from homewyse.com. The cost divides into three subjects such as average material costs, unit labor productivity rates and also national average hourly labor wages. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Tile Backsplash Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Tile Backsplash ranges between $12.18 - $21.43 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
There are design ideas for laying out the tiles in different patterns, too. A tile contractor will install 20 square feet of 3- by 6-inch stainless steel tiles as a kitchen backsplash for $530, which includes labor and material. You can do the job for $320, the cost of the tiles and wall primer. 
Supplies such as grout and tile adhesive add an average of $1.48 per finished square foot of backsplash. The average hourly cost of labor for experienced tile installers to cut and place the tiles is $71.50. These installation costs are for a basic square or rectangular layout of the backsplash. 
Find the average cost to install a ceramic tile backsplash yourself compared with the cost of hiring a tile contractor. 
1 On average, installing a backsplash can range in price from $13 to as much as $24 per square foot. 2  This will not include the tile and supplies, but is for installation only. 3  For example, a 25 square foot space could cost anywhere from $325 to as much as $600. 1 For example, a 25 square foot space could cost anywhere from $325 to as much as $600. 2  On a forum thread on the website Gardenweb.com, homeowners claimed that they paid around $550 to install a 42 square foot area; some paid as much as $30 per square foot to have the backsplash installed.