Wind power, for example, costs about $80 per megawatt-hour of electricity when the lifetime costs of building a new project are factored in, according to the Energy Information Administration. Solar is closer to $130 per megawatt-hour.
The exact cost of solar will depend on the applicable Arizona solar rebates and utility incentives available in your area and the type of solar installation you chose. Using a qualified installer who is familiar with the local incentives and permitting process will ensure that you get the most from your investment.
In voting to impose a modest charge on new residential solar customers, Arizona’s power regulators have ended, for the moment, a bitter fight between the rooftop solar industry and the state’s main electric utility.
Again, making it cheaper to afford solar panels for your home. In fact, Arizona has one of the best net metering laws in the country. Excess generation is rolled over month to month, and any surplus is returned annually to the consumer at the avoided cost rate.
File(s): This report provides a new cost-benefit analysis of the impacts of solar distributed generation (DG) on ratepayers in the service territory of Arizona Public Service (APS).
The average system can cost $11,000 or more to lease, if paid up front, or $20,000 to $30,000 to buy. The 85396 ZIP code, which covers Verrado, has about 12,200 residents, and 988 homes have solar in the area. The average estimated household income is about $85,000, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
Considering that you will probably spend over $72,000 in electrical bills over the next 25 years, this can be a small price to pay. Some companies even offer solar lease options in which you pay no out-of-pocket expenses for the installation.
1 In 2014, Arizona installed 247 MW of solar electric capacity, ranking it fifth nationally. 2  The 2, 143 MW of solar energy currently installed in Arizona ranks the state second in the country in installed solar capacity. 3  There is enough solar energy installed in the state to power 304,000 homes.
Arizona also offers a 25% tax credit on up to $1,000 of solar technology installed on a residence is available to homeowners. However, keep in mind that this is a one-time tax credit and the homeowner is restricted from additional tax credits on future solar expenditures on the same residence.