A sty is caused by an infection of oil glands in the eyelid. The bacterium staphylococcus is responsible for most of these infections. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors. 
A stye or hordeolum is a small, painful lump on the inside or outside of the eyelid. It is actually an abscess filled with pus and is usually caused by a staphylococcus bacteria eye infection. Styes are common with most people experiencing one or two of them at some stage in their life. Styes are usually visible on the surface but can appear deeper inside the eyelid. 1 Either type of swelling does not subside within a few weeks. 2  Eyelid swelling interferes with your vision. 3  You have pain in the eye. 4  You have recurrent styes. 5  Recurrent styes can be a symptom of other chronic skin problems.
Hordeolum and Stye ». A hordeolum (ie, stye) is a localized infection or inflammation of the eyelid margin involving hair follicles of the eyelashes (ie, external hordeolum) or meibomian glands (ie, internal hordeolum).
A stye is a small, painful lump on the inside or outside of the eyelid. If you have a stye, your eye may also be watery and you may have a red eye or eyelid. A stye – also called a hordeolum – usually only affects one eye, although it's possible to have styes in both eyes or to have more than one stye in the same eye. Your vision shouldn't be affected. Styes are usually caused by an infection with staphylococcus bacteria (staphylococcal infection). Long-term blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelids) may also increase the risk of developing a stye. Styes are fairly common and you may have at least one or two during your lifetime.
A stye is a pimple or abscess that forms in either the upper or lower eyelid. It is an inflammation caused by blockage of an oil duct and bacteria that normally live on the surface of the eyelid without any problems. Some germs can get trapped along with dead skin cells along the edge of the eyelid. Some external styes are short-lived and heal on their own, while others may require the care of your eye doctor. An internal stye (on the underside of the lid) also causes a red, painful bump, but its location prevents the familiar whitehead from appearing on
A stye (or sty) is an acute infection of the secretory glands of the eyelids. Frequently, bacteria can enter and infect an eyelid oil gland, which are present in both the upper and lower eyelids, causing increased inflammation, pain, and redness of the eye, and even redness of the surrounding eyelid and cheek tissue. A hordeolum (ie, stye) is a localized infection or inflammation of the eyelid margin involving hair follicles of the eyelashes (ie, external hordeolum) or meibomian glands (ie, internal hordeolum).
1 Take real gold, such as a ring, and rub it on the stye to clear it up. 2  Use alum water to wash your eyes and elief the stye. 3  To prepare, mix 2 to 3 granules of alum in a cup of water. 4  Let a teabag steep in warm water and place the teabag over the eye. How to get rid of a Stye on your Eyes. 1  Do not squeeze the sty eas it will only make it worse. 2  Let it burst on its own. 3  Take real gold, such as a ring, and rub it on the stye to clear it up. 4  Use alum water to wash your eyes and elief the stye. 5  To prepare, mix 2 to 3 granules of alum in a cup of water
An external stye or sty /ˈstaɪ/ , also hordeolum /hɔrˈdiːələm/ , is an infection of the sebaceous glands of Zeis at the base of the eyelashes, or an infection of the apocrine sweat glands of Moll. External styes form on the outside of the lids and can be seen as small red bumps. 
A sty is a bump that forms on or in the eyelid as the result of a blocked gland. The word sty can also be spelled stye. There are two distinct types of styes: hordeolum and chalazion. Each has different causes and treatments. A hordeolum is a blockage of one of the sweat glands or oil glands found in the skin of the eyelid, while a chalazion is a blockage of a meibomian gland, which is a special oil gland unique to the eyelids. 