The chick that is in the process of hatching is absorbing the egg yoke and has plenty of energy from that. It should last 3 days. So try to relax and go to work and come back home and see how they are doing. Do not open the incubator because it will chill the egg and chick inside the egg. That is not good for the chick. From reading somewhere on the internet I think it said that it can take up to 40 hours from pip to full hatch out of the egg. that is close to 48 hours or two full days. It also said to NOT OPEN the incubator during this period.
How Long Does Hatching Take. Hatching can take place over several days. For chickens, run the incubator for 24 days (3 days more than normal hatch time). For ducks and turkeys run the incubator for 32 days (4 days more than normal hatch time). It is better not to help a chick/duckling/poult crack out of its shell. If you do, they almost always die (unless you follow the instructions in the next paragraphs)
But it will most likely pip on day 21. If the egg don't hatch on day 21, give them a couple more days. My eggs weren't hatching on day 28, and today is day 30, and I hear peeping and it's trying to come out. Like I said again, the hen may have layed the egg 21 days ago, but she didn't lay all the eggs 21 days ago. It can take up to 3 days for all the eggs to be laid. I think your eggs will be just fine.
It's VERY hard to do this, I know! It can take anywhere from an hour up to a day for a pipped egg to hatch. Some will pip a bit and then stop for a long time, then finish up all at once in the space of a few minutes. Some will consistently pip until they pop out, within an hour. And anywhere in between. From reading somewhere on the internet I think it said that it can take up to 40 hours from pip to full hatch out of the egg. that is close to 48 hours or two full days. It also said to NOT OPEN the incubator during this period.
The normal incubation period for chicken eggs is 21 days--hatching at 18 or 19 days is too soon, and usually indicates too high of a temperature in the incubator or some other issue. Chicks that hatch too early or too late invariably have health problems or tend to do poorly. From reading somewhere on the internet I think it said that it can take up to 40 hours from pip to full hatch out of the egg. that is close to 48 hours or two full days. It also said to NOT OPEN the incubator during this period.
Depending on what the humidity was during the incubation period can have much to do with how fast chicks hatch.To high of humidity causes what is called a wet hatch these can be extremely slow.77% for chickens is a tad bit high.wet bulb should be about 70% relative humidity should be about 65%. Source(s): 
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on condition
baby chickens cheep after the hatching i thought... but you did do great incubating them for the full 21 days. and it shows because day 21 is the day the eggs are supposed to start wobbling around, err the chicken is just trying to get out of the egg, which means you successfully incubated fertilized eggs.
My Araucana eggs are in a fan forced home made incubator. About 5 of them were pipped this morning. 1 has hatched about 1pm today. How long is normal for the eggs to hatch after pipping. My humidity is at 75% so I hope they don't dry out and get stuck to the shell. I dont want to have them pip but die trying to get out. I have read that you should not help them out or they will die. I don't want to lose any if I can help them out