Biofeedback, or applied psychophysiological feedback, is a patient-guided treatment that teaches an individual to control muscle tension, pain, body temperature, brain waves, and other bodily functions and processes through relaxation, visualization, and other cognitive control techniques.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: biofeedback (noun). a training program in which a person is given information about physiological processes (heart rate or blood pressure) that is not normally available with the goal of gaining conscious control of them.
Biofeedback is a technique that trains people to improve their health by controlling certain bodily processes that normally happen involuntarily, such as heart rate, blood pressure, muscle tension, and skin temperature.
Full Definition of BIOFEEDBACK. : the technique of making unconscious or involuntary bodily processes (as heartbeats or brain waves) perceptible to the senses (as by the use of an oscilloscope) in order to manipulate them by conscious mental control. See biofeedback defined for English-language learners.
The noun BIOFEEDBACK has 1 sense: 1. a training program in which a person is given information about physiological processes (heart rate or blood pressure) that is not normally available with the goal of gaining conscious control of them. Familiarity information: BIOFEEDBACK used as a noun is very rare.
Biofeedback is a method that uses the mind to control a body function that the body normally regulates automatically, such as skin temperature, muscle tension, heart rate, or blood pressure. When you are first learning biofeedback, you will have sensors attached to your body and to a monitoring device.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: biofeedback (Noun). A technique consisting of measuring a person's quantifiable bodily functions, such as blood pressure, heart rate, skin temperature, sweat gland activity, and muscle tension, then conveying the information to the person in real-time.
Medical Definition of BIOFEEDBACK. : the technique of making unconscious or involuntary bodily processes (as heartbeat or brain waves) perceptible to the senses (as by the use of an oscilloscope) in order to manipulate them by conscious mental control.