that are opposite the thoughts in a speaker's mind idiom 5. implied comparison introduced with as and like narrative 6. one's own manner of speaking simile. 1. a poem that tells a story-narrative 2. taking on human characteristics-personification. 3. a direct comparison between two things-metaphor. 4. words that are opposite the thoughts in a speaker's mind-irony. 5. [ implied comparison introduced with as and like-simile. 6. one's own manner of speaking-idiom. 
A limerick is a poem that is often silly or whimsical, written in five lines with an AABBA rhyme scheme. Often, limericks tell a short, humorous story. These types of poems have been popular for hundreds of years, particularly in the English language. When limericks first became popular, they often expressed ideas that were crude and off-color but today, limericks express all sorts of ideas. One of the longest types of poems is known as the epic poem, which has been around for thousands of years. Technically a type of narrative poem, which tells a story, epic poems usually tell the story of a mythical warrior and the great things that he accomplished in all of his journeys such as The Odyssey and The Iliad.
Poem types-how to write a narrative poem. A narrative poem is one that tells a story, true or imagined. It can have all of the elements of fiction, including: 1  A character or characters. 2  The main character may be the same or different from the narrator, the voice that tells the story. 3  A setting-the place where the story happens. 4  A plot-what happens in the story. The main character in this poem is a man who has lost a woman he loved named Lenore. This character is also the narrator or the speaker of the poem, so he tells his own story using the word I.. The setting of the poem is the man's room on a bleak December night.
The theme or the subject of this poetry is love. Narrative Poetry: A narrative is long and complex poem that has a plot or a story. There is a regular pattern of rhyme in this type of poem. Ballad, Idyll and epic are the different types of poems that fall in the category of narrative poetry. e.g-Idylls of the King (Tennyson). Ode: An Ode is a type of poem that is similar to lyric, but is serious and thoughtful. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Narrative poetry is a form of poetry that tells a story, often making use of the voices of a narrator and characters as well; the entire story is usually written in metred verse. Narrative poems do not have to follow rhythmic patterns. An example of this is The Ring and the Book by Robert Browning. In terms of narrative poetry, a romance is a narrative poem that tells a story of chivalry. Examples include the Romance of the Rose or Tennyson 's Idylls of the King. Although these examples use medieval and Arthurian materials, romances may also tell stories from classical mythology
A narrative poem usually tells a story using a poetic theme. Epic poems are very vital to narrative poems, although it is thought that narrative poems were created to explain oral traditions. The focus of narrative poetry is often the pros and cons of life. An example of this is The Ring and the Book by Robert Browning. In terms of narrative poetry, a romance is a narrative poem that tells a story of chivalry. Examples include the Romance of the Rose or Tennyson 's Idylls of the King. Although these examples use medieval and Arthurian materials, romances may also tell stories from classical mythology
A ballad is a song, originally transmitted orally, which tells a story. It is an important form of folk poetry which was adapted for literary uses from the sixteenth century onwards. The ballad stanza is usually a four-line stanza, alternating tetrameter and trimeter. It is always told by a narrator. Narrative poems might tell of a love story (like Tennyson's Maud), the story of a father and son (like Wordsworth's Michael) or the deeds of a hero or heroine (like Walter Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel).