Some organisms rely on organic compounds as a source of carbon, but are able to use light or inorganic compounds as a source of energy. Such organisms are not defined as autotrophic, but rather as heterotrophic. Autotrophs can be photoautotrophs or chemoautotrophs. Phototrophs use light as an energy source, while chemotrophs utilize electron donors as a source of energy, whether from organic or inorganic sources; however in the case of autotrophs, these electron donors come from inorganic chemical sources.
An autotroph is an organism that produces its own food. It is  usually a unicellular organism. Autotrophs utilize photosynthesis  to produce their food (typically the nutrie … nt glucose). An  autotroph is also referred to as a producer. An example of an  autotroph is algae. A heterotroph is an organism that receives its  food from other sources. It is a multicellular or unicellular  organism. Organisms that are consumers or decomposers are  heterotrophs. A parasite is also a heterotroph. A parasite feeds  off other organisms for its food
Diffen › Science › Biology. Autotrophs are organisms that can produce their own food from the substances available in their surroundings using light (photosynthesis) or chemical energy (chemosynthesis). Heterotrophs cannot synthesize their own food and rely on other organisms — both plants and animals — for nutrition.
Other organisms, called heterotrophs, take in autotrophs as food to carry out functions necessary for their life. Thus, heterotrophs — all animals, almost all fungi, as well as most bacteria and protozoa — depend on autotrophs, or primary producers, for the energy and raw materials they need. Heterotrophs obtain energy by breaking down organic molecules (carbohydrates, fats, and proteins) obtained in food. Carnivorous organisms rely on autotrophs indirectly, as the nutrients obtained from their heterotroph prey come from autotrophs they have consumed. Autotrophs can be photoautotrophs or chemoautotrophs. Phototrophs use light as an energy source, while chemotrophs utilize electron donors as a source of energy, whether from organic or inorganic sources; however in the case of autotrophs, these electron donors come from inorganic chemical sources.
Protozoa [edit]. As heterotrophs, protozoa scavenge materials from their surroundings. Others are predators which actively hunt or ambush small organisms such as bacteria and other protozoa for a source of nutrition. Protozoa can be parasitic as well; they may live inside larger organisms, like humans
Autotrophs and Heterotrophs. Organisms are divided into autotrophs and heterotrophs according to their energy pathways. Autotrophs are those organisms that are able to make energy-containing organic molecules from inorganic raw material by using basic energy sources such as sunlight. Plants are the prime example of autotrophs, using photosynthesis. All other organisms must make use of food that comes from other organisms in the form of fats, carbohydrates and proteins. 
Autotrophs are fundamental to the food chains of all ecosystems in the world. They take energy from the environment in the form of sunlight or inorganic chemicals and use it to create energy-rich molecules such as carbohydrates. This mechanism is called primary production. Other organisms, called heterotroph s, take in autotrophs as food to carry out functions necessary for their life. From Wikipedia. Autotroph. An autotroph, also called a producer, is an organism that produces complex organic compound s (such as carbohydrate s, fat s, and protein s) from simple inorganic molecules using energy from light (by photosynthesis) or inorganic chemical reactions (chemosynthesis).
Autotrophs utilize photosynthesis  to produce their food (typically the nutrie … nt glucose). An  autotroph is also referred to as a producer. An example of an  autotroph is algae. A heterotroph is an organism that receives its  food from other sources. It is a multicellular or unicellular  organism. Organisms that are consumers or decomposers are  heterotrophs. A parasite is also a heterotroph. A parasite feeds  off other organisms for its food. An example of a parasite is a  deet tick. An example of a decomposing heterotroph is an earthworm
Heterotrophs contrast with autotrophs, such as plants and algae, which can use energy from sunlight (photoautotrophs) or inorganic compounds (lithoautotrophs) to produce organic compounds such as carbohydrates, fats, and proteins from inorganic carbon dioxide. 