The parallel dose-response study also offers. protection against missing an effective dose because of an inverted. U-shaped (umbrella or bell-shaped) dose-response curve, where higher. doses are less effective than lower doses, a response that can occur, for. example, with mixed agonist-antagonists. 
Estimating the maximum effective dose in a quantitative dose-response experiment. Remmenga MD, Milliken GA, Kratzer D, Schwenke JR, Rolka HR. University Statistics Center, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces 88003, USA. Using four equally spaced dose levels, data were generated from four different model types: the quadratic growth curve, the Mitcherlich growth curve, the linear-linear plateau spline model, and the quadratic-linear plateau spline model.
A dose-response model describes the probability of a specified response from exposure to a specified pathogen in a specified population, as a function of the dose. This function is based on empirical data, and will usually be given in the form of a mathematical relationship. 6. Concurrently with the descriptive analysis of clinical or epidemiological information or data, mathematical modelling has been advocated to provide assistance in developing a dose-response relationship, in particular when extrapolation to low doses is necessary.
The data are then plotted on a graph that shows the dose on one axis and the response or effects on the other. In a typical dose-response graph, the dose is plotted against the number or proportion of animals exhibiting a particular response. Dose-Effect and Dose-Response. Since the basic question in toxicology is how dose is related to toxicity, most toxicology studies are designed to investigate how living creatures react as doses vary incrementally, from low to high levels.
The results of this type of study can be plotted in the form of a quantal dose response curve (Figure 12). In a population study, the dose that produces the desired effect in 50% of the population is referred to as the “median effective dose” and is (unfortunately) also abbreviated as the ED50 or ED50. 
The dose–response relationship, or exposure–response relationship, describes the change in effect on an organism caused by differing levels of exposure (or doses) to a stressor (usually a chemical) after a certain exposure time. Studying dose response, and developing dose–response models, is central to determining safe and hazardous levels and dosages for drugs, potential pollutants, and other substances to which humans or other organisms are exposed.
They express their data on a graph and develop a dose-response curve for their chemical. Students then compare the data from their investigation of a chemical with those of other teams and other chemicals. Students learn to analyze dose-response curves to determine threshold and potency. 