The latitude of each point on the Equator equals 0°. The Equator divides the Earth's surface into the Northern and the Southern Hemispheres. The points that lie north of the Equator belong to the Northern Hemisphere. The points that lie south of the Equator belong to the Southern Hemisphere. 
The equator is at 0 degrees. The North Pole is at +90 degrees or 90 degrees north. The South Pole is at –90 degrees or 90 degrees south --The unit of distance meter was originally defined as one part in 10,000,000 of the distance between the pole and the equator. 
Longitude is the angular distance measured east or west from a plane that passes through the north and south poles at the position of Greenwich, England. This line of longitude is referred to as the prime meridian and is assigned a value of 0 longitude. The position of the prime meridian was chosen arbitrarily. Latitude is the angular distance measured with respect to a central point along a plane passed through the earth at the position of the earth's largest circumference. This plane is designated as a line of zero degrees (0) and is referred to as the equator of the earth (see Figure 7.1).
Distance between New York, New York, USA and the Equator. 4532 km = 2816 miles. During our calculation of the distance to the Equator we made three assumptions. 1) We assumed a spherical Earth as a close approximation of the true shape of the Earth (an oblate spheroid). The distance was calculated as great-circle or orthodromic distance on the surface of a sphere. Real distances to other points inside or near the city, for example, to its airport, will differ from our calculation. 3) We calculate the distance between a point on the Earth's surface and the Equator as the length of the arc of the meridian passing through this point and crossing the Equator.
The latitude of the Earth's Equator is by definition 0° (zero degrees). The Equator is one of the five notable circles of latitude on Earth, with the others being the two Polar Circles: the Arctic Circle and the Antarctic Circle, and the two Tropical Circles: the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. 
Latitude and longitude are both measured in degrees. Each degree (°) is subdivided into 60 minutes (') and each minute into 60 seconds (). Each degree of latitude corresponds to a distance on the Earth‘s surface of about 111 km. Each degree of longitude however, corresponds to a distance that varies with latitude. The distance is about 111 km at the Equator, reducing to 0 km at the Poles. Whenever the unqualified term latitude is used, it will normally mean the geographic latitude. On the WGS84 ellipsoid, the length of a degree of latitude increases from 110.574 km at the equator to 111.694 km at the poles. Geographic and geocentric latitudes can differ by as much as 12 minutes of arc, an amount equivalent to a distance of more than 30 km on the ground
0°. Prime Meridian. A prime meridian is a meridian (a line of longitude) in a geographical coordinate system at which longitude is defined to be 0°. Together, a prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system, the 180th meridian (at 180° longitude), form a great circle. This great circle divides the sphere, e.g., the Earth, into two hemispheres.
The latitude is the number of degrees north or south of the Earth's equator. On a map or globe, lines of latitude run horizontally, parallel to the equator. The longitude is the number of degrees east or west of the 0° longitude line (the ``prime meridian'' on the Earth) that runs through Greenwich England. 