Antimony is a chemical element with symbol Sb (from Latin: stibium) and atomic number 51. Antimony is mainly excreted from the human body via urine. Antimony and its compounds do not cause acute human health effects, with the exception of antimony potassium tartrate (tartar emetic), a prodrug that is intentionally used to treat leishmaniasis patients.
A native element; antimony metal is extracted from stibnite ore and other minerals. Used as a hardening alloy for lead, especially storage batteries and cable sheaths; also used in bearing metal, type metal, solder, collapsible tubes and foil, sheet and pipes and semiconductor technology. 
Next. I need to know what tangible and maybe some untangible objects antimony is used in for a bookcover project :) Some websites say some childrens toys, batteries, glass, pottery, infrared detectors... etc. If any of these are wrong.. please correct me!! 
Antimony compounds have been known since ancient times and were used for cosmetics; metallic antimony was also known, but it was erroneously identified as lead upon its discovery. It was first isolated by Vannoccio Biringuccio and described in 1540. Antimony is mainly excreted from the human body via urine. Antimony and its compounds do not cause acute human health effects, with the exception of antimony potassium tartrate (tartar emetic), a prodrug that is intentionally used to treat leishmaniasis patients.
However, there are companies in the United States that produce antimony as a by-product of smelting lead and other metals. Antimony isn't used alone because it breaks easily, but when mixed into alloys, it is used in lead storage batteries, solder, sheet and pipe metal, bearings, castings, and pewter. Antimony ores are mined and then mixed with other metals to form antimony alloys or combined with oxygen to form antimony oxide. Little antimony is currently mined in the United States. It is brought into this country from other countries for processing.
Stibnite is used for metal antifriction alloys, metal type, shot, batteries, and in the manufacture of fireworks. Antimony salts are used in the rubber and textile industries, in medicine, and glassmaking. Description: A native element, antimony metal is extracted primarily from stibnite, which contains 72 percent antimony and 28 percent sulfur. Stibnite is mined in only a few countries, with China being its largest producer. Antimony is used for many technological and industrial purposes. Antimony is used as a hardening alloy for lead, especially storage batteries and cable sheaths, also used in bearing metal, type metal, solder, collapsible tubes and foil, sheet and pipes, and semiconductor technology
Antimony is alloyed with lead to increase lead's durability. Antimony alloys are also used in batteries, low friction metals, type metal and cable sheathing, among other products. Antimony compounds are used to make flame-proofing materials, paints, ceramic enamels, glass and pottery. Antimony is pronounced as AN-the-MOH-nee. History and Uses: Antimony has been known since ancient times. It is sometimes found free in nature, but is usually obtained from the ores stibnite (Sb 2 S 3) and valentinite (Sb 2 O 3).