The Kings of Saudi Arabia. The modern Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which was founded in 1932 by Abdulaziz bin Abd al-Rahman Al Saud (Ibn Saud), is a hereditary monarchy. Since 1986, the king of Saudi Arabia holds the title Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques.. 
[ʢaebˈdɑɫ.ʢæbˈdɑɫ ɫɐ ben ˈʢaebdael ˈʢæbdæl ʢaeˈziːz] ; ʢæˈziːz ʔaeːl ʔæːl – saeˈʢuːd Sæˈʢuːd 1) august 1924 23 january 2015 Was the King of saudi Arabia And Custodian of the two holy mosques from 2005. To his death in 2015 he ascended To the throne on 1 august 2005 upon-the, Death Of. his half brother king fahd Abdullah, like Fahd, was one of the many sons of Ibn Saud, the founder of modern Saudi Arabia. Abdullah held important political posts throughout most of his adult life. In 1961 he became mayor of Mecca, his first public office.
King Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud acceded to the Saudi throne on the death of his half-brother, King Abdullah. He was governor of Riyadh province for 48 years before becoming defence minister in 2011 and crown prince a year later. 
Abdullah, Salman and Muqrin are all sons of the founder of modern Saudi Arabia, King Abdulaziz, usually referred to as Ibn Saud, who died in 1953. King Salman called on the royal family's Allegiance Council to recognise Muqrin as his heir. 
Another of the late king's half-brothers, Muqrin, who is in his late 60s, has been named the new crown prince, according to an official statement. Abdullah, Salman and Muqrin are all sons of the founder of modern Saudi Arabia, King Abdulaziz, usually referred to as Ibn Saud, who died in 1953. King Salman called on the royal family's Allegiance Council to recognise Muqrin as his heir
Saudi Arabia’s Royal Family. For more than eight decades since the founding of the modern kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932, the title of king has passed along a line of brothers born to the first king, Abdulaziz ibn Saud. By Ellen Knickmeyer, Renee Lightner, Ahmed Al Omran and Ana Rivas. 
He was appointed as Minister of Defense in 2011. He was also named the Crown Prince in 2012 following the death of his brother Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. Salman was crowned as the new King of Saudi Arabia on 23 January 2015 following the death of his half brother, King Abdullah. 
A royal decree affirmed Crown Prince Muqrin as his immediate successor. After Muqrin, Salman named Interior Minister Prince Mohammed bin Nayef as deputy crown prince, making him second-in-line to the throne. Mohammed is the first grandson of Saudi Arabia's founder, King Abdul-Aziz Al Saud, to be named as a future heir. 
By Angus McDowall. RIYADH, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The death on Friday of Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah means Salman bin Abdulaziz has become the country's new ruler and the last to be born before the discovery of oil in the world's top crude exporter. 
The King of Saudi Arabia is Saudi Arabia 's head of state and absolute monarch (i.e. head of government). He serves as the head of the Saudi monarchy — House of Saud. The King is called the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques (خادم الحرمين الشريفين). The title, which signifies Saudi Arabia's jurisdiction over the mosques of Masjid al Haram in Mecca and Masjid al-Nabawi in Medina, replaced His Majesty (صاحب الجلالة) in 1986. The King of Saudi Arabia is also considered the Head of the House of Saud and Prime Minister. The Crown Prince is also the  Deputy Prime Minister .. The kings after Faisal have named a second Deputy Prime Minister as the subsequent heir after the Crown Prince.