Just a small amount of moisture can make particle board floors -- the low-cost and low-quality subfloor material -- buckle and rot. Plywood is a little tougher, but once moisture is trapped under carpet or flooring, it stays wet, leading to mold and rot. It's not difficult to replace the floor, however, just messy.
1 Costs can run $10,000-$30,000 or more for a typical home, depending on its size, the extent of the extent of the damage and the ease of access to install jacks and replace the timbers. 2  If the damage is limited to just one section of floor joists, the project could run $5,000-$10,000.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: if you have a wood floor,you can't replace it with concrete. an area that small would be very little to replace.take the bad flooring out. nail or screw new joists to the existing joist ends,overlap the old joist ends with the new board and screw or nail them together. cut a sheet of 3/4 or 5/8 inch plywood for the sub floor,then replace the flooring that was there to match the existing.
1 Total costs will depend on the extent of the damage and the ease of access to the joists (through a basement or crawlspace), but in general sistering averages $100-$300 or more per joist, and could run $1,000-$3,000 or more to repair a tilted, wavy or bouncy floor under an average room.
The average cost to repair a hardwood floor is $200 to $650 per repair, depending on the problem and type of hardwood floor. The most common hardwood flooring repairs include masking small blemishes and refinishing and resealing surfaces.
To clarify the following prices it is recommended that you read the article in the INFORMATION box below the PRICES…. (These prices are based on a tradesman’s rate of £150.00 per day and a labourer if required at £100.00 per day.
The cost to have vinyl flooring repaired is anywhere between $100 and $300 per job, though you might pay more if the damage is extensive. Vinyl flooring is durable and economic -- and there are various styles from which to choose.
A pound of screws costs about $5, and there are about 150 screws in a pound, so the square-foot cost for screws is about $0.30. Adding these to the price of the sealer or stain you plan to use should give you an idea of the cost of the board replacement.