A creatinine level of 1.58 may be normal after removal of one kidney, especially if you are over 50 years of age. Removing one kidney always results in a decrease in total kidney function and an elevation in the creatinine test.. Notice the always.. 
Creatinine levels tend to be higher in men and people with large muscles. Measuring creatinine is only the first step to finding your level of kidney function. The normal serum creatinine range for men is 0.5-1.5 mg/dL. Creatinine is a waste product that is made when your body breaks down protein you eat and when muscles are injured. A high serum (blood) creatinine level means kidney damage. Creatinine levels may vary somewhat, even when the kidneys work normally.
When there is kidney damage or kidney disease, and the kidneys are not able to filter waste efficiently, there will likely be a rise in creatinine levels in the blood. For adults with kidney disease, dialysis is recommended when creatinine levels reach 10.0 mg/dL. Creatinine is a chemical waste product in the blood that passes through the kidneys to be filtered and eliminated in urine. The chemical waste is a by-product of normal muscle contractions. Creatinine is made from creatine, a supplier of energy to the muscle.
For people with one kidney, nearly all blood needs to flow through kidney and gets purified. The filtering rate of one kidney is much slower than the rate of two kidneys, so these people’s creatinine is usually a little higher than the normal level (0.5~1.2mg/dl for female, 0.6~1.3mg/dl for male). If your creatinine level is slightly higher than the above values. I only have one kidney. The other was removed by surgery two years ago, but my latest report shows that my creatinine level is higher than the normal. I feel frightened because I know high creatinine level means my remaining kidney is also damaged.
In this article. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. 
Creatinine is an indicator of how well your kidneys are functioning. It is the byproduct of muscle and is filtered by kidneys normally. Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 mg/dL in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 mg/dL in adult females. A person with only one kidney may have a normal level of about 1.8 or 1.9 mg/dL. High creatinine 4.2mg/dL indicates that her kidney has been damaged very severe
1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Normal creatinine: One's serum creatinine level is dependent on one's age, body weight, race and sex. To get an exact idea of how kidney is functioning, you need to have a 24 hour urine for creatinine clearance done. See a neprhologist to have this done to see how well your one kidney is working. ...Read more
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. Creatinine levels that reach 2.0 or more in babies and 10.0 or more in adults may indicate severe kidney impairment and the need for a dialysis machine to remove wastes from the blood.
Many other people with one kidney also have the same experience, because one kidney has a much higher incidence of high creatinine level than two kidneys. Well then, our today topic is how to lower high creatinine level for people with one kidney. I only have one kidney. The other was removed by surgery two years ago, but my latest report shows that my creatinine level is higher than the normal. I feel frightened because I know high creatinine level means my remaining kidney is also damaged.
● 0.6-1.2 mg/dl for adult males. ● 0.5-1.1mg/dl for adult females. ● About 0.2 or more for infants. ● 1.8 or 1.9 mg/dl for a person with only one kidney. If the blood test shows one person has high creatinine level, it may indicate some underlying conditions. Stage 2 kidney disease: Creatinine level ranges between 1.5 and 2.0 mg/dl; Stage 3 kidney disease: Creatinine level ranges between 2.1 and 5.0 mg/dl; Stage 4 kidney disease: Creatinine level ranges between 5.1 and 7.9 mg/dl; Stage 5 kidney disease: Creatinine level is above 8.0mg/dl.