The proper computer desk height is an important facet of working at a computer. After all, if your desk is not at the right height, and your other accessories are also ill-adjusted, you may experience pain or discomfort in your wrists, arms, neck or back, caused by bad ergonomic practices. If the desk height is not adjustable, alter the height of your seat. Depending on your personal height and level of comfort, adjust the seat slightly higher or lower, but don't vary too much from the desk height/elbow ratio since you want to be ergonomically correct when sitting at a computer desk.
Our ergonomic assessment tool is a quick and easy solution for determining the ideal height for your sit-stand desk, ergonomic chair, keyboard tray and monitor arm. 
If you're equipping an office with multiple employees of varied heights, one possible solution is purchasing desks with adjustable work surfaces. The best adjustable surfaces can be moved as low as 22 inches or raised as high as 33 inches, providing a comfortable level for each specific employee. If you can't afford to purchase a new desk, you may still employ a number of techniques to adjust the existing desk's height.
The chair and desk must work together as a cohesive unit. Choosing a chair with adjustable back support and adjustable seat height offers the most customization and comfort. When seated, your leg-to-torso angle should be between 90 and 110 degrees and the edge of the seat should not contact the back of your knees. Other considerations that determine a computer desk's correct height are the equipment you use, the tasks you perform and your physical height. The best adjustable surfaces can be moved as low as 22 inches or raised as high as 33 inches, providing a comfortable level for each specific employee. If you can't afford to purchase a new desk, you may still employ a number of techniques to adjust the existing desk's height.
Height. In general, a standard computer desk measures 28-to-30 inches high, which works best for people between 5'8 and 5'10 tall. Taller or shorter individuals may have difficulty working under those conditions. The best adjustable surfaces can be moved as low as 22 inches or raised as high as 33 inches, providing a comfortable level for each specific employee. If you can't afford to purchase a new desk, you may still employ a number of techniques to adjust the existing desk's height.
Desk Height. The height of your computer desk should be about 20 to 28 inches from the ground, depending on the model and brand. In other words, when sitting down, the height of the desk should reach your elbows. If the desk height is not adjustable, alter the height of your seat. Depending on your personal height and level of comfort, adjust the seat slightly higher or lower, but don't vary too much from the desk height/elbow ratio since you want to be ergonomically correct when sitting at a computer desk.
Some may choose a slanting desk, therefore if the elbows are resting at 44 inches, the upper most part will be 48 inches while the center of the desk will be 46 inches. The general rule of thumb is that your elbows should naturally be resting on the desk at a 90 degree angle without having to strain or slouch. The height of your desk should generally be at elbow height. This means: as your elbows are positioned at a 90 degree angle from the floor, measure the distance from the floor to the bottom of your elbow. The desk should be built to this height. For instance, the average standing desk height for those 5’11” is 44 inches tall, but remember this is a general average and you should consider your body’s proportions before settling on a height. Of course you can always grab an adjustable standing desk if you decide to