Lyme disease facts. 1  Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 1 Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 2  Lyme disease is diagnosed based on the patient's clinical signs of illness and the detection of antibodies to the causative bacteria in the blood.
Symptoms: Early Stage. Within one to four weeks of being bitten by an infected tick, most people will experience some symptoms of Lyme disease. A circular, expanding rash (called erythema migrans) at the site of the bite develops in about 70%-80% of cases. Lyme disease is an infection that is transmitted through the bite of a tick infected with a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi.
Lyme disease is a tick bite disease affecting humans as well as dogs. The signs and symptoms of Lyme disease vary in humans and dogs. Rash is a principle symptom in humans while lameness is commonly found in dogs. Many people with Lyme disease experience neurological signs and symptoms. These signs and symptoms appear due to the involvement of the brain and other parts. In some people, the eyes become red and there can be a discharge of pus. Inflammation of the liver is another uncommon sign of Lyme disease.
1 Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 1 Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 2  Lyme disease is diagnosed based on the patient's clinical signs of illness and the detection of antibodies to the causative bacteria in the blood.
Early Signs and Symptoms (3 to 30 days after tick bite). 1  Fever, chills, headache, fatigue, muscle and joint aches, and swollen lymph nodes. 2  Erythema migrans (EM) rash: 3  Occurs in approximately 70 to 80 percent of infected persons. 4  Begins at the site of a tick bite after a delay of 3 to 30 days (average is about 7 days). Untreated Lyme disease can produce a wide range of symptoms, depending on the stage of infection. These include fever, rash, facial paralysis, and arthritis. Seek medical attention if you observe any of these symptoms and have had a tick bite, live in an area known for Lyme disease, or have recently traveled to an area where Lyme disease occurs
A small, red bump often appears at the site of a tick bite or tick removal and resolves over a few days. This is normal after a tick bite and does not indicate Lyme disease. However, these signs and symptoms may occur within a month after you've been infected: Rash. If untreated, new signs and symptoms of Lyme infection might appear in the following weeks to months. These include: 1  Erythema migrans appearing in other areas of your body. 2  Joint pain. 3  Bouts of severe joint pain and swelling are especially likely to affect your knees, but the pain can shift from one joint to another.
You may first notice symptoms weeks to months after the tick bite. If the disease isn't treated, it may progress from mild symptoms to serious, long-term disabilities. 1  In the first stage, you may have a rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite. 2  You may also have a lack of energy or a headache and stiff neck. 3  Sometimes people have no symptoms at this stage. 1 In the first stage, you may have a rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite. 2  You may also have a lack of energy or a headache and stiff neck. 3  Sometimes people have no symptoms at this stage. 4  In the second stage, symptoms may include memory problems and pain and weakness in the arms and legs.