You will not need a kit if you are using a stand. For free hanging hammocks, the kit you need will depend on what you are attaching the hammock to: Basic wood kit is for use with stud walls, beam porches, posts, or any other wood connection point. Basic concrete kit is for use with concrete walls or overhangs. Brazilian hammocks need generally 11 or 12 feet, the Mayans 11 -12 feet. The Nicaraguan hammocks need 13, 14, or 15 feet depending on size. Most of the Bar hammocks will fit in a 15 foot stand, except for the Large Playa which requires a 16 foot stand.
The size designations in the Nicaraguan hammock, are the Family, or XL, the Couples, or Large, the Single, or medium, and the Dorm/Travelers, or small. Phrases like roomy for one and cozy for two abound in the lexicon of Nicaraguan hammocks. Let me tell you that if you are a big guy you want the Family hammock. Below, I am charting the Mayan Hammocks by name, size and width. We measure width as we lie across the hammock from within the hammock. This is the only useful way to measure. Some folks have two guys stretch an unhung hammock as far as they can across the middle, and then tell you their Super Jumbo is 14 feet wide.
I have a hammock and need to know what size hammock stand to buy. my hammock is about 13 feet 6 inches from tip to tip including the chain link that attatches it to the stand. Thanks!
If a less expensive stand is desired, the basic hammock stand that holds 450 lbs is perfect, such as this taupe hammock stand. Unfortunately, this stand is not compatible with the side table. If you have more decorative tastes, the Steel Arc stand is a wonderful addition to your hammock. It is 15 ft long and will accommodate any of our 13 ft hammocks. The Steel Arc stand has a weight capacity of 450 lbs, and it is available in green, bronze, black, and taupe. Our small stands accommodate hammocks between 10-12 feet, and are perfect for smaller spaces. If you are unsure which hammocks and stands accommodate each other and prefer to buy a hammock and stand together, then we suggest purchasing a combo package, such as this Hatteras Hammocks combo.
We have small hammocks that can fit into 9 or 10 feet. Brazilian hammocks need generally 11 or 12 feet, the Mayans 11 -12 feet. The Nicaraguan hammocks need 13, 14, or 15 feet depending on size. Most of the Bar hammocks will fit in a 15 foot stand, except for the Large Playa which requires a 16 foot stand. Or, if they are free hanging 12 -14 feet is enough
Most manufacturers produce large and extra large hammocks. The usual dimensions of the large item are 210 centimeters x 150 centimeters. On the other hand, the dimensions of the extra large merchandise are 230 centimeters x 165 centimeters. The total length of the items is from 11.8 feet and 13.1 feet. The suspension points’ distance should be between 8.2 feet and 8.9 feet.
It can be irritating to me, and, I am sure, confusing to customers, to see a medium size hammock described as XL, which implies that it is a very large hammock, not a medium size hammock. Misleading descriptors like this are used all over the internet to justify a higher price for a lesser product. Below, I am charting the Mayan Hammocks by name, size and width. We measure width as we lie across the hammock from within the hammock. This is the only useful way to measure. Some folks have two guys stretch an unhung hammock as far as they can across the middle, and then tell you their Super Jumbo is 14 feet wide.
Best Answer: Sounds like you need a 12' hammock stand. The links in the chain can be used to adjust the tension in the hammock. Sounds like you got it made ... hammock in the shade, a cold drink, and maybe a laptop with wifi. Good luck with your leisure activities. my hammock is about 13 feet 6 inches from tip to tip including the chain link that attatches it to the stand.
If you are purchasing a standard hammock that is 13 ft from ring to ring, excluding the chains, it is best to buy a 15ft stand. Please note that most standard stands are 15 ft in total length. Hammocks have increased in size in the last few years, and it is now more difficult to find a stand under 15 ft. Please also note that hammock hardware and hooks come with the hammock, not the hammock stand. Our small stands accommodate hammocks between 10-12 feet, and are perfect for smaller spaces. If you are unsure which hammocks and stands accommodate each other and prefer to buy a hammock and stand together, then we suggest purchasing a combo package, such as this Hatteras Hammocks combo.
Bar is a double. 50 on up are larger doubles. In bar hammocks the length of the hammock overall is a significant variable as it determines what size hammock stands can be used. Hammock stands are generally sized at super-short 10', medium 12' or 13', standard 15', and Large 16'. Below, I am charting the Mayan Hammocks by name, size and width. We measure width as we lie across the hammock from within the hammock. This is the only useful way to measure. Some folks have two guys stretch an unhung hammock as far as they can across the middle, and then tell you their Super Jumbo is 14 feet wide.