Medical Definition of HENBANE. : a poisonous fetid Old World herb of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger) that has sticky hairy dentate leaves and yellowish brown flowers, contains the alkaloids hyoscyamine and scopolamine, and is the source of hyoscyamus—called also black henbane, insane root.
Hyoscyamus niger (commonly known as henbane), also known as stinking nightshade or black henbane. It is a plant of the family Solanaceae that originated in Eurasia, though it is now globally distributed.
HENBANE Overview Information. Henbane is a plant. The leaf is used to make medicine. Don’t confuse henbane, sometimes called “fetid nightshade” or “stinking nightshade,” with bittersweet nightshade (Solanum dulcamara) or deadly nightshade (belladonna). Henbane leaf is used for spasms of the digestive tract. Some people apply henbane leaf oil directly to the skin for treating scar tissue.
Definition of HENBANE. : a poisonous fetid Eurasian herb (Hyoscyamus niger) of the nightshade family with yellowish-brown flowers and sticky hairy leaves that yield hyoscyamine and scopolamine. ADVERTISEMENT. 14th century.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Henbane is a poisonous plant that comes from the nightshade family of plants. Also known as black henbane and stinking nightshade, it is also classified as an herb, though its toxic nature tends to severely limit its cooking potential.
Originally published at Lughnasa 1998. Henbane, whose botanical name is Hyoscyamus niger, is a member of the Solanaceae order of plants which includes such innocuous members as the humble potato and tomato but also highly poisonous and notorious ones such as belladonna, mandrake and the daturas.
Henbane, (botanical name, Hyoscyamus niger) belonging to the Solanaceae family, usually grows up to a height of two feet and bears big, light green leaves that have an oval shape with acutely toothed periphery.
Henbane is a plant. The leaf is used to make medicine. Don’t confuse henbane, sometimes called “fetid nightshade” or “stinking nightshade,” with bittersweet nightshade (Solanum dulcamara) or deadly nightshade (belladonna). Henbane leaf is used for spasms of the digestive tract. Some people apply henbane leaf oil directly to the skin for treating scar tissue.