Search. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold: Like a normal adjective, an adjective phrase can be used before the noun it is modifying (like in the first two examples above) or after the noun it is modifying (like in the last example). Here are some more examples of adjective phrases (with the head adjectives in bold):
-. A word group that has an adjective as its head is called an adjective phrase. Note that the adjective in this phrase may be accompanied by other words such as determiners, modifiers etc. Adjective phrases can go before a noun (attributive position). They can also go after a linking verb like be (predicative position).
The dependents of the head adjective-i.e. the other words and phrases inside the adjective phrase-are typically adverbs or prepositional phrases, but they can also be clauses (e.g. louder than you do). Adjectives and adjective phrases function in two basic ways in clauses, either attributively or predicatively. (Redirected from Adjectival phrase). An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase whose head word is an adjective, e.g. fond of steak, very happy, quite upset about it, etc.
An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence. 
To determine if a prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase : 1) Find the object of the preposition (the noun or pronoun that follows the preposition). 2) Ask yourself which other word in the sentence is related to this noun or pronoun by the preposition. If the other word is a noun or pronoun, then the prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase. Examples of The Adjective Phrase: telling us the relationship between the class and the announcement. Announcement is a noun, so this is an. .