Cook the chops for 7 to 8 minutes, turning once. Place the lamb chops in the skillet and flip them over after 3 1/2 to 4 minutes using tongs. Continue cooking for an additional 3 1/2 to 4 minutes, or until done. 1 You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet.
If you want your lamb chops rare in the center, you can cook them entirely on the stovetop. If you want them a bit more cooked, and you have double rib chops (2 ribs per piece of meat, each piece of meat about 1/4 of a pound), you will want to finish them in the oven, at 400°F for a few minutes. 
Add about a tablespoon of olive oil to the pan, and add the lamb chops. Depending upon how thick your lamb chops are, each side should cook 3 to 5 minutes on each side. When the lamb is cooked on one side, flip over, and squeeze the remaining lemon half over the lamb, and season with kosher salt. 
Warm a large, nonstick skillet over medium-high to high heat. 1  You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet. 1
Directions. Preheat a hot grill and the oven to 400 degrees F. Rub the chops with oil, garlic, rosemary, lemon, salt, and pepper. Place on the grill and cook for 4 minutes on each side. Put on a baking sheet and finish in the oven, about 5 minutes, or until desired doneness. Recipe courtesy of Cat Cora. 
1 You can cook the onions further by quickly transferring them to a small skillet preheated over medium-high heat. 2  Melt 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of butter in the skillet and saute sauté the onions for 2 to 4 additional, minutes or until.  caramelized 1 You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet.
I like to cook lamb chops quickly, in a frying pan, on high heat. Only seven minutes later, dinner’s ready! There are many different cuts of lamb available. These rib chops are have their own little “handle”, which makes them perfect for picking up and eating with your fingers. Start by sprinkling some salt and pepper on both sides of each lamb chop. Preheat your non-stick pan on high heat. To tell if the pan is hot enough, add about 1 Tablespoon of water to the pan. The water should sizzle and evaporate immediately.
· just now. Report Abuse. Put the pan on the stove top & get it hot Add about 1 tbspn of oil Season chops with your favorite seasonings Place them on hot pan/oil Turn them over after 3 minutes Leave them alone for another 3 minutes. 
1 Preheat oven to 400°F. Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in heavy large ovenproof skillet over high heat. 2  Add lamb; cook until browned, about 3 minutes per side. 3  Transfer skillet to oven and roast lamb chops to desired doneness, about 10 minutes for medium-rare. 1 Mix first 4 ingredients and 1 tablespoon olive oil in large bowl. 2  Add lamb; turn to coat. 3  Let marinate at room temperature at least 30 minutes and up to 1 hour. 4 
1 You can cook the onions further by quickly transferring them to a small skillet preheated over medium-high heat. 2  Melt 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of butter in the skillet and saute sauté the onions for 2 to 4 additional, minutes or until. 3  Caramelized serve over the.  chops 1 You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick. 2  Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. 3  To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet.