Costs for a tummy tuck vary according to where you live and the plastic surgeon you choose. According to the ASPS, the average plastic surgeon’s fee for tummy tuck surgery was $5,264 in 2007. The total cost of the procedure may run from $4,000 to $9,000 or more. These costs include the fees for the anesthesia provider, the surgical facility, and the surgeon
According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, 2013 statistics suggested that the average cost of tummy tuck is $5,217. This cost excludes anesthesia fees, surgical facility costs, and other fees. Surgery costs for tummy tuck depends on a lot of factors, including the surgeon’s experience, the location of surgery, the kind of procedure implemented, and so on. Surgery costs may include anesthesia fees, operating facility costs, medical tests, post-surgery clothes, medicinal costs, and the surgeon’s fees
Find Your Surgeon. Find Your Surgeon. The average cost of a tummy tuck is $5,493, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Tummy tuck surgery cost can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon’s fee will be based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, and the geographic office location.
If you are considering a tummy tuck (abdominoplasty), the cost of the procedure will likely play a role in your final decision. In general, tummy tuck cost includes three major fees: the surgeon's fee, the anesthesia fee and the facility fee. The average surgeon's fee is slightly more than $5,000, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. This is the average, which means individual surgeons may charge much more or less. Additional fees, often not included in your initial quote, may include preoperative tests (which can cost up to $500) as well as the cost of postoperative medications and compression garments (which can be as high as $350). Based on these estimated costs, the total cost of a tummy tuck ranges from $7,475 to $17,650.
A tummy tuck, or abdominoplasty, can cost between $3,000 and $12,000, depending on the surgeon you choose, the geographic location of the surgeon's practice, the scope of treatment, and several other factors. Throughout our lives, perhaps no other area of the body is subject to as many changes as the abdomen. In general, you can expect that the cost of a tummy tuck will be most affected by the surgeon you choose, the scope of treatment, and the reason for treatment. In some cases, a physician may determine that a tummy tuck can provide medical benefits.
Additional costs: 1  In a tummy tuck operation, which usually takes two to five hours, the surgeon makes a vertical and a horizontal incision to create a skin flap, which is lifted to reveal the girdle of muscles that holds in the internal organs. 1 Sometimes, a tummy tuck requires an overnight hospital stay, which can make the procedure considerably more expensive. 2  Patients in the northeastern United States can expect to pay higher surgeon's fees, averaging $4,995, while patients in the south central states pay much less, averaging $3,681.
Related articles: Forehead Lift, Facelift, Breast Lift. 1  A tummy tuck, also called abdominoplasty, varies widely in cost from $3,000 to $8,500. 2  Patients in the northeastern United States can expect to pay higher surgeon's fees, averaging $4,995, while patients in the south central states pay much less, averaging $3,681. 1 Sometimes, a tummy tuck requires an overnight hospital stay, which can make the procedure considerably more expensive
Tummy tuck prices vary somewhat based on supply and demand in a particular location but range from $3000 to $10,000 and average about $4500. The higher the demand for tummy tucks, the more skilled the physician becomes at performing the surgery. Mini tummy tucks are generally cheaper than complete tummy tucks ranging between $1800 and $6500. Because the procedure involved in a complete tummy tuck is more extensive the cost of a tummy tuck is usually greater than the cost of a mini tummy tuck.
For example, anesthesia can cost anywhere from $425 to $1,800, and the fee for the surgical facility can cost $1,200 if your tummy tuck is performed in your doctor's office or up to $10,000 if it takes place in a hospital and an overnight stay is warranted. Additional fees, often not included in your initial quote, may include preoperative tests (which can cost up to $500) as well as the cost of postoperative medications and compression garments (which can be as high as $350). Based on these estimated costs, the total cost of a tummy tuck ranges from $7,475 to $17,650.