The metabolic effects of cetirizine are long acting, remaining in the system for a maximum of 21 hours before being excreted; the average elimination half-life is 8 hours. About 70% of the drug is removed through urination, of which half is observed as unchanged cetirizine compound. Another 10% is excreted. Cetirizine is an effective agent in treating the symptoms of Kimura's disease, which mostly occurs in young Asian men, affecting the lymph nodes and soft tissue of the head and neck in the form of tumor-like lesions.
It is metabolized in the liver to inactive metabolites via CYP3A4. The half-life of amlodipine is about 30–50 hours, and steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved after 7 to 8 days of daily dosing. Amlodipine has been studied in healthy volunteers following oral administration of 14 C-labelled drug. amlodipine is well absorbed by the oral route with a mean oral bioavailability around 60%.
Cetirizine /sɛˈtɪrɨziːn/ (trade names Zirtec, Zyrtec, Reactine) is a second-generation antihistamine used in the treatment of hay fever, allergies, angioedema, and urticaria. It is a major metabolite of hydroxyzine, and a racemic selective H1 receptor antagonist. Cetirizine is an effective agent in treating the symptoms of Kimura's disease, which mostly occurs in young Asian men, affecting the lymph nodes and soft tissue of the head and neck in the form of tumor-like lesions.
Formerly prescription-only in the US and Canada, cetirizine is now available over-the-counter (OTC) in both countries as Zyrtec and Reactine, respectively. Zyrtec was the highest-grossing new non-food product of 2008 in the US, generating sales of $315.9 million. It is also available as a generic drug. Cetirizine is an effective agent in treating the symptoms of Kimura's disease, which mostly occurs in young Asian men, affecting the lymph nodes and soft tissue of the head and neck in the form of tumor-like lesions.
Amlodipine (as besylate, mesylate or maleate) is a medication used to lower blood pressure and prevent chest pain. It belongs to a group of medications known as dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers. By widening of blood vessels it lowers blood pressure. In angina, amlodipine increases blood flow to the heart muscle to relieve pain due to angina. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Amlodipine has been studied in healthy volunteers following oral administration of 14 C-labelled drug. amlodipine is well absorbed by the oral route with a mean oral bioavailability around 60%.