German is mainly spoken in Germany. German is spoken in Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, parts of Italy (South Tirol), the Vatican City, France (Alsace, Lorrain … e), Denmark, Poland, Belgium, Namibia, Slowakia, Romania and the Czech Republic.
They are spoken in parts of the Alsace, southern Germany, Liechtenstein, Austria, and the German-speaking parts of Switzerland and Italy. Wymysorys is a High German dialect of Poland native to Wilamowice, and Sathmarisch and Siebenbuergisch siebenbürgisch Are High german dialects Of. romania For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken.
German is the most widely spoken (and official) language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Italian province of South Tyrol (Alto Adige) and Liechtenstein; it is also an official (but not majority) language of Belgium and Luxembourg. For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken.
1 German is the official language of Germany (with Danish, Frisian, and Sorbian as minority languages) where it is spoken by 70 million people as a first language and by another 8 million people as a second language (Ethnologue). 2  Standard German is the only official language in Liechtenstein and Austria. German (Deutsch) belongs to the Western group of the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. It is one of the world’s major languages spoken by an estimated 95 million native and 28 million second-language speakers in some 40 countries around the world (Ethnologue).
1 German is used as a regional language in Italy, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Denmark, France, and Namibia. 2  German is one of the 24 official languages of the European Union. 3  It is the language with the largest number of native speakers in the European Union, and the second most spoken language in Europe after English. German (Deutsch) belongs to the Western group of the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. It is one of the world’s major languages spoken by an estimated 95 million native and 28 million second-language speakers in some 40 countries around the world (Ethnologue).
The German dialects spoken in Vorarlberg (Austria), Baden-Wuerttemberg (Württemberg) germany And (Alsace) france Are, alemannic as Is Swiss. German in The Italian South, tyrol like in most Of, Austria, Switzerland liechtenstein and Southern, germany most people speak a local. dialect In the north of Germany, some people speak a related language called Plattdueuetsch plattdüütsch Or Low (German plattdeutsch In). German it is very closely related To dutch and Mainland scandinavian. Languages nearly All platt speakers also Speak. German The german spoken In switzerland is referred to As. schwiizertueuetsch schwiizertüütsch
German as a Minority Language. Chart: Countries Where German is Spoken. 1 The 126-million estimate is for all German-speakers, including those who speak it as a second language. The estimate for just native speakers of German is between 99 and 110 million. In a ranking of world languages (spoken by native speakers), German is in tenth place. Chinese (Mandarin) is number one, Hindi ranks second, Spanish third, English fourth.
One of the major languages of the world, German is the first language of about 95 million people worldwide and the most widely spoken native language in the European Union. For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken.
Confidence votes 4.7K. German is the official language in Germany, Austria, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein, and is one of the official languages in Switerland. It is also widely spoken in countries near Germany (especially Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary). German is also an official language in South Tyrol which is now part of Italy. Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Liechtenstein, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Namibia. German is spoken in Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, parts of Italy (South Tirol), the Vatican City, France (Alsace, Lorrain … e), Denmark, Poland, Belgium, Namibia, Slowakia, Romania and the Czech Republic.