1 Summary: Splatoon is a four-on-four multiplayer action game that drops players into a battle arena that two teams strive to claim as their own. 2  Players of each team spray ink on the ground around them while blotting out the opposing team members in turf war competitions. 
Splatoon, Nintendo's first-ever third-person shooter, is a beautiful mess. Eschewing the grimness and hyperviolence of many modern gun games, this new Wii U exclusive has two teams spray an arena with as much colorful ink as possible, in a battle for who can cover more ground. As you play Splatoon online, you'll level up and earn cash, allowing you to unlock and buy new weapons, as well as gear that gives you a distinct look in battle. Once your character reaches level 10, you can play more intense ranked battles that track your wins and losses.
About Splatoon. Splatoon is a third person shooter released on May 29, 2015, by Nintendo. The game consists of multiple online multiplayer modes and a single-player campaign, where the player uses an arsenal of weapons to splatter ink around an arena. 
Splatoon received positive reviews upon its unveiling and release, with critics praising Nintendo's decision to enter the genre with a new intellectual property (IP), the game's overall style and presentation, gameplay mechanics, and its soundtrack. The game also supports Splatoon series amiibo, with each amiibo type unlocking a set of missions which unlock extra equipment (weapons and clothing) and a bonus minigame upon completion, which can be played on the Wii U GamePad while waiting in lobbies.
Splatoon is the antithesis to the modern shooter, but it primarily deserves recognition for what it is, not what it isn't. It's a wonderful game with charm and inventive ideas that work and pave the way for new experiences in an otherwise stale category of games. Splatoon's locale is the hip and colorful city of Inkopolis, which is run by hybrid beings known as Inklings. These guys and gals can take the form of either a squid or a human on command, and to them, ink is everything.
Based on our time with the game, Splatoon is a refreshing take on the shooter genre that mixes new ideas with Nintendo's signature charm. Online matches can be every bit as intense as those of Halo or Call of Duty, even without bullets and blood. As you play Splatoon online, you'll level up and earn cash, allowing you to unlock and buy new weapons, as well as gear that gives you a distinct look in battle. Once your character reaches level 10, you can play more intense ranked battles that track your wins and losses.
For the game in a British gameshow, see SMTV Live. Splatoon is a third-person shooter video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Wii U, released worldwide in May 2015. The game also supports Splatoon series amiibo, with each amiibo type unlocking a set of missions which unlock extra equipment (weapons and clothing) and a bonus minigame upon completion, which can be played on the Wii U GamePad while waiting in lobbies.
Splatoon (Japanese スプラトゥーン Supuratūn) is a 2015 third-person shooter developed and published by Nintendo. The game focuses on paintball-like Turf Wars between Inklings, who try to cover the most ground using weaponized ink. Gameplay. Splatoon is a third-person shooter with online multiplayer as its primary focus. In the main mode, Turf Wars, which eight players are divided into two teams of four and tasked with covering the arena in as much ink of their team's color as possible in a set amount of time.
An early design of Splatoon featuring blocks of tofu. Splatoon was first created by the EAD in late 2013. The team had thought of over seventy game ideas, but decided to focus on a game involving inking turf. At first, this concept featured black and white blocks of tofu with noses that sprayed ink. Gameplay. Splatoon is a third-person shooter with online multiplayer as its primary focus. In the main mode, Turf Wars, which eight players are divided into two teams of four and tasked with covering the arena in as much ink of their team's color as possible in a set amount of time.