Refers to the ability of some cells to be electrically excited resulting in the generation of action potentials. Neurons, muscle cells (skeletal, cardiac, and smooth), and some endocrine cells (e.g., insulin-releasing pancreatic β cells) are excitable cells. 
1. Acetylcholine (ACh) is realeased by the motorneuron and passed to the sarcolemma. 2. ACh spreads over the entire sarcolemma 3. Na+ ions are spread through the cell via T-tubes as a result of the ACh 4. T-tubes spread the action potential through the cell 5. 1. Contractile organs directly or indirectly attached to bones of the skeleton 2. Striations formed by myofibril arrangements 3. Have the ability to regenerate. 1. Contractile organs directly or indirectly attached to bones of the skeleton. 2.
Action potentials occur in several types of animal cells, called excitable cells, which include neurons, muscle cells, and endocrine cells, as well as in some plant cells. In neurons, they play a central role in cell-to-cell communication. Action potentials result from the depolarization of the cell membrane (the sarcolemma), which opens voltage-sensitive sodium channels; these become inactivated and the membrane is repolarized through the outward current of potassium ions.
Several types of cells support an action potential, such as plant cells, muscle cells, and the specialized cells of the heart (in which occurs the cardiac action potential). However, the main excitable cell is the neuron, which also has the simplest mechanism for the action potential. Action potentials result from the depolarization of the cell membrane (the sarcolemma), which opens voltage-sensitive sodium channels; these become inactivated and the membrane is repolarized through the outward current of potassium ions.
The vagina is a sex organ that is part of the female genital tract. It is a muscular and tubular in structure. In humans, the vagina extends from the vulva to the uterus. The outer vaginal opening may be partly covered by a membrane called the hymen. 
A microfold cell, which is a cell in the gastrointestinal epithelium covering patches of lymphoid tissue. M cells transport antigens from the intestinal lumen to the underlying lymphoid tissues for recognition and processing. fat cell a connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat; such cells are bloated with globules of triglycerides, the nucleus being displaced to one side and the cytoplasm seen as a thin line around the fat droplet.
1. a type of cell found in the periphery of the islets of Langerhans that secretes glucagon. 2. acidophil (2). alveolar cell pneumonocyte; any cell of the walls of the pulmonary alveoli; often restricted to the cells of the alveolar epithelium (squamous alveolar cells and great alveolar cells) and alveolar phagocytes. fat cell a connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat; such cells are bloated with globules of triglycerides, the nucleus being displaced to one side and the cytoplasm seen as a thin line around the fat droplet.
As an action potential travels down the axon, there is a change in polarity across the membrane. The Na + and K + gated ion channels open and close as the membrane reaches the threshold potential, in response to a signal from another neuron. Action potentials result from the depolarization of the cell membrane (the sarcolemma), which opens voltage-sensitive sodium channels; these become inactivated and the membrane is repolarized through the outward current of potassium ions.
Multipolar neurons, e.g. neurons in cerebrum and cerebellum. Golgi type I neurons, with a long axon Golgi type II neurons (microneurons), with a short or no axon. The nervous tissue is composed of two distinct types of cells: the excitable and the non excitable. The excitable cells of the nervous system are known as neurons. They form the structural and functional unit of the nervous system and are responsible for all its activities.