Attention North American Customers. Effective July 21, 2015, your correction service will be subject to a frequency change due to a new satellite broadcast that provides a different coverage area. For more information, visit www.trimble.com/sat. 
Sorry! We were unable to determine the right version for you. Please ensure you have answered all questions in the version selection wizard and try again! OmniStar Essentials is the right version for you. Look at the table below for pricing and a list of features available in this version. OmniStar Premium is the right version for you. Look at the table below for pricing and a list of features available in this version. 
Re: Subscripti on price of omnistar. ‎05-13-2011 02:41 PM. My dealer is telling me they want a one time fee of $2000 to unlock my EZ Guide 500 for Omni Star. Then there is a subscription fee of $480 for 3 months service or $800 for a full year for Omni Star XP. Omni Star HP is listed as 2 to 4 inch accuracy as compared to the Omni Star XP at 3 to 5 inch. For HP my dealer wants the same one time fee of $2000 and $850 for a 3 months subscription or $1500 for a year. My dealer says most of his customers don't see enough of an accuracy advantage for the higher priced HP and go with the XP.
Convenient Accuracy Worldwide. With convenient delivery, global coverage, reliable systems and 24-hour support, OmniSTAR makes it easy for you to get the accuracy you need any time day or night. OmniSTAR is easy to use. With convenient delivery, global coverage, reliable systems and 24-hour support, OmniSTAR makes it easy for you to get the accuracy you need any time day or night.
Any Store (For online and phone orders). The OmniSTAR HP Signal provides a robust and reliable decimetre level GPS service. OmniSTAR HP accuracies have been demonstrated as better than 10cm. The subscription is for one year hire of the OmnitSTAR HP (10cm) signal. 
OmniSTAR offers worldwide over-the-air correction services via a subscription. The SXBlue III-L GNSS is capable of achieving 10cm accuracy using the OmniSTAR’s G2 and HP services, 15cm with OmniSTAR’s XP service and submeter with the OmniSTAR’s VBS service. The VBS service can be used in areas where free SBAS signal is not available.
After purchasing the OmniStar correction service in March 2011, Trimble introduces a high-accuracy GPS service option. Trimble calls the new service CenterPoint RTX. 
Services. With convenient delivery, global coverage, reliable systems and 24-hour support, OmniSTAR makes it easy for you to get the accuracy you need any time day or night. OmniSTAR is easy to use. With convenient delivery, global coverage, reliable systems and 24-hour support, OmniSTAR makes it easy for you to get the accuracy you need any time day or night.
OmniSTAR HP service is the most accurate solution available in the OmniSTAR portfolio of correction solutions. It is a L1/L2 solution requiring a duel frequency receiver. OmniSTAR HP corrections are modeled on a worldwide network of reference sites using carrier phase measurement to maximize accuracy. 