Older women have slightly faster pulse rates than men of the same age group. A 72-year-old woman in good physical condition typically has a pulse between 65 and 68 beats a minute, while a same-age man in the same fitness category will run between 62 and 65 beats, according to Topend Sports.
Resting Pulse Rate. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically. In this situation, the normal resting heart rate can be as low as 40 to 60 beats per minute, maintains MayoClinic.com.
Women can calculate normal pulse rate as explained above. The pulse rate can be counted by pressing your fingers on the inner side of the wrist. Normal heart rate for women and men (or for a healthy adult) can be anywhere between 60-100 bpm.
Fitness level, on the other hand, has a major influence on the normal resting pulse rate for older women. A 70-year-old woman in poor physical condition might have a heart rate of 84 or more beats a minute, while her same-age friend in good condition will run between 65 and 68 beats.
For women, a normal resting heart rate isn't different than in a man. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically. In this situation, the normal resting heart rate can be as low as 40 to 60 beats per minute, maintains MayoClinic.com.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 4