Necrotizing fasciitis is most commonly caused by an infection with group A Streptococcus, commonly known as “flesh-eating bacteria.” This is the fastest moving form of the infection. When this infection is caused by other types of bacteria, it typically does not progress as quickly and is not quite as dangerous. Several types of bacteria cause necrotizing fasciitis. The most common and well-known type is group A Streptococcus. However, this is not the only type of bacteria that can cause this infection. Other causes include: 1  aeromonas hydrophila. 2  clostridium. 3  E. coli. 4  klebsiella
Necrotizing fasciitis can affect a person’s skin, fat and the surrounding tissues of a muscle. It is a rare condition but can be very progressive once an infection settles in. There are various bacteria that can cause the necrosis or death of the tissue. Necrotizing fasciitis, which is popular among layman’s term as a flesh-eating disease, is an infection caused by several bacteria affecting the fascia. The fascia is the fibrous connective membrane of the body, which may be separated from other specifically organized structures
Causes of Necrotizing Fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis is commonly caused by group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria. That's the same type of bacteria that causes strep throat. However, several types of bacteria, such as staphylococcus and others, have also been associated with the disease. Necrotizing fasciitis occurs when such bacteria infect the superficial fascia, a layer of connective tissue below the skin. The symptoms of necrotizing fasciitis usually occur within the first 24 hours of infection. They often include a combination of the following: 1  Increasing pain in the general area of a minor cut, abrasion, or other skin opening.
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis (e.g., Group A streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes) , Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Vibrio vulnificus, Aeromonas hydrophila). Necrotizing fasciitis progresses rapidly, having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions such as diabetes or cancer.
To get necrotizing fasciitis, you need to have the bacteria in your body. This typically occurs when your skin is broken. For example, the bacteria can enter your body through a cut, scrape, or surgical wound. Several types of bacteria cause necrotizing fasciitis. The most common and well-known type is group A Streptococcus. However, this is not the only type of bacteria that can cause this infection. Other causes include: 1  aeromonas hydrophila. 2  clostridium. 3  E. coli. 4  klebsiella
Necrotizing Fasciitis Causes. Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by bacteria in the vast majority of cases, though fungi can also rarely lead to this condition as well. Many cases of necrotizing fasciitis are caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (Streptococcus pyogenes), either individually or along with other bacterial pathogens. Group A streptococcus is the same bacteria responsible for  strep throat , impetigo (skin infection), and rheumatic fever. In many cases of necrotizing fasciitis, there is a history of prior trauma, such as a cut, scrape, insect bite, burn, or needle puncture wound. These lesions may initially appear trivial or minor. Surgical incision sites and various surgical procedures may also serve as a source of infection.
Primary Cause of Necrotizing fasciitis. The primary cause of Necrotizing fasciitis is the result: 1  of transmission from another person under rare circumstances, such as immunocompromised people or during surgery with contaminated surgical tools, or according to rare circumstances as noted from reputable sources. To research the causes of Necrotizing fasciitis, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Necrotizing fasciitis: 1  Fournier gangrene. 2  Meleney's ulcer. 3  Meleney ulcer. 4  Postoperative progressive bacterial synergistic gangrene. 5  Flesh-eating bacteria. 6  Cullen's ulcer.
Necrotizing fasciitis: A severe, progressive skin infection which causes progressive destruction of skin and underlying tissue. It is caused by certain bacteria and has a high mortality rate. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Necrotizing fasciitis is available below. 