The RF part of the electromagnetic spectrum is generally defined as that part of the spectrum where electromagnetic waves have frequencies in the range of about 3 kilohertz (3 kHz) to 300 gigahertz (300 GHz). Probably the most important use for RF energy is in providing telecommunications services. For example, the unit volts per meter (V/m) is used to measure the strength of the electric field and the unit amperes per meter (A/m) is used to express the strength of the magnetic field. RF waves can be characterized by a wavelength and a frequency.
The ultimate goal of a RF site survey is to supply enough information to determine the number and placement of access points that provides adequate coverage throughout the facility. In most implementations, adequate coverage means support of a minimum data rate. A RF site survey also detects the presence of interference coming from other sources that could degrade the performance of the wireless LAN.
One of the most common rules is that a patent that applies to the standard must be adopted on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms (RAND) or on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms (FRAND). The two terms are generally interchangeable; FRAND seems to be preferred in Europe and RAND in the U.S. Non-discriminatory relates to both the terms and the rates included in licensing agreements. As the name suggests this commitment requires that licensors treat each individual licensee in a similar manner.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Reasonable and non-discriminatory terms (RAND), also known as fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms (FRAND), are a licensing obligation that is often required by standards organizations for members that participate in the standard-setting process. Non-discriminatory relates to both the terms and the rates included in licensing agreements. As the name suggests this commitment requires that licensors treat each individual licensee in a similar manner.
Maybe you were looking for one of these abbreviations: REXREP-REXS-REXX-REY-REZ-RF DECK-RF DK-RF RIGHTS-RF RTS-RF-84F. 
The frequency of an RF signal is usually expressed in terms of a unit called the hertz (Hz). One Hz equals one cycle per second. One megahertz (MHz) equals one million cycles per second. Different forms of electromagnetic energy are categorized by their wavelengths and frequencies. For example, the unit volts per meter (V/m) is used to measure the strength of the electric field and the unit amperes per meter (A/m) is used to express the strength of the magnetic field. RF waves can be characterized by a wavelength and a frequency.
When an RF current is supplied to an antenna, an electromagnetic field is created that then is able to propagate through space. Many wireless technologies are based on RF field propagation. These frequencies make up part of the electromagnetic radiation spectrum: 1  Ultra-low frequency (ULF) -- 0-3 Hz. 2  Extremely low frequency (ELF) -- 3 Hz - 3 kHz. 3  Very low frequency (VLF) -- 3kHz - 30 kHz. 4  Low frequency (LF) -- 30 kHz - 300 kHz.
Symbol denoting movement of a substance in paper or thin layer chromatography r elative to the solvent f ront (that is, retardation factor); equal to the migration distance of a substance divided by the migration distance of the solvent front. A gene on chromosome 9q34.12 that encodes an orexigenic neuropeptide which stimulates feeding behavior, metabolic rate and locomotor activity and increases blood pressure. QRFP may promote aldosterone secretion by the adrenal gland.
Need a truss sign tomorrow call for overnight shipment.Prefer not to use PayPal or pay on the computer?Call Leah to process your credit card over the phone.Leah at 813-716-1897If you have a Florida Tax Certificate call to order Tax Exempt. 
Florida Bar Board Certification 651 East Jefferson Street Tallahassee, FL 32399-2300 FloridaBar.org/certification Florida Board Certified Lawyers on LinkedIn Evaluated for Professionalism and Tested for Expertise Board Certification for Lawyers: What Does It Mean? Court, board certification. helps consumers. and ethics. in practice. identify specialists. in various areas of law. Board certified lawyers are. Evaluated for. Board certified Florida Bar members are the. Professionalism, Tested for Expertise.