When ulcers containing syphilis bacteria form in the mouth, the disease can be spread through kissing. Syphilis may be spread through the saliva during certain stages of the disease. Syphilis is transmitted primarily through sexual contact. Individuals infected with syphilis are not eligible to donate blood until one year after ending treatment. Untreated syphilis may cause infertility. Syphilis is a sexually-transmitted disease (STD) caused by the bacteria Treponema pallidum. It is one of the more common STDs, with over 36,000 cases per year reported in the United States.
Syphilis is spread through direct contact with a syphilis sore or rash during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. The bacteria can enter the body through the penis, anus, vagina, mouth, or through broken skin. An infected pregnant woman can also pass the disease to her unborn child. Syphilis is not spread by contact with toilet seats, doorknobs, swimming pools, hot tubs, bathtubs, shared clothing, or eating utensils.
It is primarily transmitted through sexual contact and contact with syphilitic ulcers, but it is possible to transmit syphilis through saliva during certain stages of the disease. When ulcers containing the bacteria form in the mouth, the disease can be spread through kissing or through oral-genital contact. Syphilis is a sexually-transmitted disease (STD) caused by the bacteria Treponema pallidum. It is one of the more common STDs, with over 36,000 cases per year reported in the United States.
Syphilis is very contagious, especially during its early stages. Syphilis is caused by bacteria that can spread from one person to another pretty easily, usually through sexual contact. The sores caused by syphilis usually develop on areas like the genitals, anus, and mouth. When another person's mucous membranes touch that sore, the bacteria can enter their body.
Syphilis is caused by a bacteria called Treponema pallidum. It is mostly spread by sexual contact, but it can even be spread through kissing, touching, or through blood transfusion. It is also spread from mother to baby across the placenta. 
Syphilis is transmitted from person to person by direct contact with a syphilitic sore, known as a chancre. Chancres occur mainly on the external genitals, vagina, anus, or in the rectum. Chancres also can occur on the lips and in the mouth. Transmission of syphilis occurs during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. Pregnant women with the disease can transmit it to their unborn child.
Syphilis is passed from person to person through direct contact with the syphilis sore or moist rash. It is usually passed through sexual contact, including vaginal, anal, and oral sex. It can also be passed by kissing, hand contact, or other close personal contact. Pregnant women with syphilis can pass it on to their babies before birth.