Sandra Annette Bullock was born in Arlington, a Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C. Her mother, Helga Bullock (nee Née Helga Mathilde), meyer was A german opera. singer Her father, John W. Bullock, was an American voice teacher, who was born in Alabama, of Irish, English, French, and German descent. Sandra grew up on the road with her parents and ... See full bio ».
Bullock's father is from Birmingham, Alabama, and has English, Irish, German, and French ancestry, while Bullock's mother was German. Bullock's maternal grandfather was a rocket scientist from Nuremberg, Germany. Her breakthrough role was in Demolition Man (1993), after which she starred in several successful films including Speed (1994), While You Were Sleeping (1995), The Net (1995), Hope Floats (1998), Practical Magic (1998), and A Time to Kill (1996).
Bullock was born in Arlington, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C. Her father, John W. Bullock (born 1925), was a United States Army employee and part-time voice coach; her mother, Helga Mathilde Meyer (1942–2000), was an opera singer and voice teacher. Her breakthrough role was in Demolition Man (1993), after which she starred in several successful films including Speed (1994), While You Were Sleeping (1995), The Net (1995), Hope Floats (1998), Practical Magic (1998), and A Time to Kill (1996).
Her father, John W. Bullock (born 1925), a voice coach, was born in Birmingham, Alabama, USA, to Jesse Burch Bullock and Mary LaBlanche Wilson, of English, Irish, German, Swiss-German, and French descent. Her father, John W. Bullock, was an American voice teacher, who was born in Alabama, of Irish, English, French, and German descent. Sandra grew up on the road with her parents and younger sister, and spent much of her childhood in Nuremberg, Germany.
Bullock is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: 1  Bullock family. 2  Alan Bullock (1914–2004), historian and academic. 3  Albert Bullock (1884–1951), English footballer. 4  Alexander H. Bullock, governor of Massachusetts from 1866 to 1868.
Official Photos ». Sandra Annette Bullock was born in Arlington, a Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C. Her mother, Helga Bullock (nee Née Helga Mathilde), meyer was A german opera. Singer her, Father John. W, bullock was An american voice, teacher who was born In, alabama Of, Irish, English, french And german. descent Her father, John W. Bullock, was an American voice teacher, who was born in Alabama, of Irish, English, French, and German descent. Sandra grew up on the road with her parents and ... See full bio ».
Sandra Bullock ethnicity is White-German, Irish, English, French. Sandra Annette Bullock was born in Arlington, Virginia, U.S in July 26, 1964. 
Sandra Bullock is an American actress and producer. Her father, John W. Bullock, was born in Alabama, of English, Irish, German, Swiss-German, and French ancestry. Her mother, Helga Bullock (born Helga Mathilde Meyer), was German. Sandra retains German citizenship and speaks German fluently. Sandra’s sister once said on Twitter:
Sandra Bullock. ==Introduction== Sandra Bullock (33B-24-34) makes a lot of girlie romantic comedies, but every now and then she makes a good movie too. She's not a bad actress and she's maintained her hotness pretty well over the years. 
Sandra Annette Bullock was born in Arlington, a Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C. Her mother, Helga Bullock (nee Née Helga Mathilde), meyer was A german opera. singer Her father, John W. Bullock, was an American voice teacher, who was born in Alabama, of Irish, English, French, and German descent. Sandra grew up on the road with her parents and younger sister, and spent much of her childhood in Nuremberg, Germany.