Ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia are treated using the left branch of the cardiac arrest arrest algorithm. Click below to view the cardiac arrest algorithm diagram. When done click again to close the diagram. Cardiac Arrest Algorithm Diagram» or Members Download the Hi-Resolution PDF Here.
Contraindications and Precautions: 1  Vasopressin is a potent vasoconstrictor and can cause cardiac ischemia, angina and bronchoconstriction. 2  Water intoxication can occur. 3  Extravasation of the drug can cause tissue necrosis. 4  If the patient has a known hypersensitivity to vasopressin, this drug is contraindicated. 5  The pregnancy category for 6  ... Use ...
Asystole is an ACLS cardiac arrest rhythm where no electrical activity is present on an ECG. This condition is known as a flat line. An important step in ACLS Protocol is determining true presence of an Asystole condition, as light Ventricular Fibrillation can also appear to have very little electrical activity.
Indications: In adult refractory ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia, a large dose of vasopressin is indicated as an alternative to epinephrine. In PEA or asystole, this drug is also
The typical dose is given as an IV/IO push of 40 units of vasopressin. There is no specific dose when administered via an endotracheal tube. This drug may be given as a replacement for the first or second dose of epinephrine in the case of an ACLS pulseless arrest.
40 units of vasopressin IV/IO push may be given to replace the first or second dose of epinephrine, and at this time, there is insufficient evidence for recommendation of a specific dose per the endotracheal tube. In the ACLS pulseless arrest algorithm, vasopressin may replace the first or second dose of epinephrine.
There is no data supporting the use of HDE or other vasopressors in resuscitation of pediatric cardiac arrests. The literature pertaining to vasopressors in pediatric resuscitation is quite limited. There is evolving literature on the use of terlipressin in this population.
A vasopressor is a medication that produces vasoconstriction and a rise in blood pressure. The vasopressors that can be used in the treatment of VF/Pulseless VT are epinephrine and/or vasopressin. Epinephrine is primarily used for is vasoconstrictive effects. Vasoconstriction is important during CPR because it will help increase blood flow to the brain and heart.