Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system. The circulatory system is vital for sustaining life
Split and merge into it. Answer by Cantthink193. Confidence votes 933. All arteries carry oxygenated blood with the exception of the pulmonary artery from the right side of the heart to the lungs, which does not. Yes. Most arterial blood is oxygenated. There are two exceptions to that rule. One is the pulmonary artery which carries deoxygenated blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood bcos arteries carry blood from the lungs n the lungs have breathed sent the oxygen to the heart 2 carry the oxygenated blood 2 the rest of the … body. Love, Wint frm Singapore.
Arteries form part of the circulatory system. They carry blood that is oxygenated after it has been pumped from the heart. Arteries also aid the heart in pumping blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the tissues, except for pulmonary arteries, which carry blood to the lungs for oxygenation. (Usually veins carry deoxygenated blood to the heart but the pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood.) There are two unique arteries. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system.
1 Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 2  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart and into organs. 3  Capillaries. 4  These are small, thin blood vessels that connect the arteries and the veins. 
Usually this means they are carrying oxygenated blood to the body. The pulmonary arteries carry de-oxygenated blood to the lungs where it becomes oxygenated, is taken back to the heart in the pulmonary veins and then is pumped to the rest of the body. Im not 100% sure, but i believe this to be true. Arteries carry oxygenated blood. This is because they carry blood away from the heart and around the body, without the blood being oxygenated, it isnt doing its job correctly, which is to get oxygen to, for example, the muscles.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. But the blood that first leaves the heart is still de-oxygenated; it's first stop is the lungs where it gets oxygenated and from there other arteries carry the oxygenated blood throught out the body. Veins carry the de-oxygenated blood back to the heart, where it gets pumped and the thing starts over. Im not 100% sure, but i believe this to be true. Arteries carry oxygenated blood. This is because they carry blood away from the heart and around the body, without the blood being oxygenated, it isnt doing its job correctly, which is to get oxygen to, for example, the muscles.
Confidence votes 5. The pulmonary artery is the only artery in the body that carries de-oxygenated blood. The pulmonary vein is the only vein that carries oxygenated blood. This is because technically the blood is being carried away from the heart, to the lungs in the case of the pulmonary artery. 
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Usually this means they are carrying oxygenated blood to the body. The pulmonary arteries carry de-oxygenated blood to the lungs where it becomes oxygenated, is taken back to the heart in the pulmonary veins and then is pumped to the rest of the body. snapdragon · 7 years ago. Im not 100% sure, but i believe this to be true. Arteries carry oxygenated blood. This is because they carry blood away from the heart and around the body, without the blood being oxygenated, it isnt doing its job correctly, which is to get oxygen to, for example, the muscles.
Best Answer: Arteries by definition are the the largest blood vessels that take blood AWAY from the heart!! To answer your question, NO not all arteries carry oxygenated blood. The pulmonary arteries take deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle AWAY from the heart to the lungs so that it becomes re-oxygenated. All the other arteries however, do carry oxygenated blood. Oppositely, veins are blood vessels that take blood TO the heart. Not all veins carry de-oxygenated blood ... the pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from the lungs TO the left atrium.
Report Abuse. All arteries carry oxygenated blood with the exception of the pulmonary artery from the right side of the heart to the lungs, which does not. All veins carry deoxygenated blood except the pulmonary vein it carries oxygenated blood back from the lungs to the left atrium. To answer your question, NO not all arteries carry oxygenated blood. The pulmonary arteries take deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle AWAY from the heart to the lungs so that it becomes re-oxygenated. All the other arteries however, do