Peace of Mind. Life360 is available on the iPhone, Android and the Windows Phone. With hectic schedules and long to do lists, managing the day to day for your family can feel like a full time job. 
Family Locator app keeps your family secure & connected. See the location of all family members on the map and stay in touch with instant messages. In case your kid gets lost, tapping an SOS button will immediately send you its exact GPS location. With Family Locator your family can share location safely using the one thing we always carry around – the Smartphone. It keeps you in touch and lets you see where everybody is in real-time. Show more Show less. With Family Locator your kid can Check-in to let you know he/she got to school safely.
Family Locator for Android. The Android Locator App not only lets you know where all of your registered family members are, but can also help locate your phone if you lose your Android device. Stay in touch with everyone in your family network with quick communication and even receive alerts when family members reach specified locations. Our iPhone Family Locator App keeps you in sync with everyone in your family network. Constant communication keeps your mind at ease by knowing your family members are safe when they reach their next location. Get the Life360 Family Locator iPhone App.
The Family Locator app is available on select mobile devices. Open the app store (e.g., Google Play™, BlackBerry World™, etc.) on your device and search for Verizon Family Locator. If the app appears in the search results, your device is compatible and you can download the app. Note: The Family Locator service must be added to your account with at least one family member set up as an administrator and one as a participant. Currently, Family Locator is unavailable for prepaid and business accounts.
Description. Keep your kids safe and let your entire family be in touch. Family Locator is the family tracker, children safety & emergency alerts app awarded by the largest parent-testing community Parent Tested Parent Approved. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To download the free app Family Locator-GPS Phone tracker by Sygic a. s., get iTunes now.
AT&T FamilyMap provides peace of mind by being able to conveniently locate a family member from your wireless phone or PC and know that your family's information is secure and private. AT&T FamilyMap has a Web browser application that allows you to locate your family members from any computer. Simply enter www.att.com/familymap into your mobile browser and sign in with the same phone number and password you use to access AT&T FamilyMap from your phone.
Family Locator for iPhone. The Family Locator iPhone App interface helps you quickly locate family members on a map. Open the secure FamilyChannel™ and you can chat with everyone at once. Our iPhone Family Locator App keeps you in sync with everyone in your family network. Constant communication keeps your mind at ease by knowing your family members are safe when they reach their next location. Get the Life360 Family Locator iPhone App.
- Sprint Family Locator SIGNAL is a free companion app for Sprint Family Locator. Put SIGNAL on your kid's phone and you'll get more accurate results fro... #9. some zoemob family locator free features - The ZoeMob Family Locator is a very accurate service to monitor your family using GPS tracking technology. A safe way to track the location of your kid... #11.
Yes, you can remove Family Locator from your account online: 1  Go to the Verizon Family Safeguards & Controls page in My Verizon. 2  Scroll to the Family Locator section and click View Details & Edit. 3  Click Add or Remove Members. Note: The Family Locator service must be added to your account with at least one family member set up as an administrator and one as a participant. Currently, Family Locator is unavailable for prepaid and business accounts.
However, you'll get more detailed results with phones that are fully compatible with Family Locator and the Family Locator app. To determine if your phone is compatible with the Family Locator app, open the app store on your phone and search for Verizon Family Locator. If the app appears in the search results, your phone is compatible. Note: The Family Locator service must be added to your account with at least one family member set up as an administrator and one as a participant. Currently, Family Locator is unavailable for prepaid and business accounts.