1 Don't use foil to store foods that are high in acids. 2  This means tart fruits and dishes made with vinegar, tomatoes, or tomato sauce. 3  After a few days in foil, the acids in lasagna, for example, interact with the aluminum and erode the foil, says McGee. 
I cooked the meatloaf in a foil loaf pan. The tomato sauce ate through the heavy duty aluminum foil I wrapped it in, and made small holes in the pan! I was shocked. I'll probably transport the pans of lasagna in a cooler. It will keep them warm as I drive the 6 minutes to campus. 
By Tabitha Alterman. Tags: aluminum cookware, nonreactive pan, stainless steel, acidic foods, tomato sauce. I’m planning to can a bunch of tomato sauce this year, and I’ve heard that I should use a stainless steel pot instead of an aluminum one. 
show more I roasted tomatoes for a tomato soup recipe, and did it on aluminum foil to make cleanup easier. After I was done, I remembered you're not supposed to cook tomatoes in an aluminum or other reactive pan. 
Grilling non-acidic vegetables on aluminum should not be a problem. Cooking on pans with aluminum in them but which are coated or anodized, is also not an issue, because the coating forms a barrier between the metal and the food.
Well, there’s one thing you should know: Never cook tomatoes in aluminum pans. Aluminum is a reactive metal and tomatoes are acidic so when the two combine, it’s bad news. Your pan or utensil will become discolored and your tomatoes will taste metallic. It’s not proven whether this is actually bad for our bodies, but metal-tasting tomatoes don’t sound good to us. Stainless steel and non-stick pans are just fine so just make sure to check before you wreck (your tomatoes).
Acidic foods need nonreactive pans. by Dabney Gough. fromFine Cooking. Issue 91. If you’ve ever made tomato sauce in an aluminum pan, you’ve probably discovered why nonreactive materials are important when cooking acidic ingredients. 
Turn the hollowed out tomatoes upside down to drain for about ten minutes before filling. When baking stuffed tomatoes, place them in a muffin tin for stability. • Do not use an aluminum pot, pan or utensil when cooking tomatoes. The acid in the tomato reacts unfavorably with the aluminum. Using aluminum makes the cooked tomatoes more bitter and fades the color. 
The Amounts of Aluminum Transferred Through Cookware. Aluminum cookware can react with foods, especially those, such as tomato sauce, which are high in vinegar or acid. This reaction leaks a trace amount of aluminum into the foods, which are then consumed. Some types of aluminum cookware are treated so that the aluminum is unable to react with foods. For example, anodized aluminum uses a chemical bath and an electrical current to bind the aluminum into the pan. Researchers studied the amount of aluminum that could leak into foods by cooking a tomato sauce in an untreated pan. Even this most potent combination resulted in only 3 mg per serving, less than 10% of the average daily consumption. This is far too little to pose a health risk