Definition: Absolute zero is the lowest possible temperature, at which point the atoms of a substance transmit no thermal energy-they are completely at rest. It is 0 degrees on the Kelvin scale, which translates to -273.15 degrees Celsius (or -459.67 degrees Fahrenheit).
Any temperature scale having absolute zero for its zero point is termed an absolute temperature scale or a thermodynamic scale. In the International System of Units, the Kelvin (K) scale is the standard for all scientific temperature measurements.
(People have gotten close to absolute zero, but have never reached it. According to theory, we never will.) Absolute zero is at -273.15 Celsius, or -459.67 Fahrenheit. The Kelvin temperature scale uses the same size degree as Celsius, but has its zero set to absolute zero. To convert from Celsius to Kelvin, add 273.15 to the Celsius reading. The Rankine temperature scale uses the same size degree as Fahrenheit, but has its zero set to absolute zero. To convert from Fahrenheit to Rankine, add 459.67 to the Fahrenheit reading.
Another absolute temperature scale is the Rankine (°R) scale, once used by engineers in the United States and based on the Fahrenheit (°F) temperature scale, with the freezing point of water defined as 491.67 °R. A degree Rankine, like a degree Fahrenheit, is 5/9 of a kelvin or degree Celsius.
The Kelvin scale is based at absolute zero. The Kelvin scale was defined when the scientist William Thomson (1st Baron Kelvin) calculated the absolute minimum thermal energy an object can have. He decided to shift the Celsius scale so that 0 would be equivalent to having zero thermal energy (aka absolute zero).
Kelvin temperature scale uses absolute zero as the zero. Though you can find absolute zero in all temperature scales i.e. −459.67 degrees Fahrenheit and -273.15 degrees Cels … ius. But Kelvin is the scale that absolute zero is 0.
Absolute zero is the temperature (-273.15C) at which all motion in matter stops and is thought to be unreachable. But recent experiments using ultracold atoms have measured temperatures that are, in fact, negative in absolute temperature scale.
Absolute temperature is the number of degrees Kelvin above absolute zero. In the common Celsius scale, zero is defined as water's freezing point and 100 at water's boiling point and the scale was created from those 2 references, which are arbitrary, but standardized and useful.