The normal distribution is the most common type of distribution, and is often found in stock market analysis. Given enough observations within a sample size, it is reasonable to make the assumption that returns follow a normally distributed pattern, but this assumption can be disproved.
Normal distributions differing in mean and standard deviation. The density of the normal distribution (the height for a given value on the x axis) is shown below. The parameters μ and σ are the mean and standard deviation, respectively, and define the normal distribution.
In probability theory, the normal (or Gaussian) distribution is a very common continuous probability distribution. Normal distributions are important in statistics and are often used in the natural and social sciences to represent real-valued random variables whose distributions are not known.
To speak specifically of any normal distribution, two quantities have to be specified: the mean, where the peak of the density occurs, and the standard deviation, which indicates the spread or girth of the bell curve.
The normal distribution is a continuous probability distribution. This has several implications for probability. 1  The total area under the normal curve is equal to 1. 2  The probability that a normal random variable X equals any particular value is 0.
normal distribution. n. 1. (Statistics) statistics a continuous distribution of a random variable with its mean, median, and mode equal, the probability density function of which is given by (exp- [(x -μ)²/2σ²]/σ√(2π)) where μ is the mean and σ² the variance.
The graph of the normal distribution depends on two factors-the mean and the standard deviation. The mean of the distribution determines the location of the center of the graph, and the standard deviation determines the height and width of the graph.
It is also called Gaussian distribution. The normal distribution density function f (z) is called the Bell Curve because it has the shape that resembles a bell. Standard normal distribution table is used to find the area under the f (z) function in order to find the probability of a specified range of