A Private Chef comes to your house for a number of hours a day, whichever is required to cook and serve the meals you pay for. I do this job and have been paid $400-$650/week depending on how many people I cook for. My current position pays me $15/hour (for about 12-15 hours/week) for dinner only for 6 people. In Spain I run a personal and private chef service called www.bravurachefs.com where we charge €2500 for a 7 day week of breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the personal chef service its €250 plus food cost.
1 On average, most personal chefs are going to prepare meals ahead of time. 2  These meals will be frozen for the upcoming week. 3  On average, a weekly frozen plan such as this would cost anywhere from $255 to $450 per week for a family of four. 4  This price will not include the groceries. 1 A personal chef will be able to consult with you before any services start. 2  This is your chance to ask questions as well as set up a meal plan. 3  The chef will get to know you and what your family likes and dislikes in terms of meals.
Prices stated are the personal chef fee; groceries are additional. The cost of food varies based on your food preferences, but typically average $125 to $150 for two weeks of meals for two people or $150 to $175 for four people. You may enjoy personal chef-prepared meals for as low as $25 per person, per meal depending on the size of your family and food preferences. Proper nutrition and adequate rest are considered critical components of cognitive development in children and a healthy immune system in adults.
Earnings for Personal Chefs in the United States come in at around $20.40 per hour on average. Location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by tenure. Slightly less than a third report receiving medical coverage from their employers and a little less than one-fifth collect dental insurance. 
$70,000 - $130,000/yrApproximate cost of a Private Chef by the hour: $85 - $240Depending on the number of guests, the chef may need an assistant in the kitchen (sous chef/cook)with good references. $45 - $65 per hour. f r e e l a n c e c h e f s f o r a l l o c c a s i o n s. 
Salary. According to Four Star Private Chef, a starting private chef can expect to earn a standard rate of $35 per hour. Chefs with more than five years of fine dining experience can expect a starting salary of $40 to $45 per hour. When an employer hires a full-time private chef, she will create a salaried position, which is based on working a five-hour day.
1 For a private dinner cooked directly in the kitchen for a few guests, the cost will fall between $150 to $350 for a party of four. 2  For example, the chef David Straus in Denver, Colorado offers meals for families that range anywhere from $175 to $325 for one meal. 1 A personal chef will be able to consult with you before any services start. 2  This is your chance to ask questions as well as set up a meal plan. 3  The chef will get to know you and what your family likes and dislikes in terms of meals.
A personal chef is a chef that prepares meals for a family in the comfort of their own home. A personal chef can either prepare the meals for the upcoming week or the chef can purchase the meals throughout the day. 1 A personal chef will be able to consult with you before any services start. 2  This is your chance to ask questions as well as set up a meal plan. 3  The chef will get to know you and what your family likes and dislikes in terms of meals.
(United States). With just below three-fifths of Private Chefs in the United States reporting more than 10 years of experience, the field is heavily weighted toward experienced professionals. Average pay for Private Chefs is $64K per year and can range from $30K on the lower end to $122K per year near the higher end. 
A private chef works for a single private employer or multiple private employers, and is responsible for preparing and cooking meals for them, their families and friends. Most personal chefs are assigned to complete all kitchen-related duties and may also manage a small team or staff. Chefs with more than five years of fine dining experience can expect a starting salary of $40 to $45 per hour. When an employer hires a full-time private chef, she will create a salaried position, which is based on working a five-hour day.