1 Mumps is the most common cause of salivary gland infection, although with widespread immunisation its incidence has fallen. 2  It usually causes bilateral swelling of the parotid glands, although the other major salivary glands may also be affected in about 10% of infections. 
A swollen parotid gland may occur for a number of reasons, which may be linked to inflammation of the gland (parotitis) with or without infection, blockage of the duct, chemical toxicity or growths in the parotid gland. 1 A blockage of the parotid duct hampers saliva flow. 2  This can lead to swelling, inflammation or an infection. 3  A salivary stone (sialolithiasis) is a more common cause of an obstruction but it can also arise from edema of the surrounding tissue due to trauma or impacted food.
Causes of Swollen Parotid Gland. The most common causes of a sudden parotid swelling includes an infection or trauma (post-operative of after a blow to the face). Gradual and long term swelling is more likely due to autoimmune disorders, infections like HIV, calculi (stones) or tumors (both benign and malignant). 1 A blockage of the parotid duct hampers saliva flow. 2  This can lead to swelling, inflammation or an infection. 3  A salivary stone (sialolithiasis) is a more common cause of an obstruction but it can also arise from edema of the surrounding tissue due to trauma or impacted food.
A minority of salivary gland stones are found in the parotid gland since its secretion is of the thinner serous type. Sublingual gland stones are rare. Secondary bacterial infection is common therefore the signs and symptoms may be similar to the infectious causes of inflammation discussed above. 
The following are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones, or sialoliths. The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. If not treated, salivary gland infections can cause severe pain, high fevers, and abscess (pus collection). Infections. Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. It usually begins approximately 48 hours after the start of other symptoms such as fever and headache
Swollen Parotid Salivary Gland Causes. 1  One of the major causes of swollen parotid glands is a virus that causes mumps. 2  Alcoholics are prone to swelling of these salivary glands. 3  Infection of surrounding lymph nodes can spread to the parotid glands. 4  Stones sometimes form in the glands causing inflammation. 1 One of the major causes of swollen parotid glands is a virus that causes mumps. 2  Alcoholics are prone to swelling of these salivary glands. 3  Infection of surrounding lymph nodes can spread to the parotid glands. 4  Stones sometimes form in the glands causing inflammation. 5  Tumors or masses may form in the glands
Infections. Viral infections such as mumps, flu and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling occurs in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of 'hamster cheeks'. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, occurring in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. Here are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones (sialoliths) The most common causes of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones, are accumulations of crystallised saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva cannot exit through the ducts it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling