Applicants for a certified public accountant in California must have 2 years experience in the field. The experience must be under the supervision of a licensed certified public accountant. 1  Candidates planning to sign attest documents must have a minimum of 500 hours experience in attestation duties. Pursue a Bachelor's Degree in Accounting. The state of California requires applicants have a minimum of a bachelor's degree to qualify to sit for the Uniform CPA Examination.
120 semester units are required to be certified under pathway 1 in California only – 150 semester units are required to be certified under pathway 2 for all jurisdictions. (Requirements may vary. Contact the California State Board for more information on California requirements for the CPA exam.). Residency Requirements. Citizenship: U.S. Citizenship is not a California CPA exam requirement. Minimum Age: There are no California CPA requirements dictating a minimum age limit. Additional Requirements: There are no California CPA exam requirements to be a resident, employee, or keep office(s) in the state.
How to Become Accountant in California. The state of California requires certified public accountants meet the requirements for licensure to work in the state. The requirements ensure the accountant has the knowledge and skills to provide services and advice to clients on matters such as taxes and financial reports. Pursue a Bachelor's Degree in Accounting. The state of California requires applicants have a minimum of a bachelor's degree to qualify to sit for the Uniform CPA Examination.
In order to qualify to take the CPA exam in California, candidates must meet minimum educational requirements, which includes a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university with 24 semester units of accounting subjects and 24 semester units of business-related subjects. Hours Required for Exam: Baccalaureate degree or higher with 24 semester hours in accounting subjects above the introductory level and 24 semester hours in business-related courses. Residency Requirements:None. A valid social security number is required for licensure, but not for the exam.
You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as it includes at least 24 semester hours in business, including at least 12 semester hours in accounting. However, effective July 1, 2014, candidates will need 150 hours of education to be licensed. However, the trend is toward 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam and for licensure, so if you’re just starting your education, you should be prepared to obtain at least 150 hours as the requirements in these states are likely to change. California.
You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as 27 of those semester hours are in accounting courses (three of those in audit) and 21 semester hours are in business courses. Effective July 1, 2015, Colorado will also require 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam. However, the trend is toward 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam and for licensure, so if you’re just starting your education, you should be prepared to obtain at least 150 hours as the requirements in these states are likely to change. California.
To become a CPA in California, candidates have to: (1) qualify for the CPA exam; (2) pass the CPA and ethics exam, and; (3) fulfill work experience requirement to get the CPA license. Please note the CPA qualification is granted by individual state instead of the US as a whole, which means that you need to check out the specific requirement for California. 
In California, to earn the prestige associated with the CPA license, individuals are required to demonstrate their knowledge and competence by passing the Uniform CPA Exam, meeting high educational standards and completing a specified amount of general accounting experience. Well, times have changed, and the number of CPAs in California who perform audits and other attest-type services is dwindling. So now, neither pathway requires audit experience to obtain a CPA license.
1. Pursue a Bachelor's Degree in Accounting. The state of California requires applicants have a minimum of a bachelor's degree to qualify to sit for the Uniform CPA Examination. 1  The accounting program must include a minimum of 24 semester units in accounting courses
Credit Requirements: 24 semester units in accounting and 24 semester units in business-related courses are required in the California requirements to take the CPA exam. Residency Requirements. Citizenship: U.S. Citizenship is not a California CPA exam requirement. Minimum Age: There are no California CPA requirements dictating a minimum age limit. Additional Requirements: There are no California CPA exam requirements to be a resident, employee, or keep office(s) in the state.