The knee joint is the most common and the easiest joint for the physician to aspirate. One approach involves insertion of a needle 1 cm above and 1 cm lateral to the superior lateral aspect of the patella at a 45-degree angle.
Background. Arthrocentesis (synovial fluid aspiration) of the knee can be performed either diagnostically (for identification of the etiology of acute arthritis) or therapeutically (for pain relief, drainage of effusion, or injection of medications).
Knee arthrocentesis may be done via a parapatellar approach (which is generally preferred), , a suprapatellar approach, or an infrapatellar approach. Once the insertion site is chosen, prepare the skin with sterile solution, allow drying, and then drape.
Knee joint aspiration and injection are performed to establish a diagnosis, relieve discomfort, drain off infected fluid, or instill medication. Because prompt treatment of a joint infection can preserve the joint integrity, any unexplained monarthritis should be considered for arthrocentesis (Table 1) .
Left knee aspiration using the medial parapatellar approach. For the suprapatellar approach, identify the midpoint of either the superomedial or the superolateral border of the patella. Insert an 18-gauge needle through the midpoint of either set of superior borders.
Therapeutic arthrocentesis can be used to relieve pain by evacuating a joint effusion or hemarthrosis; by draining a septic effusion; or for injection of corticosteroids, antibiotics, or anesthetic medications. The knee is the most common joint requiring arthrocentesis.
Arthrocentesis, the aspiration of synovial fluid (SF) from the joint space, is one of the most commonly performed procedures in the evaluation and treatment of joint diseases. Diagnostic arthrocentesis is often used to identify the etiology of acute monoarthritis.
The knee is the most common and the easiest joint for the physician to aspirate. It was chosen for discussion here because of the frequent clinical problems associated with this joint. The indications, complications, and pitfalls for knee arthrocentesis generally can be applied to other joints (Tables 2 and 3) . Many of the principles of needle aspiration and injection also can be used for soft tissue disorders, such as bursitis or tendinitis.