Noun. 1. linkage-an associative relation. connection, connexion, connectedness-a relation between things or events (as in the case of one causing the other or sharing features with it); there was a connection between eating that pickle and having that nightmare. 1. the act of linking, or the state or manner of being linked. 2. a system of links. 3. an association of two or more genes, usu. on the same chromosome, that tend to be inherited as a unit (link′age group`) and to express a set of characteristic traits.
DEFINITION of 'Linkage'. Linkage occurs when an investor is able to purchase a security on one financial exchange and sell it on another.
Noun. 1. linkage-an associative relation. connection, connexion, connectedness-a relation between things or events (as in the case of one causing the other or sharing features with it); there was a connection between eating that pickle and having that nightmare. 3. an association of two or more genes, usu. on the same chromosome, that tend to be inherited as a unit (link′age group`) and to express a set of characteristic traits. 4. an assembly of four or more rods for transmitting motion, usu. in the same plane or in parallel planes.
Certain depositary receipts, such as American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), allow for linkage, which means that an investor can purchase shares of a company on a foreign exchange, such as the Toronto Stock Exchange, and then sell those shares on a domestic exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange. Linkage occurs when an investor is able to purchase a security on one financial exchange and sell it on another.
link•age. 1. the act of linking, or the state or manner of being linked. 2. a system of links. 3. an association of two or more genes, usu. on the same chromosome, that tend to be inherited as a unit (link′age group`) and to express a set of characteristic traits. 4. an assembly of four or more rods for transmitting motion, usu. in the same plane or in parallel planes.
If there is no linkage disequilibrium between alleles at different loci they are said to be in linkage equilibrium. Linkage disequilibrium is influenced by many factors, including selection, the rate of recombination, the rate of mutation, genetic drift, the system of mating, population structure, and genetic linkage. 