The interviewer is interested in how you manage and prioritize tasks because he or she wants to see if you are suited for the job position. He or she wants to assess your ability to organize your work and put important things first. As a secretary or an administrative assistant, your ability to prioritize work is an important part of the job. You perform a range of administrative tasks such as: 1  sorting and distributing inbound mail to areas and staff within the company; 2  dispatching and shipping outbound mail;
Step 1 - Know exactly what your work is. The first step is to know what your work actually consists of. Make a list of everything you want to do, along with any deadlines you have. Don’t rely on your memory-get it out of your head and onto paper (or a screen if that's the way you roll now.). This is for two solid reasons:
Prioritizing is not easy. You must determine what needs to be done and how much time you have to do it in. Normally you should not make your schedule so tight that you won't h … ave time for setbacks or research. Make a list of things to do: you should start with the most important and time sensitive issues. On your list you should list the due date of your projects. Always give yourself at least 2 days before, if possible. If your projects are daily then give yourself at least 1 to 2 hours deadline before the due date or time.
Answers. Best Answer: Try to make it as real as possible. This is an increasingly common question for interview. Think about a typical day at work, and all the things you may be faced with in your in-tray, or to-do list. Use the must, should, could approach to help you prioritis
1 How to Answer Interview Questions-Q5 -- Describe how you would handle a situation if you were required to finish multiple tasks by the end of the day, and there was no conceivable way that you could finish them. 2  How to Answer Interview Questions-Q6 -- Describe your work style. 1 How to Answer Interview Questions-Q4 -- Describe a time when your workload was heavy and how you handled it. 2  How to Answer Interview Questions-Q5 -- Describe how you would handle a situation if you were required to finish multiple tasks by the end of the day, and there was no conceivable way that you could finish them.
“Well, the first thing I do is I throw a coin directly at my supervisor. Whichever side of the coin imprints itself as a bruise on their face, that is the project I work on. If the throw misses, I take a staple gun, walk up to the front desk, and staple the first associate I see on the back of the neck. Your ability to organize is constantly on trial at the workplace. People that put no thought into how they prioritize multiple projects tend to struggle when coming up on deadlines. So employers may ask you how you organize. There is no right answer, provided that whatever you say sounds like it would work.
· just now. Report Abuse. I am a recruiter and do ask this interview question. What I would want to hear are some examples of when you had to prioritize your work load-papers, exams, etc. - how you decided what required an A, B or C status (or 1, 2, 3 level priority) and how you stayed on track to get everything done. 
Prioritizing is not easy. You must determine what needs to be done and how much time you have to do it in. Normally you should not make your schedule so tight that you won't have time for setbacks or research. Make a list of things to do: you should start with the most important and time sensitive issues. You can prioritize your tasks by making a list, or using an app to  organize your tasks. Make a list of what you need to do, and number  it from one to ten, then do it. When … you complete it, cross it off  your list. Answered.