To set Outlook as your default program for email 1  : Start Internet Explorer. 2  Select Tools | Internet Options from the menu. 3  Go to the Programs tab. 4  Make sure Microsoft Office Outlook or Microsoft Outlook is selected under E-mail. Make Outlook Your Default Email Program. To configure Outlook as your default email program in Windows Vista and Windows 7: ›› 1  Step by Step Screenshot Walkthrough. 2  Click Start. 3  Type default programs in the Start Search box. 4  Click Default Programs under Programs in the search results.
Note Making Outlook the default program for e-mail, contacts, and calendar does not automatically add or configure e-mail accounts in your Outlook profile. If you want to send or read e-mail messages in Outlook, you must add and configure the e-mail account as well. When you send a file from a program by pointing to Send To on the File menu, and then clicking Mail Recipient, the e-mail program that is set as your default mail client is used to send the file. The following steps will set Outlook as your default mail program. On the Tools menu in Office Outlook, click Options, and then click the Other tab. Under General, select the Make Outlook the default program for E-mail, Contacts, and Calendar check box
In Windows 7 and Windows 8, you can set the default mail client in the Control Panel’s Default Programs applet. Select Outlook from the list of applications on the left and click the button to Set this program as default. When you use the 64-bit versions of Outlook 2010 or Outlook 2013, some applications will report that there is no default email client when they try to send email.
Make Yahoo! To set up Yahoo! Mail as your default email client in Windows: 1  Download and install Yahoo! Messenger. 2  Select Tools | Internet Options... 3  from the menu in Internet Explorer. 4  Go to the Programs tab. 5  Make sure Yahoo! 6  Mail is selected under E-mail. 7  Click OK. To set up Yahoo! Mail as your default email client in Windows: 1  Download and install Yahoo! Messenger. 2  Select Tools | Internet Options... 3  Go to the Programs tab. 4  Make sure Yahoo! 5  Click OK.
Verify Outlook is set as default mail client. To verify Outlook is indeed set as your default email client: 1  Open Control Panel and search for Default Programs. 2  Select Set Default Programs link. 3  Choose Microsoft Outlook from the list of programs. 4  Click Set this program as default. 
Open Default Programs by clicking the Start button, and then clicking Default Programs. Click Set your default programs. Under Programs, click the email program you'd like to use in this case Windows Live Mail, and then click Set this program as default. How do I make outlook.com my default email. When I click on an email link, Outlook opens, however, I get the message it is not available. Therefore, I need to copy and paste the email link, open up outlook in a new tab. Original Title: outlook.com my default eamil.
However. you can configure your account to a mail client and set it as a default progrom. 1. In your Internet Explorer browser, go to Tools. 2. Click Internet Options. 3. Switch to Programs tab. 4. Select Set Programs. 5. When Default Programs window appears, choose Set your default programs. 6. Choose the mail client you want to set as your default program, click Set this program as default below the box. 7. Click OK. 