James Caleb Jackson invented Granula, the first manufactured COLD breakfast cereal in 1863. Granula was an early version of Grape-Nuts, consisting of heavy grains of bran-rich … Graham flour. The grains had to be soaked overnight before use. Confidence votes 43. Corn Flakes, they very first cereal, were made on 31 May 1894 by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg in Michigan, United States. Then the 2nd cereal created was Rice Crispies made in the early 1900's also fom Kellog's brand cereal. The first ready-to-eat breakfast cereal was produced by Henry Drushel Perky in Denver Colorado in 1893. Perky was a lawyer, businessman, promoter and inventor. His cereal, Shredded Wheat, was first sold locally in Denver and Colorado Springs
i know it was first made in china by putting nuts and fruits in a bowl with milk or water. The first ready-to-eat breakfast cereal was produced by Henry Drushel Perky in Denver Colorado in 1893. The first even cereal was Weetabix. It was first made in 1944 and was originally famous a the favourite cereal of Basshunter. Next week, Cheryl Cole is launching 3 new flavo … urs: baconeggchalk CORRECTION: Weetabix was actually invented in Australia in the 1920s by Bennison Osborne. However, the first ready-to-eat breakfast cereal was produced by Henry Drushel Perky in Denver Colorado in 1893. Perky was a lawyer, businessman, promoter and inventor. His cereal, Shredded Wheat, was first sold locally in Denver and Colorado Springs
Mr. Kellogg developed his first cereal in 1906 and named it Kellogg's Toasted Corn Flakes. The third largest breakfast cereal producer today is General Mills. Its claim to fame began in 1924 when it created the well-known and loved Wheaties cereal. When cereal was first developed, it consisted of simple, flat flakes. 
Granula was the first manufactured COLD breakfast cereal invented by James Caleb Jackson in 1863. Granula was an early version of Grape-Nuts, consisting of heavy grains of bran-rich Graham flour. The grains had to be soaked overnight before use. 
Breakfast cereal (or just cereal) is a food made from processed grains that is often eaten as the first meal of the day. It is eaten hot or cold, usually mixed with milk, yogurt, or fruit. Some companies promote their products for the health benefits from eating oat-based and high-fiber cereals. In 1902 Force wheat flakes became the first ready-to-eat breakfast cereal introduced into the United Kingdom. The cereal, and the Sunny Jim character, achieved wide success in Britain, at its peak in 1930 selling 12.5 million packages in one year. In the 1930s, the first puffed cereal, Kix, went on the market.
The First Breakfast Cereal. Corn Flakes, the first ever breakfast cereal, were discovered by way of a fortunate accident. But it is the story behind this accident which is especially interesting. Isaac M. Mcphee Mar 19, 2008Updated 4 months ago. Isaac M. Mcphee. The year was 1894. It was the year the first motion picture film was patented
Muesli is a breakfast cereal based on uncooked rolled oats, fruit, and nuts. It was developed around 1900 by the Swiss physician Maximilian Bircher-Benner for patients in his hospital. It is available in a packaged dry form such as Alpen, or it can be made fresh. In 1902 Force wheat flakes became the first ready-to-eat breakfast cereal introduced into the United Kingdom. The cereal, and the Sunny Jim character, achieved wide success in Britain, at its peak in 1930 selling 12.5 million packages in one year. In the 1930s, the first puffed cereal, Kix, went on the market.
Quote from a Wikipedia article about Henry Drushel Perky: 'Although John Harvey Kellogg and Charles William Post are better known, Perky was a pioneer of the cookless breakfast food and it was he who first mass produced and nationally distributed ready-to-eat cereal.'. The first even cereal was Weetabix. It was first made in 1944 and was originally famous a the favourite cereal of Basshunter. Next week, Cheryl Cole is launching 3 new flavo … urs: baconeggchalk CORRECTION: Weetabix was actually invented in Australia in the 1920s by Bennison Osborne. However, the first ready-to-eat breakfast cereal was produced by Henry Drushel Perky in Denver Colorado in 1893. Perky was a lawyer, businessman, promoter and inventor. His cereal, Shredded Wheat, was first sold locally in Denver and Colorado Springs