Place swordfish in a shallow baking dish or a resealable plastic bag. In a small bowl, stir together zests, juices, oil, soy sauce, ginger, and shallots. Pour marinade over; turn to coat. Let marinate, covered, in the refrigerator for 1 hour. 
1 Mix just to blend. 2  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 3  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate. 4  Grill swordfish steaks for 5 to 6 minutes on each side. 5  Garnish with parsley and lemon wedges. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 4  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate
Pour marinade over fish, cover and let stand, turning it once, for 1 hour. Remove swordfish from marinade and broil on the rack of a broiler pan 5 inches from heat, or grill it over coals, 4-5 minutes on each side or until just firm to the touch. 4 swordfish steaks, 3/4 inch thick (about 1 1/2 lbs.). Combine soy sauce, orange juice, olive oil, tomato paste, parsley, garlic, lemon juice, oregano and pepper in bowl, whisking until marinade is well combined. Put fish steaks in a shallow dish large enough to hold it in one layer.
4 Brush off excess marinade (not all of it, just most) from the swordfish steaks. Place the swordfish steaks on the hot grill grates. Grill for about 5 to 7 minutes on one side, until you have good grill marks. Turn over and cook for a few minutes longer, until the fish is just cooked through. Remove from heat and let rest a few minutes before serving. Serve with slices of fresh lemon.
1 In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 4  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  In a glass baking dish, combine the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, poultry seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Mix just to blend. 3  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently.
1 In a glass baking dish, whisk together the garlic, white wine, lemon juice, soy sauce, olive oil, savoury seasoning, salt and pepper. 2  Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 3  Preheat barbecue for high heat, and lightly oil cooking grate. 1 Place swordfish steaks into the marinade, and refrigerate for 1 hour, turning frequently. 2  Preheat barbecue for high heat, and lightly oil cooking grate. 3  Barbecue swordfish steaks for 5 to 6 minutes on each side. 4  Garnish with parsley and lemon wedges
Directions. In a bowl combine juice of the lime, ginger, garlic and onion. Add olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place swordfish steak in baking pan and pour marinade over fish. Coat and let sit for 15 to 30 minutes. Remove fish from pan and grill in cast iron pan or on grill for about 3 minutes per side. Recipe Courtesy of Food Network Kitchens.
1 Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper on both sides. 2  Place oil in a flat dish, and add soy sauce, vinegar, rosemary, garlic, coriander, cumin, lemon rind and pepper flakes. 3  Blend well. 4  Place fish steaks in marinade, coat well on both sides, cover with plastic wrap and let stand for 15 minutes. Preparation. 1  Preheat a charcoal grill or broiler. 2  Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper on both sides. 3  Place oil in a flat dish, and add soy sauce, vinegar, rosemary, garlic, coriander, cumin, lemon rind and pepper flakes. 4