Sea turtles feed on a wide range of animals and plants. They are mostly omnivorous in their adult life, except the green sea turtle which is herbivorous, changing from a carnivorous diet when young. Adult green sea turtles are herbivores. Globally, the Kemp's ridley, and hawksbill sea turtles are listed as Critically Endangered, the loggerhead and green as Endangered, the olive ridley and leatherback as Vulnerable and the flatback as Data Deficient, meaning that its conservation status is unclear due to lack of data.
Turtles. Turtles are reptiles of the order Testudines (all living turtles belong to the crown group Chelonia), most of whose body is shielded by a special bony or cartilaginous shell developed from their ribs. The top part of the shell is called a carapace and the bottom is called the plastron just like a Tortoise. Green Sea Turtle (Chelonia mydas) – is named for the green colouring of the fat underneath its shell. Adults are 3.5 to 4 feet (76 – 91 centimetres) in carapace length and weigh 300 – 400 pounds. The green turtle is the largest of the Cheloniidae family.
Turtle may either refer to the order as a whole, or to particular turtles that make up a form taxon that is not monophyletic. The meaning of the word turtle differs from region to region. In North America, all chelonians are commonly called turtles, including terrapins and tortoises. In Great Britain, the word turtle is used for sea-dwelling species, but not for tortoises. 
The leatherback sea turtle (Dermochelys coriacea), sometimes called the lute turtle or leathery turtle, is the largest of all living turtles and is the fourth-heaviest modern reptile behind three crocodilians. It is the only living species in the genus Dermochelys and family Dermochelyidae. 
A group of adult sea turtles would be called a Bale. A group of baby sea turtles would be called Hatchlings. Yes most Green Sea Turtles observed by Florida State biologists do travel and or live in groups under the sea. But the strange thing about these turtles are that when they sle … ep they do not sleep together.
The seven living species of sea turtles are: leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle. All species except the leatherback are in the family Cheloniidae. Globally, the Kemp's ridley, and hawksbill sea turtles are listed as Critically Endangered, the loggerhead and green as Endangered, the olive ridley and leatherback as Vulnerable and the flatback as Data Deficient, meaning that its conservation status is unclear due to lack of data.
National Aquarium. The green sea turtle gets its name not from the color of its shell (which is typically brown, gray, black and yellow) but from the greenish shade of its fat. A serrated beak helps these herbivores tear through vegetation. Green Sea Turtle. The green sea turtle gets its name not from the color of its shell (which is typically brown, gray, black and yellow) but from the greenish shade of its fat.
There are seven species of sea turtles. They are the leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle. Globally, the Kemp's ridley, and hawksbill sea turtles are listed as Critically Endangered, the loggerhead and green as Endangered, the olive ridley and leatherback as Vulnerable and the flatback as Data Deficient, meaning that its conservation status is unclear due to lack of data.