Water temperature climatology information is available for each site above. Click for info. Wrightsville Beach is a 4.5 mile long barrier island located in New Hanover County, NC. From June through early October water temperatures are practically tropical making this beach perfect for swimming and surfing. The water cools significantly during the winter months due to cold offshore winds and longer nights
1 Physical Characteristics of the Great Lakes. 2  Average Surface Water Temperature from the Great Lakes Surface Environmental Analysis (GLSEA). 3  Previous 365 days GLSEA Average Surface Water Temperature (1024x1024). 
It also is 0.7 degrees warmer through its entire volume. Lake Erie is warmer than last year, but not by much. The average surface water temperature is 68.8 degrees compared to 68.4 degrees last year. The whole water volume is 0.2 degrees warmer this year. Lake Ontario is almost two degrees warmer than last year. It's 62.0 degrees now and was 60.3 degrees last year. The whole body of water in Lake Ontario is the same temperature as last year, 43.4 degrees. If we continue to inch above the average temperatures on land, the Great Lakes water temperatures will continue to warm to higher temperatures
If a pool is used for just one of the above-mentioned programs, you do not have a problem. However, if your pool is used for a variety of aquatic programs, you have what we call a multi-purpose pool. The water temperature at the average indoor multi-purpose pool in the USA is 84 to 86 degrees. | | | | |. | | | | |. Many of our Forms and Publications available on this website are in PDF format. 
Average Annual Temperatures in Michigan. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns, parks and lakes throughout Michigan are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010
Average winter temperatures range from a high of 67.4 degrees Fahrenheit (19.7 degrees Celsius) in Hawaii to a low of 2.6 °F (-16.3 °C) in Alaska. For the entire United States, excluding Hawaii and Alaska, the season averages just above freezing at 33.2 °F (0.7 °C). 
A comparison between Lake Superior's average water temperature this year so far and the longer-term average. Click on the image for a larger version. Credit: GLERL. OK, so the lake’s average water temperature is still a bracing 68 degrees, but it's considered downright tropical for the region. As the above chart shows, based on the 30-year average, the lake’s average water temperature should be in the mid-50s.
Sea surface temperature (SST) is the water temperature close to the ocean 's surface. The exact meaning of surface varies according to the measurement method used, but it is between 1 millimetre (0.04 in) and 20 metres (70 ft) below the sea surface. A wetbulb temperature at 500 hPa in a tropical atmosphere of −13.2 °C (8.2 °F) is required to initiate convection if the water temperature is 26.5 °C (79.7 °F), and this temperature requirement increases or decreases proportionally by 1 °C in the sea surface temperature for each 1 °C change at 500 hpa.