Unfortunately, it's not something that has been studied very well. What has been studied are the larger snakes. It is estimated that an anaconda can exert a force of up to 600 psi. A python is estimated at a maximum of 200 psi. Smaller snakes would be much lower. Snakes don't necessarily exert their maximum force under everyday circumstances.
Instead, a few muscles could claim the title, depending on how strength is measured. If the title goes to the muscle that can exert the most force, the victor would be the soleus, or the calf muscle, according to Gray's Anatomy, the anatomy textbook.
Pushing 100 pounds per arm isn't likely for an 'average' male, and it would be hard for an average weight male to lean with that much force. Edit: And remember-if the area you're bonding is 10 sq.in., it doesn't matter how big the tool is-you need 2000 pounds of force behind it. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It all depends how it's being exerted. If you're using a tool, try hinging it (on something very solid!), make your side of the lever 10 times longer than the short side, and you need only pull down with 20 pounds of force. However, if you just have a tool for pressing, with no leverage, you'd need to be pushing up with your legs most likely
Our second molars can exert a bite force between 1,100 and 1,300 Newtons, beating the orang-utan, gibbon and Australopithecus but lagging behind the gorilla, chimp and Paranthropus. These forces are roughly what you’d expect for a primate of our size. So not only is our bite very respectable, our jaw muscles need to exert considerably less force from to produce it. This explains some peculiar characteristics of our skulls. Our teeth are as tough as those of other primates because they still need to withstand the relatively high forces exerted by our bite.
And if you scale all the skulls to the same size, we suddenly become the leader of the pack. If all the jaw muscles clenched with the same force, our teeth would exert a bite force that’s at least 40% greater than any of the other primates, save the gibbon. So not only is our bite very respectable, our jaw muscles need to exert considerably less force from to produce it. This explains some peculiar characteristics of our skulls. Our teeth are as tough as those of other primates because they still need to withstand the relatively high forces exerted by our bite.
The average bite pressure is in the range of 2840 to 4270 psi. . Therefore, while the bite force itself averaged 117 to 265 lbs, the pressure. remained constant at about 5600 psi…certainly enough to puncture light weight. sheetmetal. 1400 lbs per square inch One of the things that disturb me most and get me angry are sceptical attitude and ignorance. 1400lbs is the bite pressure of an ALLIGATOR, not a … dog! In the canine world the bite pressure (tested by National Geographic with electronic machines) ranges from around 200Psi to 500PSi..
It has been said that a Rottweiler dog's bite pressure now can exceed 2000 pounds per square inch. Years ago the Pit bull was clocked in as to have a bite pressure of 15 … 00 psi and up. The advantage of being bit by a Rottweiler is that this breed of dog's jaw does not lock like the Pitbull's has been know to. 1400 lbs per square inch One of the things that disturb me most and get me angry are sceptical attitude and ignorance. 1400lbs is the bite pressure of an ALLIGATOR, not a … dog! In the canine world the bite pressure (tested by National Geographic with electronic machines) ranges from around 200Psi to 500PSi..
The jaw muscles can produce 200 pounds of pressure on the molars. Pressure exerted in a human bite of food varies from 30 to 270 pounds. report this answer. Updated on Sunday, February 05 2012 at 07:05PM GMT. Source: query.nytimes.com/...