I-601A Provisional Waiver Processing Time. I-601A provisional waiver processing times can vary, but the goal is for most applications to receive a decision in less than six months. Some waiver applications may receive faster decisions while others could take longer
Waivers. We have presented 3 and 10 year bar waivers all over the world in the course of my 24 years of practicing family immigration law. Timing varies by country, but keep in mind we are saving a great deal of time when compared to a 3 and 10 year wait/separation from your loved one. NEW WAIVER LAW FOR ILLEGALS. If your foreign spouse is currently in the U.S. and entered the U.S. illegally, he or she may not have to depart the U.S. and wait for months for a decision on the 1-601 Extreme Hardship Waiver.
The filing fees will be $670 (including $585 for the waiver’s filing fee and $85 for biometrics processing). Back to Top. No. You need to pay for the biometric ($85) and filling fees ($585) for your I-601A provisional waiver application. In terms of processing times, USCIS and DOS are coordinating closely to make sure that the timing of the approval of a provisional unlawful presence waiver application is close to the time of the scheduled immigrant visa interview abroad. Generally, it takes 4 to 6 months to process an I-601A
If you are currently in Uruguay and need an immigration waiver, you most likely would apply for an I601 waiver after your immigrant visa interview. The I601A waiver is only an option if you are currently in the United States and need an unlawful presence waiver in order to get an immigrant visa. I-601A provisional waiver processing times can vary, but the goal is for most applications to receive a decision in less than six months. Some waiver applications may receive faster decisions while others could take longer
December 11, 2013 By Kimberley Schaefer Leave a Comment. One of the most common questions about the misrepresentation waiver process is: “How long will it take?” Learn more about the timeline for a misrepresentation waiver case and what you can do to get the fastest possible decision. 
Is it possible to waive the biometrics or filing fees for an I-601A waiver application? No. You need to pay for the biometric ($85) and filling fees ($585) for your I-601A provisional waiver application. In terms of processing times, USCIS and DOS are coordinating closely to make sure that the timing of the approval of a provisional unlawful presence waiver application is close to the time of the scheduled immigrant visa interview abroad. Generally, it takes 4 to 6 months to process an I-601A
If the 601A Waiver is approved, your spouse can remain in the U.S. until a few days before the visa interview in his or her country. Then your spouse will travel to his or her country, take a medical exam and have the visa interview. NEW WAIVER LAW FOR ILLEGALS. If your foreign spouse is currently in the U.S. and entered the U.S. illegally, he or she may not have to depart the U.S. and wait for months for a decision on the 1-601 Extreme Hardship Waiver.
· just now. Report Abuse. It take 2 weeks to get Visa Waiver Program. With Visa Waiver you can stay in US for 90 days, and extended up to another 90 days.So have a strong reason why you want to return back after 90 days. For the second visit its recommended to stay in Japan for 6 months. Source(s): http://www.immigrationdirect.com/USCISFo... 
If you are a would-be immigrant who is inadmissible to the U.S. (as discussed in  Inadmissibility: When the U.S. Can Keep You Out ), you may be able to overcome this by applying for what's called a waiver of inadmissibility, on Form I-601. The chances of your I-601 waiver application being denied may be higher if aggravating factors are present. Aggravating factors include, but are not limited to, prior violations of immigration law, criminal charges, arrests, convictions, and marriage fraud.