In day-to-day talking with our friends or family, we tend to speak of depression, stress and anxiety as if they are interchangeable or describing the same thing. This is not the case. Part of the reason for coming to see a psychologist, is to sort out whether any of these descriptions fit your experience. 
Here's an explanation of the differences between anxiety and depression, and some comments on the recovery process. However, as always, if you have the troubles described in this article, you are well advised to discuss these problems with a professional therapist. A person whose primary problem is depression, rather than anxiety, generally doesn't show the same fear and uncertainty that people do with anxiety disorders.
Depression is a symptom sometimes experienced by people with anxiety disorders, and anxiety is sometimes a symptom experienced by people with depression. The person experiencing the depression or anxiety often can tell which came first and which is more dominant. 
Stress vs Depression. Although Stress and Depression are two words that are often understood in one and the same sense, there is a difference between them. First let us pay attention to the definitions of the two words. Stress is a kind of tension that arises from our daily dealings with the world. On the other hand, depression is a kind of change in the mood caused by biochemical imbalance. This is the main differences between stress and depression.
Anxiety vs. Depression. While the terms anxiety and depression may be used in the same context there are many differences between the two psychological problems. Anxiety is a constant feeling of overwhelming worry. Depression is the overwhelming feeling of hoplessness. Depression affects the hypothalamus and anxiety affects the amygdala. Both depression and anxiety are treated with therapy or prescribed medications.
Between Anxiety and Depression, we can identify a number of differences. These are studied in disciplines such as psychology in relation to the mental health of individuals. First let us define the two words. Anxiety is a response to stress. On the other hand, Depression is a mood disorder. This is the key difference between the two. Through this article let us examine the differences between the two conditions.
By Vanessa Taylor, Thu, April 07, 2011. The difference between anxiety and depression isn't as clear as one might initially assume. While they are different disorders with different diagnostic criteria, they often occur together and there can be overlap in symptoms. Some people who struggle with an anxiety disorder will go on to develop depression as well, as a secondary condition related to their anxiety.
Commonalities Between Anxiety and Depression. One of the reasons that the two have a great deal in common is because both cause changes in neurotransmitter function-especially serotonin. Low serotonin levels play a role in both anxiety and depression. Dopamine and epinephrine play a role in both as well. The best way to understand the difference between the two disorders is with the primary symptoms, starting with the mental symptoms. Anxiety: 1  Apprehension over what's about to happen and what could happen in the future. 2  Worried thoughts, or a belief that something could go wrong.
One of the most common issues that people have is trying to tell the difference between anxiety and depression. While the two share a lot in common, they are separate conditions, and your disorder plays a very important role in your treatment. The best way to understand the difference between the two disorders is with the primary symptoms, starting with the mental symptoms. Anxiety: 1  Apprehension over what's about to happen and what could happen in the future. 2  Worried thoughts, or a belief that something could go wrong.