Any type of beans can be used, including kidney beans, black beans, white beans, and pinto beans, and some cooks like to use a blend of beans to enhance the flavor and make the dish more interesting. When preparing chili beans, the first step is washing and soaking the beans. If you do, there are several things you can do to decrease those side effects of having chili beans. First is to boil the beans well like the article said and throw out the water you boiled them in. Always rinse the beans and never use the same water you boiled them to cook the chili.
Small Chili Beans. While they may be small, they don't lack in flavor or nutrition. The Native American tepary bean, while small, cooks nicely in chilies, stews and soups. Additionally consider the flageolet bean which is white or pale green-colored, with a smooth, soft texture. White chili commonly benefits from paler beans like the white navy bean or cannellini bean. Other types of common beans used for chili include the pinto bean, black beans or red Mexican beans.
Never, ever use kidney beans in chili if you add beans. Never, ever! Kidney beans are too mealy. If you must add beans, use red beans as your first choice. Red beans are not kidney beans. Not! As a second choice use pinto beans. No Mexican I know has ever eaten kidney beans. 
I like to slow cook my chili too. I have used all sorts of beans in it, whatever I have on hand I throw in. Pinto beans and kidney beans seem to be the favorite. But I have also tried black beans, and that gave it a nice taste. Go with what you like or what is on sale that week. Is there such... show more I'm planning on making chili in the crockpot and am just wondering what kinds of beans are good to use in chili and if anyone has any good recipes. In my opinion, there are many different beans that could be used and even combined, but I'm not really sure what the best kinds together are.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Typically if you want to add beans to your chili, Light or Dark Red Kidney Beans are normally used; however, to add flare to the dish, you may also add, as I do, Black Beans, Pinto Beans, or Great Northern White Beans. Add a can of each to add color, texture and of course great taste. Pintos. Just get a can of them, drain most of the water off and add to the chili after it's cooked. You can use any kind you like, really. Kidney beans or red beans are ok too.
Common Chili Beans. In red chilies, red and brown beans such as light and dark-red kidney beans add protein and thick texture when simmered with tomato sauce, beef and spices. White chili commonly benefits from paler beans like the white navy bean or cannellini bean. Other types of common beans used for chili include the pinto bean, black beans or red Mexican beans. All these types blend well together in a batch of chili or work well alone combined with other chili ingredient
Vegetarian chili, white chili, meat chili or Southwest chili -- all chili recipes made with beans round out a recipe and give your dish the right texture. A proper selection of beans can give the right color, texture and flavor to any batch of chili. White chili commonly benefits from paler beans like the white navy bean or cannellini bean. Other types of common beans used for chili include the pinto bean, black beans or red Mexican beans.
It all depends on the kind of chili you are making. Most chilies use a tomato based sauce, but white chili uses chicken or vegetable broth instead. Whatever kind of sauce you use, it will always include chili powder and cumin. 