Mastoiditis, a mastoid sinus infection, was fatal prior to invention of antibiotics. Now-a-days, mastoiditis is uncommon and a less dangerous disease. Thanks to antibiotics! However, treating mastoiditis is still difficult because medication may not reach the affected area. However, if symptoms of mastoid sinus infection are ignored or not treated properly, complications may occur, such as. 1  It may damage the mastoid bone. 2  Patients may feel vertigo or dizziness. 3  Epidural abscess, pus accumulated between the bones of the spine or skull and the outer membrane of the brain, may develop.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mastoiditis is the result of an infection that extends to the air cells of the skull behind the ear. Specifically, it is an inflammation of the mucosal lining of the mastoid antrum and mastoid air cell system inside the mastoid process. The mastoid process is the portion of the temporal bone of the skull that is behind the ear which contains open, air-containing spaces. Some common symptoms and signs of mastoiditis include pain, tenderness, and swelling in the mastoid region. There may be ear pain (otalgia), and the ear or mastoid region may be red (erythematous).
Coalescent mastoiditis occurs when inflammation and other symptoms of the disease persists over 2-4 weeks. This infection may obliterate mastoid sinuses and destroy lining around the bone. Cholesteatoma, a skin cyst in the middle ear, can also disrupt the ear drainage system, causing mastoiditis. However, incidences of mastoiditis in adults are very less in number. Common Symptoms. 1  Discomfort or pain in the ear may occur. 2  Discharge from the ear is common. 3  The source of discharge may be located in the perforated eardrum. 4  Entire ear or back of the ear may become red. 5  Swelling may occur behind the ear. 6  A tender and painful abscess may occur due to mastoid bone’s damaged cortex
Mastoiditis is an inflammation or infection of the sinus behind the middle ear (Mastoid sinus). This can be often seen on imaging studies such as MRI (see below). 
Mastoiditis is a bacterial infection of the mastoid bone. The mastoid bone, which sits behind the ear, consists of air spaces that help drain the middle ear. When the mastoid cells become infected or inflamed, often as a result of an unresolved middle ear infection (otitis media), mastoiditis can develop. Mastoiditis symptoms may include: 1  Fever, irritability, and lethargy. 2  Swelling of the ear lobe. 3  Redness and tenderness behind the ear. 4  Drainage from the ear. 5  Bulging and drooping of the ear (in acute mastoiditis).
Common Symptoms. 1  Discomfort or pain in the ear may occur. 2  Discharge from the ear is common. 3  Entire ear or back of the ear may become red. 4  Swelling may occur behind the ear. 5  Patients may suffer from high fever, which may increase suddenly. 6  Mastoiditis affects ability to hear. 7  Headache and irritability are two other common symptoms of the disease. However, incidences of mastoiditis in adults are very less in number. Common Symptoms. 1  Discomfort or pain in the ear may occur. 2  Discharge from the ear is common. 3  The source of discharge may be located in the perforated eardrum. 4  Entire ear or back of the ear may become red. 5  Swelling may occur behind the ear. 6  A tender and painful abscess may occur due to mastoid bone’s damaged cortex
Back to Top Causes. Mastoiditis is usually caused by a middle ear infection (acute otitis media). The infection may spread from the ear to the mastoid bone of the skull. The mastoid bone fills with infected materials and its honeycomb-like structure may deteriorate. Mastoiditis usually affects children. Before antibiotics, mastoiditis was one of the leading causes of death in children