A Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) is a type of motor controller that drives an electric motor by varying the frequency and voltage supplied to the electric motor. Other names for a VFD are variable speed drive, adjustable speed drive, adjustable frequency drive, AC drive, microdrive, and inverter. Frequency (or hertz) is directly related to the motor’s speed (RPMs). In other words, the faster the frequency, the faster the RPMs go.
A frequency inverter changes output voltage frequency and magnitude to vary the speed, power, and torque of a connected induction motor to meet load conditions. ... Frequency inverter reconstruction of Power Plant promoted heightening of economy benefit. In a 3-phase frequency inverter, there are six switches with a pair of switches for each phase. In each pair of switches, one switch generates the positive component of the sine wave and the second generates the negative component of the sine wave from the dc bus voltage.
frequency inverter is a device to change AC power to variable frequency/voltage AC power, means the output frequency and voltage are adjustable, it's special used for control … AC motor speed in energy saving, like fans and pumps system. 5 people found this useful. Emdrgreg. One most important thing is the out power of frequency inverter just can be used for controlling AC motor, while frequency converter can be treated as normal power supply as our daily using power grid. zhuge fs.
IGBTs typically are not used in frequency inverter rectifier front-ends. frequency inverter rectifiers typically use SCRs or similar slower switching components. SCRs offer an advantage in that their simpler design is more robust given variable input voltage quality and have a relatively low cost. In a 3-phase frequency inverter, there are six switches with a pair of switches for each phase. In each pair of switches, one switch generates the positive component of the sine wave and the second generates the negative component of the sine wave from the dc bus voltage.
Frequency converters are used to change the frequency and magnitude of the constant grid voltage to a variable load voltage. Frequency converters are especially used in variable frequency AC motor drives. Fig. 1. Operation principle of the frequency converter fed induction motor. Frequency converter. Frequency converters are used to change the frequency and magnitude of the constant grid voltage to a variable load voltage. Frequency converters are especially used in variable frequency AC motor drives. Fig. 1. Operation principle of the frequency converter fed induction motor. Fig.
A variable-frequency drive (VFD) (also termed adjustable-frequency drive, variable-speed drive, AC drive, micro drive or inverter drive) is a type of adjustable-speed drive used in electro-mechanical drive systems to control AC motor speed and torque by varying motor input frequency and voltage. 
A frequency inverter is a precision electronic device specifically designed and used to control the speed of AC induction motors without affecting the electric consumption, torque, impedance, magnetic flux, etc. of the motor. The electronic circuit in a frequency inverter unit is discretely divided into three main stages, viz. an input converter (bridge rectifier stage), a DC Bus (filter stage), and an output inverter (using micro controllers and IGBTs).
Saving energy now! Frequency inverter also called frequency converter, it is a power control conversion device to convert normal power supply (50Hz or 60Hz) to another frequency power by inner power semiconductor on/off behaviors, to control electric motors in variable speed operations. When the frequency inverter is installed, it can decrease the pump speed from N1 to N2 with the pipe network resistance curve (1) being unchanged, so the working intersection A transfers to C. At this time, the consumed axis power can be represented by the area of H3COQ2.
A frequency inverter controls the speed or torque of an electric motor. It can operate in four quadrants, by acceleration or braking, and in either direction. Industrial uses for these devices include the control of high-power electric motors, machine tools and transport machinery. 