chile; chili; chili pepper; chilli; chilly (very hot and finely tapering pepper of special pungency). Meronyms (substance of chili pepper): cayenne; cayenne pepper; red pepper (ground pods and seeds of pungent red peppers of the genus Capsicum). Holonyms (chili pepper is a member of...): 1. plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers; usually red. 2. very hot and finely tapering pepper of special pungency. Familiarity information: CHILI PEPPER used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
Wash and dry the chile peppers. Place chili peppers on a baking sheet; broil 3 to 5 minutes each side until blackened. Remove from oven. Place hot chile pepper in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap or an air-tight lid, and allow to steam for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, remove chile peppers. Guajillo Chile Peppers: Guajilla Chile Peppers are one of the backbone chile peppers used in cooking Mexican-style dishes. This shiny, deep orange with brown tones measures about 4 to 6 inches long and 1 to 1 1/2 inches across.
Everyone enjoys chili peppers. There are so many different kinds and they are used in so many different recipes. Between jalapeno, paprika, cayenne, serrano and ancho, not to mention your average mild peppers, you can grow chili peppers in a variety of types, sizes and colors. Growing chili peppers is done best when the temperature at night reaches and maintains itself between 60 and 70 degrees F. Further, during the day, a temperature maintaining itself between 70 and 80 degrees F. is absolutely ideal. You do not want to transplant your indoor starters until then.
The chili pepper (also chile pepper or chilli pepper, from Nahuatl chīlli [ˈt͡ʃiːli]) is the fruit of plants from the genus Capsicum, members of the nightshade family, Solanaceae. In Britain, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, India, and other Asian countries, the word pepper is usually omitted. The substances that give chili peppers their intensity when ingested or applied topically are capsaicin (8-methyl-N -vanillyl-6-nonenamide) and several related chemicals, collectively called capsaicinoids. Chili peppers originated in the Americas. After the Columbian Exchange, many cultivars of chili pepper spread across the world, used in both food and medicine. Chilies were brought to Asia by Portuguese navigators during the 16th century. India is the world's largest producer, consumer and exporter of chili peppers
• CHILI PEPPER (noun). The noun CHILI PEPPER has 2 senses: 1. plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers; usually red. 2. very hot and finely tapering pepper of special pungency. Familiarity information: CHILI PEPPER used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
Chile Powder is just that – powder ground from dried chile (capsicum) peppers. It’s not the same as chili powder, which I’ll talk about in a minute. When you look at the ingredients of chile powder, you should see ONLY “chile peppers”, “dry red chile peppers”, or “dried cayenne peppers” – something like that. Some Texas chili recipes use chili powder as the seasoning, while others use chiles with herbs and spices. New Mexico has a chile con carne made with dried, red New Mexico chiles or chile powder, herbs and spices. As far as how it is spelled, I’ve seen it spelled both as chili con carne and chile con carne.
In a large pot, place chile peppers and cover with hot (not boiling) water and let soak for approximately 1 hour (don't soak more than an hour and save the juice to spice soups). NOTE: Some people remove the seeds and membrane after the soak process. Guajillo Chile Peppers: Guajilla Chile Peppers are one of the backbone chile peppers used in cooking Mexican-style dishes. This shiny, deep orange with brown tones measures about 4 to 6 inches long and 1 to 1 1/2 inches across.
The noun CHILI has 2 senses: 1. ground beef and chili peppers or chili powder often with tomatoes and kidney beans. 2. very hot and finely tapering pepper of special pungency. Familiarity information: CHILI used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. cayenne; cayenne pepper (a long and often twisted hot red pepper). Holonyms (chili is a part of...): Capsicum annuum longum; cayenne; cayenne pepper; chili pepper; chilli pepper; jalapeno; long pepper (plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers; usually red).
Red Hot Chili Peppers (also sometimes shortened to . The Chili Peppers  or abbreviated as  RHCP ) are an American rock band formed in Los Angeles in 1983. The group's musical style primarily consists of rock with an emphasis on funk, as well as elements from other genres such as punk rock and psychedelic rock. Red Hot Chili Peppers were formed in Los Angeles by Fairfax High School classmates singer Anthony Kiedis, guitarist Hillel Slovak, bassist Flea and drummer Jack Irons.