In order to cross the hydrophobic interior of the bilayer, water-soluble molecules (those that are either charged or have polar groups) and large molecules require the action of membrane transport proteins. These integral membrane proteins provide a continuous protein-lined pathway through the bilayer. 
Water and lipids are the two major types of solvent in the body. The lipid cell membrane separates the intracellular fluid from the extracellular fluid (as discussed in Section 2.1). Substances which are water soluble typically do not cross lipid membranes easily unless specific transport mechanisms are present. It might be expected that water would likewise not cross cell membranes easily. Indeed, in artificial lipid bilayers, water does not cross easily and this is consistent with our expectation.
Biology I Chapter 5 Membranes LearnSmart 1. The lipid bilayer of cell membranes acts as a barrier to the free movement of substances that are o Hydrophilic o Water soluble 2. True or False: In order to survive, grow and reproduce, a cell must continually exchange materials and information with its environment. o True 3. 
In some membranes the water flux is very high and cannot be accounted for by water diffusion across lipid barriers. A consideration of this fact lead to the hypothesis that membranes must contain protein which provide an aqueous channel through which water can pass. Substances which are water soluble typically do not cross lipid membranes easily unless specific transport mechanisms are present. It might be expected that water would likewise not cross cell membranes easily. Indeed, in artificial lipid bilayers, water does not cross easily and this is consistent with our expectation.
Recall that phospholipids have a hydrophobic end and a hydrophilic end and that when placed in water they will orient themselves accordingly (5.11 pg 79). This is the basis for the plasma membrane of a cell. The cell membrane consists of a phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. We refer to the modern conceptual model of the cell membrane as the fluid mosaic model since the phospholipids are able to move about across the surface of the membrane (fluid) and the proteins are many and varied (mosaic) (5.12). Some molecules, such as hydrocarbons and oxygen can cross the membrane. Many large molecules (such as glucose and other sugars) cannot. Water can pass through between the lipids. Ions such as H+ or Na+ cannot.
Some molecules or particles are too large or too hydrophilic to pass through a lipid bilayer. Other molecules could pass through the bilayer but must be transported rapidly in such large numbers that channel-type transport is impractical. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. The cell membranes of almost all living organisms and many viruses are made of a lipid bilayer, as are the membranes surrounding the cell nucleus and other sub-cellular structures. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
Transport proteins make passage possible for molecules and ions that would not be able to pass through a plain phospholipid bilayer. Some transport proteins have a hydrophilic tunnel through them which allows polar molecule or ions to pass. Others actually bind to the molecules and move them across the membrane. Some molecules, such as hydrocarbons and oxygen can cross the membrane. Many large molecules (such as glucose and other sugars) cannot. Water can pass through between the lipids. Ions such as H+ or Na+ cannot.
A major component ofevery membrane is a collection of proteins that floaton or in the lipid bilayer. These proteins provide pas-sageways that allow substances and information tocross the membrane. Many membrane proteins arenot fixed in position; they can move about, as thephospholipid molecules do. Osmosis is the diffusion of water, but not solutes,across a membrane.Chapter 6 Membranes 115 UreamoleculeWatermoleculesSemipermeablemembrane FIGURE 6.16How solutes create osmotic pressure. Charged or polar substances are soluble inwater because they form hydrogen bonds withwater molecules clustered around them.