LEGAL AGE There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Georgia, Illiniois, Maryland and Oregon are a few of the states with specific ages specified in their laws. 12 years of age appears to be the most common recommendation.
No magical age or single indicator that ensures a child is ready to stay at home alone (or with younger siblings). Some states have made laws that specify an age (e.g. 10 years old) below which it is illegal to leave children alone. Other states (such as California) do not set a specific age, but rather, consider the maturity level of the child.
Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14).
In the state of Illinois, the legal age to leave a child home alone  is 14. Illinois is one of only 13 states that have a latch key law  on the books.
Legal age for kids home alone. Some states have laws governing what age you can legally leave them home, ranging from age 8 all the way to age 14. Check out the list here to see the specific laws in your state. Most states, however, do not have laws, leaving the decision up to the parent.
Most places believe that 12 or 13 is okay to leave home alone for a couple of hours during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines.
Below in Related Links is an article entitled Home Alone Children Legal Age Limits which provides one guideline from a California agency representative who suggests that 8 year olds and over can be left at home for up to several hours (usually after school before a parent gets home from work).
The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous.
Maryland and Illinois law specify the age at which a child can be left alone at home. In Maryland it is 8 years while it is 14 in Illinois. So leaving a child below these years is against the law in these states.