A varicocele /ˈvaerɨkɵsiːl/ ˈværɨkɵsiːl is an abnormal enlargement of the pampiniform venous plexus in the. scrotum Defective valves, or compression of the vein by a nearby structure, can cause dilatation of the testicular veins near the testis, leading to the formation of a varicocele. Varicocele is known as one of the main causes for male infertility and can be treated by a surgery or non-surgical treatments.
Varicoceles are a relatively common condition (affecting approximately 10 percent of men) that tends to occur in young men, usually during the second or third decade of life. Sometimes, these varicoceles cause no symptoms and are harmless. 
Guide. Varicoceles are enlarged varicose veins that occur in the scrotum. They are fairly common, affecting 15 out of 100 men overall and 40 out of 100 men with known infertility. Varicoceles occur most often in the left testicle. Varicocele repair is done to improve male fertility. 
Open surgical ligation, performed by a urologist, is the most common treatment for symptomatic varicoceles. Varicocele embolization, a nonsurgical treatment performed by an interventional radiologist, is as effective as surgery with less risk, less pain and less recovery time. Varicocele embolization or catheter-directed embolization: Varicocele embolization (also called catheter-directed embolization) is a nonsurgical treatment performed by an interventional radiologist that is a highly effective, widely available technique to treat
There are no drugs to treat or prevent varicoceles. But pain killers (such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen) may help with pain. When needed, surgery is the main form of treatment. Embolization (briefly blocking the veins) is a non-surgical treatment option. 
A varicocele /ˈvaerɨkɵsiːl/ ˈværɨkɵsiːl is an abnormal enlargement of the pampiniform venous plexus in the. Scrotum this plexus of veins drains the. testicles Defective valves, or compression of the vein by a nearby structure, can cause dilatation of the testicular veins near the testis, leading to the formation of a varicocele. Varicocele is known as one of the main causes for male infertility and can be treated by a surgery or non-surgical treatments.
Varicocele. A varicocele (VAR-ih-koe-seel) is an enlargement of the veins within the loose bag of skin that holds your testicles (scrotum). A varicocele is similar to a varicose vein that can occur in your leg. Varicoceles are a common cause of low sperm production and decreased sperm quality, which can cause infertility. However, not all varicoceles affect sperm production. Varicoceles can also cause testicles to fail to develop normally or shrink
Surgical Therapy. The primary form of treatment for varicoceles is surgery. Because of the potential to cause significant testicular damage, evaluate the varicocele during the physical examination. The presence of a varicocele does not mean surgical correction is necessar
A varicocele /ˈvaerɨkɵsiːl/ ˈværɨkɵsiːl is an abnormal enlargement of the pampiniform venous plexus in the. Scrotum this plexus of veins drains the. Testicles the testicular blood vessels originate in the abdomen and course down through the inguinal canal as part of the spermatic cord on their way to the. testis Defective valves, or compression of the vein by a nearby structure, can cause dilatation of the testicular veins near the testis, leading to the formation of a varicocele. Varicocele is known as one of the main causes for male infertility and can be treated by a surgery or non-surgical treatments.