There is more than one archipelago known as the Windward Islands. The most well-known is in the south of the Caribbean. The largest island in these Windward Islands is Dominic … a, with an area of 750 km2 or 290 sq mi. There is also a Windward Islands in the eastern part of the Society Islands, French Polynesia. The largest island here is Tahiti, with an area of 1045 km2 or 404 sq mi.
The Windward Islands are located on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Sea and form the southeastern boundary between the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean. The Windward group includes the islands of Martinique, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy. The Windward and Leeward Islands have a warm, mild climate and are frequent stops of the Caribbean cruise industry.
The Leeward Antilles is a chain of islands in the southern Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela. They include Aruba, Curacao, Bonaire, Isla la Tortuga and Isla la Margarita. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy. The Windward and Leeward Islands have a warm, mild climate and are frequent stops of the Caribbean cruise industry.
Some geographers include Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago in the Windward Islands. The Leeward Islands are located on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Sea and form the northeastern boundary between the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy. The Windward and Leeward Islands have a warm, mild climate and are frequent stops of the Caribbean cruise industry.
There is more than one archipelago known as the Windward Islands. The most well-known is in the south of the Caribbean. The largest island in these Windward Islands is Dominic … a, with an area of 750 km2 or 290 sq mi. There is also a Windward Islands in the eastern part of the Society Islands, French Polynesia. The largest island here is Tahiti, with an area of 1045 km2 or 404 sq mi. 
The Windward islands are situated at the foot of the Caribbean Sea and are a section of a line of fragmented land masses known as the Caribbean Lesser Antilles. The majority of the islands are volcanic and there are a few are flat coral structures (notably Barbados). The Caribbean Windward Islands are so named due to being on the windier and wetter side of the Lesser Antilles and consist of Martinique, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saint Lucia, Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago and Grenada.
The Leeward islands are situated in the Caribbean, they form a major part of a line of land masses called the Caribbean Lesser Antilles which widen out in the north. Most of the Leeward islands are volcanic with a few that are flat coral structures. 
They're called the Windward Islands because they're exposed to the wind (windward) of the northeast trade winds (northeasterlies). The Leeward Islands include the Virgin Islands, Dominica, Guadeloupe, Montserrat, Antigua, Barbuda, St. Kitts, Nevis, and Anguilla. The Windward Islands are southeastern islands of the Caribbean and include Martinique, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, the Grenadines, and Grenada.
The Windward Islands are the southern, generally larger islands of the Lesser Antilles, within the West Indies. They lie south of the Leeward Islands, between latitudes 12° and 16° N and longitudes 60° and 62° W in one definition. As a group they start from Dominica and reach southward to the North of Trinidad & Tobago. Most of the islands of the present Windward Islands were once ruled by France and considered to be part of the French Antilles. The Windward Islands are: 1  Dominica (formerly administered as part of the Leeward Islands). 2  Martinique.