• Administered to a large sample-representative of the population • Similar conditions and instructions for all tests-standardised testing procedures • Norms-mean scores on a test by a particular group of people (ideally same age, background, etc). 
A. Norms: Distribution of scores on a particular test by a well established group of people. 1  Population 2  .. total group of people for whom the test was developed. 3  Sample (Standardization sample) .. 4  group of people from the population used to the norm the test. A. Norms: Distribution of scores on a particular test by a well established group of people. 1  Population 2  .. Sample (Standardization sample) .. 3  Baseline information. 4  Representative (purposive).. 5  Non Representative (convenience, incidental) .. 6  National norms 7  .. Local norms 8  .. Within group norms ..
A psychological assessment can include numerous components such as norm-referenced psychological tests, informal tests and surveys, interview information, school or medical records, medical evaluation and observational data. A psychologist determines what information to use based on the specific questions being asked. 
Home » Psychological Testing » Norms. Norms refers to information regarding the group performance of a particular reference on a particular measure for which a person can be compared to. Norms mean standardized score. Scores on psychological test are most commonly interpreted by reference to norm that represents the test performance on standardization sample. Norms always ... 1 Norms indicate the individual’s relative standing in the normative sample and thus permit evaluation of his/her performance in refer to other persons. 2  Norms provide compared measures that permitted a direct comparison of the individual performance on difference test.
Psychological tests are written, visual, or verbal evaluations administered to assess the cognitive and emotional functioning of children and adults. Psychological tests are used to assess a variety of mental abilities and attributes, including achievement and ability, personality, and neurological functioning.
Developing & Using Test Norms to Compare Performance. A test norm is a set of scalar data describing the performance of a large number of people on that test. Test norms can be represented by two important statistics: Means and Standard Deviations. The most important measure in psychometrics is the arithmetical average or the mean. This is intuitive for many people.
Test norms, are generated during the process of test construction and test standardization. Norm is a statistical concept in psychometrics representing the aggregate responses of a standardized and representative group. These are established for a test, against which a subject is compared.
Lesson Summary. Intelligence tests, also called IQ tests, measure a person's innate abilities. To do this, a test needs standardization, or equal conditions for all test-takers; and norms, which allow you to compare your test scores with others. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account. Many psychological tests, including intelligence tests, are about comparing your score to others' scores to see how you did. Watch this lesson to find out about two important concepts in psychology: standardization and norms.
Norms allow you to compare your test scores with others. So, instead of just knowing that you got a 100 on the test, you could also be told that a score of 100 is at the 50th percentile. That tells you that roughly half of the people who are in the same group as you scored higher and lower than you did. Many psychological tests, including intelligence tests, are about comparing your score to others' scores to see how you did. Watch this lesson to find out about two important concepts in psychology: standardization and norms.