Sicca syndrome is usually found in those with multiple sclerosis. If the thymus is out of balance, autoimmune disease can occur, which is categorized as sicca syndrome. When the spleen is out of balance, autoimmune disease occurs. Sicca syndrome is conducive to dry eyes. 
Sicca syndrome: WHAT: Keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca (KCS): an eye condition in which there is decreased tear production and inflammation of the cornea and conjunctiva. WHY: Keratoconjunctivitis sicca is found in a significant number of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. KCS plus xerostomia is called the sicca syndrome. The association of the sicca syndrome with rheumatoid arthritis is known as Sjogren's syndrome. HOW: Clinically, patients with KCS may present with itching, burning eyes.
The diagnosis of the syndrome can also be aided by a biopsy of an affected gland. The treatment of Sjogren syndrome is directed toward the particular areas of the body that are involved by the disease and the complications such as infection. The term sicca refers to the dryness of the eyes and mouth. There is a great preponderance of females. About 90% of Sjogren syndrome patients are female, usually in middle age or older. Sjogren syndrome is an inflammatory disease of glands and other tissues of the body. Inflammation of the glands that produce tears (the lacrimal glands) leads to decreased tears and dry eyes.
Keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS) , also called dry eye syndrome (DES) or keratitis sicca, is an eye disease caused by eye dryness, which, in turn, is caused by either decreased tear production or increased tear film evaporation. 
Sicca syndrome: An autoimmune disease, also known as Sjogren syndrome, that classically combines dry eyes, dry mouth, and another disease of connective tissue such as rheumatoid arthritis (most common), lupus, scleroderma or polymyositis. There is a great preponderance of females. About 90% of Sjogren syndrome patients are female, usually in middle age or older. Sjogren syndrome is an inflammatory disease of glands and other tissues of the body. Inflammation of the glands that produce tears (the lacrimal glands) leads to decreased tears and dry eyes.
Dry eye can indicate the presence of Sicca syndrome. Dryness of the mouth is a key symptom of Sicca syndrome and can affect the ability to swallow. The continuing decline of the exocrine glands makes it impossible to produce moisture that is required for the proper functioning of the pancreas. Top 10 facts about the world. Also known as Mikulicz and Sjogren’s syndrome, Sicca syndrome is a health issue in which the proper function of the exocrine glands is disrupted. As the condition worsens, sufferers begin to experience dryness in the eyes and mouth
1 Sicca Syndrome: WHAT: Keratoconjunctivitis sicca. 2  Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca (KCS): an eye condition in which there is decreased tear production and inflammation of the cornea and conjunctiva. 3  WHY: Keratoconjunctivitis sicca is found in a significant number of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. 1 KCS plus xerostomia is called the sicca syndrome. 2  The association of the sicca syndrome with rheumatoid arthritis is known as Sjogren's syndrome. 3  HOW: Clinically, patients with KCS may present with itching, burning eyes.
Sicca Syndrome (Sjogren syndrome) - is an autoimmune disorder in which the glands that produce tears and saliva are destroyed, causing dry mouth and dry eyes. This condition may also affect many different parts of the body, including the kidneys and lungs. 