Why? Because Chardonnay is the most diverse –and most planted– white wine grape in the world. It’s used for everything from rich Sonoma Chardonnay to the light-and-zesty ‘Blanc de Blancs’ Champagne. Get to know the wide variety of styles of Chardonnay and pinpoint the one that’s perfect for you. Two Primary Chardonnay Tastes. If you like the idea of butter in your glass, you’ll love the classic style of oak-aged Chardonnay wine. On the other hand, if words like “Pinot Grigio” make you feel woozy with love, then your perfect Chardonnay is the unoaked kind.
Chardonnay is an important component of many sparkling wines around the world, including Champagne. A peak in popularity in the late 1980s gave way to a backlash among those wine connoisseur who saw the grape as a leading negative component of the globalization of wine. Today, the Chardonnay made in the Chablis region is one of the purest expression of the varietal character of the grape due to the simplistic style of winemaking favored in this region. Chablis winemakers want to emphasise the terroir of the calcareous soil and cooler climate that help maintain high acidity.
Chardonnay is the most popular white wine. Toasting with Chardonnay. Some — but not all — chardonnay wines are aged in oak barrels. Chardonnay is widely used in many of France’s most popular white wines. Wines made from the Chardonnay grape tend to be very full, and the flavor sensation grows once in the mouth, leaving a long, complex finish on a par with some red wines.
The Chardonnay grape itself is very neutral, with many of the flavors commonly associated with the grape being derived from such influences as terroir and oak. Today, the Chardonnay made in the Chablis region is one of the purest expression of the varietal character of the grape due to the simplistic style of winemaking favored in this region. Chablis winemakers want to emphasise the terroir of the calcareous soil and cooler climate that help maintain high acidity.
Chardonnay Wine. Chardonnay is the world’s most famous white-wine grape and also one of the most widely planted. Although the most highly regarded expressions of the variety are those from Burgundy and California, many high-quality examples are made in Italy, Australia, New Zealand and parts of South America. Describing the flavors of Chardonnay is no easy task.
In the United States, it's widely grown as a single-varietal wine and is one of the most popular white wines. The grape is also grown throughout New Zealand, South Africa, Australia, Italy, Chile, and nearly every other wine-producing country. Wines made from the Chardonnay grape tend to be very full, and the flavor sensation grows once in the mouth, leaving a long, complex finish on a par with some red wines.
Chardonnay is the most common and well known variety of white grape in wine production today. The most prominent flavor in Chardonnay wine comes from oak used in the wine production process. Other flavors and aromas include fruit, lemon, melon, grass, and vanilla. 
Definition of CHARDONNAY. : a dry white table wine typically made from a single white grape variety originally grown in France; also: the grape. ADVERTISEMENT.