If you can't find Publisher for free, you may want to look at other alternatives. Here is a free Publisher alternative that you can use online: https://www.lucidpress.com/pages/tour/fr...
An online Microsoft Publisher alternative. You don't have to purchase an Office 365 subscription to use Lucidpress online. Our tool was designed for use in any modern web browser to ensure minimal lagging and optimal creative capabilities.
Share a page as an email or send the entire publication in the email message (as HTML)—all the pages will be combined to one message for you. Microsoft Publisher 2016 is the latest version of Publisher. Previous versions include Publisher 2013, Publisher 2010, Publisher 2007, and Publisher 2003.
The download button will take you to the Microsoft website, where you can download a trial version of the complete Microsoft Office 2010 pack. This is the only way to obtain a trial version of Microsoft Publisher. You'll need a Windows Live account to download Microsoft Office 2010.
Microsoft no longer offers a trial version of Publisher 2010. You can download a free trial of Publisher 2013 instead. Microsoft Publisher is an editor and layout tool for printed and digital publications that’s part of the Microsoft Office productivity suite.
Notes. The download button will take you to the Microsoft website, where you can download a trial version of the complete Microsoft Office 2010 pack. This is the only way to obtain a trial version of Microsoft Publisher. You'll need a Windows Live account to download Microsoft Office 2010.
First of all, unless you have a copy of Publisher 2007 on disc and the keycode, this whole conversation is moot. Microsoft no longer offers Pub 2007. If you do have a copy then you can safely install it (use the correct terminolgy) but as I said, I would do a custom install and keep Publisher 2013.
SF. I bought and installed Office Home and Student 2010 about 3 or 4 months ago. I thought the program had Microsoft Publisher because an icon showed up on my desktop, but when I went to use this particular program, it wouldn't work.