Polyester is frequently used in clothing as it is strong and holds its shape. Polyester should be hand washed. Polyester is resistant to mold and mildew. Many drink bottles are recycled by being reheated and turned into polyester fibers. Polyester is a popular commercial fabric due to its durability. This substance is made from polyethylene terephthalate (PET), the same material that is used to make plastic drink bottles. Many drink bottles are recycled by being reheated and turned into polyester fibers, which, in addition to being an efficient use, also helps keep polymers out of landfills.
Polyester is a manufactured product, usually a textile, that is made from synthesized polymers. It tends to be very resilient, quick drying, resistant to biological damage such as mold and mildew, easy to wash and able to hold forms well. This substance is made from polyethylene terephthalate (PET), the same material that is used to make plastic drink bottles. Many drink bottles are recycled by being reheated and turned into polyester fibers, which, in addition to being an efficient use, also helps keep polymers out of landfills.
: a material that is made from a chemical process and that is used for making many different products including fabrics. : any of a group of polymers that consist basically of repeated units of an ester and are used especially in making fibers or plastics; also: a product (as a fiber or fabric) composed of polyester. — poly·es·ter·i·fi·ca·tion \-e-ˌster-ə-fə-ˈkā-shən\ noun.
PUL is a polyester/polyurethane laminated knit fabric with a laminate thickness of 1.00 mil. This fabric is waterproof, durable and has a slight crossgrain stretch. This product can be used in making diapers, changing mattress covers and applications that require waterproof fabric. CPSIA certified. PUL is a polyester/polyurethane laminated knit fabric with a laminate thickness of 1.33mm. This fabric is waterproof, durable and has a slight crossgrain stretch. This product can be used in making diapers, changing mattress covers and applications that require waterproof fabric. go to product.
Polyester is a category of polymers that contain the ester functional group in their main chain. As a specific material, it most commonly refers to a type called polyethylene terephthalate (PET). Polyesters include naturally occurring chemicals, such as in the cutin of plant cuticles, as well as synthetics through step-growth polymerization such as polybutyrate.
Full Definition of POLYESTER. : any of a group of polymers that consist basically of repeated units of an ester and are used especially in making fibers or plastics; also: a product (as a fiber or fabric) composed of polyester. — poly·es·ter·i·fi·ca·tion \-e-ˌster-ə-fə-ˈkā-shən\ noun.
Nylon and polyester are both synthetic fabrics, but nylon production is more expensive, which results in a higher price for the consumer. Nylon also tends to be more durable and weather-resistant, which is why it is more likely to be used in outdoor apparel or gear. 
Industrial polyester fibers, yarns and ropes are used in tyre reinforcements, fabrics for conveyor belts, safety belts, coated fabrics and plastic reinforcements with high-energy absorption. Polyester fiber is used as cushioning and insulating material in pillows, comforters and upholstery padding. Polyester fabrics are highly stain-resistant— in fact, the only class of dyes which can be used to alter the color of polyester fabric are what are known is disperse dyes. As a specific material, it most commonly refers to a type called polyethylene terephthalate (PET). Polyesters include naturally occurring chemicals, such as in the cutin of plant cuticles, as well as synthetics through step-growth polymerization such as polybutyrate.
Polyester is a synthetic fiber derived from coal, air, water, and petroleum. Developed in a 20th-century laboratory, polyester fibers are formed from a chemical reaction between an acid and alcohol. In this reaction, two or more molecules combine to make a large molecule whose structure repeats throughout its length. Polyester is a chemical term which can be broken into poly, meaning many, and ester, a basic organic chemical compound. The principle ingredient used in the manufacture of polyester is ethylene, which is derived from
Polyester is a strong and durable synthetic fabric. Polyester dries quickly and can be washable or dry clean only, so check your tags. Polyester is often used as a blend with other fabrics to lend wrinkle resistance. It is not the easiest fabric to remove stains from, and doesn't breathe as well as other fabrics may. This substance is made from polyethylene terephthalate (PET), the same material that is used to make plastic drink bottles. Many drink bottles are recycled by being reheated and turned into polyester fibers, which, in addition to being an efficient use, also helps keep polymers out of landfills.