noun. 1  a person who dates more than one person at a time, usually just for sex or other perks. 2  Will typically do anything to have sex with someone. 3  Carries a heavy negative connotation. 4  Usually used to describe males, but could be used to describe females who act in this manner. 5  Often pronounced  playa . Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation
1 Often pronounced  playa 2  . He is such a player! 3  See more words with the same meaning: flirting, hit on, pimp, player, wing-man. 4  See more words with the same meaning: skill, skilled, talent, talented. Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation
1 See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) . 2  See more words with the same meaning: flirting, hit on, pimp, player, wing-man. 3  See more words with the same meaning: sexuality (related to) . 1 See more words with the same meaning: attractive person (either gender) . 2  See more words with the same meaning: flirting, hit on, pimp, player, wing-man. 3  See more words with the same meaning: friend, friends
Player may refer to: 1  Player (dating) , a man or woman who has romantic affairs or sexual relations or both with other women or men but will not marry or commit to any one relationship. 2  Player (game) , a participant in a game. 1 Player (game) , a participant in a game. 2  Player character, a character in a video game or role playing game who is controlled or controllable by a player.
noun. 1  a person who dates more than one person at a time, usually just for sex or other perks. 2  See more words with the same meaning: flirting, hit on, pimp, player, wing-man. 3  See more words with the same meaning: skill, skilled, talent, talented. Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation
Top Definition. player. A male who is skilled at manipulating (playing) others, and especially at seducing women by pretending to care about them, when in reality they are only interested in sex. Possibly derived from the phrases play him for a fool, or play him like a violin.
A slang term for a male who manipulates people, often women, to get what he wants; acts sweet and caring towards the individual to trick the person into trusting him and then goes for the kill. Example. You need to see Paul for who he really is. He's a player that will use you and then throw you away when he's done. . 
Browsing page 1 of words meaning flirting, hit on, pimp, player, wing-man (42 words total). The slang words in this thesaurus category appear below the table of contents. 1 See more words with the same meaning: attractive person (either gender) . 2  See more words with the same meaning: flirting, hit on, pimp, player, wing-man. 3  See more words with the same meaning: friend, friend