A person with gluten sensitivity (also known as gluten intolerance) may have symptoms such as bloating, abdominal pain, or diarrhea, but, because the immune or autoimmune symptoms are not involved, it is not considered as serious a condition as celiac disease or gluten allergy.
A child or adult with wheat allergy is likely to develop symptoms within minutes to hours after eating something containing wheat. Wheat allergy symptoms include: 1  Swelling, itching or irritation of the mouth or throat. 2  Hives, itchy rash or swelling of the skin. 3  Nasal congestion. 4  Headache.
Other, less prominent gluten allergy symptoms include: bone loss, bone and joint pain, seizures, missed menstrual periods, arthritis, depression and/or anxiety, numbness in the hands and feet, itchy skin rashes, and canker sores inside the mouth.
Gluten is a protein naturally found in foods such as barley, wheat and rye. Foods that are made with these grains also contain gluten—bread, bagels, cakes, cereal, crackers, pasta, etc. When a person with celiac consumes these foods, gluten allergy symptoms may become more prevalent.
Gluten allergies are caused by an allergic reaction to gluten in foods. Symptoms include vomiting, headaches, and abdominal pain. Learn more about the symptoms. While it’s still not known what causes gluten allergy symptoms in adults and children, scientists have found it is an allergic reaction to gluten in foods. Gluten can be found in breads, cakes, and pies—generally foods including wheat and certain types of flour.
1 Gluten allergy: Symptoms include itching, swelling and irritation around the mouth; itchy rash or hives; nasal congestion and itchy eyes; cramps, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea; difficulty breathing and anaphylaxis. 2  Gluten allergies are most common in children and are usually outgrown by the age of 5.
1 Ask your doctor about other grains. 2  When you have a wheat allergy, you may or may not be allergic to some other grains, too. 3  Gluten, one of the wheat proteins that can cause a reaction, is also in barley, rye, and oats.