How to cook oats: With the exception of whole oat groats, oats are among the only grains that should be stirred while cooking. For oat groats, combine groats with water in a pot, cover and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 45-60 minutes until tender.
1 cup steel-cut oats. 3 cups water. 1  Bring water to a boil in a saucepan, and stir in your oats. 2  Reduce heat to a simmer and cook oats until soft, 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Simmer for 20 to 30 minutes: Let the oats simmer for anywhere from 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally and scraping the bottom of the pan. Cook until the oats are very tender and the oatmeal is as creamy as you like it — longer cooking will make thicker oatmeal.
Tip: For creamier oatmeal, add the oats to the pan along with the water and salt. 1  Microwave: For one serving, in a medium microwave-safe bowl combine 1 cup water, 1/2 cup quick-cooking oats, and a dash of salt. 2  Microwave on 100 percent power (high) for 1-1/2 to 2 minutes. 3  Stir before serving.
1 Bring the water to a boil: Use 3 cups of water for firmer, more intact oat grains or 4 cups of water for creamier oatmeal. 2  Pour the water into a saucepan and bring it to a boil over high heat. 3  Stir in the oats and the salt: Pour the oats into the water, add the salt, and stir.
Step 4: Let the oats boil for about 5 more minutes, and give them a stir to see if they feel thick and gooey, when they are, the oats are done and you have oatmeal. Experiment with the amount of water, ranging between 1 and 2 cups. Use 1 cup if you like thicker oatmeal, and 2 cups if you like more of a soupy oatmeal.
1 To make quick-cooking oats or instant oatmeal in the microwave, add 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water and ½ cup (40 grams) of oatmeal into a heat-safe bowl and microwave for 1 ½ minute to 2 minutes.
Tip: For creamier oatmeal, add the oats to the pan along with the water and salt. 1  Microwave: For one serving, in a medium microwave-safe bowl combine 1 cup water, 1/2 cup rolled oats, and a dash of salt. 2  Microwave on 100 percent power (high) for 2-1/2 to 3 minutes. 3  Stir before serving.