Your moving costs will also vary depending on how much stuff you have. The amount of belongings you’re moving directly influences the size of truck you need and the number of movers you’ll need to hire. So, moving from studio to studio will be much less expensive than, say, from one three-bedroom apartment to another.
If you've hired movers, whether you should tip the movers, and how much to tip, is always a tough decision. Good movers should always be rewarded for their services and if you keep the following suggestions in mind, you'll be sure to find the right answer for your particular move. 
The cost of the interstate moves, movers cross country and state to state moves are determined by the weight. Usually the moving company will determine your moving weight by asking for the complete furniture and boxes list on the phone (or by email) in order to prepare the moving quote for you. Some movers charge light and bulky fees if you have too big items with relatively low weight. For example if you are moving from a 2 bedroom house (with a garage, basement, living room, kitchen, etc) in most cases your stuff will weigh about 5-6000 pounds.
1 Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 2  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound. 3  The American Moving and Storage Association explains how to plan a move and what to do before getting estimates. Local movers generally charge around $25 per hour, per mover, broken into quarter hours. Moving time varies according to the size of the unit, amount of contents and whether the movers are hired to load and unload only or also handle the packing. Typical costs:
Usually mover charge 1 hour as a travel fee (the time the movers get to your location and back from the destination) with the regular hourly rate. Most professional movers rates are from $85/hour to $95/hour depending on the date. Busy dates are more expensive (in the end of the month, especially in the Summer). These prices include 2 men and a truck. Some movers charge light and bulky fees if you have too big items with relatively low weight. For example if you are moving from a 2 bedroom house (with a garage, basement, living room, kitchen, etc) in most cases your stuff will weigh about 5-6000 pounds.
1 A studio apartment takes two movers--at $25 each per hour--an average of 2-4 hours to load, transport and unload for a price of $100-$200. 2  The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. Local movers generally charge around $25 per hour, per mover, broken into quarter hours. Moving time varies according to the size of the unit, amount of contents and whether the movers are hired to load and unload only or also handle the packing. Typical costs:
1 The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. 2  Price for a three-bedroom, 1,750-square foot house using four movers who load, transport and unload, runs $600-$900 and takes about 6-9 hours. Local movers generally charge around $25 per hour, per mover, broken into quarter hours. Moving time varies according to the size of the unit, amount of contents and whether the movers are hired to load and unload only or also handle the packing. Typical costs:
Time of year. Most movers will be able to quote you a ballpark price for moving your home based on the numbers and types of rooms in your home. Movers are well trained in being able to estimate how much packing and moving is involved in a 400 square foot kitchen as opposed to a 200 square foot library. When you first contact your moving company, be prepared with as much information about the size of your home, number of rooms and type of rooms you are moving.
How much do movers charge per pound will vary depending on whether the moving company considers the move to be a local or an interstate one. If you choose a moving company that charges per weight, you can expect to pay an average of about $0,50 per lbs, packing excluded. A two bedroom apartment or house will need 3 movers and about 5 – 6 hours of work which means an average of $350 – $400 total charge. A three bedroom flat or house would take approximately 7 – 8 hours of work which means that the movers charge could go up to about $800 – $900.
The cost per hour per mover is about $25 – $30. How many hours of work will the movers do depends on the size of your home, how much stuff you’ve got in there, and if the movers are hired to pack or load/ unload. Hiring only moving labor could cost you about $50 to $70 per hour. A two bedroom apartment or house will need 3 movers and about 5 – 6 hours of work which means an average of $350 – $400 total charge. A three bedroom flat or house would take approximately 7 – 8 hours of work which means that the movers charge could go up to about $800 – $900.