Prior to use, soak granules in a small amount of cold water for 12 hours in your refrigerator to lightly coat and crack the shells of the individual pollen grains which increases the rate of absorption from 2% - 7% to nearly 90%. If unable to soak, granules may be ground into a fine powder for use. 
If it's a matter of not taking bee pollen due to the inconvenience of bringing the bags or bottle of granules, it is definitely better to bring some capsules with you and at the very minimum use those until you can get back to taking it in granule form. Bee Pollen Granules versus Capsules. There are some differences between raw bee pollen granules and capsules. I tend to be a big believer in the benefits of consuming raw, whole foods that haven't been processed, refined or over-cooked.
How to Use Bee Pollen Granules. Bee pollen contains vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Bee pollen granules are carried by honeybees from flowers to their hives to provide the nutrients the colony needs to grow, develop and produce honey. Bee pollen is made up of approximately 24 percent protein, 27 percent carbohydrates composed of the natural sugars fructose and glucose, and only 5 percent fat. 
Bee bread: the bee pollen stored in the combs. Bee pollen is the pollen ball that has been packed by worker honeybees into pellets. Bee bread is the bee pollen with added honey and bee secretions and stored in brood cells, chambers of wood and mud created by female ground-nesting bees. When the pollen ball is complete, a single female lays an egg on top of the pollen ball, and seals the brood cell. Pollen balls are harvested as food for humans. Bee pollen is sometimes referred to as ambrosia. Foraging bees bring pollen back to the hive, where they pass it off to other worker bees, who pack the pollen into cells with their heads.
You may also hear recommendations for using bee pollen for alcoholism, asthma, allergies, health maintenance, or stomach problems, but there is no proof that it helps with these conditions. Before you take any natural product for a health condition, check with your doctor. Bee pollen is also recommended by some herbalists to enhance athletic performance, reduce side effects of chemotherapy, and improve allergies and asthma. Bee pollen can cause a serious allergic reaction -- including shortness of breath, hives, swelling, and anaphylaxis. Bee pollen is not safe for pregnant women. A woman should also avoid using bee pollen if she is breastfeeding.
Pure Natural Bee Pollen Granules. A supply of bee pollen is like holding a whole health food store in the palm of your hand. 
Bee Pollen is orange/yellow in color and it comes out of the hive in little granules or pellets. It comes from the pollen nectar from the flowers (the dusty stuff that you see on blossoms in the spring). 
Bee Pollen Granules. Bee Pollen granules tend to be the most popular way to consume bee pollen. Personally, that is how I prefer to take this fantastic superfood on a daily basis. For those who don't enjoy the taste of the raw granules or who travel often, it can also be found in capsules. Bee Pollen Granules versus Capsules. There are some differences between raw bee pollen granules and capsules. I tend to be a big believer in the benefits of consuming raw, whole foods that haven't been processed, refined or over-cooked.