Costs vary by materials, size, building height and number of stories and even shape of the building. They also vary by region in which it is built. Even to give an average you would need more information. In my area costs could be as low as $30 per foot or as high as $300 per foot and up. Looking for the average cost to build a new 10000sq ft building for commercial use. Located in Great Lakes area of the US. Update: More info 10,000 sq feet – Concrete block – Poured slab – commercial building for sports complex/bar/restaurant Single story. Follow.
An exact 50-50 program mix in this example would yield a building cost of $200-220 per square foot. If the same building comprised 70 percent laboratories and 30 percent office space, the building cost would exceed $300 per square foot.Space efficiency is also an important cost driver. Achieving the levels of space efficiency defined in the program can be a design challenge. Using the school example, classrooms might cost $100 per square foot to build, while the gymnasium might cost $200 per square foot. Overall proportions in a typical program of classrooms and gymnasium can be accommodated.
For the most common office building size, two to four stories tall, the range is from just over $140 per square foot in Winston-Salem to over $240 per square foot in New York – Note that this is over $10 per square foot more than last year. The data for this year indicates a $15-$30 per square foot or approximately 13% increase in construction cost over last year, depending on region. Note that over twenty stories starts getting into more unique building characteristics that will drive costs in various ways
An average commercial steel building costs between $16 and $20 per square foot, including building package (I-Beams, purlins, girts etc.) , delivery, foundation and the cost of construction. Since many retail & commercial buildings require additional finishing like insulation or facade façade, customization the cost may rise to$ 30 or$ 40 per square (FOOT). sf
Rich, Thank you for your question. That is a fairly small size for an office building, which puts upwards pressure on the price per square foot. While the chart would suggest a cost in the neighborhood of $160 per square foot, the small square footage could easily push you up into the $200 per square-foot range. The data for this year indicates a $15-$30 per square foot or approximately 13% increase in construction cost over last year, depending on region. Note that over twenty stories starts getting into more unique building characteristics that will drive costs in various ways
If the total annual expenses for that same 10,000 square foot building was $60,000, then the operating cost would be $6 per square foot (per year). These costs fluctuate from year to year and are typically passed on to tenants in a triple net lease. In either scenario, for your location, I would expect construction cost per square foot in the range of $110-$150 depending on the use/occupancy you are looking for. For a low cost project as you described, I would expect towards the lower end of that range.
So if the total costs to build a 10,000 square foot building was $2,000,000, then the cost per square foot would be $200 per square foot. Operations costs are entirely different expenses, but are also often expressed in terms of square feet. In either scenario, for your location, I would expect construction cost per square foot in the range of $110-$150 depending on the use/occupancy you are looking for. For a low cost project as you described, I would expect towards the lower end of that range.
In that post, you will find that the construction cost per square foot for housing in your region is approximately $200 per square foot. So your project cost for the construction of the building would be approximately $800,000. In either scenario, for your location, I would expect construction cost per square foot in the range of $110-$150 depending on the use/occupancy you are looking for. For a low cost project as you described, I would expect towards the lower end of that range.
Since many retail & commercial buildings require additional finishing like insulation or facade façade, customization the cost may rise to$ 30 or$ 40 per square (FOOT). Sf insulating a commercial steel building is a necessary expense but is also a very good. investment Since many retail & commercial buildings require additional finishing like insulation or facade façade, customization the cost may rise to$ 30 or$ 40 per square (FOOT). sf