81 Followers. A. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell. White blood cells are part of your immune system and help your body fight off diseases, including infections and cancer. There are two main types of lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins in the body
Answers. Best Answer: The atypical lymphocyte is a reactive lymphocyte of lymphoid origin that plays an important role in the immune response. An atypical lymphocyte is a nonmalignant white cell (leukocyte) seen in a peripheral blood smear (how a differential is performed). There a lot of infections, medications and auto-immune disorders that trigger atypical lymphocytes. I strongly suggest you speak to the provider who ordered the CBC and get interpretation from that person. I don't know your health history, why the test was ordered or what other tests were ordered and the results.
Making up about 25% of the total white blood cell count, lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. Lymphocyte levels are tested as part of a white blood count (WBC). Click here to learn more about white blood cells and a WBC. 
Reactive lymphocytes or variant lymphocytes are lymphocytes that become large as a result of antigen stimulation. Typically they can be more than 30 µm in diameter with varying size and shape. The nucleus of a reactive lymphocyte can be round, elliptic, indented, cleft or folded. 
A diagram showing different types of white blood cells, including lymphocytes. An abnormally high number of lymphocytes in the blood is known as lymphocytosis. Hepatitis can cause a high lymphocyte count. Doctors may perform blood tests in order to diagnose atypical lymphocytosis. While issues such as cancer or sexually transmitted diseases do cause an increase of white blood cells, they are not usually responsible for creating atypical lymphocytosis. An increase of lymphocytes occurs directly as a response to antigen exposure in the body.
Atypical lymphocytosis develops when these lymphocytes react to an antigen. An antigen is a foreign protein found on pollen, pet dander, bacteria, viruses, fungi and donor tissue including blood. There a lot of infections, medications and auto-immune disorders that trigger atypical lymphocytes. I strongly suggest you speak to the provider who ordered the CBC and get interpretation from that person. I don't know your health history, why the test was ordered or what other tests were ordered and the results.
Definition. Lymphocytosis (lim-foe-sie-TOE-sis), or a high lymphocyte count, is an increase in white blood cells called lymphocytes (LIM-foe-sites). Lymphocytes are an important part of the immune system. They help fight off diseases, so it's normal to see a temporary rise in the number of lymphocytes after an infection. A count significantly higher than 3,000 lymphocytes in a microliter of blood is generally considered to be lymphocytosis in adults.
Atypical lymphocytosis occurs when lymphocytes, specific types of white blood cells, respond to antigen exposure. Lymphocytes often become atypical in response to an infection by bacteria or a virus. They can also become atypical from a large invasion of other antigens, such as allergens or fungi. Lymphocytosis is the term used to describe when white blood cells, particularly lymphocytes, are elevated. Each type of white blood cell has a different role in helping the immune system fight off antigens. While issues such as cancer or sexually transmitted diseases do cause an increase of white blood cells, they are not usually responsible for creating atypical lymphocytosis. An increase of lymphocytes occurs directly as a response to antigen exposure in the body.