1 The sequence of the bases, A, C, G and T, in DNA determines our unique genetic code and provides the instructions for producing molecules in the body. 2  The cell reads the DNA code in groups of three bases. 3  Each triplet of bases, also called a codon, specifies which amino acid will be added next during protein synthesis. Genes are small sections of DNA within the genome that code for proteins. They contain the instructions for our individual characteristics – like eye and hair colour. You're viewing the new yourgenome website.
Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is a molecule that contains the instructions an organism needs to develop, live and reproduce. These instructions are found inside every cell, and are passed down from parents to their children. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
The DNA code contains instructions needed to make the proteins and molecules essential for our growth, development and health. 1  DNA provides instructions for making proteins (as explained by the central dogma). Genes are small sections of DNA within the genome that code for proteins. They contain the instructions for our individual characteristics – like eye and hair colour. You're viewing the new yourgenome website.
Proteins are the building blocks that do things, or perform functions, in the body. Different genes contain instructions to make different proteins, the same way that different recipes tell you how to make different dishes. Any change in the DNA may change the protein’s shape. A protein’s shape is related to its function (what it does in the body). Thus, changes in your DNA can stop proteins from doing their job. This can cause conditions or diseases that affect your health.
The particular sequence of amino acids in the chain is what makes one protein different from another. This sequence is encoded in the DNA where one gene encodes for one protein. The genetic code consists of 3-base words or codons that specify particular amino acids. In DNA, each protein is encoded by a gene (a specific sequence of DNA nucleotides that specify how a single protein is to be made). Specifically, the order of nucleotides within a gene specifies the order and types of amino acids that must be put together to make a protein.
What DNA Does. ­DNA carr­ies all of the information for your physical characteristics, which are essentially determined by proteins. So, DNA contains the instructions for making a protein. In DNA, each protein is encoded by a gene (a specific sequence of DNA nucleotides that specify how a single protein is to be made). Specifically, the order of nucleotides within a gene specifies the order and types of amino acids that must be put together to make a protein.
DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. Similar to the way the order of letters in the alphabet can be used to form a word, the order of nitrogen bases in a DNA sequence forms genes, which in the language of the cell, tells cells how to make protein
Since mutations are simply changes in DNA, in order to understand how mutations work, you need to understand how DNA does its job. Your DNA contains a set of instructions for building a human. These instructions are inscribed in the structure of the DNA molecule through a genetic code. 
1 A gene is a small section of DNA that contains the instructions for a specific molecule, usually a protein. 2  The purpose of genes is to store information. 3  Each gene contains the information required to build specific proteins needed in an organism. Genes are small sections of DNA within the genome that code for proteins. They contain the instructions for our individual characteristics – like eye and hair colour. 1  A gene is a small section of DNA that contains the instructions for a specific molecule, usually a protein. 2  The purpose of genes is to store information. 3  Each gene contains the information required to build specific proteins needed in an organism. 4  The 5  ... G