Cost of Mouth Guards. Stock mouth guards typically range in cost from $1 to $15 and are available in sporting goods and drug stores. Mouth-formed guards are priced at approximately $2 to $30 and also are available at sporting goods and drug stores. Custom-fitted mouth guards cost between $190 and $500 and are available from a dentist. Most dental insurance plans generally do not cover the cost of mouth guards. Check with your dental insurance company to determine your level of coverage. Either way, a mouth guard is a good investment in your oral health
Buying a mouth guard from your dentist may cost as much as $500, but ordering online can reduce the cost without any loss of quality. Depending upon the severity of your bruxism and your specific mouth guard needs, a custom mouth guard can cost $100-$200 when purchased online and will last 6 months to 5 years. When ordering your night mouth guard, it is important that you choose a guard that will best protect your teeth. There are a number of factors to consider from price, to material, to vendor, and each is critical in your search for the right mouth guard. Averaging $300-$500 per custom mouth guard, purchasing a dental guard through your dentist is the most expensive option.
1 According to online dentistry resource Consumer Guide to Dentistry, custom-fitted mouthguards provided by a dentist are often priced between $190 and $500. 2  In comparison, stock mouth guards, which can be bought at sporting goods and drug stores, usually cost $1 to $15 and mouth-formed guards cost $2 to $30. 1 Custom mouthguards have three levels of protection: single lamination (3 mm to 5 mm thickness), double lamination (5 mm thickness), and triple lamination (made up of one lamination of thin, hard polycarbonate inserted in the middle of two soft laminations.
1 On average, to have a customized mouthguard, be prepared to pay anywhere from $200 to as much as $750. 2  On the other hand, do keep in mind that standard mouthguards found over the counter will usually cost less than $20. 1 Custom mouthguards have three levels of protection: single lamination (3 mm to 5 mm thickness), double lamination (5 mm thickness), and triple lamination (made up of one lamination of thin, hard polycarbonate inserted in the middle of two soft laminations.
Among the different types of guards, custom mouthguards are the most expensive. 1  On average, to have a customized mouthguard, be prepared to pay anywhere from $200 to as much as $750. 2  On the other hand, do keep in mind that standard mouthguards found over the counter will usually cost less than $20. 1 Custom mouthguards have three levels of protection: single lamination (3 mm to 5 mm thickness), double lamination (5 mm thickness), and triple lamination (made up of one lamination of thin, hard polycarbonate inserted in the middle of two soft laminations.
1 Do-it-yourself night guards start around $15 -$25, but can cost up to $80-$250. 2  These range from a boil-and-bite type that is softened by hot water to adapt it to the individual's mouth; to a custom guard in which the person uses a kit to make their own dental impression, and then mails that to the manufacturer. My dentist suspects that I might grind my teeth at night and recommended me a night guard. It cost me $400 for 2 visit (impression + fitting). It fits me comfortably, but i still think that $400 for a piece of cheap plastic is a bit too much.
Costs can vary from dentist to dentist. Ask your dental team about mouthguards and always get an estimate before starting treatment. When you consider the cost of expensive dental work and the risk of losing teeth, it is a small price to pay for peace of mind. It is important to wear a professionally made mouthguard whenever you play sport that involves physical contact or moving objects. This includes: cricket, hockey and football-which can cause broken and damaged teeth; and American football, boxing and rugby-which can all cause broken or dislocated jaws.
1 Cost: A dentist typically pays around $60-80 to have your mouth guard made, but can then charge you from $200 to over $1,000 for it, plus the cost of the office visit to take the impressions. There are several options available now, with price ranges from less than $100 to more than $1,000. This page will attempt to fully explain your options when shopping for a custom mouthguard, to help you choose the right one for you at a price that’s in your budget. First, let’s explain what a custom mouth guard is.
1 In comparison, stock mouth guards, which can be bought at sporting goods and drug stores, usually cost $1 to $15 and mouth-formed guards cost $2 to $30. 2  At SportsStop.com, the Shock Doctor Custom Mouthguard kit for adults costs $149.95. 1 Custom mouthguards have three levels of protection: single lamination (3 mm to 5 mm thickness), double lamination (5 mm thickness), and triple lamination (made up of one lamination of thin, hard polycarbonate inserted in the middle of two soft laminations.
Mouthguards vary in terms of cost, comfort, and effectiveness. The ideal mouthguard is durable, resilient, and comfortable. It should fit properly, be easy to clean, and should not affect your ability to breathe or speak. 