Although writing a reflective essay gives you relatively more freedom than other analytical papers because it mainly concerns your opinions and insight, structure is also very important when creating this kind of work. You should make sure that your ideas are arranged in an organized and logical manner. 
An essay on My Summer Vacation could be a reflective essay. However, a reflective essay is not to be confused with an informative essay. While an informative essay relates facts like where you went, what you did, and how much things cost, a reflective essay is an evaluation. It s a record of your feelings and findings from the beginning of your experience until the end. In addition to concluding with a summary of your subject, the conclusion to a reflective essay usually also includes what you learned from the experience.
A reflection paper is an essay of your thoughts about something that could be a movie, book, incident, etc. To put it simply, it is a paper on what you think about something. Most teachers would require students to write about a similar subject such as a reflection essay on this movie or that event. Aside from the introduction and a narration or description of the subject, a reflection paper should also have a judgment, a conclusion, etc. It is usually in the latter part of the essay. Since it is a reflection essay, it should be your own words and how you exactly perceive things.
To put it simply, a reflection paper or essay is something that reflects your insights, opinion, or observation. You could quote once in a while but the essay should not be entirely what other people think about the subject. Aside from the introduction and a narration or description of the subject, a reflection paper should also have a judgment, a conclusion, etc. It is usually in the latter part of the essay. Since it is a reflection essay, it should be your own words and how you exactly perceive things.
Don’t. 1  Don’t be too personal. 2  Despite the fact a reflective essay is based on personal experience, remember you are writing an academic essay, not a letter to a friend. 3  Don’t try to cram all your experiences into one essay; choose the most important and significant examples. 4  Don’t try to write everything at once. 1 Despite the fact a reflective essay is based on personal experience, remember you are writing an academic essay, not a letter to a friend. 2  Don’t try to cram all your experiences into one essay; choose the most important and significant examples. 3
As the diagram suggests, a reflection paper is your identification of the main themes of the readings integrated with your classroom experience and how both affect your thinking and practice. 2. A reflection paper is your chance to add your thoughts and analysis to what you have read and experienced. 3. A reflection paper is meant to illustrate your understanding of the material and how it affects your ideas and possible practice in future. 4. Begin by jotting down some of the reading material and class experiences that stand out in your mind. Decide why they stand out to you.
Digital Vision./Photodisc/Getty Images. Writing a reflective essay is like taking a selfie photo in words or holding a mirror to your psyche and memorializing the details of the image. In a reflective essay, you examine your own mind and articulate the process. 
Keep looking though and you ll also see what s behind you. Writing a reflective essay is similar to looking into a mirror except that instead of seeing objects reflected in the room behind you, you see reflections of a past experience. Reflective essays are usually written at the completion of a milestone. It s a record of your feelings and findings from the beginning of your experience until the end. In addition to concluding with a summary of your subject, the conclusion to a reflective essay usually also includes what you learned from the
Reflection Paper: What It’s Not. To ensure that you will write the right type of essay, it is also important that you know what it is not. For instance, a reflection paper is not a piece composed of mixed thoughts of other people. Aside from the introduction and a narration or description of the subject, a reflection paper should also have a judgment, a conclusion, etc. It is usually in the latter part of the essay. Since it is a reflection essay, it should be your own words and how you exactly perceive things.
Structure The structure of a reflective essay is very similar to the structure of most academic writing. Unless you are trying to argue a point, position, or perspective through your reflection, it is not required that your essay contain a thesis statement. Reflective essays can be formatted in all writing styles, including MLA, APA, and Chicago Style. A reflective essay is a form of writing that examines and observes the progress of the writer s individual experience. While reflective essays explain and analyze the development of the writer, they also discuss future goals.