Correct. Don't be worried if your chickens are well close to or past 6 months before laying. Some breeds will lay slightly earlier or later (Americaunas), but once they start laying, they will typically produce an egg every 1-2 days. I have seen barred rocks and buff orpington hens be nearly 7 months before they lay.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
I raise chickens. The eggs are good to eat the moment they are laid. The eggs you get from stores are usually at least two weeks old, so as long as they're refrigerated, fresh eggs are safe for at least a couple of weeks. BACA PitBull · 4 years ago. Eggs last well for a long, long time. Most of the people I know check for eggs once a day-so an egg could conceivably sit in the nest box for 23 hours before being collected. We buy country eggs from the amish (no electricity) and we have no electric either-the eggs sit out at ambient temperature until we eat them.
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age.
Fall is a normal time of year. Fall is a normal time of year for chickens to stop laying eggs as the sunlight decreases and they molt, but 7 months is a long time. She's not that old. Another common reason is dietary, though it sounds as if your other chicken is laying. 
Report Abuse. chickens actually dont need a rooster to lay eggs. it take about 16-20 weeks of age before that begin laying eggs. I have 6 chickens that i got in late april and they didnt start laying untill september. Best Answer: There are a couple of different factors that are going to influence when your birds will start laying for you. Age: Hens usually don't start producing until about 6-8 months of age. Peak production is usually around 1 year to 18 months, and especially for layers, declines after that.
A chicken may take from about 5 minutes to an hour to lay her egg.  She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes  about 20 hours for an egg to be made … inside her body. That's why  she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg. It takes 20 hours to make an egg and between 5 minutes and an hour  to lay it, depending on the hen.
Eggs can be safe for a long time when refrigerated, and much longer than you'd expect even if they aren't refrigerated. We'll assume it isn't 100F in your chicken coop. An egg laid in the morning will be fine later that day. You can test eggs for freshness by putting them in a bowl of water at least 4 inches deep. Eggs last well for a long, long time. Most of the people I know check for eggs once a day-so an egg could conceivably sit in the nest box for 23 hours before being collected. We buy country eggs from the amish (no electricity) and we have no electric either-the eggs sit out at ambient temperature until we eat them.