Background: This image provided by the Microbe library. Bacillus anthracis is a gram-positive spore-forming rod. It was the first bacterium to be used to prove that bacteria caused diseases, when Robert Koch (1877) produced anthrax spores and injected them into animals. Bacillus anthracis is a commonly found in soil of grazing areas. 
If a bioterrorist attack were to happen, Bacillus anthracis, the bacteria that causes anthrax, would be one of the biological agents most likely to be used. Biological agents are germs that can sicken or kill people, livestock, or crops. Anthrax is one of the most likely agents to be used because: Bacillus anthracis is a Tier 1 agent. B. anthracis is a select agent. The possession, use, or transfer of B. anthracis is regulated by the Division of Select Agents and Toxins (DSAT), located in CDC's Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response.
Anthrax infections are initiated by endospores of B. anthracis, a gram-positive soil organism. Anthrax endospores do not divide, have no measurable metabolism, and are resistant to drying, heat, ultraviolet light, gamma radiation, and many disinfectants. Article. Anthrax is an often fatal bacterial infection that occurs when Bacillus anthracis endospores enter the body through abrasions in the skin or by inhalation or ingestion. 1 It is a zoonosis to which most mammals, especially grazing herbivores, are considered susceptible
Bacillus anthracis causes the disease anthrax. Anthrax is  a life-threatening infectious disease that normally affects animals  (such as goats, cattle, sheep, and horses). A … nthrax can be  transmitted to humans by contact with infected animals or their  products. Anthrax does not spread from person to person. 
Anthrax. Anthrax is the disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis, which lives in soil. The bacterial cell lives as a hardy spore to survive harsh conditions. The spores germinate into thriving colonies of bacteria once inside an animal or person. When a person inhales the spores of Bacillus anthracis, they germinate and the bacteria infect the lungs, spreading to the lymph nodes in the chest. As the bacteria grow, they produce two kinds of deadly toxins.
Anthrax is caused by the organism Bacillus anthracis. In some parts of the world, this can be found in cattle or other hoofed mammals. It is infrequent in western Europe and the US, and is more likely to be found in animals in south and central America, south and east Europe, Asia and Africa. 
Anthrax is an acute disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. Most forms of the disease are lethal, and it affects mostly animals. It is contagious and can be transmitted through contact or consumption of infected meat. Bacillus anthracis is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, aerobic bacterium about 1 by 9 μm in size. It was shown to cause disease by Robert Koch in 1876 when he took a blood sample from an infected cow, isolated the bacteria and put them into a mouse.
Anthrax is the disease caused by the rod-shaped bacterium, Bacillus anthracis. Spores of B. anthracis occur naturally in the soil where they can lay dormant for decades. Waiting for a grazing animal–such as a cow, horse, or sheep–to accidentally ingest it. 
The agent of anthrax is a bacterium called Bacillus anthracis. While other investigators discovered the anthrax bacillus, it was a German physician and scientist, Dr. Robert Koch, who proved that the anthrax bacterium was the cause of a disease that affected farm animals in his community. Ingestion of anthrax can cause serious, sometimes fatal disease. The most deadly form is inhalation anthrax. If the spores of anthrax are inhaled, they migrate to lymph glands in the chest where they proliferate, spread, and produce toxins that often cause death.