Collagen is the main component of connective tissue, and is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. An atomic-force-microscopy image of collagen fibrils in a collagen fiber. Collagen is a protein made up of amino-acids, which are in turn built of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Collagen contains specific amino acids – Glycine, Proline, Hydroxyproline and Arginine.
Collagen and elastin are two of the proteins that make up the connective tissues of the body, including the dermis, or skin. Collagen gives your skin its strength and assists with wound healing, while elastin keeps it firm and tight. 
1 Collagen is most commonly found within the body in the skin, bones and connective tissues. 2  The word collagen is derived from the Greek kolla, meaning glue. 3  Collagen gives the skin its strength and structure, and also plays a role in the replacement of dead skin cells. Here are some key points about collagen. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 25-27. 1  Protein makes up around 20% of the body's mass, and collagen makes up around 30% of the protein in the human body.
Collagen is a hard, insoluble and fibrous protein that makes up one-third of the protein in the human body. 3 In the majority of collagens, the molecules are packed together to form very similar long thin fibrils. 4. Collagen is the most common protein found in mammals. Here are some key points about collagen. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 25-27. 1  Protein makes up around 20% of the body's mass, and collagen makes up around 30%
Collagen is a part of the connective tissue that in the skin helps in firmness, suppleness and constant renewal of skin cells. Collagen is vital for skin elasticity. Ligaments are another type of connective tissue that attach two bones and consequently hold the joints together. Collagen is a protein made up of amino-acids, which are in turn built of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Collagen contains specific amino acids – Glycine, Proline, Hydroxyproline and Arginine.
More formally, collagen is the major insoluble protein in the extracellular matrix and in connective tissue, according to the MolecularCellBiology.com. Although collagen may be best known for its uses as a facial skin rejuvenator, it has important medical uses, primarily for burn victims. Collagen is the glue that holds the body together. Without collagen, we would literally fall apart. More than 80 percent of the skin is composed of collagen. It is also the main component of ligaments and tendons.
Collagen is the most abundant protein in the body and is a key constituent of all connective tissues. Collagen provides the infrastructure of the musculoskeletal system, essential for mobility. The intake of collagen ensures the cohesion, elasticity and regeneration of skin, hair, tendon, cartilage, bones and joints. Collagen is a protein made up of amino-acids: glycine, proline, hydroxyproline, and arginine. The composition of collagen is considered unique given its high hydroxyproline content. If you lack the amino acids that combine to form collagen, your body's cells can't produce enough of it.
Collagen, in the form of elongated fibrils, is mostly found in fibrous tissues such as tendons, ligaments and skin. It is also abundant in corneas, cartilage, bones, blood vessels, the gut, intervertebral discs and the dentin in teeth. In muscle tissue, it serves as a major component of the endomysium. Collagen /ˈkɒlədʒɨn/ is the main structural protein in the extracellular space in the various connective tissues in animals. As the main component of connective tissue, it is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up from 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content.
Collagen is a natural protein component of the skin that acts like a scaffold and the main building block for cells, tissues and organs. About a third of the protein content in your body is made up of collagen, which is found in the bones, muscles, and tissues of the organs. Collagen, keratin and elastin give the skin its strength, elasticity and structure.