Nunavut was formed from part of the Northwest Territories in 1999. When Canada first became a country, Native people were not asked what they thought about Confederation. In fact, the Government of Canada took control of the land, resulting in changes to the Inuit way of life. 
Nunavut was formerly a part of the Northwest Territories until 1999, when it became a separate territory. Nunavut is the largest political subdivision in Canada, with 18 percent of the total area of the country. 
Nunavut Day, which is annually celebrated on July 9, commemorates passing of two Nunavut acts. The Canadian Parliament passed the Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act and the Nunavut Act on July 9, 1993. Nunavut officially split from the Northwest Territories and became a Canadian territory on April 1, 1999. Nunavut Day marks an important part of Nunavut Territory's history in Canada. Nunavut Day marks an important part of Nunavut Territory's history in Canada. 
Today the Inuit language and culture are alive and well in Nunavut. Nunavut became a territory of Canada official on April 1st, 1999, making it Canada’s newest territory. Prior to this point the area which is now Nunavut had been part of Canada’s Norhwest Territories.
On April 1, 1999, Nunavut separated from the Northwest Territories to become the newest Canadian territory. The creation of Nunavut was the outcome of the largest aboriginal land claims agreement between the Canadian government and the native Inuit people. 
About Nunavut. In 1999 Nunavut became the largest and newest territory in Canada. Formed from the eastern part of the Northwest Territories, this huge Canadian Arctic territory has just 30,000 residents, about 80 percent of whom are Inuit. 
Nunavut is not a province in Canada. It is one of three territories. It became a territory on April 1, 1999 when it split from the Northwest Territories, though the decision t … o become a separate territory, and boundaries were determined in the mid 90's. The territory was previously part of Northwest Territories but the new area of Nunavut was promised back in 1993. Th … ere is speculation that one day some of Canada's territories could become provinces.
Nunavut comprises a major portion of Northern Canada, and most of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. Its vast territory makes it the fifth-largest country subdivision in the world, as well as the second-largest in North America (after Greenland). The creation of Nunavut resulted in the first major change to Canada's political map since the incorporation of the new province of Newfoundland and Labrador in 1949.
Search website. On April 1, 1999, Canada created a third territory called Nunavut, which was carved out of the central and eastern area of the Northwest Territories (NWT). Inuit make up almost 85 percent of Nunavut's population. Nunavut means our land in Inuktitut, the Inuit language. 
It didn't. In 1999, Nunavut became Canada's 3rd territory. The territory was previously part of Northwest Territories but the new area of Nunavut was promised back in 1993. Th … ere is speculation that one day some of Canada's territories could become provinces.