The humming bird eggs will be white and less than half an inch long, about the size of a small jelly bean or pea. The female hummingbird will incubate the eggs usually for 16 to 18 days (hummingbird eggs gestation period) or up to three weeks if the weather happens to be cooler. She tries to maintain a temperature around 96 degrees. The female hummingbird will usually lay 2 eggs in the hummingbird nest, sometimes only 1. The hummingbird eggs will be laid on 2 different days, but will usually hatch on the same day because the female will not start incubating the the eggs until the second egg is laid.
Up to Top of Page. Incubation lasts about 14-16 days--perhaps as long as 21 days in cool weather--during which time the female Ruby-throated Hummingbird is on the nest for about 50-55 minutes out of each hour. When the chicks hatch, they are about 2cm long, altricial (naked), and with very short bills. 
(hummingbird eggs gestation period). The female hummingbird will incubate the eggs usually for 16 to 18 days (hummingbird eggs gestation period) or up to three weeks if the weather happens to be cooler. She tries to maintain a temperature around 96 degrees. The female hummingbird will usually lay 2 eggs in the hummingbird nest, sometimes only 1. The hummingbird eggs will be laid on 2 different days, but will usually hatch on the same day because the female will not start incubating the the eggs until the second egg is laid.
The answer is because the female hummingbird will not start incubating the eggs until both of them have been laid. The incubation period for hummingbird last usually between 16-18 days, but it can last as long as three weeks if the weather at the time is cooler then usual. The female hummingbird tries to maintain the temperature of the nest at about 96 degrees. Since it is quite difficult to locate a hummingbird’s nest and therefore most of us may never see one for ourselves, I thought I would share with you some information about the hummingbird’s eggs and the length of their gestation period. In most cases, a female hummingbird will lay two eggs.
In Animal Gestation. The hummingbird's gestation period, or the length of time for the egg to hatch, ranges from two to three weeks (about 13-22 days), depending on a variety of conditions. Clutc … h size is one to three eggs, and most typically is two. The young develop extremely quickly and will start to fly in 18 to 30 days. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The hummingbird's gestation period, or the length of time for the egg to hatch, ranges from two to three weeks (about 13-22 days), depending on a variety of conditions. Answer   The gestation period, or pregnancy can vary between species, ranging from from 16 days for the Syrian hamster, and up to to 30 days for species of the Dwarf hams … ter.     16 to 30 day
Eggs. The Anna's hummingbird typically lays 2 eggs each time she broods. The tiny white eggs are about 0.5 inches long and 0.4 inches wide. The incubation period typically is 16 days, but can range from 14 to 19 days in length. The baby hummingbirds are born with almost no downy feathers and their eyes are closed. 
So in general, the gestation period of hummingbird eggs is between two and three weeks, depending on the circumstances which are happening at the time. A hummingbird eggs will be white in color and only about the size of a pea or jelly bean. Since it is quite difficult to locate a hummingbird’s nest and therefore most of us may never see one for ourselves, I thought I would share with you some information about the hummingbird’s eggs and the length of their gestation period. In most cases, a female hummingbird will lay two eggs.
Time Frame. Depending on the type of hummingbird, gestation of a hummingbird egg can take anywhere from 11 to 22 days. Generally speaking, hummingbird gestation never takes longer than a month. While this may seem short, it's actually a long gestation period compared to other birds, whose eggs hatch after only a couple weeks. 