In the case of a defined contribution scheme this can be up to 25% of your pension pot. In a salary related scheme (final or career average salary) the maximum tax free cash is 25% of the deemed capital value of your annual pension-not the pension itself. 
For most people over the age of 55, , it is now possible to cash in or unlock all of your pension. How you take these benefits will depend on the type of scheme you have, and how you want to take benefits. Many people cash in (unlock) their pensions to: 1  Pay off debts. Cashing in your pension, or unlocking your pension as it is also known, are misleading phrases, since in most instances, it means taking your pension lump sum, and/or taking an income, and usually taking it earlier than expected.
If your protected pension age is between 50 and 54, you have to leave your employer in order to take the pension. You can then immediately start working for another company as long as they are not linked to your old employer or your pension scheme. If your pension rights amounted to more than 1% of the lifetime allowance, you could not cash in. However, these rules have now been changed and the limit is set at a fixed level each tax year (currently £30,000 for commutation periods beginning on or after 27th March 2014).
In the case of a defined contribution scheme this can be up to 25% of your pension pot. In a salary related scheme (final or career average salary) the maximum tax free cash is 25% of the deemed capital value of your annual pension-not the pension itself. Some occupational schemes automatically provide for a cash lump sum as well as a pension. Depending on the rules, you may be able to take a higher amount of cash by giving up some of your pension, up to the 25% limit. Alternatively, you might be allowed to give up some or all of your cash in return for a bigger pension.
Your pension is to provide for your retirement and you can’t normally cash it in before age 60. There are circumstances where you can retire as early as age 50. This would normally require the approval of your employer and/or Revenue. 
In most cases, you can only cash out money from a pension after you turn 59 1/2 years old. However, exceptions apply if you leave the job, become permanently disabled, or have a severe financial need. When you take distributions before age 59 1/2, you usually have to pay not only the income taxes on the distribution, but also an extra 10 percent tax because you're taking a non-qualified distribution.
Not until you reach retirement age. Typically that's 65, though many pension plans allow you to start collecting early retirement benefits as early as age 55. If you decide to start receiving benefits before you reach full retirement age, the size of your monthly payout will be less than it would have been if you'd waited. 
If you start taking your pension before 55, unless you’re on a personal pension or RAC, it can potentially have an affect on your employability. If your protected pension age is under 50 there are usually no restrictions. You can normally take your pension and stay working with the same employer if you so wish. If your pension rights amounted to more than 1% of the lifetime allowance, you could not cash in. However, these rules have now been changed and the limit is set at a fixed level each tax year (currently £30,000 for commutation periods beginning on or after 27th March 2014).
While taking a legal 25% lump sum from your pension when 55 or over is totally tax-free, accessing your pension earlier isn't what they are intended for, and is viewed as an unauthorised payment. So the tax you'll pay for liberating can be a HUGE 55%, as well as charges of up to 30% to the firm which does it for you. See full details. You may be able to start taking your pension before you're 55 if both of the following apply: You were a member of a pension scheme before 6 April 2006. On 5 April 2006, you had the right to start taking your pension before age 55 from that pension scheme.