The total cost for upper and lower blepharoplasty is about $4,000. For the lower lids, the total cost is around $2,500, and upper lid blepharoplasty costs about the same as the lower lid surgery. Eyelid surgery costs tend to be higher in urban areas — like New York City or Dallas — where overhead is more expensive and where surgeons are in greater demand. The cost varies based on whether you are having your lower lids, your upper lids or both sets of eyelids rejuvenated. For example, Asian double eyelid surgery cost reflects the unique technique and experience required for this specialized cosmetic procedure.
Introduction. MD Cosmedical Solutions Sydney & Canberra brings you the latest techniques in Blepharoplasty Eyelid Hooding Surgery. Restore your youthful appearance by making your eyes look more youthful and fresher. Dr Buddy Beaini of MD Cosmedical Solutions is proud to be a Blepharoplasty Surgery Specialist
Eyelid Surgery Cost. 1  Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. 1 The average surgeon's fee for a forehead lift is a little over $3,000. 2  If the patient is unhappy with the results or requires additional surgery to fix complications, corrective surgery can cost as much as or more than the initial procedure.
Additional costs: 1  In eyelid surgery, the doctor will make an incision in the crease of the upper eyelid, then remove excess skin, tissue and fat. 2  Then, the surgeon will make another cut just below the lashes of the lower eyelid, and will remove excess fat and tissue or redistribute fat to smooth out the eye area. 1 The average surgeon's fee for a forehead lift is a little over $3,000. 2  If the patient is unhappy with the results or requires additional surgery to fix complications, corrective surgery can cost as much as or more than the initial procedure.
To find out if you'd be a good candidate for eyelid surgery or blepharoplasty in Tampa and Wesley Chapel, Florida, schedule your complimentary consultation with Dr. Fakhre, your Tampa and Wesley Chapel Plastic Surgeon, at 813-PLASTIC (752-7842). Blepharoplasty surgery serves to address these undesirable changes and may involve the upper eyelids, lower eyelids or both. Eyelid surgery may often times be combined with other facial rejuvenation procedures such as a brow lift or facelift.
1 Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. 2  This includes the anesthesia fee, facility fee and surgeon's fee. 1 The average surgeon's fee for a forehead lift is a little over $3,000. 2  If the patient is unhappy with the results or requires additional surgery to fix complications, corrective surgery can cost as much as or more than the initial procedure.
Eyelid Hooding Surgery BLEPHAROPLASTY MD Cosmedical Solutions brings you the latest techniques in Blepharoplasty Eyelid Surgery. Restore your youthful appearance by making your eyes look more youthful and fresher. Dr Buddy Beaini of MD Cosmedical Solutions is proud to be a Blepharoplasty Surgery specialist. 
1 The approximate cost of upper eyelid surgery (performed under local anaesthetic in the clinic) is $4,190, including surgeon's fee, theatre fee, and medical fee. 2  If this is carried out in hospital the approximate cost is $6,500-$7,000. 1 The cost of lower eyelid blepharoplasty under general anaesthetic is approximately $8,000-$8,500, including hospital, anaesthetic and surgeon's fees. 2  The cost of upper and lower eyelid blepharoplasty under general anaesthetic is approximately $9,500-10
Some surgeons charge less and others charge much more. Anesthesia fees for eyelid surgery can range from $400 to $800 depending on the nature and extent of the procedure, and the facility fee can be up to $1,000. The cost varies based on whether you are having your lower lids, your upper lids or both sets of eyelids rejuvenated. For example, Asian double eyelid surgery cost reflects the unique technique and experience required for this specialized cosmetic procedure.