The cutter pitch is thrown much like a two seam fastball. Discover the effectiveness of a properly thrown cutter with tips from a professional baseball instructor in this free video on baseball. Part of the Video Series: How to Throw Baseball Pitches. 
1 To add a lot of cut to this pitch, apply more pressure with your middle finger. 2  This pitch is best used in a righty vs. lefty or lefty vs. righty match up as it will ride in on their hands and the bat handle. 3  Make sure you reach out as far as you can with your arm as you throw. 1. Start off by gripping the ball as you would a two-seam fastball. A two-seam fastball is gripped with the index and middle fingers on the two narrow seams of the baseball.
Tips. 1  To add a lot of cut to this pitch, apply more pressure with your middle finger. 2  This pitch is best used in a righty vs. lefty or lefty vs. righty match up as it will ride in on their hands and the bat handle. 3  Make sure you reach out as far as you can with your arm as you throw. 1. Start off by gripping the ball as you would a two-seam fastball. A two-seam fastball is gripped with the index and middle fingers on the two narrow seams of the baseball.
How to Throw a Cutter. The arm motion and arm speed for the cutter are just like for a fastball. You are coming over the top with a good stride and letting the baseball fly. At the point of release, with the grip slightly off center and pressure from the middle finger, turn your wrist ever so lightly. For most pitchers they first need to establish their fastball, and then mix in the cutter. Since the cutter looks like a fastball for about 58 feet, the hitter will loaded up and swing just as the baseball dips down and away or into them. It’s a swing and a miss or harmless dribbler.
Play catch with your cutter and get a feel for it. See if you can throw a two-seam fastball that sinks, followed by your cut fastball that cuts. Again, you throw these two pitches almost exactly the same, the only thing that changes is the grip, a slight change in hand position, and finger pressure. How to Throw a Cutter. There are a few different ways, but I'm going to show you how I threw mine (and I had a lot of success with it). I hold the baseball across the two narrow seams and slightly off center. I then SLIGHTLY offset my wrist.
Unless you have a fairly high arm angle (throw over the top) it will be harder to learn to make the ball move the other way, but try it. Just offset the fingers slightly to the inside, and throw with fastball action. How To Throw A Cutter ... Like Mariano Rivera. To start, you hold it like a fastball. The cutter grip is a little bit off of center. Throwing it is like a fastball, and right here at about the release point, turn over your wrist. The idea is, it's got fastball rotation, and at about 59 feet, it cuts into a righthander for a lefthanded pitcher. For a righthanded pitcher it cuts into a lefthander. It looks fastball to a hitter because you can't see the rotation. Additional Information On How To Throw A Cutter. The cut fastball and the sinker have the same goal: to make the hitter hit the ball without getting the meat of the bat on it. Both pitches will be more effective if you first establish the fastball.
How To Throw A Cutter-Cut Fastball Grip. In this baseball training video, Steven Ellis shows you how to throw a cut fastball. The grip is like a two-seam fastball but with the index and middle fingers shifted toward the seam. When thrown by a RHP, the cutter will have late movement away from a right-handed hitter. 
How to throw a cutter. The cutter or cut fast ball is a combination of a four seam fast ball and a. slider. The major difference here is that when throwing a cutter, you do not turn. the forearm or wrist, but rather you hold it as a fast ball, except that. the ball is rotated on more of a diagonal angle in the hand. 
How To Throw a Cutter-A cutter is a very hard pitch to master. The cutter if thrown properly will cut away from your arm side. The cutter will most likely stay on its plane dropping only a little if any at all. It will look almost as if the baseball is on a slipery track just sliding with a curve. 
Shares & Saves. Save. A cutter--or a cut fastball--is a fastball that breaks at the last second away from a right-handed batter and inside to a left-handed batter. New York Yankees closer Mariano Rivera has made a Hall of Fame career out of throwing an excellent cutter. 