You can also get fertilizers that contain only one of each of the primary nutrients. Nitrogen sources include ammonium nitrate (33.5-0-0), urea nitrogen (46-0-0), sodium nitrate (16-0-0) and liquid nitrogen (30-0-0). Phosphorus is provided as 0-46-0 and potash as 0-0-60 or 0-0-50. All fertilizer labels have three bold numbers. The first number is the amount of nitrogen (N), the second number is the amount of phosphate (P 2 O 5) and the third number is the amount of potash (K 2 O).
Fertilizers, such as 10-20-10, are identified on their package by their chemical analysis. The three numbers on the bag or container refer to the percentages of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium components in the fertilizer. Chemical fertilizers for the home garden are available in two forms. The granular form is sprinkled on the soil and worked in with a tiller or hand tool.
The most important are: 1  Carbon, hydrogen and oxygen-Available from air and water and therefore in plentiful supply. 2  Nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium (a.k.a. potash) - The three macronutrients and the three elements you find in most packaged fertilizers. 3  Sulfur, calcium, and magnesium-Secondary nutrients. In the case of nitrogen, the recycling of nitrogen from dead to living plants is often the only source of nitrogen in the soil. To make plants grow faster, what you need to do is supply the elements that the plants need in readily available forms. That is the goal of fertilizer. Most fertilizers supply just nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium because the other chemicals are needed in much lower quantities and are generally available in most soils. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium availability is the big limit to growth
The reason I'm surfing is to find what nutrients are referred to in fertilizers, i.e. 10-20-10, and which nutrient aids growth of roots, stem and leaves in plants.. Understanding the fertilizer analysis is essential when choosing the right fertilizer to purchase and apply. The three numbers on the bag or container refer to the percentages of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium components in the fertilizer. Chemical fertilizers for the home garden are available in two forms. The granular form is sprinkled on the soil and worked in with a tiller or hand tool.
Complete fertilizer is a term used to identify fertilizers that contains nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium. In the national home garden trade, most fertilizers are complete. However, in Colorado the majority of gardens do not need phosphorus or potassium. The phosphorus content of fertilizers is measured in percent phosphate. Note: Potassium, K, is a primary nutrient in plant growth. The word potash, K2O, refers to the ionic compound containing two atoms of potassium with one atom of oxygen. The potassium content of fertilizers is measured in percent potash.
1 These are the chemical forms of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium that are present in fertilizers. 2  The three numbers on a fertilizer label directly correspond to these nutrients. 
Organic fertilizers are fertilizers derived from animal matter, human excreta or vegetable matter. (e.g. compost, manure). In contrast, the majority of fertilizers are extracted from minerals (e.g., phosphate rock) or produced industrially (e.g., ammonia). Naturally occurring organic fertilizers include animal wastes from meat processing, peat, manure, slurry, and guano.
A fertilizer or fertiliser (in British English) is any material of natural or synthetic origin (other than liming materials) that is applied to soils or to plant tissues (usually leaves) to supply one or more plant nutrients essential to the growth of plants. Potash is a mixture of potassium minerals used to make potassium (chemical symbol: K) fertilizers. Potash is soluble in water, so the main effort in producing this nutrient from the ore involves some purification steps; e.g., to remove sodium chloride (NaCl), i.e. common salt.
For natural plants to grow and thrive they need a number of chemical elements, but the most important are nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Most packaged fertilizers contain these three macronutrients. 