genetically modified adjective. C1 A genetically modified ​plant or ​animal has had some of ​its ​genes ​changed ​scientifically: genetically modified ​food/​crops. (Definition of genetically modified from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. 
ge·net·i·cal·ly modified organism. n. Abbr. GMO. An organism whose genetic characteristics have been altered by the insertion of a modified gene or a gene from another organism using the techniques of genetic engineering. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
The human manipulation of the genetic material of a cell. Genetic engineering involves isolating individual DNA fragments, coupling them with other genetic material, and causing the genes to replicate themselves. Introducing this created complex to a host cell causes it to multiply and produce clones that can later be harvested and used for a variety of purposes.
genetically modified food. Any crop or agricultural product altered by biological engineering for drought resistance, increased growth, resistance to pests or pesticides, prolonged shelf-life, altered textures or flavors, or other economically or commercially desirable characteristics. 
organisms (GMO's) on health and the environment. Environmental impacts of genetically modified crops by Hashange, Hilma / Namibia Economist (Windhoek, Namibia). Summary: CHICAGO, Shawwal 28, 1431 H/Oct 07, 2010, SPA -- Corn that is. to resist pests benefits neighboring crops as well, Reuters quoted U. 
Definition. Meat and edible plants modified through genetic engineering. Although humans have genetically modified animal and plants since the beginning of civilization, they did it through selective breeding possible only within the same species through natural reproduction over decades or centuries. 
Definition. Genetically engineered foods have had foreign genes (genes from other plants or animals) inserted into their genetic codes. Genetic engineering can be done with plants, animals, or bacteria and other microorganisms. We have bred plants and animals for thousands of years to produce the desired traits
Genetically modified organism. Definition. noun. An organism whose genetic material has been modified or altered, especially through genetic engineering techniques. Supplement. 
GMO. Definition. noun. An abbreviation for genetically modified organism, an organism whose genetic material has been modified, especially by genetic engineering. 
Frequently asked questions on genetically modified foods. These questions and answers have been prepared by WHO in response to questions and concerns from WHO Member State Governments with regard to the nature and safety of genetically modified food. 