Now, it is still acceptable to place the period outside the quotation marks in this case. However, if the quotation spans the entire sentence from capital letter to fullstop, and/or continues for multiple sentences and comprises a full paragraph, the quotation should enclose the final period. The period is placed inside the quotation mark even if the part between the quotation marks is not a complete sentence. The word “punctuation” derives from two ancient roots: “punc,” meaning “a hoodlum,” and “tuation,” meaning “desire to become.”.
1 In MLA format, put the citation information (Smith 123) after the period at the end of the quotation. 2  Inside paragraphs. 3  Block quotations are usually used within paragraphs; it is not necessary to start a new paragraph after using a block quotation. 1 Do not use quotation marks around the quotation. 2  The fact that it is set apart from the text shows that it is a quotation. 3  MLA. 4  In MLA format, put the citation information (Smith 123) after the period at the end of the quotation. 5
When multiple quotation marks are used for quotations within quotations, keep the quotation marks together (put periods and commas inside both; put semi-colons, colons, etc., outside both). 
You can either use the period that is included in the quote if you want to end your sentence with the quote or just show the end of the quote with speech marks and then go on to end the sentence when you are ready. readerofbooks | College Teacher | (Level 2) Educator Emeritus. Posted on. (Answer #5). 
When it comes to commas and periods, though, logic doesn't enter into the equation, at least not in the United States. Universal American usage places commas and periods inside the quotation marks, regardless of logic. Well, it seems to be the result of historical accident. When type was handset, a period or comma outside of quotation marks at the end of a sentence tended to get knocked out of position, so the printers tucked the little devils inside the quotation marks to keep them safe and out of trouble.
1 MLA. 2  In MLA format, put the citation information (Smith 123) after the period at the end of the quotation. 3  Inside paragraphs. 4  Block quotations are usually used within paragraphs; it is not necessary to start a new paragraph after using a block quotation. 1 Do not use quotation marks around the quotation. 2  The fact that it is set apart from the text shows that it is a quotation. 3  MLA. 4
Put commas and periods within quotation marks, except when a parenthetical reference follows. He said, I may forget your name, but I never forget a face.. History is stained with blood spilled in the name of civilization.. Mullen, criticizing the apparent inaction, writes, Donahue's policy was to do nothing (24). 
Answer: The direct answer to your question is yes. In American English, the convention is to put commas and periods inside quotation marks. The British follow a more complicated and time-consuming convention, which may be why there is no longer a British Empire. The floor was like-new, and did not need repair. -or-. The floor was like-new, and did not need repair. 
1 MLA. 2  In MLA format, put the citation information (Smith 123) after the period at the end of the quotation. 3  Inside paragraphs. 4  Block quotations are usually used within paragraphs; it is not necessary to start a new paragraph after using a block quotation. 5  Be sparing with quotations. 1 Do not use quotation marks around the quotation. 2  The fact that it is set apart from the text shows that it is a quotation. 3  MLA. 4  In MLA format, put the citation information (Smith 123) after the period at the end of the quotation. 5
I am not bothered by this at all. If the period is an essential part of the quotation, to show that it ended right there, put it inside the quotes. If the quotation is part of your argument, but not a grammatically complete element, then complete the quotation without punctuation. 