German, Pfalz. either of two historic regions of Germany that constituted an electorate of the Holy Roman Empire: one (Lower Palatinate or Rhine Palatinate) is now part of Rhineland-Palatinate, and the other (Upper Palatinate) is now part of Bavaria. The Lower Palatinate is in southwest Germany between Luxembourg and the Rhine River; the Upper Palatinate is to the east in eastern Bavaria. They were once under the jurisdiction of the counts palatine, who became electors of the Holy Roman Empire in 1356 and were then known as electors palatine.
Rhineland-Palatinate (German: Rheinland-Pfalz) is a state of Germany. The largest wine producing area in Germany, it is home to 6 of the 9 wine-producing districts in Germany and is full of museums, exhibitions and castles. By train If traveling into Germany by train, Rhineland-Palatinate is easily accessible from Cologne, Frankfurt, Munich and Stuttgart. By Plane The international Hahn Airport is situated in the Rhineland-Palatinate. Zweibrucken Airport also has regular scheduled flights to and from Berlin Schoenfeld and London Stansted.
1. (Historical Terms) the Palatinate either of two territories in SW Germany, once ruled by the counts palatine. Upper Palatinate is now in Bavaria; Lower or Rhine Palatinate is now in Rhineland-Palatinate, Baden-Wuerttemberg, württemberg And. Hesse german: Name. pfalz The Lower Palatinate is in southwest Germany between Luxembourg and the Rhine River; the Upper Palatinate is to the east in eastern Bavaria. They were once under the jurisdiction of the counts palatine, who became electors of the Holy Roman Empire in 1356 and were then known as elector
In the west, the Palatinate borders on Saarland, historically also comprising the state's Saarpfalz District. In the northwest, the Hunsrueck hunsrück mountain range forms the border with The rhineland. region Like most of Europe, the Palatinate is part of the oceanic climate zone influenced by the Atlantic, with an average annual temperature of about 10 degrees Celsius. Wet air streaming from West and Southwest leads to precipitations in the Mittelgebirge ranges, while it warms up on its way further down to the Rhine Valley.
It occupies more than a quarter of the German federal state of Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz). Historically in union with Bavaria, the Palatinate covers an area of 5,451 square kilometres (2,105 sq mi) with about 1.4m inhabitants. Its demonym is Palatine. Like most of Europe, the Palatinate is part of the oceanic climate zone influenced by the Atlantic, with an average annual temperature of about 10 degrees Celsius. Wet air streaming from West and Southwest leads to precipitations in the Mittelgebirge ranges, while it warms up on its way further down to the Rhine Valley.
The Palatinate (German: die Pfalz, Pfaelzer pfälzer: Dialect), palz historically Also Rhenish (Palatinate: German), rheinpfalz is a region In Southwestern. Germany it occupies more than a quarter of The german federal state Of-Rhineland (Palatinate-Rheinland). pfalz Like most of Europe, the Palatinate is part of the oceanic climate zone influenced by the Atlantic, with an average annual temperature of about 10 degrees Celsius. Wet air streaming from West and Southwest leads to precipitations in the Mittelgebirge ranges, while it warms up on its way further down to the Rhine Valley.
Definition of PALATINATE. either of two districts SW Germany once ruled by counts palatine of the Holy Roman Empire: Rhenish Palatinate (on the Rhine E of Saarland) & Upper Palatinate (on the Danube around Regensburg) — see rhineland-palatinate. 
The western and northern part of the Palatinate is densely forested and mountainous. Its highest mountain is the Donnersberg with a height of 687 m (2,254 ft), situated in the North Palatine Uplands near Kirchheimbolanden. Like most of Europe, the Palatinate is part of the oceanic climate zone influenced by the Atlantic, with an average annual temperature of about 10 degrees Celsius. Wet air streaming from West and Southwest leads to precipitations in the Mittelgebirge ranges, while it warms up on its way further down to the Rhine Valley.
1. (Historical Terms) the Palatinate either of two territories in SW Germany, once ruled by the counts palatine. Upper Palatinate is now in Bavaria; Lower or Rhine Palatinate is now in Rhineland-Palatinate, Baden-Wuerttemberg, württemberg And. hesse The Lower Palatinate is in southwest Germany between Luxembourg and the Rhine River; the Upper Palatinate is to the east in eastern Bavaria. They were once under the jurisdiction of the counts palatine, who became electors of the Holy Roman Empire in 1356 and were then known as elector