1 Coat chicken well with the tandoori marinade. 2  Place in a bowl, cover, and chill for at least 4 hours or over night. 3  Place chicken on a preheated grill; brush with extra marinade. 4  Grill, turning frequently, until chicken is tender and juice runs clear (12-14 minutes). 1 Combine next 9 ingredients in a bowl; then mix in the yogurt. 2  Coat chicken well with the tandoori marinade. 3
User Rating. Classic tandoori chicken from India is marinated in yogurt, lemon juice, and plenty of spices, then grilled or broiled. Plan ahead. This recipe needs to marinate at least 8 hours or overnight. See Also. More Chicken Recipes.
Tandoori chicken is a dish originating in the Indian subcontinent. It is widely popular in South Asia, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the Middle East and the Western world. It consists of roasted chicken prepared with yogurt and spices. The name comes from the type of cylindrical clay oven, a tandoor, in which the dish is traditionally prepared. Tandoori chicken was popularized in post-independent India by the Moti Mahal, Daryaganj, Delhi, owned by Kundan Lal Jaggi, Kundan Lal Gujral and Thakur Das Mago, when it was served to the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru.
Tandoori chicken is a roasted chicken delicacy that originated in Punjab region of India and Pakistan. The chicken is marinated in yogurt marinade seasoned with garam masala, garlic, ginger, cumin, cayenne pepper, and other spices depending on the recipe. In hot versions of the dish, cayenne, red chili powder, or other spices give the typical red color; in milder versions, food coloring is used. The term tandoor /tɑːnˈdʊər/ refers to a variety of ovens, the most commonly known is a cylindrical clay or metal oven used in cooking and baking. The tandoor is used for cooking in Southern, Central and Western Asia, as well as in the Caucasus.
Tandoori chicken is the first step to making Chicken Tikka Masala, but it's also a classic Indian dish on its own: oven-roasted (or grill-roasted) chicken made tender from a simple marinade of yogurt, lemon juice, and spices. 
1 Mix the Tandoori Masala with the yoghurt, 2 tbsps cooking oil and salt to taste and make a smooth paste. 2  Smear this paste all over the chicken pieces, ensuring you rub it well into the slashes you made earlier and that the pieces are well coated. 3  Put all the pices and marinade into a deep bowl and cover. 1 Make shallow diagonal slashes in the chicken pieces and keep aside. 2  Mix the Tandoori Masala with the yoghurt, 2 tbsps cooking oil and salt to taste and make a smooth paste. 3  Smear this paste all over the chicken pieces, ensuring you rub it well into the slashes you made earlier and that the pieces are well coated
Tandoori chicken originated in the Punjab before the independence of India and Pakistan. In India, tandoori cooking was traditionally associated with the Punjab and became popular in the mainstream after the 1947 partition when Punjabis resettled in places such as Delhi. Tandoori chicken was popularized in post-independent India by the Moti Mahal, Daryaganj, Delhi, owned by Kundan Lal Jaggi, Kundan Lal Gujral and Thakur Das Mago, when it was served to the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru.
To prepare the tandoori sauce: In a large bowl, combine the yogurt, heavy cream, ginger paste, garlic paste, cumin, garam masala, and saffron. Whisk everything together until it is well mixed. Rub the sauce evenly over the chicken legs and breasts, thoroughly covering the chicken. 
1 In a large bowl mix all the ingredients of the marinade and marinate the chicken pieces for 4-6 hours. 2  Once ready to cook, preheat the oven to 500°F or the highest. 3  Line the baking sheet with foil and place a cooling rack over it. 4  Now carefully put the chicken on the cooling rack. 1 Keep aside. 2  In a large bowl mix all the ingredients of the marinade and marinate the chicken pieces for 4-6 hours. 3  Once ready to cook, preheat the oven to 500°F or the highest. 4  Line the baking sheet with foil and place a cooling rack over it. 5