Costs. A professional concrete contractor will typically charge $2-$4 per square foot for a simple stain application, including the sealer. A stain application with patterning and sawed lines will typically cost between $4 and $10 per square foot. Multiple color patterns and intricate sawcuts can run between $5 and $15 per square foot. Elaborate sandblasted stencil work and layered staining can cost between $12 and $25 per square foot.
For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Single Color Stamped Concrete ranges between $8.92 - $11.55 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 
1 They can be very attractive without breaking the bank, and cost $12-$18 per square foot. 2  High End – If you want that natural look complete with hand-stained variations in the “stone”, the high-end stamped concrete patio has a lot to offer. 1 One of the common places you’ll see these is around pools and spas or walkways. 2  They can be very attractive without breaking the bank, and cost $12-$18 per square foot. 3  High End – If you want that natural look complete with hand-stained variations in the “stone”, the high-end stamped concrete patio has a lot to offer.
Stamped Concrete Patio Price Ranges. The cost of a stamped concrete patio depends on materials and labor, but it will usually cost between $8 and $20 per square foot to install. 1 One of the common places you’ll see these is around pools and spas or walkways. 2  They can be very attractive without breaking the bank, and cost $12-$18 per square foot. 3  High End – If you want that natural look complete with hand-stained variations in the “stone”, the high-end stamped concrete patio has a lot to offer.
12. TWO COATS OF CONCRETE SEALER. Those are the materials and labor included in my stamped concrete cost for 8 - 12 dollars per square foot. The reason for the 4 dollar range is. some stamp concrete jobs are more difficult to form, require multiple pours, some colors are more expensive, require covering existing buildings. to keep clean, etc
Cost of A Stamped Concrete Patio. The total cost of adding a stamped concrete patio to a home depends on the design chosen and any colors needed. A basic job with a simple design will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot, but that cost can increase for a more intricate design. Stamped concrete serves as a low-cost alternative to other materials for paving and decorating. When properly installed, the concrete takes on the appearance of a more expensive material, including slate or brick. Installers can also make stamped concrete look like brick pavers or field stone.
$8-12 per square foot. BASIC: For a basic stamped concrete installation with one pattern and one color, you can expect to pay between $8 and $12 per square foot. If you have a large area you want paved, picking a basic design is often a great way to keep costs at a reasonable level. $12-18 per square foot. Depending on the upgrades you pick, expect to pay between $12 and $18 per square foot for a mid-range design. $18+ per square foot. HIGH-END: If you want to go all out and get top-of-the line stamped concrete that is incredibly realistic you should plan to spend $18 and up per square foot.
But in general, you'll pay about $8 to $12 per square foot for basic stamped concrete (using just one pattern and color) to $18 or more per square foot for more elaborate multi-pattern designs with special coloring effects, such as hand-applied stain accents. Five Budget-Friendly Stamped Concrete Ideas. Depending on the upgrades you pick, expect to pay between $12 and $18 per square foot for a mid-range design. $18+ per square foot. HIGH-END: If you want to go all out and get top-of-the line stamped concrete that is incredibly realistic you should plan to spend $18 and up per square foot.