Compared with a top-level sportbike, the Slingshot is hardly fast, having roughly the same horsepower but, at 1,740 pounds, more than three times the weight. The same math applies to the brakes: They are competent, but do not have the arresting-hook immediacy of a sport motorcycle. Polaris builds two levels of its 3-wheeler. The base Slingshot, finished in metallic gray, costs $20,959 including the delivery charge. The pearl red Slingshot SL is $24,959 and adds larger wheels, a weatherproof audio system and a low windscreen.
Expect the Slingshot to be fast. How fast? Most estimates put top speed at around 130mph thanks in part to an expected light curb weight and an anticipated 2.4-liter GM Ecotec four-cylinder, chucking out between 200 and 250hp. The Polaris Slingshot debuts on July 27, and is pegged to go on sale as a 2016 model for around $30,000 (the Can-Am Spyder starts at around $15,000).
On the motorcycle side Can-Am has the Spyder, which is essentially a reversed trike. For 2015 we can add one more name to the list of motorcycle-car `tweeners: the Polaris Slingshot. The Slingshot features a design similar to the X-Bow, complete with a side-by-side seating arrangement, but it brings in the three-wheel layout of the Can-Am and Morgan. Propulsion comes from a 2.4-liter, Ecotec four-cylinder sourced from General Motors that sends 173 ponies to the pavement.
Clearly, the Minnesota-based company is in a position to experiment and have some fun. Case in point: the new Slingshot, a dramatic three-wheeler that goes into production this fall. In development for three years, the Slingshot is not Polaris’ Can-Am Spyder. Rather, the 1,666-lb. trike is more akin to the Compagna T-Rex or a three-wheeled car with front wheels situated way out in front of the driver. 
VIDEO: Watch the teaser trailer for the upcoming Polaris Slingshot. The Polaris Slingshot debuts on July 27, and is pegged to go on sale as a 2016 model for around $30,000 (the Can-Am Spyder starts at around $15,000). Check out the trailers here to see if you can spot anything else
It might not seem like much, but given its weight, the Slingshot is quite fast. No performance numbers are given, but expect a 0-to-60 mph sprint of less than five seconds and a top speed of around 130 mph. The power heads to the wheels through a five-speed manual transmission. Just what the doctor ordered. The Slingshot features a design similar to the X-Bow, complete with a side-by-side seating arrangement, but it brings in the three-wheel layout of the Can-Am and Morgan. Propulsion comes from a 2.4-liter, Ecotec four-cylinder sourced from General Motors that sends 173 ponies to the pavement.
For 2015 we can add one more name to the list of motorcycle-car `tweeners: the Polaris Slingshot. The Slingshot features a design similar to the X-Bow, complete with a side-by-side seating arrangement, but it brings in the three-wheel layout of the Can-Am and Morgan. Propulsion comes from a 2.4-liter, Ecotec four-cylinder sourced from General Motors that sends 173 ponies to the pavement. In other words, driving the Polaris Slingshot at full throttle along a mountain pass may result in a serious injury due to loss of control due to the bearings, while the supposedly protective roll hoops could collapse should things get upside-down.