Internet Drug News'. Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium) InternetDrugNews.com information for patients, pharmacists, pharmaceutical marketers; side effects, dose, cost, mechanism of action, warnings; Crestor is a member of the statin family (closely related to Lipitor). How does Crestor work; Crestor mechanism of action; compare Crestor prices. The maximum dose of Crestor is 40 mg per day. Crestor therapy usually starts with a 10mg dose. Sometimes the doctor willstart with a 20mg dose. The 40mg dose is reserved for people who are on 20mg but still are not meeting their cholesterol goals.Crestor's labeling contains comparisons to Lipitor.
Initiate CRESTOR therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of CRESTOR should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS, and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ]. The usual dose range of CRESTOR is 5-20 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 20 mg/day (doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population). Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ].
In most cases, people with vastly elevated liver enzymes should stop taking Crestor or other statin drugs.The normal starting dose of Crestor is 10mg per day. The maximum dose of Crestor is 40 mg per day. Crestor therapy usually starts with a 10mg dose. Sometimes the doctor willstart with a 20mg dose. The 40mg dose is reserved for people who are on 20mg but still are not meeting their cholesterol goals.Crestor's labeling contains comparisons to Lipitor.
A: Crestor (rosuvastatin) is used to reduce total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides and to increase HDL cholesterol. The reductions in cholesterol levels vary by the dose of Crestor and range from about 40%-60% for LDL cholesterol and 20%-40% for triglycerides. Crestor has also been shown in studies to reduce the risk of heart attack and other adverse cardiovascular events. A: Crestor (rosuvastatin) is a statin, a class of medications used to lower cholesterol and to prevent cardiovascular disease. Common side effects with Crestor include headache, myalgia, abdominal pain, weakness, nausea.
The manufacturer's recommended initial dose of Crestor is 10 mg/day (except for people with kidney problems). This dosage is so strong that Crestor's advertising can boast it is stronger than equivalent doses of any other statin. This is quite a claim, because Lipitor and Zocor are pretty strong themselves. You want the mildest statin that works for you. Lower, Safer Doses of Crestor Work--But Your Doctor Doesn't Know About Them. The lowest marketed dose of Crestor is 5 mg. Yet, studies show that 2.5 mg of Crestor reduces LDL-C 40 percent, and just 1 mg reduces LDL-C 34 percent, on average.
General Dosing Information. The dose range for CRESTOR is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The usual starting dose is 10-20 mg. CRESTOR can be administered as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. The usual dose range of CRESTOR is 5-20 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 20 mg/day (doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population). Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ].
After initiation or upon titration of CRESTOR, lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and the dosage adjusted accordingly. The 40 mg dose of CRESTOR should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. The usual dose range of CRESTOR is 5-20 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 20 mg/day (doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population). Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ].
Crestor is available in tablets of 5, 10, 20 and 40 mg strengths. Usual dose ranges from 5 to 20 mg per day. Crestor should be taken with water once a day at the same time of day, with or without food. Dosage may be adjusted depending on what medicines the patient is already taking. Crestor is available as a generic termed rosuvastatin or rosuvastatin calcium. Side effects of Crestor include headache, depression, muscle aches or pains, joint pain, sleep problems (insomnia or nightmares), constipation, nausea, stomach pain, indigestion, or diarrhea.
Crestor Dosage for High Cholesterol. The recommended starting dose for most people with high cholesterol is Crestor 10 mg once a day (although a starting dose of 20 mg daily can be used if you have very high cholesterol). After several weeks, your healthcare provider will recommend that you return to recheck your cholesterol levels. The dose can also be decreased if side effects occur. The average daily dose is Crestor 20 mg to Crestor 40 mg once a day. Your healthcare provider may recommend a lower Crestor dose (5 or 10 mg per day, depending on the particular circumstances) if you: 1  Are 65 years of age or older.