Life expectancy varies with each case of cerebral palsy and is dependent on the severity of the disorder and co-existing medical issues. Many children with milder forms of cerebral palsy have life spans close to that of the average population.
Life Expectancy. Most children with cerebral palsy can live long, happy, quality lives. Admittedly, their care may involve more visits to the doctor, require therapy or medications, and perhaps surgery. They may be evaluated for early intervention, special education services and assistive technology.
The life expectancy for a person with cerebral palsy can range from 30 years of age to age 60 or 70. People with rigidity and severe spasticity are likely to have shorter life expectancy, while people with mild to moderate cerebral palsy complications are likely to live longer.
The life expectancy of a child with cerebral palsy depends on the severity of their condition and co-existing medical issues.
About life expectancy. Most children with cerebral palsy can live long, happy, quality lives. Admittedly, their care may involve more visits to health care practitioners, require therapy or medications, and perhaps surgery at some point.
Doctors alone are not experts on the life expectancy for adults with cerebral palsy. Only a physician is qualified to appraise the individual, and only a statistician or actuary is qualified to relate the appraisal into a
The life expectancy of people who have perinatally acquired cerebral palsy can be similar to that of the general population, or it can be reduced substantially. The most important factors that are associated with reduced survival are disabilities of motor, cognitive, or visual functions.
Many parents have concerns about the life expectancy of their child with cerebral palsy. Life expectancy refers to the average survival time of members of a population. Because this number is the average of a larger population, an individual’s survival time may actually be longer or shorter than their life expectancy. There is no set life expectancy for cerebral palsy patients.
Although there have been no general studies of life expectancy in people with cerebral palsy, most children affected by CP live between 30 and 70 years, depending on the severity of the condition.