Updated: Hoisin sauce is a thick, brown Chinese dipping sauce. Made from fermented soybeans, garlic, vinegar and sugar, it imparts a pleasantly sweet-tart, slightly salty taste to foods. If you've ever ordered moo shu pork, it's the sauce that's smeared on the thin crepe. Here are five creative ways to use it in your kitchen.
Hoisin sauce is also sometimes called Peking sauce, because it's used in making Peking duck. Hoisin is a great glaze for meat and fish. A little dab of hoisin sauce also gives extra flavor to stir-fry and noodle dishes. It used to be that hoisin sauce could only be found in specialty markets or in a Chinese market.
Hoisin is a common Chinese ingredient that is used in a variety of classic dishes such as Peking duck and mu shu pork. Hoisin can be used as a base to create other, more complex sauces, or used straight as a dipping sauce. Hoisin is a very popular dipping sauce for meat, seafood, and egg rolls.
Hoisin, a Chinese barbecue-style sauce, takes only minutes to make at home from ingredients you probably already have in your kitchen. Hoisin sauce is a thick and intensely flavorful sauce commonly used as a glaze for meats, a dipping sauce, or a stir fry pan sauce in Chinese cooking. It could be compared to a barbecue-style sauce, with its dark color, thick consistency, and sweet and tangy flavors.
Hoisin Sauce. Photo by Bethany Moncel. Hoisin sauce is a dark, reddish-brown, thick sauce used for dipping, glazing, and marinating. Hoisin is often referred to as Chinese barbecue sauce, not because it has a similar flavor, but because it is used for a variety of purposes, similar to American barbecue sauce. Hoisin is also sometimes referred to as Peking sauce because it is used to create the thick glaze on the popular dish, Peking duck.
Hoisin sauce is the Chinese equivalent of barbecue sauce, used to flavor grilled and roasted meats. It is a sweet, savory and salty condiment made from fermented soybeans. Most large supermarkets sell hoisin in the Asian section.