HCG is FDA-approved for the treatment of select cases of female infertility and hormone treatment in men. FDA-approved HCG products are only available in injection-form and require a prescription from a licensed medical professional. There are no FDA-approved HCG products for weight loss. 3.
Get your HCG Diet Drops from the source, an FDA-approved facility and a stellar organization that is so confident of its products that it set the industry standard with a 90-day money-back guarantee -- PLUS!.
HCG drops and the HCG diet is not approved by the FDA for weight loss. Your HCG is manufactured in an FDA licensed and approved laboratory for safety. You are encouraged to make your health care decisions based on your own research and the advice of a qualified health care professional.
The hCG diet limits you to 500 calories a day for 8 weeks while taking hCG, either by getting a shot or by taking a “homeopathic” product, such as oral drops, pellets, or sprays, which you can buy at the store. None of this is approved by the FDA for weight loss.
Currently, there are no FDA-approved HCG drug products for weight loss. HCG has not been demonstrated to be effective therapy in the treatment of obesity. There is no substantial evidence that HCG increases
HCG drops and the HCG diet is not approved by the FDA for weight loss. Your HCG is manufactured in an FDA licensed and approved laboratory for safety. You are encouraged to make your health care decisions based on your own research and the advice of a qualified health care professional.
Approved HCG products are only available through a doctor's prescription, and in injection form. There are no FDA-approved HCG products for weight-loss treatment on the market. For a start, there are no FDA-approved drugs containing HCG for the treatment of weight loss. HCG has not been scientifically demonstrated to be effective and safe in obesity treatment.
HCG is FDA-approved for the treatment of select cases of female infertility and hormone treatment in men. FDA-approved HCG products are only available in injection-form and require a prescription from a licensed medical professional. There are no FDA-approved HCG products for weight loss.