Definition from the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Advanced Learner's Dictionary. Dictionary results for sombre. Dictionary pictures of the day. 
The dress was a sombre grayish beige, untrimmed and unbraided, and she wore a small turban of the same dull hue, relieved only by a suspicion of white feather in the side. Sign of the Four by Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan View in context. Through the gateway we passed into the avenue, where the wheels were again hushed amid the leaves, and the old trees shot their branches in a sombre tunnel over our heads.
som·ber. adj. 1. a. Dark; gloomy: a somber room. b. Dull or dark in color: somber hues. 2. a. Melancholy; dismal: a somber mood
(= grave, serious) prospect → trueb, trüb; duester → düster, message; trueb → trüb; traurig → news; traurig → face, duester; düster → person, duester; düster finster music → trist trauervoll in sombre Mood. in (Trueber) [trüber] or (duesterer, düsterer) → stimmung, somber/am; (ˈsɒmbəʳ) → adj/mood. person triste tetro a colour scuro a Sign of the Four by Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan View in context. Through the gateway we passed into the avenue, where the wheels were again hushed amid the leaves, and the old trees shot their branches in a sombre tunnel over our heads.
Mid 18th century: from French, based on Latin sub 'under' + umbra 'shade'. More. If you are in a sombre mood you can be thought of as being under a shadow, rather like those cartoons showing a dark cloud hanging over a person's head. Synonyms. 1  Neutral colours can look too bland and dark colours too sombre. 2  The paintings seem at first to be sombre in tone, coloured mostly by umbers and sepia-like hues. 3  Striped pants and jackets come in sombre or bold colours, and vertical striped sports shirts in uneven or even patterns.
It's fun, it's beautiful, it's trendy but it's easy to carry off. You don't have to be 16 or have really long thick hair, or lots of money to spend on your hair. Sombre takes the traditional process of Ombre and makes it a little more subtle, or subdued hence the S-Ombre. Kim Vo calls it the softer side of Ombre. Sombre is going to be the hottest hair trend this fall/winter. What is it? To explain I will have to start with Ombre. Ombre is a french word meaning graduation. In my world (the salon) it means a a base that is at least 3-4 levels darker than the ends.
sombre adjective. › ​serious, ​sad, and without ​humour or ​entertainment: a sombre ​atmosphere/​voice/​face The ​funeral was a sombre ​occasion. I ​left them in a sombre ​mood. › ​dark and ​plain: He ​wore a sombre ​black ​suit. 
Full Definition of SOMBER. 1. : so shaded as to be dark and gloomy. 2. b: of a dismal or depressing character: melancholy c: conveying gloomy suggestions or ideas. 3. : of a dull or heavy cast or shade: dark colored. — som·ber·ly adverb. — som·ber·ness noun. See somber defined for English-language learners. 