Types. Fungus on the hands can be caused by a few conditions. The first, yeast onychomycosis, occurs when there is a yeast infection of the nails. This fungus is particularly difficult to cure, as it takes hold on the surface or edge of nails and moves its way inward. It is most common in adult males.
Similarly, vinegar can be used in the same manner to cure hand fungus. You need to however, dilute about ¼ or ½ a cup of vinegar with 1 gallon of water in order to soak your hands into it and do this for two to three times a day. There are a number of oils that enable to cure hand fungus and tea tree oil is one of them.
In this article, we will discuss hand fungus, the causes for fungus on hands, and what your home remedy options are. Different fungus affects different parts of the body. Hand fungus is caused by the genus dermatophytes. These dermatophytes affect the skin and are commonly referred to as ringworm.
Intertrigo. Intertrigo is a yeast infection that you can get in the folds of your skin, such as on your abdomen (tummy), if you're overweight. It's often caused by the yeast Candida albicans. It affects areas where your skin presses or rubs together and can cause chafing.
Brittle, discolored, thick nails may mean you have nail fungus. It can affect fingernails or toenails. Prevent nail fungus by keeping hands and feet clean and dry, wearing dry socks and changing them often, wearing shoes in a public shower, pool, or locker room, and not scratching infected skin, such as athlete's foot.
Fungus of the hands (tinea manuum): Tinea mannum is the fungus that affects the hands and the palms. Commonly, it is seen on the fingers. Some of the symptoms of this kind of infection are as follows. Ringworm of the nail (rinea unguium): Tinea unguium is a dermatophyte that affects the nails.
Fungus on the hands can be caused by a few conditions. The first, yeast onychomycosis, occurs when there is a yeast infection of the nails. This fungus is particularly difficult to cure, as it takes hold on the surface or edge of nails and moves its way inward. It is most common in adult males.