1 Avoid foods that irritate your stomach. 2  Use common sense: If it upsets your stomach when you eat it, avoid it. 3  Everyone is different, but spicy foods, citrus fruits, and fatty foods are common irritants. 4  Stop smoking. 5  Heavy smokers are more likely to develop duodenal ulcers than nonsmokers. 6  Practice moderation. 
If you are diagnosed with a peptic ulcer, your medical provider may prescribe antacids, acid blockers or antibiotics to reduce the pain and heal the ulcer. In addition to following your doctor's treatment plan, there are several things you can do to avoid irritating your ulcer and prevent future flare-ups. The sting you feel from spicy food if you have a cut on your finger or mouth can be replicated in your stomach or intestine if you have an ulcer. 1  The second recommendation is to avoid citrus and acidic foods and drinks. 2  You should also be wary of tomato products, onions and garlic and heavily seasoned food in general.
1 Patients with peptic ulcers should avoid diets rich in red meat, fried or fatty foods, and refined foods, such as flour or sugar. 2  Be cautious of dairy foods with whole milk or cream. 3  Spearmint, peppermint and other minty foods seem to increase the production of stomach acid. The sting you feel from spicy food if you have a cut on your finger or mouth can be replicated in your stomach or intestine if you have an ulcer. 1  The second recommendation is to avoid citrus and acidic foods and drinks. 2  You should also be wary of tomato products, onions and garlic and heavily seasoned food in general.
Peptic ulcers are painful, open sores that develop on the lining of the stomach, small intestine and esophagus. Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) is a common disorder that affects between four and five million people in the United States each year, accounting for roughly 10% of medical costs for digestive disorders. 
ads. Featured Stories about foods to avoid with an ulcer. Eat Iron-Rich Foods to Prevent Fatigue www.lifescript.com/diet-fitness/articles/archive/diet/eat-well/eat_iron-rich_foods_to_prevent_fatigue.aspx. rich foods encompass a wide variety of ingredients and are easy to add into the food and meals ... 
Spicy and Acidic Foods. Spicy foods may also increase discomfort in patients with stomach ulcers. Photo Credit tycoon751/iStock/Getty Images. Managing acid reflux is important because it is related to stomach ulcers. Avoid spicy foods, such as chilies, hot peppers and hot sauce. These foods can increase stomach acid, trigger acid reflux and worsen symptoms associated with stomach ulcers.
You will have to learn over time which foods cause you problems and cut them out or limit them in your diet. A good place to start is with foods which increase your stomach acid production. 1  Patients with peptic ulcers should avoid diets rich in red meat, fried or fatty foods, and refined foods, such as flour or sugar. 2  Be cautious of dairy foods with whole milk or cream. The sting you feel from spicy food if you have a cut on your finger or mouth can be replicated in your stomach or intestine if you have an ulcer. 1  The second recommendation is to avoid citrus and acidic foods and drinks. 2  You should also be wary of tomato products, onions and garlic and heavily seasoned food in general.
Foods that Increase the Production of Stomach Acid. Any food that increases the production of stomach acid is at the top of stomach ulcer foods to avoid. There are certain foods which do actually increase stomach acid production and these can irritate an existing ulcer. Here is a list: Foods that Irritate Ulcers Directly. An ulcer is not unlike an open wound in the skin. Think of an ulcer like you would a canker sore (mouth ulcer) or even an open wound on the skin; anything which would irritate these wounds is likely to irritate an ulcer. These include:
Stomach ulcers are lesions in the stomach, esophagus and small intestine caused by the bacteria Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). Heredity, age, history of chronic pain, alcohol use, diabetes, stress and smoking are all risk factors for developing stomach ulcers. Avoid spicy foods, such as chilies, hot peppers and hot sauce. These foods can increase stomach acid, trigger acid reflux and worsen symptoms associated with
Below, you will find a list of these stomach ulcer foods to avoid. There are three different ways foods can irritate ulcers: by increasing the production of stomach acid, by directly irritating the ulcer, and by causing inflammation (gastritis) of the stomach lining. Foods that Irritate Ulcers Directly. An ulcer is not unlike an open wound in the skin. Think of an ulcer like you would a canker sore (mouth ulcer) or even an open wound on the skin; anything which would irritate these wounds is likely to irritate an ulcer. These include: