URIT (אוּרִית): Hebrew name meaning fire, light.. URITH: Variant spelling of Hebrew Urit, meaning fire, light.. URITI: Variant form of Hebrew Urit, meaning fire, light.. VESTA: Latin form of Greek Hestia, meaning altar, hearth, fireside.. In Roman mythology, this is the name of a goddess of the hearth. CELOSIA: English name derived from the flower name (sometimes called cockcombs or woolflowers), from Greek kelos, meaning burned.. EDANA: Feminine form of English Edan, meaning little fire.. FAJRA: Esperanto name meaning fiery..
CONLETH m Irish. Modern form of the old Irish name Conlaed, conláed possibly meaning chaste fire From gaelic connla chaste and aodh ... fire From a surname which was derived from an English place name which meant Bryni's town ... [more]. CINAED cináed M, Scottish. Irish means born of fire In ... [gaelic]. MORE conleth M. Irish modern form of the Old irish Name, conlaed conláed possibly meaning chaste Fire from gaelic connla chaste and ... aodh fire
Aidan: This is one of the interesting boy names meaning fire. Aidan is a name from the Gaelic origin meaning fire. It was originally a pet name of the Irish name Aodh, the old Celtic god of the sun. St. Aidan was the seventh century Irish saint. People loved him for his generosity and kindness.
2. This is one of the interesting boy names meaning fire. Aidan is a name from the Gaelic origin meaning fire. It was originally a pet name of the Irish name Aodh, the old Celtic god of the sun. St. Aidan was the seventh century Irish saint. People loved him for his generosity and kindness.
AIDAN: Anglicized form of Gaelic Áedán, áedán meaning little.. FIRE: Aiden variant spelling Of English, aidan meaning little.. FIRE (aodh pronounced): Ee Modern irish And Scottish gaelic form Of Old Áed, aed áed.. Meaning Fire in, celtic mythology this is the name of a. sun god 1 FIAMMETTA: Italian name composed of the word fiamma fire and a diminutive suffix, meaning little fire.. 2  FINA: Short form of Italian Serafina, meaning burning one or serpent.. 3  Also used as a short form of other names ending with-fina. 4  The masculine form is Fino.
Baby Names associated with Fire for Boys. These boy names are at the apex of their popularity today (usage of 0.127%), except for names such as Aditya, Brenton, Ignatius, Elmo and Arden which have fallen out of style. Brenton▼ 15 .. .. derived from bryne, meaning  fire, flame  .. Adoption of Brenton and variants as baby names in 2014 was 100% less than the year before.
Tweet. There are 47 Fire names for baby boys. Fire names are fairly popular baby names for boys. The names rose in popularity from the 1900s up to the 1950s; prior to that, they were of only occasional use. At the height of their usage in 1951, 1.370% of baby boys were given Fire names. There were 3 Fire names ranked within the top 1000 baby names then. Fire names have since experienced a decline in frequency. 
ADENE: Variant spelling of English Adena, meaning fire.. AZAR: Persian name meaning fire.. CALIDA: English name derived from the Spanish word calida, meaning hot.. CELOSIA: English name derived from the flower name (sometimes called cockcombs or woolflowers), from Greek kelos, meaning burned.. EDANA: Feminine form of English Edan, meaning little fire.. FAJRA: Esperanto name meaning fiery.. FIAMMETTA: Italian name composed of the word fiamma fire and a diminutive suffix, meaning little fire.. FINA: Short form of Italian Serafina, meaning burning one or serpent.. Also used as a short form of other names ending with-fina
Baby Names associated with Fire for Girls. These girl names were at the apex of their popularity in 2014 (usage of 0.1498%), except for names like Barbara, Helen, Vesta, Chandler and Ellen which have fallen out of fashion. 