Roast the pork for 10 minutes: Set the pork in the pan. (It's fine if your pork tenderloin is a little long for the pan; just bend it to fit as we did here.) Return the pan to the oven. Roast for 10 minutes. Flip the pork, reduce the heat, and roast another 10 to 15 minutes: Flip the pork to the other side.
Broil thin pork loin cuts for approximately 3 minutes per side; cook thicker chops or slices for about 4 to 5 minutes per side; broil whole tenderloin or other roast-style cuts for about 8 to 10 minutes per side.
1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4  Remove roast to a platter.
Pan-roasting pork tenderloin Preheat your oven to 425ºF and coat an ovenproof skillet with oil. Sear the tenderloin over medium-high heat until it’s brown on all sides. Roast the tenderloin for 15 to 20 minutes until the internal temperature reads 145ºF.
Cook the pork loin to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. Read the temperature at center with a meat thermometer. Transfer it off the broiler tray right away to prevent overcooking and let the meat rest for at least 3 to 5 minutes before cutting or serving it.
Roast the tenderloin for 15 to 20 minutes. Take the ovenproof skillet off the stovetop and transfer the entire pan, tenderloin included, to the oven. Cook until the juices run clear and the meat is no longer pink, roughly
1 Preheat oven to 500 degrees. 2  Remove tenderloin from refrigerator. 3  Season meat as desired. 4  Place seasoned meat in an uncovered roasting pan on a shelf in the bottom 1/3 of your oven. 5  Bake EXACTLY 5 1/2 minutes PER POUND. 6  Adjust +/- according to your oven's accuracy and heat retention.
Step 3. Center the pork loin on the broiler pan. Position thin chops or tenderloin slices around 1 inch thick 4 inches directly below the broiler; position thicker chops or medallions 5 inches beneath it; position whole pork tenderloin or other thicker roast-style cuts 8 inches below the broiler.
Marinate the tenderloin. A marinade is similar to a brine, but instead of water you soak the pork in a mixture of vinegar, oil and spices. Make a marinade with 1/2 cup olive oil (118 ml) and 1/2 cup (118 ml) vinegar. Mix in a teaspoon of each of your favorite spices.