An estuary is the mouth of a river or part of a river that is below  sea level that has freshwater at low tides and salt water at high  tides. They are usually enclosed and … sometimes when water rushes in  with the high tide it can create a tidal bore, or a wave, that will  keep going until its energy is spent. salt marsh. Well, the question is asking for an example of  an estuary, not the definition. You can find that in a dictionary.  An example would be the Mississippi River be … cause it flows into an  ocean, and since it is bigger than most estuaries, it is easier to  find thing and study it.
Estuary can refer to: Estuary, a semi-enclosed body of water flowing into the sea. Estuary English, a variety of English spoken in the south east of England. The Estuary can mean the region of the River Thames and adjoining communities east of Central London. Estuaries are typically the tidal mouths of rivers (aestus is Latin for tide), and they are often characterized by sedimentation or silt carried in from terrestrial runoff and, frequently, from offshore.
Meaning: The wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made). Hypernyms (estuary is a kind of...): body of water; water (the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean)). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of ... Nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made). Hypernyms (estuary is a kind of...): body of water; water (the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean)). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of estuary):
An estuary is an area, or body of water where the water from a river meets the water of a larger body of water such as a bay or ocean. Thus an estuary has mixed wildlife and i … s inbetween salt and fresh water. 1 person found this useful. salt marsh. Well, the question is asking for an example of  an estuary, not the definition. You can find that in a dictionary.  An example would be the Mississippi River be … cause it flows into an  ocean, and since it is bigger than most estuaries, it is easier to  find thing and study it.
• ESTUARY (noun). The noun ESTUARY has 1 sense: 1. the wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix. Familiarity information: ESTUARY used as a noun is very rare. Nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made). Hypernyms (estuary is a kind of...): body of water; water (the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean)). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of estuary):
An estuary is a partly enclosed coastal body of brackish water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it, and with a free connection to the open sea. Estuaries form a transition zone between river environments and maritime environments. An estuary is a dynamic ecosystem with a connection with the open sea through which the sea water enters with the rhythm of the tides. The sea water entering the estuary is diluted by the fresh water flowing from rivers and streams.
An estuary is the mouth of a river or part of a river that is below  sea level that has freshwater at low tides and salt water at high  tides. They are usually enclosed and … sometimes when water rushes in  with the high tide it can create a tidal bore, or a wave, that will  keep going until its energy is spent. 
An estuary is the mouth of a river or part of a river that is below sea level that has freshwater at low tides and salt water at high tides. They are usually enclosed an … d sometimes when water rushes in with the high tide it can create a tidal bore, or a wave, that will keep going until its energy is spent. salt marsh. Well, the question is asking for an example of  an estuary, not the definition. You can find that in a dictionary.  An example would be the Mississippi River be … cause it flows into an  ocean, and since it is bigger than most estuaries, it is easier to  find thing and study it.
The wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made). Hypernyms (estuary is a kind of...): body of water; water (the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean)). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of estuary):
Noun. 1. estuary-the wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix. body of water, water-the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean); they invaded our territorial waters; they were sitting by the water's edge.