Use raw kale in salads instead of spinach. Kale is a superfood, according to a May 2010 article published in Diabetes Forecast, as it provides high levels of a number of essential nutrients and may help to lower your blood pressure.
Kale is also an excellent source of nutrients, especially vitamin A and calcium. With a combination of vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients, kale is a dieter's dream food .Health Benefits of KaleThough greens in general are nutritious foods, kale stands a head above the rest.
Macronutrients. A 1-cup serving of chopped, raw kale contains 34 calories, 2.2 grams of protein, 0.5 grams of fat and 6.7 grams of carbohydrates, including 1.3 grams of fiber. This is 5 percent of the daily value for fiber and 4 percent of the DV for protein.
Kale is not only one of the more beautiful cruciferous vegetables, but it also one of the most nutritious. Here are nine health benefits of kale: Diet and Digestion. One cup of kale has only 36 calories and zero grams of fat, which makes it a great diet aid. Furthermore, one cup contains nearly 20% of the RDA of dietary fiber, which promotes regular digestion, prevents constipation, lowers blood sugar and curbs overeating.
1. Kale is low in calorie, high in fiber and has zero fat. One cup of kale has only 36 calories, 5 grams of fiber and 0 grams of fat. It is great for aiding in digestion and elimination with its great fiber content.
2. Kale is high in iron. Per calorie, kale has more iron than beef. Iron is essential for good health, such as the formation of hemoglobin and enzymes, transporting oxygen to various parts of the body, cell growth, proper liver function and more.
3. Kale is high in Vitamin K. Eating a diet high in Vitamin K can help protect against various cancers. It is also necessary for a wide variety of bodily functions including normal bone health and blood clotting.
The olive oil you use in making the kale chips is a good source of heart-healthy monounsaturated fats. When monounsaturated fats are consumed in place of saturated fats or refined carbohydrates, they can help to lower your LDL -- or “bad” -- cholesterol and raise your HDL -- or “good” -- cholesterol.