urinary system. body system that includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. its function is to produce urine. it also helps regulate the internal environment of the body by secreting the enzyme renin and the hormone erythropoietin.
1 Blood in the Urine: This Can't Be Normal Hematuria, or blood in the urine, is not normal and can be caused by a number of conditions: urinary tract infection (UTI), kidney infection, kidney stone, bladder stone, and….
2. The function of insulin is to : 3. The cavity within the kidney that ... 4. Te kidneys are located behind: 5. The internal folds of the stomach are ... 6. Vitamins produced by the normal flora ...
The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. The kidneys form the urine and account for the other functions attributed to the urinary system. The ureters carry the urine away from kidneys to the urinary bladder, which is a temporary reservoir for the urine.
Question: The cavity within the kidney that collects urine is the:
1 Ureter – collects filtrate and urine from renal pelvis and takes it to the bladder for urination. 2  Renal Artery – branches off of the aorta bringing waste-filled blood into the kidney for filtering in the nephrons; the renal artery is further subdivided into several branches inside the kidney.
The kidneys are the primary organs of the urinary system. The kidneys are the organs that filter the blood, remove the wastes, and excrete the wastes in the urine. They are the organs that perform the functions of the urinary system. The other components are accessory structures to eliminate the urine from the body.
The cortex and medulla make up the parenchyma, or functional tissue, of the kidney. The central region of the kidney contains the renal pelvis, which is located in the renal sinus, and is continuous with the ureter. The renal pelvis is a large cavity that collects the urine as it is produced. The periphery of the renal pelvis is interrupted by cuplike projections called calyces.
The central region of the kidney contains the renal pelvis, which is located in the renal sinus and is continuous with the ureter. The renal pelvis is a large cavity that collects the urine as it is produced. The periphery of the renal pelvis is interrupted by cuplike projections called calyces.