It's fine, let her go, just make sure that you clean her ears with the liquid that they gave you when she got them pierced. The chlorine may dry out her ears a little bit so put some regular baby lotion on afterwards, but overall it won't hurt her, it may even help kill any bacteria that could cause future infections. 
Confidence votes 274. I'm not too sure if you can swim with newly pierced ears. With any new piercing, swimming isn't advised as the chlorine in the water will dry it out and cause irritation. Remember, the chlorine is in the pool for disinfection, but this does not eliminate the danger of getting an infection. If the piercing is in the cartilage, then a swimming cap will cover it
6 answers. My daughter really wants to get her ears pierced, which I am fine with. But I've read that you shouldn't go swimming (at least in a pool, ocean water seems to be ok) until 2-3 weeks after getting it done. 
Time August 8, 2010 at 10:40. yes you can go swimming. i would know i got my cartilidge pierced during my swim team season. the only problem was that i couoldnt wear the earing in my competion. but the trick is to clean it right before you get in the pool and after you get out. that is SO important that you clean it. just be sure to clean them right before and after you get in/out of the pool. Comment from blueacegirl19. Time August 8, 2010 at 10:40. OF COURSE! In fact, when I got my ears pierced a few years ago, they said that swimming in chlorine will help clean out your ears.
I'm not too sure if you can swim with newly pierced ears. With any new piercing, swimming isn't advised as the chlorine in the water will dry it out and cause irritation. Reme … mber, the chlorine is in the pool for disinfection, but this does not eliminate the danger of getting an infection. That's why they use chlorine in pools, to prevent the spread of bacteria. I would not hesitate to swim in a pool with a fresh piercing. HOWEVER, when you get out of the pool, dab a little alcohol (isopropyl) on your ear to dry (evaporate) the water to discourage the growth of bacterial.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: if she just pierced her ears, then she's not supposed to swim in pools, or the beach for at least 3 weeks. The chemicals can mess up the healing and infect the piercing. i went swimming in a pool after getting my bellybutton pierced and it infected the wound. 