Proteins are the building blocks of the body and an important part of our diet. A balanced diet should include a daily intake of around 0.75grams of protein for every kilo of body weight. There are many protein rich foods for vegetarians, rivalling the protein content of meat products. 
Proteins are made from amino acids, which can be thought of as building blocks. The body uses 20 different amino acids to make its proteins. There are some amino acids that the body cannot make in required amounts. These are called essential, and they must come from the diet. Complete protein foods have all the essential amino acids. In general, animal foods such as meat, poultry, eggs, dairy and fish are complete protein sources. Here is a list of some food pairings that make a complete protein: 1  Legumes with grains, nuts, seeds or dairy. 2  Grains with dairy. 3  Dairy with nuts. 4  Dairy with nuts/seeds and legumes.
While you probably know that getting the right amount of protein is important, you may not be aware that not all protein sources are created equal. Complement, or complementary, proteins are those that come together to form a high-quality protein source. Complement Proteins. Complement proteins are two or more incomplete protein sources that together form a complete protein. If a protein is low in a certain amino acid, like lysine, a complement protein is one that provides the missing protein, in this case lysine. Together, these two proteins provide you with all of the essential amino acids that your body needs to function properly
It's not. The concept of complementary protein argues that some proteins do not provide all the essential amino acids for human nutrition and therefore, foods containing such incomplete proteins need to be combined with other foods to be useful as complete proteins.. Your body can synthesize most of the 22 amino acids that you need to make protein, with the exception of nine essential amino acids (histadine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine) that must come from your food.
Section C: Protein -. Proteins are important for our bodies. They help to build and maintain body tissue and regulate body processes. Proteins provide 4 kilocalories of energy per gram of protein. There are 20 amino acids found in protein. 
Proteins are part of every cell, tissue, and fluid in our bodies. Proteins are made from amino acids, which can be thought of as building blocks. The body uses 20 different amino acids to make its proteins. There are some amino acids that the body cannot make in required amounts. These are called essential, and they must come from the diet. Complete protein foods have all the essential amino acids. In general, animal foods such as meat, poultry, eggs, dairy, and fish are complete protein sources. 
Essential amino acids are those that you must consume in your diet because your body cannot make them. Nonessential amino acids are those that your body can produce, so they are not as vital in the diet. The way the amino acids come together determines what type of protein is made. Complement Proteins. Complement proteins are two or more incomplete protein sources that together form a complete protein. If a protein is low in a certain amino acid, like lysine, a complement protein is one that provides the missing protein, in this case lysine. Together, these two proteins provide you with all of the essential amino acids that your body needs to function properly
Complementary Proteins. Complementary Proteins. Proteins are compounds made up of building blocks called “amino acids.” There are about 20 common amino acids. Nine of them are called “essential” because the body is unable make them, and so they must be supplied by the food you eat. Plant foods do not, as a rule, have complete proteins, but by eating combinations of plant foods, called “complementary proteins,” you can obtain a complete protein. For example, when you eat refried beans with rice, such as is often found in Mexican cuisine, you are obtaining a complete protein.