Health is signified in Ayurveda by the three balanced bodily substances. Kapha has its own role as Vata and Pitta have their roles. The main function of the Kapha substance is to provide fuel for energy. This fuel is considered the source of bodily energy. Kapha in the Sense of Treatment. The fundamental theory of treatment concerning diseases or the conditions of disease that are classified with the character of Kapha is based upon restoring the balance of the over-balanced artery system, and/or to reduce the over-powerful physical properties of the mucus formula.
kapha, kledaka (klāˑ·d ·k) , n in Ayurveda, a subdivision of the kapha dosha whose influence is evident in the stomach. It promotes the initial stages of food digestion; when imbalanced, digestive disorders may result. See also doshas. kapha, avalambaka (·v ·l mˑ·b ·k) , n in Ayurveda, a subdivision of the kapha dosha whose influence is evident in the upper torso, heart, and lungs.
1 Samana Vata-Governs peristaltic movement of the digestive system. 2  Located in the stomach and small intestines. 3  Apana Vata-Governs all downward impulses (urination, elimination, menstruation, sexual discharges etc.) Located between the navel and the anus. 1 Pitta is the bilious humour, or that secreted between the stomach and bowels and flowing through the liver and permeating spleen, heart, eyes, and skin; its chief quality is heat. 2  It is the energy principle which uses bile to direct digestion and hence metabolism.
The Different Aspects of Kapha. In order to identify the Ayurvedic concept of Kapha, the symbolic agent for the sources of biological energy, and to properly apply it for medical purposes, it has to be investigated in detail. Kapha in the Sense of Treatment. The fundamental theory of treatment concerning diseases or the conditions of disease that are classified with the character of Kapha is based upon restoring the balance of the over-balanced artery system, and/or to reduce the over-powerful physical properties of the mucus formula.
Kapha, avalambaka. kapha, bodhaka (bōˑ·dh ·k) , n in Ayurveda, a subdivision of the kapha dosha whose influence is evident in the tongue and throat. It promotes mucus secretion and the sense of taste; imbalance may result in dry mouth, indigestion, and a loss of gustation. kapha, avalambaka (·v ·l mˑ·b ·k) , n in Ayurveda, a subdivision of the kapha dosha whose influence is evident in the upper torso, heart, and lungs.
Located in the chest, heart and lungs. Bodhaka Kapha-Governs perception of taste, lubricating and moistening of food. Located in the tongue, mouth and throat. Tarpaka Kapha-Governs calmness, happiness and stability. Dosha / Sub-dosha. Sub-Doshas are the intelligences of Vata, Pitta and Kapha that functions within our body. Vata sub-dosha. Prana Vata-Governs inhalation, perception through the senses and governs the mind. Located in the brain, head, throat, heart and respiratory organs
As with Vata and Pitta, the formula for the properties of the Water Element has a direct correspondence to the formulas of the biological substances mucus and Kapha. Kapha contains the physical properties of Guru (heavy), Shita (cold), Mridu (soft), Snigdha (grease), Sthira (stable) and Picchila (viscous). Kapha in the Sense of Treatment. The fundamental theory of treatment concerning diseases or the conditions of disease that are classified with the character of Kapha is based upon restoring the balance of the over-balanced artery system, and/or to reduce the over-powerful physical properties of the mucus formula.
kapha, tarpaka (t r·p ·k) , n in Ayurveda, a subdivision of the kapha dosha, the influence of which is evident in the head, sinuses, and cerebrospinal fluid. It promotes healthy moisture levels in the eyes, nose, and throat and also contributes to maintenance of the CSF. kapha, avalambaka (·v ·l mˑ·b ·k) , n in Ayurveda, a subdivision of the kapha dosha whose influence is evident in the upper torso, heart, and lungs.