Feng shui bagua (also called ba-gua or pakua) is one of the main tools used in feng shui to analyze the energy of any given space, be it home, office or garden. Basically, bagua is the feng shui energy map of your space that shows you which areas of your home or office are connected to specific areas of your life. Translated from Chinese, Bagua literally means 8 areas.. 1 of 5 Show All. In order to define the Classical, or Traditional feng shui bagua of your home or office, you will first need to take a compass reading of your front door. The video on applying the classical feng shui bagua explains how to take the compass reading in any space.
The bagua (Chinese: 八卦; literally: eight symbols) are eight trigrams used in daoist cosmology to represent the fundamental principles of reality, seen as a range of eight interrelated concepts. Each consists of three lines, each line either broken or unbroken, representing yin or yang, respectively. In Xiantian Bagua, also known as Fu Xi Bagua or Earlier Heaven Bagua, the Heaven is in the higher part and the Earth is in the lower part. The trigram Qian (Heaven) is at the top, the trigram Kun (Earth) is at the bottom (in the past, the South was located at the top in Chinese maps).
Use this Feng Shui Bagua Map toread your living space. The Bagua takes it's shape and meaning from the I Ching which is the result of human attempts to understand the laws of nature that affected their lives. They developed a system of symbols called trigrams to represent the energy expressions of nature. 
Bagua is one of the main feng shui tools used to analyze the feng shui energy in any given space. Translated from Chinese, Bagua literally means 8 areas.. In order to define the Classical, or Traditional feng shui bagua of your home or office, you need to first take the compass reading of your front door. This feng shui bagua guide will help you choose the bagua that is right for you, define it in your home or office, as well as help you deal with such bagua specifics as missing areas or extensions.
An ancient Chinese term “bagua” means “eight areas” (“ba”=eight, “gua”=area) and Feng Shui bagua is a map or chart that relates the various areas of your life to the 8 sections of your living space. 
The Bagua Map is Feng Shui’s way of bringing the power of your Intention to your health, intimate relationships, money matters and more. It helps you bring good Chi energy to all of the important parts of your life. My handmade Bagua map, one of Feng Shui’s most important tools. An eight-sided energy map, the Bagua is an ancient and profound instrument with almost limitless implications. The map gives you specific ways to enhance the energy of life sectors that need your attention. 
Bagua Circle Walking is the central and foundational solo exercise of bagua zhang (ba gua chang/pakua chang). The greater the skill you develop in Bagua Zhang Circle Walking, the greater your chances of realizing bagua’s physical, martial and spiritual value. 
How to Read a Feng Shui Bagua Map. The bagua map (BAH-gwa) is a very basic tool used in feng shui to learn which parts of a space–-such as a home, office building, room or yard–-correlate with particular areas of life. Edit Article. The bagua map (BAH-gwa) is a very basic tool used in feng shui to learn which parts of a space–-such as a home, office building, room or yard–-correlate with particular areas of life.
A bagua is a tool used by Feng shui masters and experts in determining the so-called energy of a given space. Feng shui is a geomancy system used by the Chinese and it is based on the laws of the earth and heavenly bodies. Through tools like the bagua, experts on this subject matter are able to determine if a particular room or space has positive and/or negative vibes and properties. 