The largest industrial use of toluene is in the production of benzene. Benzene is found in the air, water, and soil. You can be exposed to small amounts of benzene outdoors, where the air can contain low levels from tobacco smoke, automotive service stations, vehicle exhaust, and industrial emissions. You can be exposed to benzene indoors at home, where the air can contain higher levels of benzene than outdoor air, from products such as glue, paint, furniture wax, and detergent. Approximately half the national exposure to benzene comes from smoking cigarettes or being exposed to cigarette smoke, indoors or outdoors.
Benzene is a component of products derived from coal and petroleum and is found in gasoline and other fuels. Benzene is used in the manufacture of plastics, detergents, pesticides, and other chemicals. 
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. Benzene is a chemical compound that can be found in oil, gasoline, cigarette smoke, and vehicle emissions. It is also widely used in the manufacturing of certain plastic and rubber products. Exposure to benzene is known to cause cancer and other short-term and long-term health problems. Benzene and Where It Is Found. Benzene is a colorless liquid chemical with a sweet smell. It is found in oil, gasoline, tobacco smoke, motor vehicle emissions, and the burning of coal. It is used in certain industries and also may be found in the air, water supply, and the home
Benzene can be found in volcanoes, and is also a derivative of forest fires. As a fundamental ingredient of oil and coal, Benzene is the substance that is left behind after the fuel needed has been used. Benzene can be found in its highest levels industrial and manufacturing plants that deal with petroleum and other everyday products that have been mentioned.
Benzene is a widely used industrial chemical. Benzene is found in crude oil and is a major part of gasoline. Its used to make plastics, resins, synthetic fibers, rubber lubricants, dyes, detergents, drugs and pesticides. Benzene is produced naturally by volcanoes and forest fires. In homes, benzene may be found in glues, adhesives, cleaning products, paint strippers, tobacco smoke and gasoline. Most benzene in the environment comes from our use of petroleum products. Benzene quickly evaporates from water or soil.
Benzene is commonly found in the environment. Industrial processes are the main sources of benzene in the environment. Benzene levels in the air can be elevated by emissions from burning coal and oil, benzene waste and storage operations, motor vehicle exhaust, and evaporation from gasoline service stations. 
Benzene is commonly found in air in both urban and rural areas, but the levels are usually very low. Exposures can be higher for people in enclosed spaces with unventilated fumes from gasoline, glues, solvents, paints, and art supplies. Benzene can also be absorbed through the skin during contact with a source such as gasoline, but because liquid benzene evaporates quickly, this is less common. People can be exposed to benzene at work, in the general environment, and through the use of some consumer products.
Download article as a PDF. Benzene is a carcinogenic substance that is present in a great number of modern products and industries. It is formed through both natural processes and human activities, but importantly, high level of exposure to benzene can be quite dangerous. The dangers of benzene mean that you should be alert to the possibility of exposure beyond acceptable levels. Certainly, over-exposure to benzene in any setting might generate a legal claim against the institution or person that caused the exposure.