Definition of a Ballad. A Ballad can be defined as, “A simple narrative poem, often of folk origin, bearing romantic and sentimental character, composed in short stanzas.”. It is the four lined stanza (also known as a quatrain). It is commonly used in folk ballad poetry. Normally, only the second and fourth lines rhyme in a Ballad stanza.
Full Definition of BALLAD. 1. a: a narrative composition in rhythmic verse suitable for singing b: an art song accompanying a traditional ballad. 2. : a simple song: air. 3. : a popular song; especially: a slow romantic or sentimental song. — bal·lad·ic \bə-ˈla-dik, ba-\ adjective. See ballad defined for English-language learners. 
Ballad Examples. The word Ballad is of French provenance. It is a type of poetry or verse which was basically used in dance songs in the ancient France. Later on, during the late 16th and 17th century, it spread over the majority of European nations. 
A ballad /ˈbaeləd/ ˈbæləd is a form of, verse often a narrative set to. Music ballads derive from the Medieval french chanson balladee balladée, or ballade which were originally. dancing songs A ballad /ˈbaeləd/ ˈbæləd is a form of, verse often a narrative set to. music
A Ballad is a poem that tells a story, which are often used in songs because of their rhyme. A ballad is a poetic story, often a love story. 
Ballad Poems. Below are examples of ballad poems. This list of poems in the ballad form of poetry is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of ballad poems or a list of ballad poetry. These examples illustrate what ballad poems look like and its form. There is also a link below to the definition of ballad and a page where you can discuss it. 
Poetry Definition. A story in a song, usually a narrative song or poem. Any form of story may be told as a ballad (not to be confused with a ballade), ranging from accounts of historical events to fairy tales in verse form.
Definition. A ballad is a type of poem that is sometimes set to music. Ballads have a long history and are found in many cultures. The ballad actually began as a folk song and continues today in popular music. Many love songs today can be considered ballads. Like any poem, some ballads follow this form and some don't, but almost all ballads are narrative, which means they tell a story. Because the ballad was originally set to music, some ballads have a refrain, or a repeated chorus, just like a song does.