In the Inbox Repair tool, type the path and the file name of your personal folders (.pst) file or click Browse to locate the file by using the Windows file system, and then click Start. Note If you do not know where the .pst file is located, follow the steps in How to locate, move, or back up your .pst file. . Follow these steps to repair your Outlook personal folder file (.pst) by using Inbox Repair tool, and you may also reference Video: How to repair your Outlook Person Folder (.pst) files under the For more information section.
How to use Scanpst.exe to repair Outlook data files. Scanpst (aka the Inbox Repair tool) is found in your Office installation folders, usually C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office XX, where XX is your version of Office. In Vista and Windows 7 64-bit, the folder is C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Office\Office XX. To find the path on the Q drive, open Word and open the File, Save as dialog, choose 'all files' in the file type dialog and browse to Q:\\Office14. Copy the Q path and paste it into the address bar of windows explorer. In Outlook 2013 Click to Run versions, scanpst is under the root directory in the install path.
Where is scanpst.exe Location. Scanpst.exe Pro is a professional recovery solution for Microsoft Outlook mailbox file, the PST file. When Outlook start and detects that the PST file is corrupted, the inbox repair tool is launched in order to provide a recovery path to restore the mailbox data items. 
How to find scanpst on your computer. If you have Microsoft Office installed, you have scanpst.exe installed as well. It is located in the same folder as Outlook. Here is an easy way to find it: 1  Open the Task Manager. 2  Find Outlook on the Processes tab. 3  Right-click on Outlook and select “Open File Location”
1 Click on the File tab on the ribbon, and then click the Info tab on the menu. 2  Click the Account Settings button, and then click Account Settings again. 3  Click the Data Files tab. 4  Click Add to open the Create or Open Outlook Data File dialog box. 5  Enter a file name for your new Outlook Data (.pst) file, and then click OK. Follow these steps to repair your Outlook personal folder file (.pst) by using Inbox Repair tool, and you may also reference Video: How to repair your Outlook Person Folder (.pst) files under the For more information section.
Find Scanpst.exe in Windows 7! Scanpst.exe is the free outlook PST repair tool provided by Microsoft. Often it is used to repair corrupted PST file. Whenever users experienced that there is problem in accessing PST file or getting problematic issue regarding performance of Outlook, they can use this feature of Outlook to fix out the issue. 
Inbox Repair tool (scanpst.exe). Scanpst.exe is installed on your computer when you install Microsoft Outlook 2010. The Inbox Repair tool tries to correct any problems by resetting the data file structure and rebuilding the headers for Outlook items. Double-click Scanpst.exe. In the Enter the name of the file you want to scan box, enter the name of the .pst or .ost file that you want to check, or click Browse to select the file. To specify the scan log options, click Options, and then click the option that you want.
The Inbox Repair tool (Scanpst.exe) is designed to help repair problems that are associated with personal folder (.pst) files. The Inbox Repair tool is automatically installed with all English-language Microsoft Outlook installation options depending on your operating system. Follow these steps to repair your Outlook personal folder file (.pst) by using Inbox Repair tool, and you may also reference Video: How to repair your Outlook Person Folder (.pst) files under the For more information section.
You can either use Windows search to find scanpst.exe or browse to it using Windows Explorer. We also offer the following shortcuts you can type or paste into into Start menu's search field or into the Run command (press Windows key + R to open the Run command). To find the path on the Q drive, open Word and open the File, Save as dialog, choose 'all files' in the file type dialog and browse to Q:\\Office14. Copy the Q path and paste it into the address bar of windows explorer. In Outlook 2013 Click to Run versions, scanpst is under the root directory in the install path.
For Outlook 2007, ScanPST.exe should be located in C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office12 (or C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Office\Office12 on a 64-bit cmoputer). If it's not there, you may want to do a Repair install of Office/Outlook. More info: 1  How to use Inbox Repair tool to repair pst file in Outlook. 