Mitochondrial diseases take on unique characteristics both because of the way the diseases are often inherited and because mitochondria are so critical to cell function. The subclass of these diseases that have neuromuscular disease symptoms are often called a mitochondrial myopathy. Other causes of mitochondrial disease are mutations in genes of the nuclear DNA, whose gene products are imported into the mitochondria (mitochondrial proteins) as well as acquired mitochondrial conditions.
The conventional teaching in biology and medicine is that mitochondria function only as energy factories for the cell. This over-simplification is a mistake which has slowed our progress toward understanding the biology underlying mitochondrial disease. It takes about 3000 genes to make a mitochondrion. Phenocopies of Mitochondrial Disease. The converse is also true: different mutations in mtDNA and nDNA can lead to the same diseases. In genetics, these are known as phenocopies. A good example is Leigh syndrome, which can be caused by about a dozen different gene defects.
(In fact, mitochondrial diseases are sometimes named for a specific deficiency, such as complex I deficiency.). When a cell is filled with defective mitochondria, not only does it become deprived of ATP, it also can accumulate a backlog of unused fuel molecules and oxygen, with potentially disastrous effects. 
Mitochondria are found in every cell of the human body except red blood cells, and convert the energy of food molecules into the ATP that powers most cell functions. Mitochondrial diseases are sometimes (about 15% of the time) caused by mutations in the mitochondrial DNA that affect mitochondrial function. Other causes of mitochondrial disease are mutations in genes of the nuclear DNA, whose gene products are imported into the mitochondria (mitochondrial proteins) as well as acquired mitochondrial conditions.
Mitochondrial diseases result from failures of the mitochondria, specialized compartments present in every cell of the body except red blood cells. Mitochondria are responsible for creating more than 90% of the energy needed by the body to sustain life and support growth. When they fail, less and less energy is generated within the cell. Cell injury and even cell death follow. Phenocopies of Mitochondrial Disease. The converse is also true: different mutations in mtDNA and nDNA can lead to the same diseases. In genetics, these are known as phenocopies. A good example is Leigh syndrome, which can be caused by about a dozen different gene defects.
1 Mitochondrial disease is a chronic, genetic disorder that occurs when the mitochondria of the cell fail to produce enough energy for cell or organ function. 2  The incidence is about 1:4000 individuals in the US. The severity of mitochondrial disease symptoms is different from person to person. The most common symptoms are: 1  Poor growth. 2  Loss of muscle coordination, muscle weakness. 3  Neurological problems, seizures.
Mitochondrial disease is a group of disorders caused by dysfunctional mitochondria, the organelles that generate energy for the cell. Other causes of mitochondrial disease are mutations in genes of the nuclear DNA, whose gene products are imported into the mitochondria (mitochondrial proteins) as well as acquired mitochondrial conditions.
1 Mitochondrial disease includes a group of neuromuscular diseases caused by damage to intracellular structures that produce energy, the mitochondria; disease symptoms usually involve muscle contractions that are weak or spontaneous. 2  There is no specific treatment for mitochondrial diseases (myopathies). *Mitochondiral myopathies facts medical author: Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD. 1 
Overview of Mitochondrial Disease. Mitochondrial disease or dysfunction is an energy production problem. Almost all cells in the body have mitochondria, which are tiny “power plants” that produce a body’s essential energy. Mitochondrial disease means the power plants in cells don’t function properly. 
A: Mitochondria are tiny parts of almost every cell in your body. Mitochondria are like the power house of the cells. They turn sugar and oxygen into energy that the cells need to work. In mitochondrial diseases, the mitochondria cannot efficiently turn sugar and oxygen into energy, so the cells do not work correctly. Not everyone with a mitochondrial disease will show symptoms. However, when discussing the group of mitochondrial diseases that tend to affect children, symptoms usually appear in the toddler and preschool years.