Congenital masses in the neck include branchial cleft cysts, thyroglossal duct cysts (TGDCs), ectopic thymus cysts, dermoid and teratoid cysts, cystic vascular abnormalities, and lymphatic malformations such as the cystic lymphangioma. Most of these neck cysts present as slow-growing cystic cervical masses. When the mass is located in the suprahyoid location, the patient can present with respiratory compromise. Infection and hemorrhage of the malformation can cause sudden enlargem
Often, a cyst will have no noticeable symptoms other than a lump on the neck. In some cases this lump may be painful or tender to the touch. When cysts become painful, the patient is advised to consult a doctor to discover the underlying cause or to remove the cyst. A neck cyst is a sac-like structure located on the neck that is filled with liquid, gaseous, or solid materials that can range in size form microscopic to very large. People should never self diagnose their neck cyst but, instead, should always get checked out by a physician
A neck lump is a protuberance or localized area of swelling in the neck. Other general terms used to describe neck lumps include neck bump, nodule, contusion, tumor, growth and cyst. Lumps in the neck can be caused by a number of conditions, including infections, inflammation, tumors and trauma. Lumps located on the thyroid gland (which is in the front of the neck) may be caused by cancer or other disease of the thyroid and cause symptoms related to thyroid hormone imbalance. Lumps in the neck can also occur when the salivary gland enlarges due to infection, tumor, or a stone in the salivary duct.
Neck lumps have many possible causes, including trauma, infection, inflammatory disease, benign cysts and tumors, and cancer. A common cause of lumps in the neck is lymph node swelling due to an infectious process, such as strep throat. 
Causes of neck cysts. There are many causes of cysts on the back of the neck or on the side of the neck. The most commonly seen cysts on neck are enlarged lymph nodes that are caused by bacteria or viral infections, malignancy or other causes. Infections affecting the salivary gland under the jaws may cause enlargement of the muscles in front of the neck commonly referred to as lumps. Cysts on neck should not be cause of alarm as some require minimal or no treatment. It has also been found that cysts do not grow rapidly nor do they spread to other parts of the body as the cancerous lumps generally do.
2. 0. 69. Lumps in the neck are common and the cause is usually benign. However, the lump may be the presentation of more serious disease, eg malignancy or chronic infection and so a thorough assessment and diagnosis are essential. 
A neck cyst is a sac-like structure located on the neck that is filled with liquid, gaseous, or solid materials. They can range in size from microscopic to very large in nature. A neck cyst is a sac-like structure located on the neck that is filled with liquid, gaseous, or solid materials that can range in size form microscopic to very large. People should never self diagnose their neck cyst but, instead, should always get checked out by a physician