Do not wear a contact lens if your eye is red. LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens-related irritation. Remove contact lenses before putting LASTACAFT ® in your eyes. The preservative in LASTACAFT ® may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. Lenses may be put back in your eyes 10 minutes after using LASTACAFT ® . LASTACAFT ® is for topical use in your eyes only. LASTACAFT® is for topical use in your eyes only. SIDE EFFECTS. The most common eye-related side effects that were reported in less than 4% of LASTACAFT® treated eyes were: eye irritation, burning and/or stinging in the eyes after use, eye redness, and eye itching.
This medication comes in the form of an eye drop and is approved for use in adults and children as young as two years old. Lastacaft ™ (alcaftadine) is an antihistamine eye drop used for treating eye allergies. Treatment often includes allergy eye drops, such as Lastacaft. Unlike over-the-counter (OTC) decongestant eye drops, you can use Lastacaft long-term without the risk of making the redness and swelling worse by using it for too long. Lastacaft belongs to a class of drugs called antihistamines. Specifically, it is an H1 receptor antagonist
DRUG DESCRIPTION. LASTACAFT® is a sterile, topically administered H1 receptor antagonist containing alcaftadine for ophthalmic use. Alcaftadine is a white to yellow powder with an empirical formula of C19H21N3O and a molecular weight of 307.39. Contains:
If you are wearing contact lenses, remove them before putting the drops in your eyes. Wait at least 10 minutes after using this medicine before putting your contact lenses back in. Do not wear contact lenses if your eyes are red. To use the eye drops: 1  First, wash your hands. 2  Then turn the closed bottle upside down and shake it one time before putting the medicine in your eye. 3  Remove the cap with the bottle still being held upside dow
This card is good for up to 50% off the first and second prescription of LASTACAFT ® (alcaftadine ophthalmic solution) 0.25%, not to exceed $75 per prescription. The third prescription is covered up to 100%, not to exceed $100. Total savings on all 3 prescriptions not to exceed $250. LASTACAFT® is for topical use in your eyes only. SIDE EFFECTS. The most common eye-related side effects that were reported in less than 4% of LASTACAFT® treated eyes were: eye irritation, burning and/or stinging in the eyes after use, eye redness, and eye itching.
Uses. This medication is used to prevent itching of the eyes due to allergies. Alcaftadine is an antihistamine. It works by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine) that causes allergic symptoms. Do not use this medication to treat red or irritated eyes due to wearing contact lenses. Use eye drops before eye ointments to allow the drops to enter the eye. Use this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, use it at the same time each day. Do not use this product if it becomes contaminated (for example, drops turn a dark color).
If you are using another kind of eye medication (for example, other drops or ointments), wait at least 5 minutes before applying other medications. Use eye drops before eye ointments to allow the drops to enter the eye. Use this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, use it at the same time each day. Do not use this product if it becomes contaminated (for example, drops turn a dark color). Using contaminated eye medication can cause infection, serious damage to the eye, and loss of vision. Contact your doctor or pharmacist for more information
Uses For Lastacaft. Alcaftadine ophthalmic (eye) drops is used to prevent itching of the eye caused by a condition known as allergic conjunctivitis (pink eye). It works by preventing the effects of certain inflammatory substances, which are produced by cells in your eyes and sometimes cause allergic reactions. Do not wear contact lenses if your eyes are red. To use the eye drops: 1  First, wash your hands. 2  Then turn the closed bottle upside down and shake it one time before putting the medicine in your eye.
You can get that with LASTACAFT ® ophthalmic solution—a prescription eyedrop that works in only 3 minutes and lasts all day through 16 hours. 1-3. If you have eye allergies, talk to your eye doctor about once-daily LASTACAFT ® . LASTACAFT® is for topical use in your eyes only. SIDE EFFECTS. The most common eye-related side effects that were reported in less than 4% of LASTACAFT® treated eyes were: eye irritation, burning and/or stinging in the eyes after use, eye redness, and eye itching.