Disney Cruise Wear. During the day and most evenings on the Disney Cruise Line, you can wear casual clothing. At dinner, you are asked to stick to “cruise casual.” Most men wear a collared shirt (Aloha shirts and golf/polo shirts are fine) and long pants (chinos or dress slacks). Most women wear a skirt, dress, nice pants or dressy capris. 
Dress Up Night/Formal Night/Semi-Formal Night-Depending on the length of your cruise you will have one Dress Up Night and the 7 night cruises will have a Formal and Semi-formal night as well. For my family this meant my girls wore dresses or skirts, my husband and son-polo style shirt and khaki's and myself a skirt, dress or nice capri pants. Pirate/Tropical-One night of your cruise will be Pirate Night. It's usually the day you are at Castaway Cay.
Most dinners on the cruises are cruise casual. For what the cruises call dress-up night, men should wear a jacket and women should wear a dress or pantsuit. Semi-formal dress is very similar to the dress-up night clothing. Men should wear a jacket or a suit, and women should again wear a dress or pantsuit. Definitions. Disney cruises have four types of dressing other than casual: cruise casual, dress-up, semi-formal and formal. For cruise casual, avoid shorts, swimwear, casual t-shirts and tank tops. Long pants (jeans are fine), skirts and collared shirts (including Aloha shirts and golf/polo shirts) are appropriate
Best Answer: Many widely known cruise lines will have casual, smart casual, and formal attire every night. The longer your cruise, the more formal attire nights you will have..Mostly they are casual/smart casual though.. Usually, when you spend a day at sea, that is more likely to be your formal attire night. Some are pickier than others. We chose Norwegian Cruise Lines' Pearl to go on (to Alaska) because of the relaxed atmosphere. You don't technically have to dress up for dinner, but it's nice to, and fun, too. If you just go to the buffet every time, then no, you never have to dress up at all.
- back to top -. Disney Cruise Line Dining Dress Code. Disney Cruise Line has a Cruise Casual dress code for evening dining. As part of the Cruise Casual policy, it is asked that you do not wear tank tops or swim wear to the dining rooms. Shorts and jeans are allowed. On the 3- and 4-night cruises you will have one night that is designated Optional Dress-up (Semi-Formal).
You are here: Disney Cruise Line Dress Code. Casual clothing is appropriate on a Disney Cruise, including, shorts, pants, sundresses, tank tops, swimsuit cover up for cool evenings etc. for the ladies, and for men; shorts, pants, polo shirts, T-shirts, etc. will do. Jeans are also fin
Daytime Attire on a Disney Cruise Ship. Casual clothing is appropriate on a Disney Cruise, including, shorts, pants, sundresses, tank tops, swimsuit cover up for cool evenings etc. for the ladies, and for men; shorts, pants, polo shirts, T-shirts, etc. will do. Jeans are also fine
Cruise Casual-this is how most people dress each night of the cruise. Disney requests no shorts, swimwear or tank tops in the dining rooms in the evening. For my family this meant my girls wore dresses or skirts, my husband and son-polo style shirt and khaki's and myself a skirt, dress or nice capri pants. Pirate/Tropical-One night of your cruise will be Pirate Night. It's usually the day you are at Castaway Cay.
We get this question a lot-what is the proper attire for a Disney cruise, specifically what do I wear to dinner? According to Disney Cruise information the proper attire schedule includes: Cruise Casual, Pirate or Tropical Attire, One Formal Night, One Semi-formal night. For my family this meant my girls wore dresses or skirts, my husband and son-polo style shirt and khaki's and myself a skirt, dress or nice capri pants. Pirate/Tropical-One night of your cruise will be Pirate Night. It's usually the day you are at Castaway Cay.