Retinitis Pigmentosa Symptoms and Signs. Since retinitis pigmentosa begins as rod degeneration, the patient first notices increasing difficulty in night vision, followed by difficulty seeing in the periphery. Slowly progressive constriction of the visual field leads to tunnel vision. A small area of central vision in both eyes usually persists for years. RP is sometimes associated with other systemic illnesses. Usher syndrome, characterized by retinitis pigmentosa and neural hearing loss, is the most common cause of deaf-blindness in the United States. The hearing loss usually is diagnosed earlier than the eye changes. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 6/4/2015.
Please Share! On this page: Retinitis pigmentosa symptoms • Causes of retinitis pigmentosa • Usher syndrome • Treatments for RP • Adaptive strategies. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a rare, inherited disease in which the light-sensitive retina of the eye slowly and progressively degenerates. Eventually, blindness results. The first signs of retinitis pigmentosa usually occur in early childhood, when both eyes typically are affected. Night vision can be poor, and the field of vision may begin to narrow. Pigmentation in the retina is a sign that light-sensing cells are deteriorating, so it becomes very difficult to see in dim light.
Since retinitis pigmentosa begins as rod degeneration, the patient first notices increasing difficulty in night vision, followed by difficulty seeing in the periphery. Slowly progressive constriction of the visual field leads to tunnel vision. A small area of central vision in both eyes usually persists for years. 
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited, degenerative eye disease that causes severe vision impairment due to the progressive degeneration of the rod photoreceptor cells in the retina. The initial retinal degenerative symptoms of Retinitis Pigmentosa are characterized by decreased night vision (nyctalopia) and the loss of the mid-peripheral visual field.
Symptoms of Retinitis Pigmentosa. The first signs of retinitis pigmentosa usually occur in early childhood, when both eyes typically are affected. Night vision can be poor, and the field of vision may begin to narrow. Pigmentation in the retina is a sign that light-sensing cells are deteriorating, so it becomes very difficult to see in dim light.
Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP). Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited, degenerative eye disease that causes severe vision impairment. RP is caused by abnormalities of the photoreceptors (rods and cones). PubMed Health Glossary. About Retinitis Pigmentosa. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of rare, genetic disorders that involve a breakdown and loss of cells in the retina —which is the light sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye. Common symptoms include difficulty seeing at night and a loss of side (peripheral) vision
Retinitis Pigmentosa: Retinitis pigmentosa is an inherited eye disorder characterized by progressive loss of peripheral vision and night vision difficulties that can cause central vision loss. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Retinitis Pigmentosa is available below. 
The list of signs and symptoms mentioned in various sources for Retinitis Pigmentosa includes the 11 symptoms listed below: 1  Night-blindness. 2  Peripheral vision loss. 3  Progressive retinal degeneration. 4  Tunnel vision. 5  Progressive vision loss. 6  Decreased vision at night or in low light. 7  Loss of side (peripheral) vision. 1 Night-blindness. 2  Peripheral vision loss. 3  Progressive retinal degeneration. 4  Tunnel vision. 5  Progressive vision loss. 6  Decreased vision at night or in low light. 7  Loss of side (peripheral) vision. 8  Loss of central vision (in advanced cases).