On some cruise lines, passengers 18 through 20 face alcohol restrictions that older passengers do not. For example, on Celebrity and Azamara, you are not allowed to provide alcoholic beverages to anyone else, even if that person is over 21. Azamara (azamaraclubcruises.com), Celebrity (celebritycruises.com) and Norwegian (ncl.com) allow guests 18 through 20 to drink with parental permission.
Best Answer: The drinking age on ALL cruise ships serving US ports is age 21 or older. It does not change or matter when you leave port and/or are docked in another country. It' still age 21 and the cruise lines do enforce it to the law. All of the cruise lines web sites specify this policy. From my past experience in cruising you do have to be 21 to actually drink on the ship at all times, however, once you doc in another country you will be able to drink according to their laws (most are 18). losinpatience · 7 years ago.
Carnival. 1  Age to cruise unaccompanied: 21. 2  Age to drink alcohol: 21. 3  Age to gamble: 18. 4  Other restrictions: If under 18, must leave nightclubs by 10:45. 5  Babies: infants must be at least 6 months old, or 12 months for trans-ocean crossings. 6  Source: Carnival Age Restrictions and Cruise Contract. To cruise unaccompanied, most lines require guests to be 21 years old, or accompanied by someone 21 years old (25 on some lines). The only exceptions are: 1  Disney and Oceania, which allow 18 year olds to cruise. 2  Married couples under 21 are allowed on RCI, NCL and Carnival.
Parental permission is not required for 18- through 20-year-olds to drink. Royal Caribbean’s drinking age is 18 for cruises that originate in Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and South America, but the drinking age is always 21 on the company’s private islands. Azamara (azamaraclubcruises.com), Celebrity (celebritycruises.com) and Norwegian (ncl.com) allow guests 18 through 20 to drink with parental permission.
The minimum drinking age for all alcoholic beverages on Norwegian Cruise Line ships is 21. Guests who are 18 - 20 years of age can purchase and consume beer or wine when the ship is in international waters (3 miles out of US territorial waters). The age modification does not apply for Alaska and Hawaii sailings. 
1 Age to sail unaccompanied: 21. 2  If under 21, must be accompanied by a parent, guardian or chaperone who is at least 25 years old; one adult chaperone is required for every five people under the age of 21. 3  Age to drink alcohol: 21, no exceptions. 4  Babies: Infants must be at least 6 months old at time of sailing. To cruise unaccompanied, most lines require guests to be 21 years old, or accompanied by someone 21 years old (25 on some lines). The only exceptions are: 1  Disney and Oceania, which allow 18 year olds to cruise. 2  Married couples under 21 are allowed on RCI, NCL and Carnival.
All guests under 21 years of age when boarding must be accompanied by a parent or guardian in the same stateroom. On some sailings, even guests 21-24 years of age must have at least one person in the stateroom who is at least 25 years old and will agree to be responsible for the under-25 year old guests. For more detailed information, visit www.costacruise.com. All guests must be at least 21 years of age when boarding a Carnival ship. Guests under 21 years of age at time of boarding must have a parent or guardian who is 25 years of age or older
The drinking age on all of Norwegian's ships is 21. However, passengers who are 18 to 20 years of age can purchase and consume beer or wine when the ship is in international waters (does not apply to Alaska or Hawaii sailings). A parent or legal guardian must be onboard the sailing with the minor and sign a consent form at the front desk. Bringing Booze Onboard.
All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing, 18 to gamble in the casino, and if you're under age 21, there must be at least one person in the cabin over 25. Norwegian Cruise Line (www.ncl.com). Age Policies of the Major Lines. Carnival (www.carnival.com). All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing. You must be 18 to gamble in the casino; if you're under age 21, there must be at least one person in the cabin over 25. Celebrity Cruises (www.celebritycruises