Woodcuts: Type of Printmaking. Woodcut, the oldest technique used in fine art printmaking, is a form of relief printing. The artist's design or drawing is made on a piece of wood (usually beechwood), and the untouched areas are then cut away with gouges, leaving the raised image which is then inked. Woodcut prints are produced by pressing the selected medium (usually paper) onto the inked image.
One of the earliest and most direct forms of printing, the technique of woodcut was first developed in China sometime around the Ninth Century. It was refined to a very high degree in the next few centuries in Japan, where techniques for multi-color prints were developed. The first is aesthetic; each method of printmaking, whether woodcut, etching, lithography, or some other, produces an image with its own unique graphic look. The second is more practical; to create multiple identical copies of a given work of art for sale.
Licensed from Columbia University Press. woodcut and wood engraving, prints made from designs cut in relief on wood, in contrast to copper or steel engraving and etching (which are intaglio). The term woodcutting is loosely included within the wood-engraving process, from which, however, it can be distinguished. 
Full Definition of WOODCUT. 1. : a relief printing surface consisting of a wooden block with a usually pictorial design cut with the grain. 2. : a print from a woodcut. 
Woodcuts of Stanislaw Raczynski (1903-1982). Woodcut, occasionally known as xylography, is a relief printing technique in printmaking. An artist carves an image into the surface of a block of wood —typically with gouges —leaving the printing parts level with the surface while removing the non-printing parts. In Europe, woodcut is the oldest technique used for old master prints, developing about 1400, by using, on paper, existing techniques for printing. One of the more ancient woodcuts on paper that can be seen today is The Fire Madonna (Madonna del Fuoco, in the Italian language), in the Cathedral of Forli, forlì In. italy
Single-leaf woodcut is a term for a woodcut presented as a single image or print, as opposed to a book illustration. In Europe, woodcut is the oldest technique used for old master prints, developing about 1400, by using, on paper, existing techniques for printing. One of the more ancient woodcuts on paper that can be seen today is The Fire Madonna (Madonna del Fuoco, in the Italian language), in the Cathedral of Forli, forlì In. italy
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1497-8) Woodcut by Albrecht Durer, the greatest printmaker in Germany and undoubtedly one of the finest Northern Renaissance artists. PRINTMAKING TERMS For an explanation of basic terms involved in engraving, etching, lithography, woodcuts etc., see: Printmaking Glossary. The artist's design or drawing is made on a piece of wood (usually beechwood), and the untouched areas are then cut away with gouges, leaving the raised image which is then inked. Woodcut prints are produced by pressing the selected medium (usually paper) onto the inked image.
Typically, the artist only designed the woodcut-either by drawing directly on the wood, or by first drawing it on paper then tracing or gluing it onto the wood. Specialist craftsmen known as 'formschneider' then performed the actual wood carving of the design, after which the block was given to specialist printers. The artist's design or drawing is made on a piece of wood (usually beechwood), and the untouched areas are then cut away with gouges, leaving the raised image which is then inked. Woodcut prints are produced by pressing the selected medium (usually paper) onto the inked image.