As you suspected, the reason Americans eggs tend to have bright yellow yolks has nothing to do with hormones but rather with what we feed our hens. Beyer says egg yolk color is almost entirely influenced by the birds' diet. So if you're feeding birds yellow corn, it gets in the egg, he explains.
I've noticed when I've bought Italian eggs from delis here in Europe that the yolks are very yellow-almost orange.
It's a sales thing-one poste above me said American eggs are very clean .. and that's why they make sure the calcium, they feed the egg-factory-hens in America, is completely refined and pure white. They don't dye white eggs brown-the brown eggs are the more natural eggs.
Turns out that egg yolk color is really just an indicator of the hen's diet! If they eat more yellow-orange carotenoids, or natural pigments, it affects and changes the yolk's color.
This also used to happen in cows: the milk was yellow in the summer when they ate grass, but white in the winter when they ate hay and grains. If you find good yellow eggs, that is a good sign that the chickens led a good life on a natural diet. Of course, the feed could just be doped with vitamin A to make the eggs look more yellow.
iStockPhoto. While shell and yolk color may differ between chicken eggs, the difference in color bears no relation to the flavor, nutritional value or quality of the egg. The egg’s size and shell color is determined by the breed of the hen.
White eggs come from white chickens, while brown eggs come from chickens that are brown in colour. Most eggs sold in American supermarkets come from White Leghorn chickens, which are white in colour. However, it is possible to find brown eggs in the States, and to find white eggs in the UK.
The yellow color comes (primarily) from vitamin A in the eggs. The eggs are high in vitamin A when the chickens are fed a natural diet of seeds, vegitation and insects. Most of the eggs that you buy in the states are factory farmed and pale because the chickens are fed a special protein mix that has a lot of corn.