For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. But a heart rate lower than 60 doesn’t necessarily mean you have a medical problem. Active people often have lower heart rates because their heart muscles don't need to work as hard to maintain a steady beat. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.
A normal resting heart rate can range anywhere from 40 to 100 beats per minute. Below is a chart relating resting heart rate and fitness level. As can be seen on this chart, your resting heart rate can vary with your fitness level and with age — the fitter you are, generally the lower the resting heart rate. 
Normal resting heart rates range from 60–100 bpm. Bradycardia is defined as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm. However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention. The heart rate can vary according to the body's physical needs, including the need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide. Activities that can provoke change include physical exercise, sleep, anxiety, stress, illness, ingesting, and drugs. The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe.
A normal resting heart rate -- your heart rate when you're completely at rest -- for the average adult is 60 to 80 beats per minute. People who are very physically fit often have slightly lower resting heart rates. Also, heart rate, much like weight, tends to increase with age. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. Your resting heart rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute while it’s at rest. The average resting heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute, but it’s usually lower for physically fit people, and it rises with age.
Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe.
For adults, a normal resting rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Athletes may have a rate as low as 40 bpm because their hearts are trained to efficiently pump blood. If your heart rate is consistently below 60 or above 100, you may have a heart condition, such as arrhythmia. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. Your resting heart rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute while it’s at rest. The average resting heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute, but it’s usually lower for physically fit people, and it rises with age.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.
Your Heart Rate Over Time. As you grow older, your normal resting heart rate changes. For children 10 years and younger, and most adults, normal heart rate is 60 to 80 beats per minute (BPM) . Well-trained athletes can have a normal heart rate of 40 to 60 BPM.