For non-dormant seeds, germination starts when a seed is provided with water as long as the temperature is appropriate. The uptake of water by dry seed is called imbibition (imbibition means to drink: seeds imbibe water, you do not imbibe seeds). 
SEED GERMINATION. A seed contains an embryonic plant in a resting condition, and germination is its resumption of growth. Seeds will begin to germinate when the soil temperature is in the appropriate range and when water and oxygen are available. 
Seed Germination. After the seed has made it to a new location and is covered with dirt, it can begin germination. Germination is the process of seeds developing into new plants. First, environmental conditions must trigger the seed to grow. Usually, this is determined by how deep the seed is planted, water availability, and temperature. When water is plentiful, the seed fills with water in a process called imbibition. The water activates special proteins, called enzymes, that begin the process of seed growth. First the seed grows a root to access water underground
Germination is the process by which a seed grows into plant. In botany and gardening, it is used to reproduce certain genre of plants. 
Germination is the process by which a plant grows from a seed. The most common example of germination is the sprouting of a seedling from a seed of an angiosperm or gymnosperm. In addition, the growth of a sporeling from a spore, such as the growth of hyphae from fungal spores, is also germination. Germination is the growth of a plant contained within a seed; it results in the formation of the seedling. The seed of a vascular plant is a small package produced in a fruit or cone after the union of male and female reproductive cells.
Germination is the process whereby growth emerges from a period of dormancy. The most common example of germination is the sprouting of a seedling from a seed of an angiosperm … or gymnosperm. However, the growth of a sporeling from a spore, for example the growth of hyphae from fungal spores, is also germination. Germination starts when the seed absorbs water from the environment. The embryo then uses … its stored food to grow, first the embryo's roots start to grow downward. After that, the stem starts to grow upward and leaves begin to form. Once you can see the plant's leaves, it is a seedling.
Germination is when a seed of some sort starts to sprout. It can be done in the soil or in a wet paper towel. It is the development of a seedling from a seed. For germination, seeds require water, warmth, air, and of course soil. During germination, the following steps are noted: 1. The seed absorbs water until it swells and smoothens its exterior wrinkles. Germination starts when the seed absorbs water from the environment. The embryo then uses … its stored food to grow, first the embryo's roots start to grow downward. After that, the stem starts to grow upward and leaves begin to form. Once you can see the plant's leaves, it is a seedling.
1 Germination is a process when the seed develops into a seedling. 2  The seeds that germinate have an embryo inside it that grows into a new plant. 3  The process of germination starts with the seed absorbing water. 4  The absorption of water activates an enzyme that increases respiration. More About Seed Germination. 1 
Supplement. Germination in plants is the process by which a dormant seed begins to sprout and grow into a seedling under the right growing conditions. In bacteria or fungi, germination is the process in which a spore begins to grow vegetative cells, and sporeling hyphae. Related forms: germinate (verb). 