4. By definition potash is any compound that contains potassium. It can be sourced from plants such as comfrey, from ash from your fireplace or in chemical forms such as Nitrate of potash (potassium nitrate) or Sulphate of potash (potassium sulphate). Potash is an amazing element to be used in the garden as potassium is the key to helping plants produce fruit. While nitrogen (N) increases foliage and plant growth and phosphorous(P) helps root structure, potassium (K) is the chemical lacking if your plants don’t flower or fruit
Excessive potash fertilizer can increase soil salt content. Where potash levels are believed to be low, the standard application rate without a soil test is ¼ to ½ pound potassium chloride (0-0-60) or potassium sulfate (0-0-50) per 100 square feet. Movement of potassium in soils is dependent on soil texture.
Muriate of potash, or potassium chloride, is a natural mineral mined from very old stone deposits. Sulfate of potash, or potassium sulfate, is also mined from old deposits. Muriate of potash tends to be cheaper, but the chlorine it contains can hurt the helpful microbes living in your garden's soil. Kelp and other types of seaweed are all rich in potassium, and the potassium is readily transferred to the soil of your garden. You can add kelp by either burying a few handfuls of dried kelp meal into the soil or by spraying the soil with a liquid seaweed spray.
How to Use Potash. Potash doesn’t move in soil more than an inch so it is important to till it into the root zone of plants. The average amount for potassium poor soil is ¼ to 1/3 pound of potassium chloride or potassium sulphate per 100 square feet. Excess potassium accumulates as salt, which can be damaging to roots. It is stored in soil and harvested as salt deposits. Potassium salts in the form of nitrates, sulfates and chlorides are the forms of potash used in fertilizer. They get used by plants which then release potassium into their crops.
Tui Sulphate of Potash is an excellent source of potassium, essential for encouraging superior fruit and flower development from your fruit, vegetables and flowering plants. The addition of Tui Sulphate of Potash to your garden will strengthen plant stems and increase resistance to unwanted insect pests and diseases. Use throughout your garden and reap the rewards of superior plant performance.
Depending on the potassium content or deficiency already present in your garden's soil, you'll need to adjust the amount of potash you provide to your vegetables in the fertilizer you use. Calculating Potash in Fertilizer. To determine the undiluted amount of potassium in a fertilizer, read the numbers on the label -- such as 12-12-12 -- as percentages. The first number refers to nitrogen, the second to phosphorus and the last to potash
Potassium sulfate (K2SO4) (in British English potassium sulphate, also called sulphate of potash, arcanite, or archaically known as potash of sulfur) is a non-flammable white crystalline salt which is soluble in water. 
There are several different forms of potassium available for use in your vegetable garden, here are a few: 1  Muriate of Potash – Muriate of potash is potassium chloride containing between 50 to 60% potash. 2  Its chlorine content passes off rapidly when applied to soil, and is harmful to certain beneficial bacteria. Potassium (K) is generally called potash when used in forms for a soil fertilizer. The name comes from the collection of wood ash in metal pots when the soil benefits of this material were first recognized centuries ago.
The ratio of nutrients you add to your vegetable garden's soil -- including potash -- depends on what type of vegetables you are growing. Since leafy vegetables such as lettuce need extra nitrogen, the nutrient responsible for foliage growth, you should provide the same amount of potassium as nitrogen and phosphorus. Calculating Potash in Fertilizer. To determine the undiluted amount of potassium in a fertilizer, read the numbers on the label -- such as 12-12-12 -- as percentages. The first number refers to nitrogen, the second to phosphorus and the last to potash