The color of an egg is not an indicator of quality. When it comes to taste and nutrition, there is no difference between white and brown eggs. Despite the fact that they're often more expensive, brown eggs aren't any better for you than white eggs, and vice versa. 
Backyard egg is on the left, store bought is on the right. When cooked to over-medium, the store bought egg (left) spreads out much more than the backyard egg (right). The store bought egg (left) has a yolk that collapses when cut.The yolk texture is simultaneously a bit chalky and sticky. The backyard egg (right) has a yolk that holds its shape very well. This was an interesting comparison. The store bought eggs were fresh and of excellent quality, from a local medium-scale producer that does a consistently great job delivering humane eggs at a good price point. I would happily buy and eat these eggs if I did not keep chickens.
But, when you buy eggs at your local supermarket, you don’t know where they come from. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) tells you everything is safe, but it’s not always right. From mad cow disease in your beef to E. coli in your spinach and meat, the government has failed to keep your food supply safe. The best way to avoid getting contaminated eggs is to know where they come from. I suggest you buy eggs directly through a local farmer so you can actually go to the farm and see where your eggs come from. The laying chickens should be in a cage-free environment with ample room to stretch their wings and walk around.
In particular, I would like you to look at the difference in the color of the yolks: From left to right: Brown Home-Grown Egg, Green Home-Grown Egg and White Store-Bought Egg. From left to right: Brown Home-Grown Egg, Green Home-Grown Egg and White Store-Bought Egg. This is a white, store-bought egg. Notice the yellowness of the yolk. This is a green, home-raised egg.
The truth is that buying organic or free range eggs from the supermarket or healthfood store is no guarantee that the hens providing those eggs lived a healthy life or that the eggs they provide are nutrient dense. Not only is it good for the chickens, but if you plan on eating them or their eggs, it’s good for us, too. Chickens raised in a pastured environment produce eggs with higher amounts of omega 3s than their store-bought counterparts, and the meat from them is tastier and more vitamin-rich, too.
They won't hatch if they're store bought, because they're unfertilized. Try going to a local farm and look for hens with laid eggs; make sure to ask the farmer if they have mated because if the chicken has mated it will be fertilized. share | improve this answer. 
The backyard eggs come in various other shades as well. The store bought egg shells (background) were easier to crack. They shattered more cleanly, and the shell seemed thinner. The backyard eggs (foreground) tended to have a greater elasticity in their shatter. This was an interesting comparison. The store bought eggs were fresh and of excellent quality, from a local medium-scale producer that does a consistently great job delivering humane eggs at a good price point. I would happily buy and eat these eggs if I did not keep chickens.
Eggs that come to you from the grocery store will have packaging that helps to answer some of those questions through their labels. Unless noted on the packaging, you can assume that most eggs at large grocery stores are coming from large farms where hens are caged. 
Print. Eggs are one of the most beneficial foods you can eat, and it's a shame they've been vilified for so long in the United States. In the U.S., roughly 280 million birds give us about 75 billion eggs per year, which is about 10 percent of the world supply. But not all eggs are created equal. And if you don't ask, they won't tell you. The key here is to buy your eggs locally. About the only time I purchase eggs from the store is when I am travelling or for some reason I miss my local egg pickup.