The size of the piston actuator is in direct proportion to the amount of energy needed to move it and the amount of motion it can create. A large piston actuator requires a great deal of power, while smaller ones don’t. A small piston generates a small amount of movement and a large one generates a lot. In general, the actuator is connected to a piston which is contained inside an enclosure. Something that causes pressure will enter the enclosure and force the piston to move, which moves the actuator and whatever it is connected to.
The Type PN Pneumatic Piston Actuator is a ratio-piston-type actuator mounted on a reverse-acting gate valve. The PN Pneumatic Actuator is designed to be failsafe and fail-close. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A piston actuator, like all actuators, is a device that transforms raw energy into motion. In general, the actuator is connected to a piston which is contained inside an enclosure. Something that causes pressure will enter the enclosure and force the piston to move, which moves the actuator and whatever it is connected to.
A LINAK ® electric linear actuator consists of a motor, a gear and a spindle including a nut. A special version of the linear actuator is the built-in actuator meant for integration in a customer guidance. A complete LINAK actuator system solution includes one or more linear actuators, a control box and a control device to operate the actuators. The lifting capacity of LINAK actuators range from 200N - 15,000N. THE ELECTRIC LINEAR ACTUATOR. An electric linear actuator is a device that converts the rotational motion of a low voltage DC motor into linear motion – that is push and pull movements. This way it is possible to lift, adjust, tilt, push or pull heavy or hard-to-reach objects simply by pushing a button
An actuator is a type of motor that is responsible for moving or controlling a mechanism or system. It is operated by a source of energy, typically electric current, hydraulic fluid pressure, or pneumatic pressure, and converts that energy into motion. An actuator is the mechanism by which a control system acts upon an environment. The control system can be simple (a fixed mechanical or electronic system), software-based (e.g. a printer driver, robot control system), a human, or any other input
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A linear actuator is a device that creates linear motion, often by converting rotational motion. For instance, an electric linear motor turns a screw that in turn pushes a cylinder. By this action, linear motion is created from a rotating shaft. 