You can claim if the sale of your PPI was unfair. The clearest cases of mis-selling are those where customers were sold the insurance when they had no chance of claiming on it. Here's a list of circumstances where buyers may have been mis-sold. 1 If it wasn't explained, you can claim. 2  If you were sold a 'single premium' policy-where the whole cost of the loan is paid for up front with money that is also borrowed at the same interest rate as the loan-you should at least be able to get a refund by cancelling the PPI.
Re: Barclaycard statements & PPI. Hi Willarikk, As dx says, I'm sure the monthly statements would show the PPI clearly enough for you to identify it. If you're unsure, you should send BC a SAR-http://www.consumerforums.com/resour... 
So it can sometimes be confusing to work out if what you have is PPI. While most PPI was sold with credit cards and loans, you can also get types of PPI on business accounts, life insurance policies and catalogue accounts. I am unsure if I was charged PPI on a loan and a mortgage. Now I do not know if I should contact one of these ads on the TV or not and what kind of information you need. I have had a mortgage that is up in six years that I have had for 10 years or more.
In printing, DPI (dots per inch) refers to the output resolution of a printer or imagesetter, and PPI (pixels per inch) refers to the input resolution of a photograph or image. DPI refers to the physical dot density of an image when it is reproduced as a real physical entity, for example printed onto paper. Dots per inch (DPI, or dpi) is a measure of spatial printing or video dot density, in particular the number of individual dots that can be placed in a line within the span of 1 inch (2.54 cm).
Mis-selling of the insurance was so widespread that the worst firms added it without borrowers knowing. PPI on a credit card should be simple to spot-a payment to cover the premium will show up on monthly statements. It can be harder to identify on loans and other credit agreements. The cost of it may even have been rolled into the loan amount, meaning there is no separate payment to cover the PPI. 1 If it wasn't explained, you can claim. 2  If you were sold a 'single premium' policy-where the whole cost of the loan is paid for up front with money that is also borrowed at the same interest rate as the loan-you should at least be able to get a refund by cancelling the PPI.
However, with credit cards, the original agreement is often no more than a copy of the application. I think that it is actually a better indication if you have all your statements-as very often the PPI is 'erroneously' charged from a later date. I would look for regular monthly charges being made-other than account interest. PPI can be called all sorts of things-if you're not sure, then ask us here. If there's no evidence of PPI, then I suspect you didn't have any-but remember to check early statements as well as recent ones. Thread: PPI-help please-how do I find out if I've been paying PPI on credit cards. 22nd October 2012, 14:46:PM #1.
1 If you bought PPI to cover a long term loan there is a chance that the insurance will run out before the loan is repaid. 2  Most PPI policies will only run for five years, so if your loan term is longer than this the seller should have explained this limitation. 3  If they didn't, you can claim. 1 If it wasn't explained, you can claim. 2  If you were sold a 'single premium' policy-where the whole cost of the loan is paid for up front with money that is also borrowed at the same interest rate as the loan-you should at least be able to get a refund by cancelling the PPI.
If you have PPI on a credit card it should be clear from your statements. It is typically charged monthly and should be itemised. If you have PPI on a loan or mortgage it is likely to be on your original agreement. However, if you are not sure give the business a call and they should be able to let you know. I am unsure if I was charged PPI on a loan and a mortgage. Now I do not know if I should contact one of these ads on the TV or not and what kind of information you need. I have had a mortgage that is up in six years that I have had for 10 years or more.
Payment protection insurance (PPI), which is designed to help you keep up payments on your loans and or credit cards in the case of illness, accident, redundancy or death has been mis-sold to millions of people. However, the good news is you may now be able to claim compensation. A claims management company will take a quarter of your PPI compensation or more – there is no need to use one. 1  Find all the documents you can and make copies of anything that might be relevant. 2  Write a letter to the mortgage, loan or credit card provider who sold you the PPI. 3  If you don’t get a response or decision within eight weeks, send a ...