How long will your tax refund take and how much will you get back? The IRS started accepting returns on January 20, but refunds may take longer than normal this year. If you haven’t filed yet, get an idea of how much your refund check will be for with the tax refund calculator below. Time to go shopping. Finally got my Tax Refund.
Simply filing your tax return according to their schedule does not mean you get your refund exactly on time. Several factors influence how long it takes the IRS to approve your electronic tax return and issue your refund. The IRS provides the Where's My Refund tool on its website to keep track of your tax return and refund, if applicable. You enter your Social Security number, filing status and expected refund amount and the IRS displays whether your return is being processed or if it is complete.
If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours. 4. Request Direct Deposit. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5
1 32% - How long once the irs has accepted my refund and is processing it will the refund be loanded onto my card? 2  51% - Why is it taken so long for my tax refund i filed on the 5 & got accepted? 1. The tax return processing is depending on how you filed your tax, If you used e-Filing to send the file it should be received and reviewed within 24 hours. But the approval of refund will depend if you have errors, incomplete information and others that will cause delay.
1 63% - Do you know how long does it ake for the irs to approve my 2012-2013 refund? 2  32% - How long once the irs has accepted my refund and is processing it will the refund be loanded onto my card? 3  51% - Why is it taken so long for my tax refund i filed on the 5 & got accepted? 1. The tax return processing is depending on how you filed your tax, If you used e-Filing to send the file it should be received and reviewed within 24 hours. But the approval of refund will depend if you have errors, incomplete information and others that will cause delay.
When you call you will need to provide the first Social Securitynumber shown on the return, your filing status, and the amount of the refund. Ifthe IRS has processed your return, the system will tell you the date your refundwill be sent. TeleTax’s refund information is updated each weekend. If you donot get a date for your refund, please wait until the next week before calling back.Refund delays may be caused by a variety of reasons. 
We know how important your tax refund is to you. Good news, the IRS started processing tax returns on January 30th. Returns will be processed in the order they were submitted and as soon as your tax return is accepted, we will notify you by email. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year.
This status will tell you when your refund was sent to your bank. It may take your financial institution 1 – 5 days to deposit the funds into your account. Please wait until it’s been five days from the date we sent the refund to your bank to check with your bank about the status of your refund. Even though we issue most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. Also, if you are anticipating a refund, take into consideration the time it takes for your financial institution to post the refund to your account, or for mail delivery.
1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 2  You will not see a refund date until the IRS finishes processing your tax return and approves your tax refund. 1 shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 2  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account. 3  If you requested that your tax refund be mailed, it could take several weeks for your check to arrive.