‘Abuse’ or ‘child abuse or neglect’ means any case in which the child’s parents, legal guardians, custodians, or any other person responsible for the child’s health and welfare fail to take action to provide adequate food, clothing, shelter, medical care, or supervision that a prudent parent would take. ‘Neglect’ means failure by a caregiver, either deliberately or through negligence or inability, to take those actions necessary to. provide a child with minimally adequate food, clothing, shelter, medical care, supervision, emotional stability, and growth, or other. essential care.
NCANDS defines neglect as “a type of maltreatment that refers to the failure by the caregiver to provide needed, age-appropriate care although financially able to do so or offered financial or other means to do so” (USDHHS, 2007). Physical neglect accounts for the majority of cases of maltreatment. Physical neglect generally involves the parent or caregiver not providing the child with basic necessities (e.g., adequate food, clothing and shelter).
Neglect is the failure to provide necessary care, assistance, guidance or attention that causes, or is reasonably likely to cause the person physical, mental or emotional harm or substantial damage to or loss of assets. 
Full Definition of NEGLECT. transitive verb. 1. : to give little attention or respect to: disregard. 2. : to leave undone or unattended to especially through carelessness. — ne·glect·er noun. Synonym Discussion of NEGLECT. neglect, disregard, ignore, overlook, slight, forget mean to pass over without giving due attention. neglect implies giving insufficient attention to something that merits one's
Abuse & Neglect Definition. Basically, child abuse is defined as when an individual acts or fails to prevent something that causes serious harm to a child under the age of 18. This harm can take many forms, such as serious physical injury, serious mental injury, or sexual abuse or exploitation.
Emotional/Psychological neglect includes actions such as engaging in chronic or extreme spousal abuse in the child’s presence, allowing a child to use drugs or alcohol, refusing or failing to provide needed psychological care, constantly belittling the child and withholding affection. Physical neglect accounts for the majority of cases of maltreatment. Physical neglect generally involves the parent or caregiver not providing the child with basic necessities (e.g., adequate food, clothing and shelter).
There are various types of child neglect. 1  Physical neglect refers to the failure to provide a child with basic necessities of life such as food and clothing. 2  Medical neglect is when caregivers do not meet children's basic health care needs. Child neglect (also called psychological abuse) is commonly defined as a failure by a child's caretaker to meet a child's physical, emotional, educational, or medical needs.
The following operational definitions are working definitions and examples of child abuse, neglect, and in danger of abuse. 1  For the purposes of these operational definitions, the term child refers to any person under 18 years of age or any person under 21 years of age who is a DCF client.
Synonym Discussion of NEGLECT. neglect and disregard mean to pass over something without giving it any or enough attention. neglect is used when a person does not give, whether deliberately or not, enough attention to something that deserves or requires attention. Synonym Discussion of NEGLECT. neglect, disregard, ignore, overlook, slight, forget mean to pass over without giving due attention. neglect implies giving insufficient attention to something that merits one'
1 Physical neglect refers to the failure to provide a child with basic necessities of life such as food and clothing. 2  Medical neglect is when caregivers do not meet children's basic health care needs. 3  Emotional neglect is failing to provide emotional support such as emotional security and encouragement. Child neglect (also called psychological abuse) is commonly defined as a failure by a child's caretaker to meet a child's physical, emotional, educational, or medical needs.