This article is part of the series Missing Scientists. While ethnic and racial groups that have historically comprised a minority of the U.S. population are growing in size and influence, they remain underrepresented in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics both nationally and at Brown. 
In the social sciences, the term minority is used to refer to categories of persons who hold fewer positions of social power. The term minority group often occurs alongside a discourse of civil rights and collective rights which gained prominence in the 20th century. Members of minority groups are prone to different treatment in the countries and societies in which they live. In any case, minority group status is categorical in nature: an individual who exhibits the physical or behavioral characteristics of a given minority group will be accorded the status of that group and be subject to the same treatment as other members of that group.
Much confusion surrounds the “underrepresented” portion of the acronym, thus frequently rendering the entire term unclear. A URM is, quite simply, a minority group whose percentage of the population at a given law school is lower than their percentage of the population in the country. 1 The generally accepted threshold for claiming a race is ¼ (does not include Native Americans, which are a more grey area). 2  Beyond that, claims of minority status tend to become a bit more dubious. 3  If you have never checked the box before, don’t check it now.
What are the minority groups that are considered underrepresented? Are they underrepresented in the medical community? what is the criteria? Is being Arabic considered a URM? Click to expand... i would actually modify this a bit. it's not that the ethnic or racial group in question is not a minority. it's that the ethnic or racial group is not underrepresented in medicine. those are very different, and many people seem to get them confused.
A. In higher education, this term describes a racial or ethnic group that is less likely to attend or graduate from college (in other words -- be represented among college students and college graduates) than the general population. The Pacific Islander Access project Blog. Pacific Islanders are underrepresented in higher education, but they're excluded from many academic programs for underrepresented minorities. Our goal is to change that.
According to recent Census data, over 28 percent of U.S. residents of age (25 or older) have at least a bachelor's degree. In other to be underrepresented among bachelors degree holders, a minority group must have a college graduation rate that is lower than the national average of 28 percent. By comparison to the national average of 28 percent, only 14 percent of single-race Pacific Islander Americans have a 4-year-degree. The Pacific Islander Access project Blog. Pacific Islanders are underrepresented in higher education, but they're excluded from many academic programs for underrepresented minorities. Our goal is to change that.
The AAMC definition of underrepresented in medicine is: Underrepresented in medicine means those racial and ethnic populations that are underrepresented in the medical profession relative to their numbers in the general population.. Adopted by the AAMC's Executive Council on June 26, 2003, the definition helps medical schools accomplish three important objectives: Strategic Priorities. Learn more about the AAMC strategic priorities. Read more. Underrepresented in Medicine Definition. On March 19, 2004, the AAMC Executive Committee adopted a clarification to its definition of underrepresented in medicine following the Supreme Court's decision in Grutter.
Minority group is a term referring to a category of people differentiated from the social majority, i.e. those who hold the majority of positions of social power in a society, and may be defined by law. Rather than a relational  social group , as the term would indicate, minority group refers to the above-described. In any case, minority group status is categorical in nature: an individual who exhibits the physical or behavioral characteristics of a given minority group will be accorded the status of that group and be subject to the same treatment as other members of that group.
1 The two groups listed on the LSAC published data that aren’t (generally) considered minorities are Asian Americans and members of Hispanic groups not listed above. 2  The reason for this is clear when we look again at the definition for an Underrepresented Minority. 1 The generally accepted threshold for claiming a race is ¼ (does not include Native Americans, which are a more grey area). 2  Beyond that, claims of minority status tend to become a bit more dubious. 3  If you have never checked the box before, don’t check it now.
Refers to members of minority groups. The term is used to address the controversy with the use of the word minority. Cultural diversity definitions can be as controversial as diversity projects and initiatives. The word minority is an example; it has an academic and colloquial usage. In any case, minority group status is categorical in nature: an individual who exhibits the physical or behavioral characteristics of a given minority group will be accorded the status of that group and be subject to the same treatment as other members of that group.