Report Abuse. Grass seed germination depends on the soil temperature and the grass variety. Most seeds need a soil temp of about 50-55 degrees for a period of 5-7 days to germinate. Some seeds like bluegrass (21 Days) take longer than others like perennial rye (5-7 Days) to germinate at ideal temps. Bug Doc. 
How long does it take for grass seed to germinate? (See also How long does it take for seed to grow). Depending on the conditions, you can expect to see some grass seed mixtures germinate quite quickly. If conditions at the time of sowing are perfect, you may see germination is as little as 2-4 days. On average though, germination will take between 7-14 days.
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 
Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster. As discussed earlier about how long does grass seed take to grow, the two seasons which are most suitable for sowing of grass seeds is spring and fall.
Grass is a fast growing plant, but the exact rate at which it grows depends upon the type of grass used and the growing conditions. Germination. Grass seeds usually germinate between seven and ten days after they have been sown, although it can take between three and thirty days. Growth. A fast growing variety of grass sown under good growing conditions will produce a green covering in about a week, although it will not yet be properly established. 
The germination rate listed should remain valid if the seed was stored in a cool, dry area. Heat will rapidly decrease the seed viability. Moisture may ruin it. Each year of storage can result in a decrease of the grass seed germination rate by a range of 10 to 25% per year. It can still be used, but the amount applied to an area should be increased proportionately. 
The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster. As discussed earlier about how long does grass seed take to grow, the two seasons which are most suitable for sowing of grass seeds is spring and fall.
When you plant grass seeds, it is important to match the grass species to your local climate and plant the seeds at the correct time and rate. To get a rough idea how long for your lawn to get established, add 30 to 45 days to the germination time. Annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) and perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) seeds germinate in five to 10 days. Rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis) seeds take seven to 10 days. Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) seeds germinate in seven to 12 days. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall
Buffalograss (Stenotaphrum secundatum) seeds take 14 to 30 days to germinate. Plant 1 pound of Bermudagrass seeds per 1,000 square feet in late spring or early summer. For the same area, plant 1 1/2 to 2 pounds of buffalo grass in spring or fall. Annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) and perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) seeds germinate in five to 10 days. Rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis) seeds take seven to 10 days. Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) seeds germinate in seven to 12 days. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the