Cephalopods are the most intelligent, most mobile, and the largest of all molluscs. Squid, octopuses, cuttlefish, the chambered nautilus, and their relatives display remarkable diversity in size and lifestyle with adaptations for predation, locomotion, disguise, and communication.
Some physical adaptations that improve the survival of the octopus are Squeezing into tight places: giant octopuses can be found up to 3 feet (1 m) wide, but the body has no b … one except for a small beak used to pry open crabs. The octopus can squirt ink to blindside theirpredators they can camouflage quickly and also they are an invertebrate so they can squeeze through tight spots.
Adaptations. The giant Pacific octopus has developed many adaptations in order for it to survive in its environment. Some of the more interesting adaptations are described below. The two rear-most arms function as legs.. They are used to push off of the ocean floor, anchor itself in one place, and crawl over rocks and debris. The other six arms are used to grab objects, feel around, and feed the octopus
Some physical adaptations that improve the survival of the octopus are. 1  Squeezing into tight places: giant octopuses can be found up to 3 feet (1 m) wide, but the body has no bone except for a small beak used to pry open crabs. 2  If this beak can fit into a crevice, the entire octopus can. In order for an octopus species to become arboreal, it first has to develop lungs like a frog. It also has to adopt a generally green color, and increase the durability of its … eggs, which would dry out if hung in long strings as they typically are in the underwater habitat.
Most squid have a pair of tentacles that are longer than the rest, designed for grabbing prey. Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. Octopuses and squid, both mollusks that don't use shells, are efficient predators. Some can change color to help blend into the background, protecting them from their own predators while aiding them in their hunts. But the most obvious adaptation for feeding is their tentacles. Octopuses and squid have different types of tentacles, but they are both well-designed to catch prey. 
1 Squeezing into tight places: giant octopuses can be found up to 3 feet (1 m) wide, but the body has no bone except for a small beak used to pry open crabs. 2  If this beak can fit into a crevice, the entire octopus can. In order for an octopus species to become arboreal, it first has to develop lungs like a frog. It also has to adopt a generally green color, and increase the durability of its … eggs, which would dry out if hung in long strings as they typically are in the underwater habitat.
The wings which give the octopus its name are … also adaptations to allow the animal to move through the water by flapping these ears. The Dumbo octopus also eats its prey whole, unlike other octopus species which break the prey up into parts. In order for an octopus species to become arboreal, it first has to develop lungs like a frog. It also has to adopt a generally green color, and increase the durability of its … eggs, which would dry out if hung in long strings as they typically are in the underwater habitat.
Report Abuse. Some of its adaptations is first, its structre. An octopus is an invertebrate (no backbones) so that it can move easily thus escaping danger fast. Its color could also be considered as an adaptation. Most octopuses adapt their colors to their surroundings making them a hard prey and even harder to catch. It also has tentacles as its adaptive structure for protection and consumation of food. 
In order for an octopus species to become arboreal, it first has to develop lungs like a frog. It also has to adopt a generally green color, and increase the durability of its … eggs, which would dry out if hung in long strings as they typically are in the underwater habitat. The octopus can squirt ink to blindside theirpredators they can camouflage quickly and also they are an invertebrate so they can squeeze through tight spots.