Size of Bantam Eggs. Because the bantam hen is a lot smaller than the standard hen; a quarter of her size, it stands to reason that the eggs will be smaller. This should be remembered when using these eggs for baking purposes and people often wonder how many bantam eggs make up 1 standard chicken egg. There are also bantams which have been bred small from the larger breeds, which are not really true bantams, but are now recognized as bantam breeds because they have been around for a long time. These are miniature versions of the larger poultry, but not true bantams.
Bantams are a special variety of chicken that is roughly one-half to three-fourths the size of a regular chicken. They come in many different breeds and colors, some clean legged, some feather footed. Bantams are a real crowd-pleaser because of their small stature. Caring for Adult Bantams. Move adult or adolescent bantams to a pen when they are fully feathered and large enough that they will not be able to squeeze through the wiring on their pen or house. Chicken houses should have at least two square feet of space for each bantam, preferably more.
Bantams are suitable for smaller backyards as they do not need as much space as other breeds. Bantam hens are also used as laying hens, with some breeds laying up to 150 eggs per year. However, Bantam eggs are only about one-half to one-third the size of a regular hen egg. The Bantam chicken eats the same foods as a normal chicken. Old English bantam roosters were commonly used for fighting in Europe. They were smaller and faster than normal roosters used previously. Bantams do have a higher mortality rate when they are kept as backyard pets. They are easy targets for hawks, cats, foxes, or any other small predator.
A true bantam has no large counterpart, and is naturally small. Such birds are often popular for show purposes. The local list of true bantams can vary between nations and regions due to the availability of the breeds and disputes over what qualifies. Old English bantam roosters were commonly used for fighting in Europe. They were smaller and faster than normal roosters used previously. Bantams do have a higher mortality rate when they are kept as backyard pets. They are easy targets for hawks, cats, foxes, or any other small predator.
By comparison, the eggs of bantam barred rocks and bantam leghorns are sometimes comparable to small size eggs that can be purchased in a grocery store, so they are a good choice if you want bantams for eggs. Bantam eggs in general are quite small by comparison to what you see in the grocery store, but they taste just as good as the eggs of large fowl, and certainly if your birds have access to pasture, they will taste MUCH better than what you can get in a grocery store.
Depending on the type of bantam breed that you have, if you have a bantam version of good layers, such as the White Leghorn, you can expect your bantam leghorn to lay as many eggs per week as the standard breed. However, bantam laying capacities vary as much as standard chicken breeds do. There are also bantams which have been bred small from the larger breeds, which are not really true bantams, but are now recognized as bantam breeds because they have been around for a long time. These are miniature versions of the larger poultry, but not true bantams.