The following safe storage time limits will help keep refrigerated foods from spoiling or becoming dangerous to eat. Because freezing keeps food safe indefinitely, recommended storage times are for quality only. Storage times are from date of purchase unless specified on chart. It is not important if a date expires after food is frozen. Storage does not improve the quality of any food. The quality of a food will also not decrease significantly during storage as long as the food is stored properly and used within the recommended time frame.
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked steak last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate steak within two hours of cooking. 1 To further extend the shelf life of cooked steak, freeze it; freeze in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags, or wrap tightly with heavy-duty aluminum foil or freezer wrap.
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked ground beef last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate ground beef / hamburger within two hours of cooking. 
If you grabbed some ground beef at the market, make your burgers or pasta sauce right away. Fresh meat — fish, beef, pork, and poultry — won’t last longer than two days in your fridge. Leftover cooked meat will kick around a bit longer, but as a general rule, try to eat it within a week. Cooked pork chops should be gobbled up sooner, within three days. Your holiday ham and other smoked or cured meats can hang in there for one week.
1 Store food you want to keep for a long time, or items like seafood which are quite susceptible to spoilage, in the coldest part of the refrigerator. 2  Cover all cooked foods and when practical store them on a shelf above uncooked foods. Storing perishable food. Perishable food includes fruits and vegetables, fresh meat, foods purchased from chill cabinets, freshly cooked food stored to be used later. It is usually stored in the refrigerator. Some fresh fruits and vegetables, however, will store quite well out of the refrigerator as long as they are stored in a cool place
Baked beans tend to have a longer shelf life because they don’t contain nearly as much water. If covered and properly refrigerated, they will last a week or longer. Cooked vegetables should be placed in covered containers with some airspace. Air prevents the germination of botulism spores (which requires air). How long they keep depends on the vegetable, what else was in the product, and the “available” water (water not tied up with solutes like salt, sugar). The website AlgerWiki says the following: - leftover cooked meat and meat dishes: 3-4 days.
Your turkey and other cooked foods will need to be eaten within two hours. After that time, leftovers should be refrigerated or thrown away. (If the temperature is over 90°F, food needs to be refrigerated or disposed of after one hour.). Fresh turkeys can be kept in the refrigerator for only one or two days, but after that, they must be cooked or frozen. Store a fresh turkey in a pan in the refrigerator until you are ready to cook it.
Times are based on a refrigerator set at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Shelf life also depends on the freshness of foods at the time of purchase. 1  Cheese, hard: six months. 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months. 3  Olives and pickles: one month. 4  Fresh eggs (in shell): 3 to 5 weeks. 5  Cheese, soft, unopened: 3 to 4 weeks. 6  Cheese, soft, opened: 1 to 2 weeks. 7  Bacon, cooked: one week. 8  Hard-boiled eggs: one week. 
An open jar of strained fruits and veggies lasts two-to-three days in the fridge. Opened cooked meat and vegetable combos need to go after a day or two. Meat and veggie combos should go after two days, tops. The bottom line: Don't leave open jars of baby food in the fridge longer than three days.