Sources vary concerning the number of kangaroo species altogether in Australia and the tree kangaroos in both Australia and New Guinea, but the total is around 70. All but the … tree-kangaroos are native to Australia alone. There are many varieties of kangaroo which come under the heading of macropod. 1 The Western Grey Kangaroo (Macropus fuliginosus) - This species is found in the southern part of west Australia, near the coast of South Australia and the Darling River basin. 2  The Antilopine Kangaroo (Macropus antilopinus) - This species is found in the far north of Australia.
In common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this family, especially those of the genus Macropus: the red kangaroo, antilopine kangaroo, eastern grey kangaroo, and western grey kangaroo. Kangaroos are endemic to Australia. There is also the tree-kangaroo, another genus of macropod, which inhabits the tropical rainforests of New Guinea, far northeastern Queensland and some of the islands in the region. Kangaroos have large, powerful hind legs, large feet adapted for leaping, a long muscular tail for balance, and a small head.
Vulnerable, except for the Tasmanian forester kangaroo, which is listed as endangered under the Endangered Species Act. Kangaroos have powerful hind legs and short, thumbless forelimbs. Kangaroos can travel at speeds up to 30 miles per hour and can leap some 30 feet. Kangaroos use their long tails for balancing. 
Report Abuse. The Red Kangaroo is becoming endangered due to being hunted and killed for their skins, which are very valuable overseas, like so many of our endangered species here in australia. They were also considered a pest among many farmers and farmers killed them
1 There are various species of these, such as the Musky rat-kangaroo and the Rufous rat-kangaroo. 2  Rat kangaroos are different to the kangaroo-rats of North America, and not at all related. 3  Potoroos, which are small and quite endangered. 4  Gilbert's Potoroo is the most threatened marsupial species in Australia. 1 The Western Grey Kangaroo (Macropus fuliginosus) - This species is found in the southern part of west Australia, near the coast of South Australia and the Darling River basin. 2  The Antilopine Kangaroo (Macropus antilopinus) - This species is found in the far north of
There are various species of these, such as the Musky rat-kangaroo and the Rufous rat-kangaroo. Rat kangaroos are different to the kangaroo-rats of North America, and not at all related.Potoroos, which are small and quite endangered. 1 The Western Grey Kangaroo (Macropus fuliginosus) - This species is found in the southern part of west Australia, near the coast of South Australia and the Darling River basin. 2  The Antilopine Kangaroo (Macropus antilopinus) - This species is found in the far north of Australia.
The term wallaroos, a portmanteau, refers to species of an intermediate size. There is also the tree-kangaroo, another genus of macropod, which inhabits the tropical rainforests of New Guinea, far northeastern Queensland and some of the islands in the region. Kangaroos have large, powerful hind legs, large feet adapted for leaping, a long muscular tail for balance, and a small head.
These are popular with visitors to the Sanctuary, especially tourists from overseas who have never seen a kangaroo up close. Red Kangaroos are classed as ‘least concern’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN ‘red list’). Although the species is not considered to be endangered, individual animals are at risk, particularly from dog attacks, natural disasters and motor vehicles. Red Kangaroos breed all year round. Females give birth to a single jelly bean-sized ‘joey’, around 33 days after mating, which will climb up its mother’s belly and into the pouch where it begins to suckle from one of the teats. It remains attached and the milk changes to meet its needs as it grows.
KANGAROO FACT SHEET STATUS: Vulnerable, except for the Tasmanian forester kangaroo, which is listed as endangered under the Endangered Species Act. DESCRIPTION: Kangaroos have powerful hind legs and short, thumbless forelimbs. Kangaroos can travel at speeds up to 30 miles per hour and can leap some 30 feet. RANGE: Kangaroos are found in Australia and Tasmania, as well as on surrounding islands. HABITAT: Kangaroos live in varied habitats, from forests and woodland areas to grassy plains and savannas. FOOD: Kangaroos are grazing herbivores, which means their diet consists mainly of grasses.