Doctors sometimes prescribe Valium along with other medications to treat convulsions or seizures. Valium belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, which work by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the activity of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved diazepam in 1963 under the brand name Valium for the Roche drug company.
Diazepam is used to treat anxiety, acute alcohol withdrawal, and seizures. It is also used to relieve muscle spasms and to provide sedation before medical procedures. This medication belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect.
Valium (diazepam) is a medication belonging to the drug class benzodiazepine. Valium is available as a generic drug. Valium is prescribed for the treatment of anxiety, seizures, muscle spasms, and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal.
By Rick Nauert PhD ~ 1 min read. Benzodiazepines, a class of psychoactive drugs including Xanax, Valium, and Librium are highly effective medicines that are widely used in the treatment of anxiety, insomnia, pains, panic attacks and other symptoms.
Diazepam is the generic name for Valium, a prescription drug doctors prescribe to treat symptoms of anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) .
Diazepam (Valium) Interactions. Many drugs may affect the way Valium works, and Valium may affect other drugs you are taking. It's very important to let your doctor know about all drugs you are taking, including illegal or recreational drugs, any over-the-counter (OTC) drugs, and any herbs or supplements.
Benzodiazepines (including diazepam, flunitrazepam and temazepam). Benzodiazepines are class C drugs. Some benzodiazepines belong to schedule 3 and some belong to schedule 4(1). Possession without a prescription, or supply or production without a licence, is illegal.