Mexican food has been always considered to be very spicy. Well, that is partially true. Mexican food history shows that Mexico has given chocolate to the world, as well as several other specialties, including peanuts, vanilla, beans, coconuts and tomatoes. The traditional Mexican cooking makes use of these native elements to produce tasteful meals. Corn flour is the main component involved in the preparation of the Mexican food, and corn is also used in many forms for a wide variety of meals, including candy. Another typical ingredient is the chili, which has a strong, hot flavor.
New Mexican cuisine is the regional cuisine of the US state of New Mexico. Part of the broader Southwestern cuisine, New Mexico food culture is a fusion of Spanish and Mediterranean, Mexican, Pueblo Native American, and Cowboy Chuckwagon influences. New Mexican food is not the same as Mexican and Tex-Mex  foods preferred in Texas and Arizona. New Mexico is the only state with an official question—Red or green?—referring to the choice of red or green chile. Combining both red and green chile is often referred to as Christmas.
2 HISTORY AND FOOD. When the Europeans arrived in Mexico in 1517, Mexico's indigenous (native) peoples included the Aztecs of the central interior, the Maya in the Yucatan Peninsula, and the Zapotec in the south. Their diet consisted mainly of corn, beans, peppers, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, squash, and herbs. 3 FOODS OF THE MEXICANS. Corn is the basis of the Mexican diet, as it has been for thousands of years. It can be found in almost every meal, usually in the form of the tortilla (flatbread). Corn can also be boiled to produce pozole, a hearty corn stew.
Mexican cooking was of course still practiced in what is now the Southwest United States after the Mexican–American War, but Diana Kennedy, in her book The Cuisines of Mexico (published in 1972), drew a sharp distinction between Mexican food and Tex-Mex. The cuisine of Veracruz is a mix of indigenous, Afro-Mexican and Spanish. The indigenous contribution is in the use of corn as a staple as well as vanilla (native to the state), and herbs called acuyo and hoja santa.
Mexican street food is one of the most varied parts of the cuisine. It can include tacos, quesadillas, pambazos, tamales, huaraches, alambres and food not suitable to cook at home including barbacoa, carnitas and, since many homes in Mexico do not have or make use of ovens, roasted chicken. The cuisine of Veracruz is a mix of indigenous, Afro-Mexican and Spanish. The indigenous contribution is in the use of corn as a staple as well as vanilla (native to the state), and herbs called acuyo and hoja santa.
Chile is New Mexico's largest agricultural crop. Within New Mexico, green chile is a popular ingredient in a wide range of foods including enchiladas and burritos, cheeseburgers, french fries, bagels, and pizzas, and is added to the standard menu or offered off-menu of many national American food chains. New Mexican food is not the same as Mexican and Tex-Mex  foods preferred in Texas and Arizona. New Mexico is the only state with an official question—Red or green?—referring to the choice of red or green chile. Combining both red and green chile is often referred to as Christmas.
Regardless of the foreign elements present in Mexico’s nouvelle cuisine, the main ingredients remain the same recipe after recipe. The most common ingredient used in Mexican food is corn. Like the ancient civilizations that lived in the region, Mexicans have learned how to cook almost every meal with corn. Corn flour is the main component involved in the preparation of the Mexican food, and corn is also used in many forms for a wide variety of meals, including candy. Another typical ingredient is the chili, which has a strong, hot flavor.
Mexican cuisine is an important aspect of the culture, social structure and popular traditions of Mexico. The most important example of this connection is the use of mole for special occasions and holidays, particularly in the South and Center regions of the country. The cuisine of Veracruz is a mix of indigenous, Afro-Mexican and Spanish. The indigenous contribution is in the use of corn as a staple as well as vanilla (native to the state), and herbs called acuyo and hoja santa.
Mexican cuisine is primarily a fusion of indigenous Mesoamerican cooking with European, especially Spanish, elements added after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire in the 16th century. The basic staples are native foods such as corn, beans and chili peppers. The cuisine of Veracruz is a mix of indigenous, Afro-Mexican and Spanish. The indigenous contribution is in the use of corn as a staple as well as vanilla (native to the state), and herbs called acuyo and hoja santa.