At Staples, their copying services are available on a wide variety of papers and with a large number of binding and finishing options. Whether one page or thousands, they have a solution to fit your budget. Standard Color is as low as $0.060 per page (Delivery or In-store Pickup).
1 Order as few or as many copies and documents as you need. 2  Quantities start at one and continue on up, so you can always have enough printed to meet your business demands. 3  NEW! Mobile App: Send PDF documents straight from your iPhone® to your local Staples store.
As a Staples Contract customer, you can rely on Staples Digital Copy Services for. production and distribution of all your print-on-demand mission-critical documents. From digital color, black and white, and large-format reproduction to binding and booklet.
1 Some businesses may offer discounts to those who make bulk copies. 2  Color copies are going to cost more than black and white. 3  Color can run $0.29 to $0.60 on average, while black and white can be as cheap as $0.10. 4  Staples’ Copy and Print Center offers a few different selections from which the customer can choose.
Most if not all Staples do have a printing and copying center. However, if you're looking for more than just a couple color copies, you're going to save a huge amount of money … getting it online instead of at one of the big corporate chains.
1 Color copies are going to cost more than black and white. 2  Color can run $0.29 to $0.60 on average, while black and white can be as cheap as $0.10. 3  Staples’ Copy and Print Center offers a few different selections from which the customer can choose. 4  Their basic black and white copies run $0.10.
Clean, crisp copies and documents provide consumers and employees with an easy way to read your business messages, facilitating the successful communication of company goals while leaving a favorable impression. 1  Take advantage of our lowest pricing when you submit your copy job online.
1 Depending on the number of papers that you need to have copied and the time of the season, the cost to have copies done can vary anywhere from $0.10 to $0.70 per page. 2  Some businesses may offer discounts to those who make bulk copies. 3  Color copies are going to cost more than black and white.