Taylor /tay-lor/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less generally as boys' name Taylor) is pronounced TAY-ler. It is of Middle English and Old French origin, and the meaning of Taylor is tailor; to cut. Occupational name. 
Taylor (\ta(y)-lor\) is a surname in the English language which originated as an occupational surname (meaning tailor) in England It is derived from the Indian dharji (cutter), which is in turn derived from the Late Latin taliator, from taliare (to cut). 
Meaning of Taylor. English name. In English, the name Taylor means-tailor. Other origins for the name Taylor include-English, French.The name Taylor is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-tailor. Origin-England.
English Meaning: The name Taylor is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Taylor is: Tailor. Surname. American Meaning: The name Taylor is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Taylor is: Tailor. Surname. French Meaning: The name Taylor is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Taylor is: A tailor. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Origin of the name Taylor: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Anglo-French taillour (tailor), which is from the Old French taillier (to cut). The name arose as an occupational name. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
PRONOUNCED: TAY-lər [key]. Meaning & History. From an English surname which originally denoted someone who was a tailor, from Norman French tailleur, ultimately from Latin taliare to cut. Its modern use as a feminine name may have been influenced by British author Taylor Caldwell (1900-1985). Related Names.
Origin of the name Taylor: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Anglo-French taillour (tailor), which is from the Old French taillier (to cut). The name arose as an occupational name. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Taylor /tay-lor/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more regularly as girls' name Taylor) is pronounced TAY-ler. It is of Middle English and Old French origin, and the meaning of Taylor is tailor; to cut. From the Norman French word taillier. Occupational name first used as given name in the 19th century. 
TAYLOR Surname Meaning & Origin: An English occupational name for a tailor, from Old French tailleur for tailor which comes from the Latin taliare, meaning to cut.. Taylor is among the most commonly found surnames, due to its popularity as a medieval occupation. Surname Origin: English. 