Type II Certification. HVAC technicians whose primary job is servicing and disposal of equipment with high pressure refrigerant such as residential air conditioners and heat pumps, supermarket refrigeration and process refrigeration, are required to have a Type II c
Cost of the EPA certification. The cost for the exam ranges from $40.00 to $240.00, depending on how you intend to study. If you are simply taking the test – and have already studied the required material on your own – the fee to take the test is $40.
Students considering an online course for the HVAC certification have a steady job outlook, as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Education for this field is required and -- according to the BLS -- applicants with trade school learning or apprenticeship education have an advantage.
HVAC technicians handling or opening a container with controlled refrigerant are required by the Environmental Protection Agency to obtain the EPA Section 608 certification. The EPA Section 608 consists of four types of HVAC Technician certifications.
Getting EPA Certified. To obtain Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) certification you must take and pass a test or a series of tests. The test covers three types of appliances, small appliances — like vacuums — high and low pressure appliances, like refrigerators or centrifugal machines — like washing machines.
The EPA regulates pollutants in the environment and offers an exam for HVAC certification on proper handling of low and high pressure refrigerants. This certification is to help cut down on pollutants. To get the certification you have to take a test, locally at an EPA specified location.
Download free software through the Contractor Licensing and the EPA Test websites. Go online and visit the EPA website and type in Overview of Issues on EPA Certification Test into the search box. Click Search and follow links to examine certification test contents. Visit the EPA Test website.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has required that all persons handling refrigerants should be certified. If you are not certified you can't legally buy refrigerants. Read More. EPA-Approved Section 608 certification is needed to service building air conditioning and refrigeration systems. With 608 certification, you can purchase any refrigerant in containers greater than 20 pounds.