It's the term given to heart problems caused by narrowed heart arteries. When arteries are narrowed, less blood and oxygen reaches the heart muscle. This is also called coronary artery disease and coronary heart disease. This can ultimately lead to heart attack. Ischemia often causes chest pain or discomfort known as angina pectoris. Ischemia is a condition in which the blood flow (and thus oxygen) is restricted or reduced in a part of the body. Cardiac ischemia is the name for decreased blood flow and oxygen to
Peripheral Artery Disease. Like the blood vessels of the heart (coronary arteries), your peripheral arteries (blood vessels outside your heart) also may develop atherosclerosis, the build-up of fat and cholesterol deposits, called plaque, on the inside walls. Over time, the build-up narrows the artery. Eventually the narrowed artery causes less blood to flow and a condition called  ischemia  can occur. Ischemia is inadequate blood flow to the body's tissue. 1  A blockage in the coronary arteries can cause symptoms of chest pain (angina) or a heart attack. 2  A blockage in the carotid arteries (the arteries supplying the brain) can lead to a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or stroke. Vascular disease includes any condition that affects the circulatory system. As the heart beats, it pumps blood through a system of blood vessels called the circulatory system. The vessels are elastic tubes that carry blood to every part of the body.
Ischemic Vascular Disease (IVD) is a term that includes a group of diseases caused by the build-up of plaque. Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) Coronary heart disease is where atherosclosis affects the coronary arteries in the heart. PAD usually affects the arteries in the legs, but it also can affect the arteries that carry blood from your heart to your arms, kidneys, and stomach. Blocked blood flow to your legs can cause pain and numbness.
Vascular disease is an abnormal condition of the blood vessels. Blood vessels (arteries and veins) are the tubes that pump blood throughout the body. Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to nourish every part of the body, including the brain, kidneys, intestines, arms, legs and heart itself. 
Coronary artery disease is a blockage or narrowing (stenosis) of the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle, often due to a buildup of fatty plaque inside the arteries. A severe enough blockage may cause a heart attack. If not quickly treated, the blockage can cause parts of the heart muscle to die. 
Ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischaemia (/ischæmia/), ɪˈskiːmiə is a restriction in blood supply to, tissues causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular (metabolism to keep tissue). Alive ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood, vessels with resultant damage to or dysfunction of. tissue Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue. It also means local anemia in a given part of a body sometimes resulting from congestion (such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism).
Ischemia is a vascular disease involving an interruption in the arterial blood supply to a tissue, organ, or extremity that, if untreated, can lead to tissue death. It can be caused by embolism, thrombosis of an atherosclerosis artery, or trauma. Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue. It also means local anemia in a given part of a body sometimes resulting from congestion (such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism).
Eventually the narrowed artery causes less blood to flow, and a condition called ischemia can occur. Ischemia is inadequate blood flow to the body's tissue. 1  A blockage in the coronary arteries can cause symptoms of chest pain (angina) or a heart attack. 
Ischemic heart disease is also known as coronary artery disease or hardening of the arteries.. Cholesterol plaque can build up in the arteries of the heart and cause ischemia, which means the heart is not getting enough blood flow and oxygen. If the plaque blocks an artery, a heart attack can result. 