Slowly pour the contents of the first cup into the second cup. At first, the pouring will result in a red color. With continued pouring, the acid will neutralize the base, and the red color will disappear. I know that phenolphthalein turns pink in basic solutions and is colorless in acidic solutions. That's why it was colorless in sulfuric acid at first. But what I don't understand is how come the phenolphthalein turned pink when the contents of the first cup was poured into the second cup. 
Phenolphthalein is used in titrations mostly to indicate the pH of the solution. If acidic solutions are added with this chemical they become colorless. If the acidic solutions are already colorless, they remain colorless after its addition too. Strong acidic solutions appear in orange color with phenolphthalein. The basic solutions appear pink in color. If the concentration of phenolphthalein in solution is more, then it can give purple color to the basic solutions. The pink color of this indicator in basic solutions gradually fades away and the solution becomes colorless after sometime. Phenolphthalein is not soluble in water and hence the solution of it is generally prepared using alcohol. Phenolphthalein solution is itself a weak acid and loses hydrogen ion in the solution.
Phenolphthalein is an organic compound (C20H14O4) used as an acid-base indicator. The compound is colorless in acidic solution and pinkish in basic solution (with the transition occuring around pH 9). 
Phenolphthalein molecule contains positively charged hydrogen ions and is naturally colorless with bright pink ions. When exposed to an alkaline solution, these hydrogen ions are removed, phenolphthalein molecule gets ionized and the solution turns pink. The stronger is the alkali solution, more hydrogen ions removed and stronger pink colour of the phenolphthalein solution.
Phenolphthalein is often used as an indicator in acid–base titrations. For this application, it turns colorless in acidic solutions and pink in basic solutions. Phenolphthalein is slightly soluble in water and usually is dissolved in alcohols for use in experiments. It is a weak acid, which can lose H + ions in solution. The phenolphthalein molecule is colorless, and the phenolphthalein ion is pink. When a base is added to the phenolphthalein, the molecule ⇌ ions equilibrium shifts to the right, leading to more ionization as H + ions are removed. This is predicted by Le Chatelier's principle. 
I know that phenolphthalein turns pink in basic solutions and is colorless in acidic solutions. That's why it was colorless in sulfuric acid at first. But what I don't understand is how come the phenolphthalein turned pink when the contents of the first cup was poured into the second cup. Report Abuse. it turns pink because the solution is a base with OH-ions it's colorless because the solution is an acid with H+ ions this is a neutralization reaction because it takes both acid and base to produce water and salt. Navita · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
If excess base is present at the end of an acid-base titration, the pink phenolphthalein color fades if the solution is allowed to stand for a while. This slow fading is of no consequence to the titration. However the fading of phenolphthalein in basic solution is an excellent example of second order reaction kinetics. 
Phenolphthalein is a compound with chemical formula of C20 H14 O4. It is colorless but turns pink in alkaline solutions. This is because it undergoes a process of ionization where positively or negatively charged ions are added or removed from a molecule, which converts the molecule into ions. When exposed to an alkaline solution, these hydrogen ions are removed, phenolphthalein molecule gets ionized and the solution turns pink. The stronger is the alkali solution, more hydrogen ions removed and stronger pink colour of the phenolphthalein solution.
Magic Pitcher Demonstration: Phenolphthalein is an indicator of acids (colorless) and bases (pink). Sodium hydroxide is a base, and it was in the pitcher at the beginning, so when added to the phenolphthalein in beakers 2 and 4, it turned pink (top half of the graphic). Universal Indicator, which is a solution of a mixture of indicators is able to also provide a full range of colors for the pH scale. A variety of indicators change color at various pH levels. A properly selected acid-base indicator can be used to visually indicate the approximate pH of a sample.