3 - tRNA has amino acids covalently attached for production of protein 4 - rRNA is a component of ribosomes (rRNA = ribosomal RNA) 5 - mRNA determines the amino acid sequence for a protein-I take it that's what this means. 6 - rRNA is the most abundant form of RNA (Though the least studied I believe). tRNA carries an anticodon that base pairs with mRNA codon (one of the three base pairs is a wobble base pair. pre mRNA is exon spliced, polyadenylated, and capped to synthesize a mature mRNA that will exit the nucleus. Therefore, you mature mRNA will be purely exons. All introns are removed.
Each type of tRNA molecule can be attached to only one type of amino acid, so each organism has many types of tRNA (in fact, because the genetic code contains multiple codons that specify the same amino acid, there are several tRNA molecules bearing different anticodons which also carry the same amino acid). 1 The CCA tail is a cytosine-cytosine-adenine sequence at the 3' end of the tRNA molecule. 2  The amino acid loaded onto the tRNA by aminoacyl tRNA synthetases, to form aminoacyl-tRNA, is covalently bonded to the 3'-hydroxyl group on the CCA tail.
DNA is made up of nucleotides, and proteins are made up of amino acids. The information in DNA is first transcribed into messenger RNA (mRNA) , which is also made up of nucleotides. The process of converting the genetic message found in mRNA to an amino acid sequence (protein synthesis) is called translation. The other end of the tRNA has the amino acid attached to the 3' OH group via an ester linkage. tRNA with an attached amino acid is said to be charged. The enzyme that attaches the amino acid to the 3'-OH is called an aminoacyl tRNA synthetase (aaRS).
An aminoacyl tRNA synthetase charging a tRNA. One important molecule involved in translating genetic messenger RNA (mRNA) code into protein is called transfer RNA (tRNA). This class of RNA carries the amino acids that will be incorporated into growing polypeptide chains by ribosomes. 
A transfer RNA (abbreviated tRNA and archaically referred to as sRNA, for soluble RNA) is an adaptor molecule composed of RNA, typically 76 to 90 nucleotides in length, that serves as the physical link between the mRNA and the amino acid sequence of proteins. 1 The CCA tail is a cytosine-cytosine-adenine sequence at the 3' end of the tRNA molecule. 2  The amino acid loaded onto the tRNA by aminoacyl tRNA synthetases, to form aminoacyl-tRNA, is covalently bonded to the 3'-hydroxyl group on the CCA tail.
transfer RNA / tRNA. Transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA) is a type of RNA molecule that helps decode a messenger RNA (mRNA) sequence into a protein. tRNAs function at specific sites in the ribosome during translation, which is a process that synthesizes a protein from an mRNA molecule. Proteins are built from smaller units called amino acids, which are specified by three-nucleotide mRNA sequences called codons.
transfer RNA. (tRNA) it picks up an amino acid at the top and the two are connected by a hydrogen bond. Edit. Share to: 1  5 of the Best Vegetarian Protein Sources If you stop eating meat, then you need to keep an eye on where your protein is coming from. 1 While most foods contain at least some of the amino acids that make up protein, so…. 2  A Beginner's Guide to Amino Acids Chem class has taught you that amino acids and proteins are essential to life. 3  There are many different types of amino acid, each with its own chemical compound.
The ribosome molecules translate this code to a specific sequence of amino acids. The ribosome is a multisubunit structure containing rRNA and proteins. It is the factory where amino acids are assembled into proteins. tRNAs are small noncoding RNA chains (74-93 nucleotides) that transport amino acids to the ribosome. In molecular biology and genetics, translation is the process in which cellular ribosomes create proteins. In translation, messenger RNA (mRNA) —produced by transcription from DNA —is decoded by a ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide.