Waterpik DrBunn 2013-08-10T13:02:57+00:00. The Waterpik is a very useful aid for keeping the gums and teeth healthy. It used to be thought that all it did was rinse things out, but it does much more. Direct the tip directly between teeth, not down into the gums. Use the tip from both the cheek side and tongue side. Tips to Keep Using It. 1  Leave it out, rather than putting it away. 2  Put the baking soda in an airtight, attractive container (like a French canning jar – the kind with the wire bail).
My hygeniest told me to put a capful of Peroxide in the little water tank. At first I used it once a day. But I love how much stuff it gets out of my teeth that I use it 2-3 times a day. The only thing that the hygeniest told me to PLEASE DO, is to only use it on #1 or #2 speed. Since you are in braces that means teeth movement and gums that are being stretched and sometimes recede. If you use it at #3 or higher you can actually lift your gums off of your teeth. Gennel. Got my braces off 9/20/07 after 19 months and 3 weeks.
And if you have fixed bridges you will find that regular Waterpik use will make your breath smell fresher, your food taste better, your mouth feel cleaner, and your bridgework last longer! I suggest a Waterpik brand waterpik, and there is no need to buy one with all the bells and whistles. If you are consistently getting bleeding when using floss or a waterpik you need to tell your dentist or hygienist. While you are there, be sure to demonstrate your flossing technique to your hygienist so she can “coach” you.
How to Use the Waterpik The Waterpik is best used daily, the time of day is truly not important – it is more important that it gets used. The Waterpik is for between teeth, not the outsides. Direct the tip directly between teeth, not down into the gums. Use the tip from both the cheek side and tongue side. Tips to Keep Using It. 1  Leave it out, rather than putting it away. 2  Put the baking soda in an airtight, attractive container (like a French canning jar – the kind with the wire bail).
It doesn't matter if you start on the top or bottom teeth, but make sure you clean both the cheek/lip side of the teeth and the tongue side. I like to start in the back and work my way around each arch. Place the tip at a 90 Degree angle to your teeth. Pause for a few seconds between teeth before sweeping along the gumline to the next area. Having the Waterpik on high power will flush things out nicely.
1 Mouthwash-A small amount of mouthwash can be added to the water for flavoring and/or to enhance compliance. 2  Chlorhexidine and Listerine-Have been clinically tested for use with the Water Flosser. 3  CHX can be diluted in varying strengths. 5. We recommend using warm water. Water alone is proven highly effective in numerous clinical studies. However, patients can use certain agents with the Water Flosser: 1  Mouthwash-A small amount of mouthwash can be added to the water for flavoring and/or to enhance compliance. 2  Chlorhexidine and Listerine-Have been clinically tested for use with the Water Flosser
When you pick up your shiny new counterop Waterpik from the store find a good spot on your bathroom counter where you can plug the unit safely, and follow the included directions to get it set up. It is going to come with several attachments and you can try them all out if you like, but the Classic Jet Tip works best. I like to start in the back and work my way around each arch. Place the tip at a 90 Degree angle to your teeth. Pause for a few seconds between teeth before sweeping along the gumline to the next area. Having the Waterpik on high power will flush things out nicely.
Getting a Waterpik is also a must have in our Ideal Oral Health Routine, which you should definitely download. I have played around a whole bunch at home with my Waterpik to try and figure out the most effective way to use it to clean between teeth. I like to start in the back and work my way around each arch. Place the tip at a 90 Degree angle to your teeth. Pause for a few seconds between teeth before sweeping along the gumline to the next area. Having the Waterpik on high power will flush things out nicely.
Children can use it (with supervision), and it is great for older patients who have dexterity issues. The Waterpik ® Water Flosser is ideal for people with implants, crowns, bridges, orthodontics and for those with diabetes or who are in periodontal maintenance. 5. We recommend using warm water. Water alone is proven highly effective in numerous clinical studies. However, patients can use certain agents with the Water Flosser: 1  Mouthwash-A small amount of mouthwash can be added to the water for flavoring and/or to enhance compliance. 2  Chlorhexidine and Listerine-Have been clinically tested for use with the Water Flosser