Reichstag is a German word which in political terms means Parliament but directly translated is Diet of the Realm or National Diet or Imperial Diet. 1 Reichstag fire (1933), which provided a pretext for the Nazis to seize power. 2  Reichstag Fire Decree (1933), an order issued by the German President Paul von Hindenburg in direct response to the Reichstag fire. 3  Reichstag Trial or Leipzig Trial (1933), a Trial held in the aftermath of
1 Reichstag (Weimar Republic) , parliament of the Weimar Republic (1918–1933). 2  Reichstag (Nazi Germany) , pseudo-parliament of the Third Reich (1933–1945). 3  Scandinavian parliamentary bodies which bear or bore the name Riksdag are also called Reichstag when referred to in the German Language. 1 Reichstag fire (1933), which provided a pretext for the Nazis to seize power. 2  Reichstag Fire Decree (1933), an order issued by the German President Paul von Hindenburg in direct response to the Reichstag fire. 3  Reichstag Trial or Leipzig Trial (1933), a Trial held in the aftermath of
Reichstag (n.). The Diet, or House of Representatives, of the German empire (and of the Weimar Republic), which was composed of members elected for a term of three years by the direct vote of the people. This term is no longer (in 1997) applied to the German parliament. See also Bundesrath. The Imperial Diet was the Diet, or general assembly, of the Imperial Estates of the Holy Roman Empire and emerged from the earlier informal assemblies, known as Hoftage.
After the Nazis rise to power, a number of laws were passed via the Reichstag which cut it off from making many important decisions. The Reichstag is also the name of the building where the assembly met. The building was badly damaged by a fire in 1933, then by air raids in World War II. During the Cold War, the West German government set up a government in Bonn with the Bundestag replacing the Reichstag. 
The Diet, or House of Representatives, of the German empire (and of the Weimar Republic), which was composed of members elected for a term of three years by the direct vote of the people. This term is no longer (in 1997) applied to the German parliament. The Imperial Diet was the Diet, or general assembly, of the Imperial Estates of the Holy Roman Empire and emerged from the earlier informal assemblies, known as Hoftage.
Reichstagsgebaeude, reichstagsgebäude the Specific german word For parliamentary, buildings often simply shortened To. Reichstag in this context it may refer: 1  To (reichstag) , building the building In berlin Where German parliaments met from 1894 to 1933 and again since. 2  1999 reichstag, dome an addition to The reichstag By Norman.  foster 1 Reichstag fire (1933), which provided a pretext for the Nazis to seize power. 2  Reichstag Fire Decree (1933), an order issued by the German President Paul von Hindenburg in direct response to the Reichstag fire. 3  Reichstag Trial or Leipzig Trial (1933), a Trial held in the aftermath of
Reichstagsgebaeude, reichstagsgebäude the Specific german word For parliamentary, buildings often simply shortened To. Reichstag in this context it may refer: 1  To (reichstag) , building the building In berlin Where German parliaments met from 1894 to 1933 and again since.  1999 1 Reichstag fire (1933), which provided a pretext for the Nazis to seize power. 2  Reichstag Fire Decree (1933), an order issued by the German President Paul von Hindenburg in direct response to the Reichstag fire. 3  Reichstag Trial or Leipzig Trial (1933), a Trial held in the aftermath of
Definition of Reichstag in English: 1 The main legislature of the German state under the Second and Third Reichs. 1.1 The building in which the main German legislature met, badly damaged by fire on the Nazi accession to power in 1933. 
The Reichstag building (German: Reichstagsgebaeude; reichstagsgebäude: Officially Plenarbereich) reichstagsgebaeude reichstagsgebäude is a historical Edifice, In, berlin germany constructed to House The (Imperial: Diet), german reichstag Of The. German empire it was opened in 1894 and Housed the diet, until 1933 when it was severely damaged in. a fire The Reichstag is now the second most visited attraction in Germany, not least because of the huge glass dome that was erected on the roof as a gesture to the original 1894 cupola, giving an impressive view over the city, especially at night.
After its completion in 1999, it once again became the meeting place of the German parliament: the modern Bundestag. The term Reichstag, when used to connote a diet, dates back to the Holy Roman Empire. The building was built for the Diet of the German Empire, which was succeeded by the Reichstag of the Weimar Republic. The Reichstag is now the second most visited attraction in Germany, not least because of the huge glass dome that was erected on the roof as a gesture to the original 1894 cupola, giving an impressive view over the city, especially at night.