You can email Jagex, but if you have ideas discuss them on the forums. RuneScape does not have an email address for general, casual use, or for general queries and messages. 1  Back Up and Restore Email Messages in Outlook Express Outlook Express is an email organization program that downloads messages from the host server to one convenient, user-friendly system.
If you have a registered email address, you will be asked to enter it. An email with a recovery link will be sent to that address.  If you do not have a registered email address, cant remember it or no longer have access to it, click next twice and you will be taken to the Appeal Form.  Fill out the Appeal Form in as much detail as possible, then click 'Send to Jagex'. 
Jagex Phone Number-I'm trying to change my email and the only way to. I'm trying to change my email and the only way to do it is to have an email sent to the current address: only problem is, I deleted that address forgetting it was linked to my Runescape account. Please help. Jagex Phone Number-hi i had my account on runescape for almost 8-9 years. hi i had my account on Runescape for almost 8-9 years. and I had put the authentication on my account and I wanted to take it off and. the email address I had on there automatic deleted I have tried to contact yahoo but nothing.
Jagex Account Guardian (or JAG) is an optional security feature that provides an enhanced level of security to help RuneScape players protect their account. Once enabled JAG limits in-game access for your account to specific devices, which have been authorised by you. At the bottom of the RuneScape homepage click the Profile & Settings link under the heading ‘Account’. After logging in, navigate to the ‘Jagex Account Guardian’ section. Here you will be able to view and delete your registered devices after passing the additional security checks.
1. Sender address. We only send you emails from an @Jagex.com or @email.runescape.com address. However, it is possible for senders to alter the from field to make an email look as if it s been sent from us, so please remain cautious. If you re suspicious about an email you have received, do not click on any links or open any attachments. Please report any malicious links on the forums here: http://services.runescape.com/m=forum/forums.ws?275,276,2,62906841. This will help us to prevent similar emails from being sent in the future.
There is no single email address for the game RuneScape. Instead, Jagex have a wide range of different email addresses, which are allocated for specific purposes (for example, … there is an email address used exclusively for billing queries). RuneScape does not have an email address for general, casual use, or for general queries and messages. 1  Back Up and Restore Email Messages in Outlook Express Outlook Express is an email organization program that downloads messages from the host server to one convenient, user-friendly system.
Jagex is unwilling to reset the password and send the reset to the email address that is associated with the account. I have tried multiple times to use their password recovery/reset screens and each time it is denied because we do not know the orignal password that went with the original creation in 2005. This email confirms that you have paid Jagex Ltd (billingsupport@jagex.com) $66.99 USD using PayPal. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------...
If it is necessary for you to log into the site, you will be directed to an SSL certified secure site (https) and you will see a green address bar, as in the example below: If you have an email address registered with us, Jagex will occasionally send you emails. This could be to let you know about the latest game update, to inform you of a membership offer or simply to offer some game guidance. If you re suspicious about an email you have received, do not click on any links or open any attachments. Please report any malicious links on the forums here: http://services.runescape.com/m=forum/forums.ws?275,276,2,62906841. This will help us to prevent similar emails from being sent in the future.
If you come across a scam website, a real-world-trading website, or a website providing bots/macros/scripts, and it is related to RuneScape, you may report it to Jagex using t … he RuneScape Forums. To do so, go to the RuneScape Forums. Go to the Contact Us Forum. RuneScape does not have an email address for general, casual use, or for general queries and messages. 1  Back Up and Restore Email Messages in Outlook Express Outlook Express is an email organization program that downloads messages from the host server to one convenient, user-friendly system.