Because the TCM definition of the spleen functions includes the digestive processes and functions, which occur on a cellular level throughout the body, we need to look at both these aspects in Western medicine also. The spleen governs the blood. In TCM the spleen is a source of vital energy and blood and a controller of blood circulation. When spleen qi is weak it's blood controlling function is disturbed and bleeding results.
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged.
The spleen plays an essential role in the production of blood as well. For this reason, fatigue (qi deficiency) and anemia (blood deficiency) are often attributed to a breakdown in the spleen's ability to transform food into qi and blood. The Role of the Heart (Xin) in Traditional Chinese Medicine. In traditional Chinese physiology, the spleen takes a lead role in the assimilation of nutrients and maintenance of physical strength.
Spleen Qi Deficiency. In traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), the Spleen is paired with the Stomach and is related to food and fluid assimilation in the body and the transformation of these substances into usable nutrients and substances. This is a result of chronic Spleen Qi Deficiency with the same indications on the onset, progressing to the inability of the Spleen to hold Blood in the vessels and control Blood resulting in bleeding from various sources such as under the skin, in the stools or urine, or from the uterus.
The Spleen in Chinese medicine is a yin organ. The Spleen is partnered with the Stomach, a yang organ. Together they are responsible for transforming food and drink into Qi and blood during the digestion process. When the Spleen energy is strong, appetite and digestion are good. The Spleen is associated with the sweet taste and smell. A person with weak Spleen qi may report a sweet, sticky taste in the mouth. Or more commonly, the craving of sweets is a huge red flag in Chinese medicine diagnosis that the Spleen is out of balance.
In traditional Chinese physiology, the spleen plays a central part in the health and vitality of the body, taking a lead role in the assimilation of nutrients and maintenance of physical strength. It turns digested food from the stomach into usable nutrients and qi. The Role of the Heart (Xin) in Traditional Chinese Medicine. In traditional Chinese physiology, the spleen takes
The Spleen function in this context is very different from the way that the spleen organ is viewed in western medicine. Spleen Qi Deficiency is associated with Internal Dampness, weight gain, digestive issues, and the emotions related to the Earth Element including an apathetic view-point or worrisome personality. This is a result of chronic Spleen Qi Deficiency with the same indications on the onset, progressing to the inability of the Spleen to hold Blood in the vessels and control Blood resulting in bleeding from various sources such as under the skin, in the stools or urine, or from the uterus.
The Role of the Spleen (Pi) in Traditional Chinese Medicine. The spleen (pi), of all the organs in traditional Chinese medicine, bears the least resemblance to its Western counterpart. The latter deals primarily with production and destruction of red blood cells and storage of blood. The Role of the Heart (Xin) in Traditional Chinese Medicine. In traditional Chinese physiology, the spleen takes a lead role in the assimilation of nutrients and maintenance of physical strength.
For the biological description, see Spleen. The Spleen (Chinese: 脾; pinyin: pi) pí is one of the zang zàng organs Stipulated By Traditional (CHINESE). Medicine tcm it is a functionally defined entity and not equivalent to the anatomical organ of the. same name 1 Thus, TCM also describes the Spleen as the source of production and mutual transformation (生化, pinyin: shēng-hua) huà of qi qì. 2  and Xuě the spleen distributes the water extracted from the food and distributes it to the whole of, the body especially To the Lung and, kidney zang zàng and thus'assists the body.  s water metabolism
I want to clarify upfront that the Chinese medicine spleen is very different from the western medicine spleen. In western medicine the spleen is part of the lymphatic system or the immune system, where as in Chinese medicine the spleen deals with digestion. Why is there such a huge difference in the spleen function between cultures? The answer, in my opinion, lies within the history of how these medicines evolved. There are 21 points in the spleen meridian. The meridian runs from the medial side of the big toe (SP-1) up the body in between the 7th intercostal of the ribs (SP-21). The time of the spleen is between the hours of 9-11 am in the morning. The spleen is a yin organ and its paired yang organ is the stomach.