Heinz Kohler was involved in early idiotypic network research and was the first to suggest that idiotypic network interactions are symmetrical. Geoffrey W. Hoffmann developed a detailed immune network theory based on symmetrical stimulatory, inhibitory and killing interactions. These V regions bind not only to things that are foreign to the vertebrate, but also to other V regions within the system. The immune system is therefore seen as a network, with the components connected to each other by V-V interactions. It has been suggested that the phenomena that the theory describes in terms of networks are also explained by clonal selection theory
Change in activity state: where k 1 є [0,1] is a coefficient defining the magnitude of the effect of interactions between cells via direct connection, and k 2 є [0,1] is a coefficient defining the magnitude of the effect of interactions between cells via feedback. To study the role of the immune network in regulating autoimmunity, an autoreactive clone is introduced into the mathematical model. The autoreactive clone is simulated in the model by the continuous effect of antigen (autoantigen) on one of the clones in the network.
The theory states that the immune system is an interacting network of lymphocytes and molecules that have variable (V) regions. These V regions bind not only to things that are foreign to the vertebrate, but also to other V regions within the system. The immune system is therefore seen as a network, with the components connected to each other by V-V interactions. It has been suggested that the phenomena that the theory describes in terms of networks are also explained by clonal selection theory
He defined idiotype as the set of epitopes on the V region of an antibody molecule, where epitope means an antigenic determinant. He also defined the  paratope  to be that part of an antibody variable region that binds to an antigen. The variable region of antigen receptors of T cells (TCRs) and B cells (immunoglobulins) contain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) with unique amino acid sequences. They define the surface and properties of the variable region, determining the antigen specificity and therefore the idio tope of the molecule.
The idiotype is based upon the variable region (labeled VL and VH in the diagram.). In immunology, an idiotype is a shared characteristic between a group of immunoglobulin or T cell receptor (TCR) molecules based upon the antigen binding specificity and therefore structure of their variable region. The variable region of antigen receptors of T cells (TCRs) and B cells (immunoglobulins) contain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) with unique amino acid sequences. They define the surface and properties of the variable region, determining the antigen specificity and therefore the idio tope of the molecule.
The immune network theory is a theory of how the adaptive immune system works, that has been developed since 1974 mainly by Niels Jerne and Geoffrey W. Hoffmann. These V regions bind not only to things that are foreign to the vertebrate, but also to other V regions within the system. The immune system is therefore seen as a network, with the components connected to each other by V-V interactions. It has been suggested that the phenomena that the theory describes in terms of networks are also explained by clonal selection theory
Twenty-seven percent ofthe variance is due to genetics, and an additional 18% ofthe variation is due to a genetic environment interac-tion. Therefore, environment (42%), genetics (27%), andtheir interaction (18%) account for nearly all of thevariation (87%) in thermal pain sensitivity. One thing I learned is that the Frenchmedical community has lots of stories about LouisPasteur, who had neither a Ph.D. nor an M.D. degree.One of the more famous accounts has Louis Pasteurlecturing at the Academie de Medecine de Paris onMarch 19, 1878 (Nicol, 1974).
The word idiotype became influential in immunology when Niels Jerne formulated his immune network theory. Jerne was awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine or Physiology in 1984 largely for being the father of immune network theory. The variable region of antigen receptors of T cells (TCRs) and B cells (immunoglobulins) contain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) with unique amino acid sequences. They define the surface and properties of the variable region, determining the antigen specificity and therefore the idio tope of the molecule.