Hydropower does not pollute the water or the air. However, hydropower facilities can have large environmental impacts by changing the environment and affecting land use, homes, and natural habitats in the dam area. Most hydroelectric power plants have a dam and a reservoir. These structures may obstruct fish migration and affect their populations.
1 Water can be stored for summer months or for dry years, depending on the capacity of the reservoir. 2  Run of the river type of hydroelectric power plants that do not collect water but are built on rivers which have a good flow and natural rivers coming from a height having good potential energy. Dams are built all over the world to control floods, store water and for the generation of electricity. Until now some 800,000 dams have been constructed worldwide. However, many negative effects of large hydroelectric dams have come to light, slowing the progression of future dams.
Hydroelectric power creates no air pollution or greenhouse gas emissions. There are two basic set-ups for hydro: the dam system and the run-of-river system. Dams are used for large capacity hydroelectric plants, while run-of-river systems have small plants with a very minor dam or none at all. The run-of-river system diverts some of the water in a river into a canal that sends the water through turbines at a small generation station.
Hydroelectric power is a major electricity source in Ontario and the largest source in Canada overall. Most electricity in Canada is derived from large-capacity hydroelectric plants with dams, which have a more serious environmental and social impact than do small-capacity plants. Dams are used for large capacity hydroelectric plants, while run-of-river systems have small plants with a very minor dam or none at all. The run-of-river system diverts some of the water in a river into a canal that sends the water through turbines at a small generation station.
However, hydroelectric facilities can still have a major impact on aquatic ecosystems. For example, though there are a variety of methods to minimize the impact (including fish ladders and in-take screens), fish and other organisms can be injured and killed by turbine blades. Small run-of-the-river plants emit between 0.01 and 0.03 pounds of carbon dioxide equivalent per kilowatt-hour. Life-cycle emissions from large-scale hydroelectric plants built in semi-arid regions are also modest: approximately 0.06
Hydroelectric power includes both massive hydroelectric dams and small run-of-the-river plants. Large-scale hydroelectric dams continue to be built in many parts of the world (including China and Brazil), but it is unlikely that new facilities will be added to the existing U.S. fleet in the future. Small run-of-the-river plants emit between 0.01 and 0.03 pounds of carbon dioxide equivalent per kilowatt-hour. Life-cycle emissions from large-scale hydroelectric plants built in semi-arid regions are also modest: approximately 0.06
1 Pumped storage types of hydroelectric power plants where water is pumped up to a reservoir in off-peak hours and electricity is generated in peak hours to supplement the production. 2  It is like a storage facility for electricity. Dams are built all over the world to control floods, store water and for the generation of electricity. Until now some 800,000 dams have been constructed worldwide. However, many negative effects of large hydroelectric dams have come to light, slowing the progression of future dams.
8) Affects on environment: Though the hydroelectric power plants do not require any fuel, don’t produce greenhouse gases and don’t create pollution directly, it does have a number of detrimental affects on the environment. The construction activity of the dam itself disturbs the environment to a great scale. 
There are different types of hydroelectric power plants, and not all require a reservoir of water. Here are three of the main types: 1  Storage type hydroelectric power plants with dams for collecting and storing water. 2  Water can be stored for summer months or for dry years, depending on the capacity of the reservoir. Dams are built all over the world to control floods, store water and for the generation of electricity. Until now some 800,000 dams have been constructed worldwide. However, many negative effects of large hydroelectric dams have come to light, slowing the progression of future dams.
Instead, the future of hydroelectric power in the United States will likely involve increased capacity at current dams and new run-of-the-river projects. There are environmental impacts at both types of plants. 1  Learn more: How Hydroelectric Energy Works. Small run-of-the-river plants emit between 0.01 and 0.03 pounds of carbon dioxide equivalent per kilowatt-hour. Life-cycle emissions from large-scale hydroelectric plants built in semi-arid regions are also modest: approximately 0.06