No. Palm oil used in MaraNatha No Stir nut butters is extracted from the fruit or pulp of the palm tree and purified using natural means. First, the oil is pressed from the fruit using an expeller press. 
Almond butter is fast becoming the more preferred substitute to commercially produced roasted nut butter products like peanut butter. This comes as no surprise as almond butter indeed has a better nutritional profile as its favorable fat content is more heart-healthy and it does not contain high amounts of salt as well. Almonds, the primary ingredient in almond butter, are considered a type of tree nut. Tree nuts belong to the eight most common food allergens in the United States. Food allergens do not have to be eaten in considerable amounts or in their basest forms for allergic reactions to manifest.
Almond butter is a food paste made from almonds. Almond butter may be crunchy or smooth, and is generally stir (susceptible to oil separation) or no-stir (emulsified). Almond butter may be either raw or roasted, describing the almonds themselves prior to grinding.
Valencia peanuts. Or peanut butter with palm oil. Natural types of course. Trader Joe’s used to have organic peanut butter with just Valenica peanuts. Now the organic peanut butter is just organic peanuts – there is a noticable difference – and the Valencia peanut butter is only in non-organic. 
What a variety! It can be used in any recipe that calls for peanut butter and is wonderful across the board from sweet favorites to savory sauces. It’s a culinary fact that almond butter makes a healthy, tasty addition to breakfast, snacks, meals, sauces, baked goods, dips and desserts. If you’ve never tried almond butter or have only had it on bread, you’re in for a real treat! 1  Spread it over toast and eat plain or top with fresh or dried fruit. 1 Spread it over toast and eat plain or top with fresh or dried fruit. 2  Make a dip with almond butter and cream cheese; use it with fresh cut fruit and veggie sticks. 3  Make almond butter cookies. 4  You will love these No-Bake Thumbprint Cookies.
Why Almond Butter Is Better. I am going to tell you why almond butter is better. First, let me say that I like peanut butter. I like the taste of it better than almond butter in fact. Peanut butter has many problems though: 1. 3. Make sure the peanut butter you buy has no added ingredients. Now, onward we go. Remember almonds are actually nuts.. whereas peanuts are legumes. Peanuts are grown under the ground and almonds are grown in trees. Now, why almond butter is so much better: 1.
Raw Organic Mixed Nut Butter. Our raw organic Mixed Nut Butter is made with almonds, cashews, Brazil nuts, pistachios, pecans, and hazelnuts. This sweet and delicious raw mixed nut butter is contains no added sugar, salt or other additives. This raw organic nut butter is a “treegan” food, which means all of the ingredients come from a tree
Regardless of your choice, be sure to choose brands with the fewest number of ingredients, preferably the nut (or legume!) and a little salt! Peanut Butter: Peanut butter is hands down the most economical. Though not technically a nut (it's a legume), it is often the go-to for the public. 
Natural Raw Almond Butter. The next best thing to eating your almonds straight from the orchard, this mellow-flavored spread is for almond purists who want nothing but the naturally delicious taste of raw nuts. Our 8 oz. jar is the perfect size for tasting or giving. Available in 8 oz. and 16 oz. 
I remember a time when there was no such thing as “nut butter.”. There was peanut butter, smooth or crunchy, and it was not very natural at all. It was full of sugar and hydrogenated oil and no one knew any different. 1 Spread it over toast and eat plain or top with fresh or dried fruit. 2  Make a dip with almond butter and cream cheese; use it with fresh cut fruit and veggie sticks. 3  Make almond butter cookies. 4  You will love these No-Bake Thumbprint Cookies.