A megawatt is a unit for measuring power that is equivalent to one million watts. One megawatt is equivalent to the energy produced by 10 automobile engines. A megawatt hour (Mwh) is equal to 1,000 Kilowatt hours (Kwh). It is equal to 1,000 kilowatts of electricity used continuously for one hour. It is about equivalent to the amount of electricity used by about 330 homes during one hour. 1  Prev. 2  Next
One kilowatt-hour is equal to 1,000 watt-hours and is equal to 3600 kJ. The primary difference between a kilowatt and a kilowatt-hour is that “kilowatt” measures the capacity of an electric generator and “kilowatt-hour” measures the actual amount of electricity it produces over a certain period of time. Source(s): Report Abuse. The kilowatt-hour (symbolized kWh) is a unit of energy equivalent to one kilowatt (1 kW) of power expended for one hour (1 h) of time. The kilowatt-hour is not a standard unit in any formal system, but it is commonly used in electrical applications. ebush73 · 9 years ago.
A kilowatt (kW) is equal to one thousand watts. It is mostly used to express the power consumption of engines, motors, heaters and the electromagnetic power of radio transmitters. A megawatt (MW) is equal to one million watts or one thousand kilowatts. This scale is used for lightning, large commercial buildings, or large mechanical devices and constructions (carriers, submarines, etc). Below there is a list with the conversion of watts to kilowatts, megawatts and other multiples:
The kilowatt hour (kWh) is a unit of energy... The Calorie is a unit of energy... And the joule (J) is a unit of energy... And these aren't the only units of energy-there's the BTU, the watt hour (Wh), the therm, and plenty of obscure units that you're unlikely to have heard of. 
Megawatt to kilowatt hours (mwh to kwh) conversion table shows the most common values for the quick reference. Alternatively, you may use the converter below to convert any other values. 1 Megawatt hour = 1000 Kilowatt Hours (Kwh). Megawatt hours is one million watts amount of power delivered in one hour. The abbreviation is mwh. Kilowatt hours is one kilowatt amount of power delivered in one hour. One of the most common usage is billing the amount of energy delievered by electric utilities.
A watt (or kilowatt or megawatt) is a measure of power. Power is the rate of energy transfer. For example, a watt is defined as 1 joule per second, where you can think of a joule as one nicely measured packet of energy. Watt-hours (or kilowatt-hours or megawatt-hours) is just another way of measuring energy. A kWh is one kW of power flowing for one hour, which is 1000 joules going by every second for one hour. Since there are 3600 seconds in a hour, 1 kWh is therefore exactly the same as 3.6 Mj
For starters, a Kilowatt (kW) is just one thousand watts, just like a megawatt (mW) is one million watts. A watt (W) is a measurement of POWER. To be precise it's using one joule per second. A kilowatt is a unit of power, while a kilowatt hour is a unit of  energy. Power is the rate that energy is used. This means that  something that operates at 1 kilowatt for … 1 hour uses 1 kilowatt  hour of energy.
Watt is the unit of power whereas kilowatt-hour (kWh) is the unit of energy. Watt indicates the rate of using energy in J/s. You can compare this to how fast water is flowing out of a water pipe. If you have a Light bulb that has a rating of 100 watt, it means that the light bulb consumes 100 J per second. 