Whaley Genealogy & History. Whaley is a British locational surname, from the villages of Whalley in Lancashire and Whaley in Derbyshire. Both likely come from the Old English hwealf, which means vault, arch or hill, and leah, for a clearing in a forest or a meadow. Whaley family history starts in 1185 with the recording of Adam de Walleg in the Pipe Rolls of Lancashire. Whaley genealogy lays claim to several notable persons, such as actor Michael Whaley and St. Louis Browns outfielder Bill Whaley.
It could also be from Whaley in Cheshire, from the Old English weg, meaning a path, and thus a road near a clearing. Whaley family history starts in 1185 with the recording of Adam de Walleg in the Pipe Rolls of Lancashire. Whaley genealogy lays claim to several notable persons, such as actor Michael Whaley and St. Louis Browns outfielder Bill Whaley.
Whaley Name Meaning. English: habitational name from Whaley in Derbyshire, Whalley in Lancashire, or Whaley Bridge in Derbyshire (formerly in Cheshire). The first is probably named with Old English waella ‘wælla’, ‘spring’ + stream ‘(leah) woodland’. clearing 
This interesting surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is a locational name from Whalley in Lancashire or Whaley in Derbyshire. The surname is first recorded in the latter half of the 12th Century (see below), and can also be found as Waley, Walley and Whaley. Robert de Walley is listed in the 1230 Pipe Rolls of Nottinghamshire.
Save Name. Last name origin & meaning: English: habitational name from Whaley in Derbyshire, Whalley in Lancashire, or Whaley Bridge in Derbyshire (formerly in Cheshire). The first is probably named with Old English waella ‘wælla’, ‘spring’ + stream ‘(lēah) woodland’. clearing
Send a Whaley Postcard. The Whaley coat of arms came into existence centuries ago. The process of creating coats of arms (also often called family crests) began in the eight and ninth centuries. The new art of Heraldry made it possible for families and even individual family members to have their very own coat of arms
Whaley Meaning: one who came from Whaley (meadow by a road or hill), the name of places in Cheshire and Derbyshire. Whaley Origin(s): Submit Info. 
This name is of English origins. It is from either of the villages of Whaley in the counties of Cheshire and Derbyshire, or from the town of Whalley in Lancashire.