The different colored speckles in the granite are the crystals of the different minerals. The mineral crystals are large enough to see because the magma cools slowly, which gives the crystals time to grow. Figure 3.20: Granite is a type of rock that forms from magma. It contains the minerals quartz (clear), plagioclase feldspar (shiny white), potassium feldspar (pink), and other minerals.
Igneous rocks are formed from the solidification of molten rock material. There are two basic types. Intrusive igneous rocks crystallize below Earth's surface and the slow cooling that occurs there allows large crystals to form. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite.
Minerals also form when minerals are mixed in water. Most water on Earth, like the water in the oceans, contains minerals. The minerals are mixed evenly throughout the water to make a solution. The mineral particles in water are so small that they will not come out when you filter the water.
As a result, rocks form quickly and mineral crystals are very small. Rhyolite is one type of rock that is formed when lava cools. It contains similar minerals to granite. However, as you can see in Figure 3.21, the mineral crystals are much smaller than the crystals in the granite shown in Figure 3.20.
Rocks differ in their mineral composition and their rock texture. Texture (the size, shape, and distribution of particles that collectively constitute the rock) is a function of the geologic processes related to a rock's formation.
It also contains rare chemical elements. The minerals formed from this type of magma are often valuable because they have concentrations of rare chemical elements. When magma cools very slowly, very large crystals can grow. These mineral deposits are good sources of crystals that are used to make jewelry.
1 the geological history of West Virginia. 2  the three major rock types and some common minerals. 3  using clues such as particle size, shape, and color and fossils to determine the environment in which sedimentary rocks were deposited. 4  how specific rock layers are named.
These rocks include andesite, basalt, obsidian, pumice, rhyolite, scoria, and tuff. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common igneous rock types are shown on this page. Diorite is a coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock that contains a mixture of feldspar, pyroxene, hornblende and sometimes quartz. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across.