Pick the sqft pricing of any of the court surface options above and add $3.75-$4.00 sqft for the sport tiles, $500-1,000 for a rubber underlayment plus over $1,000 for installation. You’re basically adding the following costs to your project with a reduced quality of play. 45’X30′ = Plus $7,000 to the costs above. 26’X22′ = 572 sqft X $6 = $3,432 or more (NY Metro Prices). Concrete pad-This is going to cost two-thirds to twice as much as asphalt. However, there are many people that swear by concrete for a backyard pad.
How much does it cost to build a court? The average cost to build a residential tennis court from start to finish including dirt work, post tension slab, fencing, lighting, surfacing and accessories, is about $65,000. However, prices can easily range anywhere between $50,000 to $80,000 depending on options.
The cost benefit analysis of asphalt concrete when it comes to basketball courts-Asphalt concrete is much more cost effective than portland bound concrete. 
Add your answer. How much does it cost to have asphalt laid for an outdoor basketball court? The court would be 30 x 30 at the most, i could dig out the area and put in gravel and do everything before the asphalt is laid but how much would it cost to just have about two inches of asphalt laid? 
Like many construction projects, the costs to build a basketball court with VersaCourt court tile will vary depending on a number of elements including its size, excavation requirements, type of base and quantity and quality of its accessories. Here are some of the main components. 
-Painted Court-You can have your court painted similar to what you see on public courts or tennis courts. This, in my opinion, is well worth the extra cost. Depending upon the size of your court, you’re looking at roughly an extra $1,000 to $1,500. If the extra expense is not an issue, it’s absolutely beautiful, much like you see here with a custom New York Knicks-themed basketball court. -Painted Lines-. The most affordable option to having a backyard basketball court is an asphalt pad with painted lines. The material costs are the least expensive as well as the installation due to cutting out the expense of having the court painted. Some people have concerns about the durability of unpainted asphalt.
Best Answer: Since 2004 I have used one guy for all of my asphalt paving jobs. If the basketball court is easily accessible, and can be done with machine, it is same as drive way=$1.00 per square foot. If it is located in a hard to reach area, he would charge anywhere from $1.00-$2.00 per square foot. Summary= Asphalt=$1.00-$2.00 per square foot and Concrete=$65-$110 per finished yard (4'X10'X4 thick approx. coverage area OR 8'X10'X2 thick approx. coverage area.............USUALLY 4 thick).
Standard Asphalt Basketball Court. An asphalt basketball court is comprised of 4 to 6 of compacted road rock (usually limestone in Florida), 1 of asphalt and an acrylic color coating system. Once the stone base and asphalt has been installed, and the asphalt has cured for 2 weeks, the color coating process begins. We have extensive experience in building other sports surfaces, including basketball courts. We can build any size basketball court to fit your needs, including full-size regulation courts and half courts. A standard, regulation size basketball court is 50' wide by 94' long, slightly smaller than a typical tennis court.