These organisms (for example, bacteria such as E. coli or Pseudomonas) infect the urinary tract by relocating against the flow of urine (retrograde) toward the kidneys. Lower urinary tract infections do not involve the kidneys while upper urinary tract infections involve the kidneys and are typically more severe. These types of infections of the urinary tract are almost never contagious to other individuals.
Urine is usually free of bacteria. A urinary tract infection happens when bacteria gets inside your bladder, usually through your urethra (the opening where your urine comes out). Females have shorter urethras than males do, so it is easier for bacteria to enter the urinary tract and cause symptoms. The most common kind of UTI is a bladder infection, which is called cystitis (sis-ti-tis). If the infection affects your urethra, it is called urethritis (ur-e-thri-tis).
490 Followers. A. No, urinary tract infections are not contagious. A person with a bacterial infection in their urinary tract could indeed transfer these bacteria to a vagina during sexual intercourse, but it would be highly unlikely for the exposed person to get a urinary tract infection for this alone. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A urinary tract infection is caused when bacteria gets into your bladder by the urethra. This bacteria can then travel up the ureters into the kidneys causing pylonephritis (kidney infection). The most common bacteria that causes a urinary tract infection is E Coli. A urinary tract infection is not contagious. However you should not participate in sexual activity as you can introduce new bacteria into the urinary tract. Also it is important to urinate after sexual activity to help flush away any bacteria that may be trying to travel up the urethra
Urinary Tract Infection Contagious. Urinary tract infection is contagious, this type of infection are not spread from one person to another but are spread through bacteria. One of the bacteria causing urinary tract infection is E-coli. 
A bacterial urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most common kind of infection affecting the urinary tract. Urine is the fluid that is filtered out of the bloodstream by the kidneys. Urine contains salts and waste products, but it doesn't normally contain bacteria. 1 Bacteria that infect only the urethra (the short tube that delivers urine from the bladder to the outside of the body) cause urethritis. 2  Bacteria can also cause a bladder infection, which is called cystitis. 3  Another, more serious, kind of UTI is infection of the kidney itself, known as pyelonephritis.
Is a urinary tract infection contagious? No Can you get it from having sex? Yes As mentioned before, the act of having sex can push bacteria higher into the urethra, the tube that drains the bladder, and can contribute to simple bladder infections. 
Urinary tract infections is considered infectious but is not transmitted from person to person. Generally, a disease like this is caused by an infectious agent and not spread between people. Urinary tract infections, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. 
A urinary tract infection is caused when bacteria gets into your  bladder by the urethra. This bacteria can then travel up the  ureters into the kidneys causing pylonephriti … s (kidney infection).  The most common bacteria that causes a urinary tract infection is E  Coli. A urinary tract infection is not contagious. However you  should not participate in sexual activity as you can introduce new  bacteria into the urinary tract. 1 Urinary Tract Infections and the Woman on the Go: Stifling the Pain A Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) is an infection of the bladder, kidneys, ureters or the urethra that's caused by germs and bacteria. 2  A UTI can be painful and uncomfortable, a….