In this case my professional opinion is that Zyrtec can be given to dogs at a dose rate of 1 mg/kg of your dog's bodyweight orally once a day. I always give a web link if I can so that clients can confirm that my answers are more or less right. I would do this even with simple drugs like aspirin. Thanks for the question. In direct answer to your question: Zyrtec can be given to dogs at a dose rate of 1 mg/kg of your dog's bodyweight orally once a day. You should confirm this dose rate by reading the report
Zyrtec is an over-the-counter antihistamine, sometimes used for dogs, to alleviate itchiness and allergy-related skin irritations. Many dog owners consider the use of this medication when a best buddy is suffering with stubborn allergies, specifically those affecting the skin. Never administer Zyrtec-D to your beloved dog because it is absolutely toxic and can be life threatening. Otherwise, people do successfully give this antihistamine to their dogs. There are definitely risks though.
Conclusion on Zyrtec. Never give a dog Zyrtec-D which is basically Sudafed. You can, however, provide regular Zyrtec to treat a dog for some allergies once you’ve become well-informed. Know that this strong medication does nothing to cure or eliminate the underlying reasons for an allergy problem. Never administer Zyrtec-D to your beloved dog because it is absolutely toxic and can be life threatening. Otherwise, people do successfully give this antihistamine to their dogs. There are definitely risks though.
ADVERTISEMENT. Zyrtec (cetirizine) is an antihistamine approved for use in humans to treat allergy symptoms. In veterinary medicine it’s used in both cats and dogs for the same indication...and more. For dogs, I’ll turn to Zyrtec when Benadryl (diphenhydramine) fails. 
Zyrtec For Dogs. Zyrtec (®) with the active ingredient cetirizine is an antihistamine sometimes used to treat dermatitis, a condition which causes a dog’s skin to become itchy. It can be purchased over-the-counter and is tolerated well by most dogs. This medicine can be given either with or without food. Liquid Dosage: Liquid Zyrtec is no longer being made, if you want a liquid medicine try Children’s Aller-Tec ® . Children’s Aller-Tec ® contains 1 mg/mL cetirizine which means it can be given to your dog at a dosage of 0.5 mL/lb.
Zyrtec dosage for dogs. Never give Zyrtec to your dog without first consulting a vet. The usual dosages are as follows: 0 – 15 lb dog – 5 mg to be administered once a day. 16 – 39 lb dog – 10 mg to be administered once a day.
Cetirizine is especially effective at relieving a dog’s canine atopic dermatitis or CAD. CAD is a condition in which your dog’s inhaled allergy shows symptoms on his skin. Dogs with CAD usually show symptoms when they are between 1 and 3 years of age. Symptoms of CAD include. 1  biting. 2  chewing at the feet. 3  hair loss. 4  head shaking. 
Regular Zyrtec is a brand name for Cetirizine which isn’t formulated for dogs yet it’s commonly prescribed by most veterinarians. Despite being a powerful drug, regular Zyrtec seems to be well-tolerated by most dogs. Still, if your vet could prescribe something specifically designed for canines it would be better. Never administer Zyrtec-D to your beloved dog because it is absolutely toxic and can be life threatening. Otherwise, people do successfully give this antihistamine to their dogs. There are definitely risks though.