Welcome to Snowdonia. Situated on the west coast of Britain covering 823 square miles of diverse landscapes, Snowdonia National Park is a living working area, home to over 26,000 people. You are here: Home. Situated on the west coast of Britain covering 823 square miles of diverse landscapes, Snowdonia National Park is a living working area, home to over 26,000 people.
Snowdonia Mountains & Coast. Snowdonia, the mountainous heart of southern Britain, is one of the UK’s most popular destinations for hiking and outdoor holidays. But there’s more to this region than craters and crags. It’s blessed with some of the most beautiful coastal scenery in Wales, on the Llŷn Peninsula and Cambrian Coastline. 
Visiting Snowdonia. The Snowdonia National Park is a special part of the country where people come to relax and enjoy a wide range of leisure activities in spectacular surroundings. Snowdonia's landscape is unique. You are here: Visiting. The Snowdonia National Park is a special part of the country where people come to relax and enjoy a wide range of leisure activities in spectacular surroundings.
Welcome to the official tourism website for the Snowdonia Mountains and Coast area. If you're looking for a holiday, short break or weekends in Snowdonia then you'll find all the information you need here. Attractions, places to visit and things to do. With over 150 attractions in the Snowdonia Mountains and Coast area there's plenty of choice to write on your 'To Do' list when you're visiting the area. Here's a snap shot of what we have on offer.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Snowdonia (Welsh: Eryri) is a region in north Wales and a national park of 823 square miles (2,130 km 2) in area. It was the first to be designated of the three national parks in Wales, in 1951. The park is governed by the Snowdonia National Park Authority, which is made up of local government and Welsh representatives, and its main offices are at Penrhyndeudraeth.
Home to the Snowdonia National Park and the biggest mountain in Wales and England, Snowdon at 3,560ft, where you can visit by foot or train. There’s also a long coastline of sandy beaches, spectacular cliffs and glorious estuaries, which along the Llŷn Peninsula is a protected ‘ Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty ’. Attractions, places to visit and things to do. With over 150 attractions in the Snowdonia Mountains and Coast area there's plenty of choice to write on your 'To Do' list when you're visiting the area. Here's a snap shot of what we have on offer.
On the website of Snowdonia Tourism you will find information about attractions and things to do in Snowdonia. The Snowdonia National Park boasts vast areas of natural beauty and unique scenery. It is known as Eryri by Welsh a name that can be translated as “the place of the eagles”. The park which covers 838 square miles is one of the three natural parks found in Wales and the oldest one being designated as one in 1951. On the website of Snowdonia Tourism you will find information about attractions and things to do in Snowdonia. Nature is not the only thing that can be found in the national park as it is also the place where over 26,000 permanent residents live their day-to-day life.
Snowdonia (Welsh: Eryri) is a region in north Wales. It is also a national park of 838 square miles (2,170 km 2) in area. It was the first national park in Wales, set up in 1951. Snowdonia National Park (Welsh: Parc Cenedlaethol Eryri) was started in 1951. It was the third national park in Britain. It makes up 827 square miles (2,140 km 2), and has 37 miles (60 km) of coastline in its border. The park is ran by the Snowdonia National Park Authority.