Genes are made of a chemical called DNA, which is short for 'deoxyribonucleic acid'. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase. The DNA double helix showing base pairs. The sides are sugar and phosphate molecules. The rungs are pairs of chemicals called 'nitrogenous bases', or 'bases' for short.
Report Abuse. Chromosomes are largest. Chromosomes are made up of long, tightly bundled strands of DNA, which is smallest. A Gene is a short segment of DNA, and there are many of them on each Chromosome. so from largest to smallest, it's Chromosome, Gene, DNA. Geoffrey F · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. smallest is gene-a gene is a sequence of nucleic acids in the DNA DNA-a double helix structure made up of nucleic acids CHROMOSOMES-DNA that has been folded (very visible underneath the microscope during mitosis and meiosis). zeto · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase. The DNA double helix showing base pairs. The sides are sugar and phosphate molecules. The rungs are pairs of chemicals called 'nitrogenous bases', or 'bases' for short.
DNA. DNA is the molecule that is the hereditary material in all living cells. Genes are made of DNA, and so is the genome itself. A gene consists of enough DNA to code for one protein, and a genome is simply the sum total of an organism's DNA. DNA is long and skinny, capable of contorting like a circus performer when it winds into chromosome
A gene is the specific section of DNA that codes for a functional product (i.e. a protein). Chromosomes are tightly packed forms of DNA and proteins-which contain genes. No-chromosomes contain genes. A chromosome is a long strand of DNA coiled up into the 'X' shape you see in textbooks/under a microscope. A gene is simply a section of DNA th … at codes for a protein. So a gene is simply a small piece of a chromosome. Sources: undergraduate studies in biology
Gene is definitely the smallest. That is a region of the DNA or chromosomes that codes for a single protein or trait. (simplified a bit) Each Chromosome is made of one long strand of DNA plus lots of protein. But each cell in you body has 46 chromosomes worth of dna. DNA can mean a strand of DNA or a bunch of strands.
Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases.