In Christianity, there are many synonyms for Satan. The most common English synonym for Satan is  devil , which descends from Middle English devel, from Old English dēofol, that in turn represents an early Germanic borrowing of Latin diabolus (also the source of diabolical). Whether Satan was actually an angel or a Jinn whom God elevated to the angelic assembly is a matter of debate among Muslim scholars. Some scholars, such as Ibn Abbas, believe that Satan was actually an angel whom God created out of fire.
Nearby & related entries: 1  lucidol. 2  lucidport technology. 3  lucidux. 4  lucidworks. 5  lucie. 6  luciferase. 7  luciferases. 8  luciferases, bacterial. 9  luciferases, firefly. 10  luciferases, renilla. 
1 British English: Satan In the Christian religion, Satan is the Devil, a powerful evil being who is the chief opponent of God. 1 = The Devil, Lucifer, Prince of Darkness, Lord of the Flies, Mephistopheles, Beelzebub, Old Nick (informal), The Evil One, Apollyon, Old Scratch (informal) • the schemes of Satan.
Nowhere within the context of Isaiah 14, however, is Satan depicted as Lucifer. In his commentary on Isaiah, Burton Coffman wrote: We are glad that our version (ASV) leaves the word Lucifer out of this rendition, because, Satan does not enter into this passage as a subject at all. (1990, p. 141). The Hebrew word translated Lucifer is helel (or heylel), from the root, h l l, meaning, to shine, or to bear light.. Keil and Delitzsch noted that, [i]t derives its name in other ancient languages also from its striking brilliancy, and is here called benshachar (son of the dawn).
For most Christians, Satan is believed to be an angel who rebelled against God. In the New Testament he is called the ruler of the demons (Matthew 12:24), the ruler of the world, and the god of this world (2 Cor. 4:4). Whether Satan was actually an angel or a Jinn whom God elevated to the angelic assembly is a matter of debate among Muslim scholars. Some scholars, such as Ibn Abbas, believe that Satan was actually an angel whom God created out of fire.
Synonyms-noun. 1  Satan. 2  Belial. 3  the Prince of the Devils. 4  the Adversary. 5  the old Serpent. 6  the foul fiend. 7  the angel of the bottomless pit. 8  unclean spirits. 9  inhabitants of Pandemonium. 10  devilship. 11  the cloven foot. 12  the Devil. 13  Samael. 14  the tempter. 15  the archenemy. 16  the Prince of darkness. 17  the arch fiend. 18  Abaddon. 19  devils. 20  demon. 21  diabolology. 22  Lucifer. 23  Zamiel. 
The Infernal Names is a compiled list of adversarial or antihero figures from mythology, for intended use in Satanic ritual. The following names and descriptions are as listed in The Satanic Bible, written by Church of Satan founder Anton Szandor LaVey. When calling the names, all of them may be recited, or a given number of those most significant to the respective working may be chosen. 1  1 The Infernal Names.
Keil and Delitzsch firmly proclaimed that Lucifer,. as a synonym, is a perfectly appropriate one for the king of Ba-bel, on account of the early date of the Babylonian culture, which reached back as far as the grey twilight of primeval times, and also because of its predominate astrological character. (1982, p. 312). The Hebrew word translated Lucifer is helel (or heylel), from the root, h l l, meaning, to shine, or to bear light.. Keil and Delitzsch noted that, [i]t derives its name in other ancient languages also from its striking brilliancy, and is here called benshachar (son of the dawn).
Nearby & related entries: 1  lucidol. 2  lucidport technology. 3  lucidux. 4  lucidworks. 5  lucie. 6  luciferase. 7  luciferases. 8  luciferases, bacterial. 9  luciferases, firefly. 10  luciferases, renilla. 
The original Hebrew term satan is a noun from a verb meaning primarily to obstruct, oppose, as it is found in Numbers 22:22, 1 Samuel 29:4, Psalms 109:6. Ha-Satan is traditionally translated as the accuser or the adversary. Whether Satan was actually an angel or a Jinn whom God elevated to the angelic assembly is a matter of debate among Muslim scholars. Some scholars, such as Ibn Abbas, believe that Satan was actually an angel whom God created out of fire.