I was used to the bitterness of iceberg lettuce. Since November, I’ve been introduced to a new ingredient in our salads. Kale. It’s considered a cooking green, not a lettuce, but can be used in salads in place of lettuce. When it comes to nutrition, kale is the winner. Here’s the breakdown: As you can see, Kale is high in a lot of essential vitamins and minerals. Iceberg lettuce is better for you than potato chips, so I wouldn’t say don’t eat it. But I would say, try romaine, and try kale. They’re both readily available in your supermarket
Many varieties of kale and cabbage are grown mainly for their ornamental leaves, which are brilliant white, red, pink, lavender, blue or violet in the interior of the rosette. Ornamental kale is as edible as any other variety. A variety of kale, kai-lan, is a popular vegetable in China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, where it is commonly combined with beef dishes. Children collecting leaves of red Russian kale (Brassica napus L. subsp. napus var. pabularia (DC.) Alef.) in a family vegetable garden.
Kale is higher in fiber than lettuce. Leafy green vegetables like kale and lettuce are both rich in fiber and low in calories. Kale comes in deep green or purple colors. Lettuce varies in colors and varieties, including red and green romaine, iceberg and red leaf. Fiber Content. Kale is slightly higher in fiber content than lettuce. The high fiber content helps stabilize the leafy veggie during cooking. Insoluble fiber from kale and lettuce sweeps through your gut like a broom, pushing out waste. This process keeps you regular and makes your bowel movements easy to pass
If you disregard minimal differences in nutrients, green leaf lettuce has more protein, calcium and seven out of nine vitamins, so it could be considered the most nutritious. Macronutrients. The four most common types of green lettuce -- green leaf, romaine, butterhead and iceberg -- have 13 to 17 calories in 100 grams, which is about a 1/2-cup serving of shredded lettuce.
Collard greens are a staple vegetable of Southern U.S. cuisine. They are often prepared with other similar green leaf vegetables, such as kale, turnip greens, spinach, and mustard greens in mixed greens. 
Kale or boerenkool is a vegetable of the plant species Brassica oleracea. It has green or purple leaves, in which the central leaves do not form a head. A variety of kale, kai-lan, is a popular vegetable in China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, where it is commonly combined with beef dishes. Children collecting leaves of red Russian kale (Brassica napus L. subsp. napus var. pabularia (DC.) Alef.) in a family vegetable garden.
1 You can plant kale anytime from early spring to early summer. 2  If you plant kale late in the summer you can harvest it from fall until the ground freezes in winter. 3  Mix 1-½ cups of 5-10-10 fertilizer per 25 feet of row into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. 4  Plant the seeds ¼ to ½ inch deep into well-drained, light soil. 1 If you plant kale late in the summer you can harvest it from fall until the ground freezes in winter. 2  Mix 1-½ cups of 5-10-10 fertilizer per 25 feet of row into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. 3
You can eat lettuce in its raw state, but it is better to cook kale before consuming. Raw kale has an undesirable bitter flavor. Blanching it in water and chilling it makes it more palatable for a salad. You can also saute or steam kale and enjoy it as a hot side with your entree. Fiber Content. Kale is slightly higher in fiber content than lettuce. The high fiber content helps stabilize the leafy veggie during cooking. Insoluble fiber from kale and lettuce sweeps through your gut like a broom, pushing out waste. This process keeps you regular and makes your bowel movements easy to pass