Bulk Cash Smuggling is a reporting offense under the Bank Secrecy Act, and is part of the United States Code (U.S.C.).
In recent years, the smuggling of bulk currency has become a preferred method for drug trafficking organizations and other criminal enterprises to move illicit proceeds across our borders. Congress criminalized the act of smuggling large amounts of cash as part of the PATRIOT Act.
Drug Trafficking and Money Laundering. The trade in illicit drugs is estimated to be worth $400 billion a year, and it accounts for 8% of all international trade, according to the United Nations.
Ecuador has witnessed a dramatic rise in bulk cash smuggling over the last five years, reflecting evolutions in criminal groups' money laundering and trafficking practices away from established financial institutions.
In the 2001 Patriot Act, the government criminalized international bulk cash smuggling for amounts over $10,000, introducing sentences of up to five years imprisonment and provisions for the seizure of all cash and goods discovered at the time or traced to the operation.
The smuggling of migrants is a truly global concern, with a large number of countries affected by it as origin, transit or destination points. Profit-seeking criminals smuggle migrants across borders and between continents.
As the crime is a clandestine one, accurate global figures are difficult to come by. Nevertheless, it is estimated that two of the principal smuggling routes-leading from East, North and West Africa to Europe and from South America to North America-generate about $6.75 billion a year for criminals.
Not necessarily. The statute that governs bulk cash smuggling does require proof that a suspect intended to cross the border. However, criminal organizations rely on complex transportation and smuggling networks to move and launder their illicit proceeds.
According to Title 31 U.S.C. ยง 5332, the penalties for bulk cash smuggling could include: 1  Imprisonment for a period of time up to 5 years. 2  Forfeiture of any property, real or personal, involved in the offense, and any property traceable to such property.