To allow concrete to cure correctly, keep it wet and warm at temperatures between 50 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit for the first week at least. Concrete that does not cure properly can shrink, crack or even develop a dusty, weak and crumbly surface. 1 Keeping the concrete covered with wet burlap or straw for seven days is likely to discourage walking across it, especially if you cordon off the area around it. 2  Disallow pet access to the surface during the first three days.
Depending on if it's quick dry or not, the average is 24-48 hours depending on humidity. After 24 hours, it should be rigid enough that they can't press into it with a stick or their fingers. If it is quick drying, after 12 hours, I think it should prevent most kids from sticking their hands onto it. It was poured at about 11:00am today and it is about 9pm... I just need to know how long I need to sit here guarding it against the kids who are just waiting to write their names in it...
Sand is considered a fine aggregate, while any stones are coarse aggregates. Bull Float – a tool comprising a large, flat, rectangular piece of wood, aluminum, or magnesium usually 8 inches wide and 48 inches long and a handle 4 to 16 feet in length used to smooth unformed surfaces or freshly placed concrete. Cubic Yard – Unit of measure for ready mix concrete. 1 Start with a minimum of 2 people for a 1 cubic yard pour. 2  Add one person for each additional cubic yard of concrete. 3  If you are using wheelbarrows to move the concrete form the truck to the forms, add an additional person.
How long should I let the new concrete cure before walking on it? A: Generally speaking, concrete and other Portland cement-based products should be moist-cured for at least 5 to 7 days. Check the product packaging for specific instructions. One alternative to moist-curing is using an Acrylic Concrete Sealer.
Wind, humidity, and sunlight are all factors in how long it takes for concrete to cure, walking, normally about 1 to 2 days. 5. How long does it take for concrete to cure enough to drive on? Again, wind, humidity, and sunlight are all factors but the standard is about 5 to 7 days. 1 Start with a minimum of 2 people for a 1 cubic yard pour. 2  Add one person for each additional cubic yard of concrete. 3  If you are using wheelbarrows to move the concrete form the truck to the forms, add an additional person.
· just now. Report Abuse. first of all cement is an ingredient in concrete its concrete that dries anyways usually you can walk on concrete in 24 hrs the full curing process is about 30 days depending upon different situations. just woundering · 7 years ago. Thumbs up
Depending on the type of concrete used and the size of the sidewalk it will take anywhere from 24-72 hours before it can be walked on. The edges of driveways that will bear more weight may need longer. Check with the instructions provided by the manufacturer for specific dry and cure times. 
Concrete gets progressively harder over time its called curing. However it depends on several thing like temperature and moisture. You can typically walk on concrete the next day but it can be prone to scratching. I generally have my customers wait two days to walk on it and 7-10 days to drive. In summer time on hot days concrete can cure to fast and crack within hours
Report Abuse. What you describe as concrete is actually mortar. Sand and cement combine to mix mortar. (used ro setting bricks, for example) Sand and cement and an aggregate (small rocks) combine to make concrete. Any cementatious product reaches full cure in 29 days. Full cure being structurally safe, for example, that is when a tilt-up concrete wall can savely be lifted into place. It is mortar not concrete. If it dries too quickly it will loose strength which may or may not matter too much, say for brickwork. Rendering mortar, or mortar on roofs should ideally be kept damp for a week or so, especially if the weather is dry and windy.