This is the best way to be certain that he or she has completed the necessary training and meets certain standards to practice plastic surgery.. When Dinora Rodriguez, 40, went under the knife for a breast enhancement operation, what she got was something out of a horror movie, the Daily Mail reported. Her surgeon cut across two pockets of breast tissue, which allowed the implants to touch at the middle and create the look of a single breast, or uniboob.. Rodriguez described the horror of waking up to the botched surgery to MSNBC: My breasts looked really bad. It looked like I had one big breast instead of two. Botched surgery leaves woman with 'uniboob' - Health-Skin and ...
How to avoid the uniboob. Written by Fiona / bras, brayola / March 08, 2012. In case anyone reading this is unaware of what a “uniboob” is, we thought we would educate you with this great definition according to the prestigious urban dictionary : “When it looks like you have one massive breast. This usually happens when a girl wears a sports bra or one of those tank tops with the shelf bra”. The not so funny thing about the uniboob look is it can cause serious chaffing and irritation; that’s the last thing you need when working out! Not to mention, the point of a sports bra is to minimize any movement! So here are our Top 3 Sports Bras that separate, shape and support you.
uniboob. When a larger chested woman wears a sports bra it is tremendously restricting. It is described as -- A large lump of two breasts squeezed together by the wearing of a sports bra. The end result is that the woman's breasts no longer have the Lift and Separate affect. i should get me one of those. by lizzie millard November 08, 2007. 5. uniboob. A case of the rare condition called symmastia, in which a woman's two breasts literally grow together and join in the middle of the chest, so it looks like a single dumbell-shaped breast across the chest. It can be a congenital condition or a complication arising from breast augmentation surgery
Symmastia is one of the rarer, but more expensive and difficult complications to repair. It has many different names including synmastia, breadloafing, kissing breast implants, and uniboob. Basically, when symmastia occurs, the implants meet in the middle of the chest. There is no separation between the implants, hence the name kissing implants.. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Uniboob is what you get when wearing sports bras. The bras have to be tight enough to hold the breasts close to the body to decrease trauma to the connective tissue and the squished horizontal shape going across the chest is referred to as a uniboob. Report Abuse. Uniboob usually happens when you are wearing a sports bra because its one singular strip of fabric meant to hold your breasts in together. Having uniboob can be avoided by simply wearing an under wire bra or bra with cups. You have uniboob when you can't distinguish between one boob or the other
Synmastia (also called uniboob or breadloafing; often misspelled as symmastia) is a specific example of a post-operative problem requiring a thorough, systematic approach and innovative surgical techniques. 
It is also less commonly known as breadloafing. The picture shows an example of symmastia. This complication only occurs with unders (under the muscle breast implants). Uniboob occurs when the two breasts meet in the middle of the chest. The contact of the breasts with each other is not just externally. The implants themselves or the breast tissue from each breast will actually make permanent contact. 
Meet Botched patient Kelsey, also known as the uniboob queen. She was born botched with a disorder that caused her chest to be concaved. Having this problem, she couldn't take part in sports and activities because she couldn't keep up. 