Usually, costs per unit involve variable costs (costs that vary with the number of units made) and fixed costs (costs that don't vary with the number of units made). For example, at XYZ Restaurant, which sells only pepperoni pizza, the variable expenses per pizza might be: Flour: $0.50. Yeast: $0.05. 
Variable costs are corporate expenses that vary in direct proportion to the quantity of output. Unlike fixed costs, which remain constant regardless of output, variable costs are a direct function of production volume, rising whenever production expands and falling whenever it contracts. Some costs change in a piecewise manner as output changes and therefore may not remain constant per unit of output. Also, note that many cost items have both fixed and variable components. For example, management salaries typically do not vary with the number of units produced.
(Total fixed costs + Total variable costs) / Total units produced. The cost per unit should decline as the number of units produced increases, primarily because the total fixed costs will be spread over a larger number of units (subject to the step costing issue noted above). Thus, the cost per unit is not constant. For example, ABC Company has total variable costs of $50,000 and total fixed costs of $30,000 in May, which it incurred while producing 10,000 widgets. The cost per unit is: ($30,000 Fixed costs + $50,000 variable costs) / 10,000 units = $8 cost per unit. In the following month, ABC produces 5,000 units at a variable cost of $25,000 and the same fixed cost of $30,000. The cost per unit is: 
Definition. The Average Variable Cost (AVC) is the total variable cost per unit of output. This is found by dividing Total Variable Cost (TVC) by total output (Q). Total Variable Cost (TVC) is all the costs that vary with output, such as materials and labor
Variable costs frequently factor into profit projections and the calculation of break-even points for a business or project. Some costs change in a piecewise manner as output changes and therefore may not remain constant per unit of output. Also, note that many cost items have both fixed and variable components. For example, management salaries typically do not vary with the number of units produced.
Total variable costs increase proportionately as volume increases, while variable costs per unit remain unchanged. For example, if the bicycle company incurred variable costs of $200 per unit, total variable costs would be $200 if only one bike was produced and $2,000 if 10 bikes were produced. However, variable costs applied per unit would be $200 for both the first and the tenth bike. The company's total costs are a combination of the fixed and variable costs. If the bicycle company produced 10 bikes, its total costs would be $1,000 fixed plus $2,000 variable equals $3,000, or $300 per unit
The variable cost can be calculated as: Total Variable Cost = Total Quantity of Output * Variable Cost per Unit of Output. Conclusion. In managing a business, it is highly essential to understand the concept of variable cost as an essential concept. 
By dividing the total variable costs for a specific period by that same period's production volume will provide us with the variable cost per spark plug. For example, if the spark plug business made 500,000 units last year, its unit variable cost is $90,000 / 500,000, or $0.18. The formula to calculate variable cost is: Total Variable Cost = Total Quantity of Output * Variable Cost Per Unit of Output. To recognize variable costs, it is important to understand how to categorize costs. Variable costs are those which do not remain constant, specifically when production activities fluctuate.
Variable cost is a cost that varies, in total, in direct proportion to changes in the level of activity. A variable cost is constant per unit. 