NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 1 Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 2  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 3  Cooked ground chicken or turkey
Report Abuse. If the chicken breast still hot when u put it in your fridge,then better don't eat because it already spoilage. If you put it in your fridge after it cold, you still can eat it but the taste not too nice already and if you always eat the food which already keep 2-3 days also not good for your health. lyp1011 · 6 years ago.
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 2  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 3
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 11 people found this useful. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
1 Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 2  Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 1 Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 2  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 3  Cooked ground chicken or turkey
The USDA notes that if the product comes with a sell by date, you can generally keep raw meat and eggs in the fridge past that date by using the following guidelines: 1  Chicken, turkey, sausage, ground poultry, and ground meat: 1 to 2 days past sell-by date. 2  Beef, lamb, pork, and veal: 3 to 5 days past sell-by date. The amount of time you can leave food in the fridge depends on the food -- and the food's expiration date. Some foods can be left in the fridge a long time and still be safe to eat.