Chemical properties are observable characteristics of the makeup of a substance. Observable does not necessarily mean that one can visually see it; rather it means that we can note the result. We can observe a smell, a voltage, or even a time. In the prior case, we saw a white, fluffy substance. Now that we learned what chemical properties are, let’s get back to basics “The Periodic Table of Elements.” Of course there are many ways that we can classify these elements, we can classify them according to size, color, smell, behavior, or even by the way they react with water.
Silicon is a metalloid, an element with properties of both metals and non-metals. Silicon exists in two allotropic forms. Allotropes are forms of an element with different physical and chemical properties. One allotrope is in the form of shiny, grayish-black, needle-like crystals, or flat plates. The second allotrope has no crystal structure and usually occurs as a brown powder.
1 element: Properties of the Elements-Properties of the Elements Properties of an element are sometimes classed as either chemical or 2  ... well-ordered set: meaning and definitions-well-ordered set: Definition and Pronunciation. More on element Properties of the Elements from Infoplease: 1 
Silicon is a chemical element with symbol Si and atomic number 14. It is a tetravalent metalloid, more reactive than germanium, the metalloid directly below it in the table. Controversy about silicon's character dates to its discovery; it was first prepared and characterized in pure form in 1823. 
The chemical properties of an element are due to the distribution of electrons around the atom's nucleus, particularly the outer, or valence, electrons; it is these electrons that are involved in chemical reactions. More on element Properties of the Elements from Infoplease: 1  element: Properties of the Elements-Properties of the Elements Properties of an element are sometimes classed as either chemical or 2  ... well-ordered set: meaning and definitions-well-ordered set: Definition and Pronunciation.
Chemical properties are any of the properties of matter that may only be observed and measured by performing a chemical change or chemical reaction. Chemical properties cannot be determined by touching or viewing a sample; the structure of the sample must be altered for the chemical properties to become apparent. 
Properties of the Elements. Properties of an element are sometimes classed as either chemical or physical. Chemical properties are usually observed in the course of a chemical reaction, while physical properties are observed by examining a sample of the pure element. More on element Properties of the Elements from Infoplease: 1  element: Properties of the Elements-Properties of the Elements Properties of an element are sometimes classed as either chemical or 2  ... well-ordered set: meaning and definitions-well-ordered set: Definition and Pronunciation.
Each alloy is distinct from its components, and the properties of each alloy are distinct. Indeed, the purpose in forming an alloy is to provide a metallic substance with physical, mechanical and/or chemical properties and characteristics that are different from those of its components. Moreover, these properties are influenced by the manner in which the alloy is formed and treated.
More on compound Properties of Compounds from Infoplease: 1  compound: Properties of Compounds-Properties of Compounds A compound has unique properties that are distinct from the properties of 2  ... compound-compound compound, in chemistry, a substance composed of atoms of two or more elements in chemical ... More on compound Properties of Compounds from Infoplease: 1  compound: Properties of Compounds-Properties of Compounds A compound has unique properties that are distinct from the properties of ...
Physical and Chemical Properties All substances have properties that we can use to identify them. For example we can idenify a person by their face, their voice, height, finger prints, DNA etc.. The more of these properties that we can identify, the better we know the person. In a similar way matter has properties-and there are many of them. There are two basic types of properties that we can associate with matter. These properties are called Physical properties and Chemical properties: