3 CORES+EARTH. General Cable have been manufacturing Flat and Circular TPS for over 3 decades. These products are offered to AS/NZS 5000.2 (450/750) or the more robust construction of AS/NZS 5000.1 rated at 600/1000V. TPS or tough plastic sheathed cables can be split into two categories. 
Details. The throttle position sensor bolts to the throttle blade shaft and relays throttle opening/closing information to the system ECU. The TPS is constructed of high resistance material with a “sensitive” rotator for accurate throttle position measurement. 1  Part # 54020 is a TPS for GM '99-'01 LS1, 4.8L, 5.3L, and 6.0L Vortec Engines that did not come equipped with traction control. 2  It will work with cable drive throttle bodies only.
General Cable have been manufacturing Flat and Circular TPS for over 3 decades. These products are offered to AS/NZS 5000.2 (450/750V) or the more robust construction of AS/NZS 5000.1 rated at 600/1000V. This particular range of cables is popularly known as TPS or tough plastic sheathed cables and can be split into two categories.
Short for unshielded twisted pair, a popular type of cable that consists of two unshielded wires twisted around each other. Due to its low cost, UTP cabling is used extensively for local-area networks (LANs) and telephone connections. 
The throttle position sensor, TPS for short, is a sensor that is used in an internal combustion engine. These can be fuel injected engines or carbureted engines. The TPS is used to monitor the position of the throttle butterfly valve. When we accelerate, the butterfly opens a little or a lot to allow air into the intake manifold, depending on how much you are accelerating. There are a few signs that could be a signal that the throttle position sensor is failing. The first and foremost is a possibility that your check engine light could come on; this is a light on the dash that sometimes appears as a little engine or sometimes it simply says check
One of the more frequent problems with modern vehicles is a bad throttle position sensor (TPS). The tiny thing that keeps your car working, often falls prey to regular wear and tear, and therefore must be taken care of. Switch and combination TPS are tested with an ohmmeter. In order to test a non-adjustable one, such as a potentiometer TPS, a voltmeter is used, like so: 1  Disconnect the throttle sensor harness. 2  Open the throttle valve manually and check the resistance changes between the terminal 1 and 2.
P0124 Throttle Position Sensor/Switch A Circuit Intermittent. Because the throttle position sensor is such a critical component of your car or truck, making sure that it is working properly is especially important. If your current TPS has failed, then a replacement should be obtained and installed as soon as possible. Throttle Position Sensor at 1A Auto. An important part of the engine management system of your vehicle is the throttle position sensor, commonly abbreviated and referred to as a TPS sensor or switch.
However, this wire count does not include an uninsulated wire that is used as a ground wire, which may or may not be mentioned but is almost always present in modern cabling.. For instance, if the cable lists 12-2 WG, it means there are two insulated 12-gauge wires (a black and a white wire), plus a ground wire. It is incorrect to use Romex to refer to NM cable generically, as the Romex name is a trademarked brand of the Southwire Company. In modern products, the color of the NM cable sheath (or jacket) indicates either the gauge of the current carrying conductors within it, or special properties of the sheathing itself.
Thermoplastic-sheathed cable (TPS) consists of an outer sheath of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) insulation (the thermoplastic element) covering a core of one or more conductors of annealed copper. It is the most commonly used type of wiring for residential and light commercial construction in developed countries. It is incorrect to use Romex to refer to NM cable generically, as the Romex name is a trademarked brand of the Southwire Company. In modern products, the color of the NM cable sheath (or jacket) indicates either the gauge of the current carrying conductors within it, or special properties of the sheathing itself.