Necrotizing fasciitis is difficult to diagnose in the early stage because symptoms, such as tenderness, swelling, redness, and pain at the affected site, are similar to other, less threatening skin diseases such as cellulitis and erysipelas. GAS is the causative agent for several diseases and is among the most common human pathogens (Tortora 590). This bacterium also causes scarlet fever, impetigo, cellulitis, and sepsis. The only known natural reservoir of S. pyogenes is the skin and mucous membranes of humans (Luckman 1).
As stated earlier, the symptoms of necrotizing fasciitis can be similar to those of other skin diseases such as redness, swelling and pain at infection site. At the first sign of infection, a small, reddish, painful spot or bump appears on the skin. GAS is the causative agent for several diseases and is among the most common human pathogens (Tortora 590). This bacterium also causes scarlet fever, impetigo, cellulitis, and sepsis. The only known natural reservoir of S. pyogenes is the skin and mucous membranes of humans (Luckman 1).
Dr. Joseph Jones, a Confederate Army surgeon first described Necrotizing Fasciitis during the US Civil War although this condition was first termed by Dr. B. Wilson in 1952 without reference to specific causative agent or specific pathologic bacteria. It is a rare and severe disease that can be fatal to those afflicted with this disease. Death can occur within 18 hours from initial infection of the causative agent. Fascia is a sheath of tissue that covers the muscles that is being attacked by certain bacteria causing necrosis.
Background. Necrotizing fasciitis is a rapidly progressive inflammatory infection of the fascia, with secondary necrosis of the subcutaneous tissues. The speed of spread is directly proportional to the thickness of the subcutaneous layer. Necrotizing fasciitis moves along the fascial plane
Necrotizing fasciitis is a term that describes a disease condition of rapidly spreading infection, usually located in fascial planes of connective tissue that results in tissue necrosis (dead and/or damaged tissue). Fascial planes are bands of connective tissue that surround muscles, nerves, and blood vessels. Necrotizing fasciitis (flesh-eating disease) facts. 1  Necrotizing fasciitis refers to a rapidly spreading infection, usually located in fascial planes of connective tissue that results in tissue death (necrosis). 2  Different types of bacterial infection can cause necrotizing fasciitis.
Causes of Necrotizing Fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis is commonly caused by group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria. That's the same type of bacteria that causes strep throat. However, several types of bacteria, such as staphylococcus and others, have also been associated with the disease. Necrotizing fasciitis is a rare infection that's often described in media reports as a condition involving flesh-eating bacteria.. It can be fatal if not treated promptly. Necrotizing fasciitis spreads quickly and aggressively in an infected person.
by Erica Nagel. Necrotizing fasciitis, or the flesh eating bacteria, is a skin disease which can be caused by several bacteria, but the most common and deadly causative agent is Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A streptococcus, from here on denoted as GAS (Tortora 591). GAS is the causative agent for several diseases and is among the most common human pathogens (Tortora 590). This bacterium also causes scarlet fever, impetigo, cellulitis, and sepsis. The only known natural reservoir of S. pyogenes is the skin and mucous membranes of humans (Luckman 1).
Necrotizing fasciitis is an infection caused by bacteria. It can destroy skin, fat, and the tissue covering the muscles within a very short time. The disease sometimes is called flesh-eating bacteria. When it occurs on the genitals, it is called Fournier gangrene. Necrotizing fasciitis is very rare but serious.
Necrotizing Fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis (NF) is a relatively uncommon but potentially fatal infection involving the subcutaneous tissue and fascia, a sheet of fibrous or tendinous tissue that lies deep to the skin or covers muscles and various body organs. Causative Agents. Necrotizing fasciitis has been subdivided into type I, or polymicrobial necrotizing fasciitis, and type II, or invasive group A streptococcal necrotizing fasciitis. Over the past decade the incidence of the disease due to group A streptococci has increased.