Hypothyroidism Diet. Hypothyroidism affects the rate of the metabolism and it can therefore affect the way in which food is used by the body. This can lead to weight gain, which is one of the common symptoms of hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism can also affect the regulation of the level of cholesterol in the blood. 
T. Foods which may adversely affect your thyroid Many commonly eaten, otherwise nutritious foods, have been reported to have an adverse affect on thyroid functioning. I think it is helpful to be aware of this possibility, even if you've eaten these foods for many years. Certain foods contain chemicals which block the production of thyroid hormone, particularly cabbage, broccoli, rutabaga, cauliflower, kale, Brussels sprouts, watercress, and peanuts. Cooking partially inactivates the interfering chemical, known medically as a goitrogen
With only one exception, either no effects or only very modest changes were noted in these trials. Thus, collectively the findings provide little evidence that in euthyroid, iodine-replete individuals, soy foods, or isoflavones adversely affect thyroid function. In contrast, some evidence suggests that soy foods, by inhibiting absorption, may increase the dose of thyroid hormone required by hypothyroid patients. 
Foods Rich In Iodine. Iodine is the most important element in thyroid health. Most goiters are caused when the thyroid enlarges in an effort to pull more iodine in out of the bloodstream. For most people with goiters, a diet high in iodine is the most common treatment. Foods that are high in iodine include kelp and other sea vegetables, fennel, Jerusalem artichokes, cow’s milk, eggs, and raisins. If you currently use sea salt or other fancy salt, check to see if it has been iodized. Goitrogens are substances in food that can wreak havoc on the function of your thyroid gland. Goitrogens get their name from “goiter,” which is what an enlarged thyroid gland is called.
Some good sources include pumpkin seeds, beef, fish, dairy products, eggs, bananas, avocados, poultry, and almonds. These animal-based foods high in protein also tend to be good sources of Vitamin B12 and selenium, which are also important for thyroid health. Goitrogens are substances in food that can wreak havoc on the function of your thyroid gland. Goitrogens get their name from “goiter,” which is what an enlarged thyroid gland is called.
Two of the leading causes of low thyroid hormone production are related to food. Iron deficiencies have been known to cause people to have hypothyroidism. Iodine deficiencies are likely to be considered the number one cause of thyroid production that is not adequate. 5 Good Foods that Affect Thyroid. 1  Use iodized salt to replenish the iodine levels in your system. 2  Eat liver and organ meats for added iron. 3  Cook with cold pressed olive oil for Vitamin E. 4  Eat winter squash to increase beta carotene. 5  Increase the amounts of shellfish, dairy and eggs you consume for added zinc.
I am concerned about medications such as herbal products that contain iodine or seaweed, or weight reduction products. Sue E. Gaebler, RNC/FNP, MSN. Yes, it is true that drugs and foods that affect thyroid iodine uptake can potentially alter thyroid function. For example, the use of the antiarrhythmic drug amiodarone can lead to increased thyroid iodine release, thus possibly inducing hypothyroidism, in about 10% of patients taking this medication. 
You may also feel depressed; suffer with fluid retention and dry skin. Yes, having a thyroid problem can greatly reduce your quality of life. If you are concerned about the health of your thyroid gland, you need to know which foods can adversely affect it. For healthy thyroid function and consequently an efficient metabolism, try to keep these foods out of your diet. Many people don’t get enough of these foods in their diet. Thyroid Health capsules contain iodine, plus selenium, vitamin D and zinc, which are all helpful for healthy thyroid gland function.