We will take a look at how much it costs to have a phone on a new contract with Verizon, Sprint, AT&T, and then the cost of an unlocked iPhone on T-Mobile. For reference, we’ll be looking at the least expensive plans that support the iPhone for each carrier, using Geek.com’s local prices (New York City).
Report Abuse. ummm you HAVE to get the $30 data plan per month with any smartphone you buy from verizon. and you better do it quick cuz as of july 7th they are no longer going to have the $30 unlimited data plan. at that point $30 will only get you 2gb per month and it will be another $10 for each additonal gb you get.
T-Mobile is selling Apple's new iPhones with its Simple Choice plan, which also allows you to pay off your phone in monthly installments over a period of 24 months. The iPhone 6 will cost $27.08 per month for two years, while the iPhone 6 Plus will sell for $31.24 per month over the same period of time.
DataPlus is a $15-per-month plan that allows you to access 200MB of data. DataPro is a $25-per-month plan that allows you to access 2GB of data. For a complete breakdown of these plans and how much data you'll be access with them, read AT&T's Data Plans: All the Details.
With this option, the iPhone 6 would cost $32.49 per month, while the iPhone 6 Plus would cost you $37.49 per month. There's no down payment for qualified customers on the starting price, and we've reached out to Verizon with more details on whether there's a down payment on other models.
Text-messaging plans start at $5 per month, or you can pay per use for 20 cents each text. Also news is that Verizon’s hot-spotting feature — the ability to turn the handset into a Wi-Fi network to share an internet connection with multiple devices — will cost an extra $20 per month on top of voice and data plans.
Bits and pieces about the Verizon iPhone have finally fallen into place to tell the full story on how much the coveted handset will cost you. Apple’s website this week temporarily revealed that the Verizon iPhone voice plans start at $40 per month.