The modes of persuasion, often referred to as rhetorical strategies or rhetorical appeals, are devices in rhetoric that classify the speaker's appeal to the audience. They are: ethos, pathos, and logos. Aristotle 's On Rhetoric describes the modes of persuasion thus: Pathos (plural: pathe) is an appeal to the audience’s emotions, and the terms sympathy, pathetic and empathy are derived from it. It can be in the form of metaphor, simile, a passionate delivery, or even a simple claim that a matter is unjust.
Ethos, Pathos, and Logos are modes of persuasion used to convince audiences. They are also referred to as the three artistic proofs (Aristotle coined the terms), and are all represented by Greek words. Ethos or the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the author’s credibility or character. In order to persuade your audience, proper of Ethos, Pathos and Logos is necessary. Examples of Ethos, Logos and Pathos: Example of Ethos: I will end this war in Iraq responsibly, and finish the fight against al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.
No. Pathos is an appeal to the audience's emotions. Logos is an appeal to the audience's logic and ethos is an appeal to the speaker's character ie. how trustworthy and/or cre … dible they are to be speaking about the idea. 
Pathos is a communication technique used most often in rhetoric (where it is considered one of the three modes of persuasion, alongside ethos and logos), and in literature, film and other narrative art. Emotional appeal can be accomplished in a multitude of ways: 1  by a metaphor or storytelling, common as a hook, Aristotle identifies pathos as one of the three essential modes of proof by his statement that “to understand the emotions---that is, to name them and describe them, to know their causes and the way in which they are excited (1356a24-1356a25).
Definition. Pathos is one of the three 'appeals' of persuasive writing. When you use pathos, you're appealing to your reader's emotions to convince them of something. The other two appeals of persuasive writing are logos (logic) and ethos (credibility). All three were identified by Aristotle in 350 BC. 
Pathos or the emotional appeal, means to persuade an audience by appealing to their emotions. Authors use pathos to invoke sympathy from an audience; to make the audience feel what what the author wants them to feel. A common use of pathos would be to draw pity from an audience. In order to persuade your audience, proper of Ethos, Pathos and Logos is necessary. Examples of Ethos, Logos and Pathos: Example of Ethos: I will end this war in Iraq responsibly, and finish the fight against al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.
Pathos is a quality of an experience in life or a work of art that stirs up emotions of pity, sympathy and sorrow. Pathos can be expressed through words, pictures or even with gestures of the body. Pathos is an important tool of persuasion in arguments. Pathos is a method of convincing people with an argument drawn out through an emotional response. Analyzing examples of pathos, one would come to the conclusion that it differs from other “ingredients of persuasion ” namely “ Ethos ” and “ logos ”. 