Traditional Indian clothing for women are the saris or the salwar kameez and also Ghaghra Cholis (Lehengas). For men, traditional clothes are the Dhoti, Lungi or Kurta. Mumbai, formerly known as Bombay, is one of India's fashion capitals. In some village parts of India, traditional clothing mostly will be worn. In southern India the men wear long, white sheets of cloth called dhoti in north Indian languages like Hindi and Bengali and veshti in Tamil. Over the dhoti, men wear shirts, t-shirts, or anything else. Women wear a sari, a long sheet of colourful cloth with patterns. This is draped over a simple or fancy blouse
The blouse worn with sari is also called the choli or ravika. The salwaar kameez, on the other hand, is the most ubiquitous of all traditional women attires in India. Due to its popularity in the Punjab region, it is sometimes also called the Punjabi suit. The Indian men's traditional attire consists of the kurta and pajama, dhoti, lungi and other dresses. Indian Clothing. What makes the Indian couture so unique is the fact that you will find each and every state of the country having its own distinct traditional clothing for men and women. For instance, the salwaar kameez is the ethnic attire of women in Punjab; the Mekhala Chadar is worn by Assamese women, and so on
In southern India the men wear long, white sheets of cloth called dhoti in north Indian languages like Hindi and Bengali and veshti in Tamil. Over the dhoti, men wear shirts, t-shirts, or anything else. Women wear a sari, a long sheet of colourful cloth with patterns. This is draped over a simple or fancy blouse. 
Shirts and trousers are worn by men from all regions in India. However, men in villages are still more comfortable in traditional Indian kurta. The men wear Sherwani, Lungi, Dhoti, Kurta pajama, and churidars. Ancient man used to attire a loose fit single piece of clothing called Dhoti.
India also has a great diversity in terms of weaves, fibers, colours and material of clothing. Colour codes are followed in clothing based on the religion and ritual concerned. For instance, Hindu ladies wear white clothes to indicate mourning, while Parsis and Christians wear white to weddings. In India men also wear long, white sarong like sheets of cloth known as Mundu. It's called dhotar in Marathi. In north and central Indian languages like Hindi, and Odia, these are called Mundu, while in Telugu they are called Pancha, in Tamil they are called veshti and in Kannada it is called Panche/Lungi.
Historically, men and women clothing has evolved from simple Langotas, and loincloths to cover the body to elaborate costumes not only used in daily wear but also on festive occasions as well as rituals and dance performances. In urban areas, western clothing is common and uniformly worn by people of all strata. In India men also wear long, white sarong like sheets of cloth known as Mundu. It's called dhotar in Marathi. In north and central Indian languages like Hindi, and Odia, these are called Mundu, while in Telugu they are called Pancha, in Tamil they are called veshti and in Kannada it is called Panche/Lungi.
Clothing for Hindu women: Sari is considered as an official clothing of Hindu women, but in general, the clothes which cover most of the parts of the body are considered as good. The dressings change from region to region. Punjabi dresses, Saris, Ghagra Choli, Salwar Kameez, lehengas, etc. are very common.
Hindu Dress Code. female clothing. The traditional costume of Hindu women in India is the sari. This is a piece of brightly coloured material that is wound and pleated around the waist to cover the legs. An underskirt is worn beneath it. In the UK, the older generation may still wear this costume, but younger Hindus are beginning to wear long trousers and tunic tops as a compromise between the sari and western clothing. male clothing. In the UK, Hindu men generally wear western clothes.
In India, woman's clothing varies widely and is closely associated with the local culture, religion and climate. Traditional Indian clothing for women in the north and east are saris or ghagra cholis and (lehenga and suits), while many south Indian women traditionally wear sari and children wear pattu langa. In India men also wear long, white sarong like sheets of cloth known as Mundu. It's called dhotar in Marathi. In north and central Indian languages like Hindi, and Odia, these are called Mundu, while in Telugu they are called Pancha, in Tamil they are called veshti and in Kannada it is called Panche/Lungi.