The northern copperhead is a pit-viper, as are all three of Virginia's venomous snake species (northern copperhead, eastern cottonmouth and timber rattlesnake). The pit in pit-viper refers to the heating sensing pit located between the eye and the nostrils on the snake's head. Copperheads are born alive and with the exception of the tail tip, they are colored and patterned the same as adults. The following four photographs are of baby/juvenile northern copperheads. Note the sulfur yellow colored tail tip. The yellow tail tip is used as a lure for frogs, lizards and other prey items.
QUICK BABY COPPERHEAD IDENTIFIER: Copperhead juveniles will have a caudal lure on the tip of their tale. This is a brightly colored tip usually yellow, green or white-ish. As adults this darkens and disappears. In Georgia small snakes less than 12 inches without a caudal lure are most likely NOT juvenile copperheads. Georgia is home to over 40 different snake species (only 6 are venomous). While copperhead juveniles DO resemble their adults, some other snake species depending on age and stage of development can have drastic differences in juvenile and adult appearance.
Copperheads have elliptical eyes, facial pits and a single row of subcaudal scales, but observing these traits requires you to have close interaction with a potentially dangerous animal. Instead, use the color pattern, tail tip and body shape of a snake to identify baby copperheads from a safe distance. Amateurs should never approach or handle a copperhead. This extends to dead animals as well; dead venomous snakes may bite reflexively for hours after death. Moving west, Osage copperheads (A. c. phaeogaster) range throughout Missouri, Kansas and parks of Oklahoma. The broad-banded copperhead (A. c. laticinctus) replaces the Osage copperhead to the south of its range. The Trans-Pecos copperhead (A. c. pictigaster) lives only in southwest Texas.
Baby copperhead showing its distinctive yellow tail. The Copperhead comes in several color variations, depending on the location, from bright copper and light through to very dark brown shades. Copperheads are usually colorful and strikingly patterned snakes. The background color of the back and sides is tan to pinkish. There are darker, chestnut colored bands across the back and sides. Each hourglass shaped band is of varying width. Agkistrodon contortrix. Copperhead snakes are pit vipers or crotalids (family Crotalidae); poisonous snakes that are named for the two heat sensing pits used to locate prey that are positioned between the eyes and the nostrils. The genus Agkistrodon includes 10 species.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Copperheads are one of the most commonly encountered venomous snakes in the southeastern United States. Unlike many species that are unable to cope with human altered habitats, copperheads often thrive in disturbed areas. Moving west, Osage copperheads (A. c. phaeogaster) range throughout Missouri, Kansas and parks of Oklahoma. The broad-banded copperhead (A. c. laticinctus) replaces the Osage copperhead to the south of its range. The Trans-Pecos copperhead (A. c. pictigaster) lives only in southwest Texas.
Baby Copperhead Snake Facts. A baby copperhead snake is mostly common to North America. They are also among the most likely to bite snake species. They are poisonous but their bites have rarely been fatal. The name comes from the copper color of their heads. A baby copperhead snake is a pit viper, like water moccasins or rattlesnakes. They have very distinct necks and large vertical pupils like a cat. The young baby copperhead snake is a bit more grayish in color compared to the adults. They have yellow tails that are used as bait for their prey by flicking them back and forth. The coloring will begin to fade as the young copperheads mature.
In general, copperheads have beige, brown or tan ground colors. On top of their ground color, copperheads have dark brown, lateral markings that are roughly triangular in most subspecies; these triangles sometimes touch along the midline of the back creating an hourglass-like pattern. Moving west, Osage copperheads (A. c. phaeogaster) range throughout Missouri, Kansas and parks of Oklahoma. The broad-banded copperhead (A. c. laticinctus) replaces the Osage copperhead to the south of its range. The Trans-Pecos copperhead (A. c. pictigaster) lives only in southwest Texas.