Gasping is not breathing. If the victim isn't breathing, start Rescue Breathing. (Use a cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) barrier mask if one is available.) If you have any reservations about giving rescue breathing or consider the victim at high risk for disease transmission, perform Chest Compression-Only CPR.
1 Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths. 2  Trained but rusty. 3  If you've previously received CPR training but you're not confident in your abilities, then just do chest compressions at a rate of about 100 a minute.
CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) is pushing down on a person's chest and breathing into his or her mouth. It is used in emergencies when someone's heart stops beating, or when he or she is not breathing normally (may be gasping for breath) or is not breathing at all.
Rescue breathing is needed if a person collapses and stops breathing. In CPR, rescue breathing may also follow chest compressions if a person's heart is not beating. A person may need rescue breathing in the following situations:
1 If you're well-trained and confident in your ability, begin with chest compressions instead of first checking the airway and doing rescue breathing. 2  Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths.
1 Trained and ready to go. 2  If you're well-trained and confident in your ability, begin with chest compressions instead of first checking the airway and doing rescue breathing. 3  Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths.
1 You don't need to try rescue breathing. 2  Trained and ready to go. 3  If you're well-trained and confident in your ability, begin with chest compressions instead of first checking the airway and doing rescue breathing. 4  Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths.
Rescue breathing is usually accompanied by chest compressions in an unresponsive person. CPR is performed in 5 sets of the 30 chest compressions to 2 Breaths cycle within 2 minutes. AND is continued CPR until an AED is applied, the vicitm starts to move, help arrives, or until you can no longer continue.
If the person is an infant or child (age 1 to puberty) and he or she is not breathing, do chest compressions and rescue breathing for 2 minutes (5 cycles), then call 911. In adults, call 911 first and begin CPR. Please note: If you are alone, not trained in CPR, and a phone is nearby, call 911.