Earth vs Jupiter. Earth and Jupiter are two very different planets. Foremost, earth is dubbed as the third rock from the sun while Jupiter is the fifth planet from the sun. Although both are part of the solar system, earth is a more solid and rock-like while Jupiter is a gas planet. It is even dubbed as the biggest gas planet in the system. Being the biggest planet in the solar system, Jupiter has more than ten times the diameter of planet earth. In terms of mass, it is 300 times heavier. 2. Jupiter is a gaseous planet while earth is a solid rock planet. 3. As of now, Jupiter is a non-habitable planet unlike earth. 4. Jupiter is the 5th planet from the sun while earth is the third. 5. Jupiter has four moons while earth only has one. 6.
The main difference between Earth and Jupiter is that Jupiter is a gas planet and Earth is a rocky planet. Gas planets are bigger than rocky ones. They also have more ma … ss which translates into more gravity. Jupiter is a gas planet, meaning that it is mainly made from gas, rather than having a clear rocky surface. The atmosphere on Jupiter just gets thicker and thicker the deeper … you go into the planet, while for Earth, there is an atmosphere, but then
Jupiter is a very big planet, it has a lot of mass. It is therefore able to capture and hold all gases, including Hydrogen-the lightest gas. Earth is not massive enough to hold Hydrogen in its atmosphere, hydrogen gas escapes from the surface as the Earths gravity is not strong enough. Answer by RoryHem. Confidence votes 13.0K. Jupiter is a gas planet, meaning that it is mainly made from gas, rather than having a clear rocky surface. The atmosphere on Jupiter just gets thicker and thicker the deeper you go into the planet, while for Earth, there is an atmosphere, but then a clear rocky surface.
The main difference between Earth and Jupiter is that Jupiter is a gas planet and Earth is a rocky planet. Gas planets are bigger than rocky ones. They also have more ma … ss which translates into more gravity. Answer by RoryHem. Confidence votes 13.0K. Jupiter is a gas planet, meaning that it is mainly made from gas, rather than having a clear rocky surface. The atmosphere on Jupiter just gets thicker and thicker the deeper you go into the planet, while for Earth, there is an atmosphere, but then a clear rocky surface.
The primary difference between both the planets are, Earth is the third planet from the Sun whereas, Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun. Earth and Jupiter are two different planets in the Solar System, and they don’t have anything common in each other. They are two different kinds of planets. The Earth is the third planet from the Sun, which is spherical in shape, and revolves around the sun. Key Difference: Both Earth and Jupiter are two different planets
Jupiter vs Earth. • Earth is very small in comparison to Jupiter which is the largest planet of the solar system. • The diameter of Jupiter is 11 times greater than the diameter of the earth. • The two planets are neighbors with just Mars in between. • Earth is a terrestrial planet, whereas Jupiter is a Jovian planet. • Jupiter is a gas giant whereas earth has a solid ground. • Jupiter has a 10 hour day in comparison to 24 hour day of earth which means that it rotates much faster than the earth around the sun
Saturn vs Jupiter. Saturn and Jupiter are two planets in our solar system that have plenty of differences between them when it comes to their nature and characteristics. Both the planets are in the outer solar system. Saturn is the sixth planet from the sun whereas Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun. 
Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun and the largest in the Solar System. It is a giant planet with a mass one-thousandth that of the Sun, but two and a half times that of all the other planets in the Solar System combined. Jupiter is a gas giant, along with Saturn (Uranus and Neptune are ice giants). 