Meaning of Chandi. Indian name. In Indian, the name Chandi means-angry name of goddess sakti.The name Chandi originated as an Indian name. The name Chandi is most often used as a girl name or female name. Indian Name Meaning-angry name of goddess sakti. Origin-India. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. 
Just for fun, see the name Chandi in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Chandi in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Chandi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Chandi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Chandi to other names.
These are almost all village and tribal Goddesses with the name of the village or tribe being added onto the name Chandi. The most important of these Goddesses is Mongol Chandi who is worshipped in the entire state and also in Assam. Here the word Mongol means auspicious or benign. Etymology [edit]. Caṇḍī or Caṇḍīika is the name by which the Supreme Goddess is referred to in Devi Mahatmya. Bhaskararaya, a leading authority on matters concerning Devi worship, defines Chandi as 'the angry, terrible or passionate one'.
Chandi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Chan-di. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Chandi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Chandi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Chandi to other names.
My name is Saranya from the USA, I am a student of the chandi path. I have never had a formal guru for the chandi or any initiations. I have been chanting the full chandi path for a week now. Prior to that I practiced the seedha path version of the chandi with average results. 
The designation of Chandi or Chandika is used twenty-nine times in the Devi Mahatmya, which is agreed by many scholars to have had originated in Bengal, the primary seat of the Shakta or Goddess tradition and tantric sadhana since ancient times. Etymology [edit]. Caṇḍī or Caṇḍīika is the name by which the Supreme Goddess is referred to in Devi Mahatmya. Bhaskararaya, a leading authority on matters concerning Devi worship, defines Chandi as 'the angry, terrible or passionate one'.
[ 2 syll. (c)han-di, ch-a- ndi ] The baby girl name Chandi is pronounced as CH-aeNDiy- †. Chandi is used predominantly in Indian and English. Its origin is Pali, Sanskrit, and Old French. From Sanskrit roots, its meaning is angry, fierce-in this context, Chandi can be used in the Indian language. Chandi is a variation of the name Chanda (English and Indian). Chandi is also a variation of the name Chandler (English). Chandi is also a variation of the name Chandra (English and Indian). Chandi is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not listed within the top 1000
Goddess Chandi is associated with the 9 lettered Navakshari Mantra.It is also called Navarna Mantra or Navavarna Mantra. It is one of the principal mantras in Shakti Worship apart from the Sri Vidhya Mantras. It customary to chant this mantra when chanting the Devi Mahatmya. Etymology [edit]. Caṇḍī or Caṇḍīika is the name by which the Supreme Goddess is referred to in Devi Mahatmya. Bhaskararaya, a leading authority on matters concerning Devi worship, defines Chandi as 'the angry, terrible or passionate one'.