A normal resting heart rate is considered to be in the range of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). However, it is not abnormal to experience a slower RHR especially when doing c … ardiovascular exercise regularly. Depends what you are doing. As I am aware, upon gentle wake from normal sleep or a 30 minute calm sit, the average resting rates for a 63 year old male would be in the range o … f around 69 -73. 87 is certainly not a normal rate if it is a resting rate
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Normal heart rate for adults age 18-55 is normally 60-100 beats per minute (bpm) depending on their activity level. For those adults that are really active, such as athletes, they have a normal resting heart rate at about 50-80 bpm. I don't know what your activity level is, but in my opinion a heart rate of 104-109 is in the high range. Not a cause for concern, but check your heart rate throughout the day and find an average. 
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal. Normal resting heart rates range from 60–100 bpm. Bradycardia is defined as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm. However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention.
For example, the maximum heart rate for a 30 year-old athlete may vary from 160-210 bpm. One’s fitness correlates with sustainable power outputs, not maximal heart rate. This wide range of individuality, or normal-ness, of heart rate makes it tough for patients and doctors alike. 
The normal average heart rate for a 23 year old male is 70 to 73  beats per minute. An athletic heart rate would be 49 to 55 beats  per minute. without medications and normal health (known) of average size and weight and at rest, the normal heart rate for adults is 60-100 bpm (beats per minute). Anything else is worth seeing a Dr. about. Within reason... if my HR was 59 I wouldn't be worried....
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature.
Normal resting heart rates ranges anywhere from 40 beats per minute up to 100 beats per minute. Ideally you want to be between 60-90 beats per minute, with the average resting heart rate for a man being 70 beats per minute, and for a woman 75 beats per minute. During exercise, your heart rate will depends on the intensity of exercise, your fitness level, and your maximum heart rate (which will depend on your age). Best Answer: Resting heart rate Resting heart rate (the number of beats per minute) should be taken after a few minutes (2-5 minutes) upon waking whilst still in bed. Give you body some time to adjust to the change from sleeping before taking your pulse.
A normal resting heart rate can range anywhere from 40 to 100 beats per minute. Below is a chart relating resting heart rate and fitness level. As can be seen on this chart, your resting heart rate can vary with your fitness level and with age — the fitter you are, generally the lower the resting heart rate. 
The normal heart rate for a 25-year-old male is 60 to 100 beats per  minute. The normal heart rate is also called the resting rate which  means that the pulse is taken when … resting or sitting. without medications and normal health (known) of average size and weight and at rest, the normal heart rate for adults is 60-100 bpm (beats per minute). Anything else is worth seeing a Dr. about. Within reason... if my HR was 59 I wouldn't be worried....