Answers. Best Answer: 4.18 Joules by definition 1 calorie is the energy it takes for 1 gram of water to be heated by 1 degree. 1 cal = 4.18 Joules which is also called the specific heat The definition of a Joule is the energy it takes for one heart beat. Source(s): Eternal Flame · 7 years ago. 
Calories is the more common SI unit for heat energy. Because they are both measuring energy we can easily convert one to another. 4.184 joules = 1 calorie The specific heat is a property of a substance that tells us how much heat is needed to raise the temperature of one kilogram of a material by one degree Celsius. The specific heat is the energy that will raise the temperature of one kilogram by 1°C. 1. If 100 joules of energy were applied to all of the substances listed in the table at the same time, which would heat up fastest? Explain your answer.
There is no conversion. These units are not compatible. For water only multiply by 4.184 since 1 calorie = 4.184 joules, and 1 calorie is the amount of heat needed to raise 1gram of water 1 degree Celsius. 
A calorie is defined as the amount of energy needed to raise 1 gram of water 1 degree Celsius. If it is a kilogram of water (1 liter), they call that a kilocalorie or a food calorie. In this example. we have a kilogram of water. That would take 1,000 calories to raise it 1 degree Celsius. 
The SI derived unit for energy is the joule. 1 joule is equal to 0.000526565076466 celsius heat unit. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between joules and celsius heat unit.
Approximately 1.899100534716 x 10 3. The amount of energy required to raise the temperature of 1 pound (lb) or pure water 1 °C. 1 Joule (SI unit): 1 J = 1 m*N = 1 kg*m 2 /s 2. Link to Your Exact Conversion. http://www.kylesconverter.com/energy,-work,-and-heat/celsius-heat-units-to-joules. 
The specific heat of water is 1 calorie/gram °C = 4.186 joule/gram °C which is higher than any other common substance. As a result, water plays a very important role in temperature regulation. The specific heat per gram for water is much higher than that for a metal, as described in the water-metal example. 
For example, the heat capacity of water is 4.1813 joules/gram kelvin which means the heat energy required to raise the water's temperature by 1 kelvin is 4.1813 joules per gram. Specific heat capacity is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a particular substance of mass (kilogram, gram, pound) by 1 degree (celsius, fahrenheit, kelvin).
A large specific heat means you have to put in a lot of energy for each degree increase in temperature. Specific heat is measured in joules per kilogram per degree Celsius (joule/kg°C) which means how many joules it takes to raise 1kg of the substance 1°C. The specific heat is the energy that will raise the temperature of one kilogram by 1°C. 1. If 100 joules of energy were applied to all of the substances listed in the table at the same time, which would heat up fastest? Explain your answer.
1 The small calorie or gram calorie (symbol: cal) is the approximate amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius at a pressure of one atmosphere. The name calorie is used for two units of energy. 1 