They are one of the major muscle groups in the head – the other being the muscles of facial expression. There are four muscles of mastication – the masseter, temporalis, medial pterygoid and lateral pterygoid. Embryologically, the muscles of mastication develop from the first pharyngeal arch. Consequently they are innervated by a branch of the trigeminal nerve (CN V), the mandibular nerve. 
1 Medial pterygoid muscle: originates from the pterygoid fossa and pterygoid process of the sphenoid. 2  Distally it inserts on the pterygoid tuberosity on the inner surface of the mandibular angle. 3  Along with the masseter, this muscle forms a sling around the mandible. Function. The pterygoid muscles are muscles of mastication and serve the movement of the temporomandibular joint. The contraction of the medial pterygoid elevates the mandible (jaw closure) and moves it forward (protrusion).
During chewing, the masseter is assisted by three other muscles: the temporalis, medial pterygoid, and lateral pterygoid. The four muscles work together to pull the jaw down and back up again. Masseter. The masseter muscle is a facial muscle that plays a major role in the chewing of solid foods. The muscle is shaped similar to a parallelogram, connecting to the mandible (lower jawbone) and the cheekbone. The masseter is divided into two distinct sections, the superficial and deep portions.
The pterygoid muscles (“wing muscles”) are two jaw muscles located on the inner surface of the mandible. 1  Medial pterygoid muscle: originates from the pterygoid fossa and pterygoid process of the sphenoid. 2  Lateral pterygoid muscle: has two heads which lie almost horizontally to each other. Function. The pterygoid muscles are muscles of mastication and serve the movement of the temporomandibular joint. The contraction of the medial pterygoid elevates the mandible (jaw closure) and moves it forward (protrusion).
In human anatomy, the masseter is one of the muscles of mastication. In the animal kingdom, it is particularly powerful in herbivores to facilitate chewing of plant matter. The most obvious muscle of mastication is the masseter muscle, since it is the most superficial and one of the strongest.
The medial pterygoid (or internal pterygoid muscle), is a thick, quadrilateral muscle of mastication. The mandibular branch of the fifth cranial nerve, the trigeminal nerve, innervates the medial pterygoid muscle. It consists of two heads. 1  The bulk of the muscle arises as a deep head from just above the medial surface of the lateral pterygoid plate. 2  The smaller, superficial head originates from the maxillary tuberosity and the pyramidal process of the palatine bone.
Anatomy and supply. The pterygoid muscles (“wing muscles”) are two jaw muscles located on the inner surface of the mandible. 1  Medial pterygoid muscle: originates from the pterygoid fossa and pterygoid process of the sphenoid. 2  Distally it inserts on the pterygoid tuberosity on the inner surface of the mandibular angle. Function. The pterygoid muscles are muscles of mastication and serve the movement of the temporomandibular joint. The contraction of the medial pterygoid elevates the mandible (jaw closure) and moves it forward (protrusion).
1 The temporalis, masseter, and medial pterygoid muscles produce biting movements. 2  The lateral pterygoid muscles protrude the mandible with the help from the medial pterygoid muscles and retruded largely by the posterior fibres of the temporalis muscle. Muscles acting on the Temporomandibular Joint. 1  Movements of the temporomandibular joint are chiefly from the action of the muscles of mastication. 2 
The Lateral Pterygoid, Masseter muscle, Medial Pterygoid and the Temporalis are the main muscles taking part in the process of mastication. Each of the muscles has its own function, and they are located at particular positions which would affect the movement of the jaws and in the end, the process of mastication. Unlike the rest of the four muscles of mastication, a horizontal position is occupied by this muscle. Origin of Lateral Pterygoid. The inferior head originates from the lateral pterygoid plate and the superior head originates from the greater wing of sphenoid bone.