Quadriplegia / Tetraplegia. Tetraplegia / Quadriplegia: is the medical term used when a person has a spinal cord injury above the first thoracic vertebra. Paralysis affects the cervical spinal nerves (C1-C8) resulting in paralysis in varying degrees in all four limbs. 
Quadriplegia or tetraplegia is when a person has a spinal cord injury above the first thoracic vertebra (T1), paralysis usually affects the cervical spinal nerves, C1 to C8 resulting in paralysis of all four limbs. This may result in partial or complete paralysis of the arms as well as complete paralysis of the legs. 
quadriplegia. paralysis of all four limbs; motor and/or sensory function in the cervical spinal segments is impaired or lost due to damage to that part of the spinal cord, resulting in impaired function in the upper limbs, lower limbs, trunk, and pelvic organs. paralysis of the arms, legs, and trunk of the body below the level of an associated injury to the spinal cord. This disorder is usually caused by spinal cord injury, especially in the area of the fifth to the seventh vertebrae.
DEFINITION OF TETRAPLEGIC OR TETRAPLEGIA. The term tetraplegia refers to a condition that causes total or partial paralysis in all four limbs, including the whole of the body. Tetraplegia can be caused by injury or illness, both of which can damage the spinal cord permanently between the levels of C1 - 7. The term tetraplegic refers to an individual who suffers from tetraplegia. Quadriplegic is the American terminology for tetraplegic. The easiest way to describe how the spinal-cord works is to imagine that it is a motorway with cars running in both directions. The cars travelling down are carrying signals from your brain that tell your body what to do, i.e. wiggle your fingers or move your arms for instant.
Tetraplegia is caused by damage to the brain or the spinal cord at a high level C1–C7—in particular, spinal cord injuries secondary to an injury to the cervical spine. The injury, which is known as a lesion, causes victims to lose partial or total function of all four limbs, meaning the arms and the legs. Tetraplegia is defined in many ways; C1–C4 usually affects arm movement more so than a C5–C7 injury; however, all tetraplegics have or have had some kind of finger dysfunction. So, it is not uncommon to have a tetraplegic with fully functional arms but no nervous control of their fingers and thumbs.
tetraplegia, paralysis of the arms, legs, and trunk of the body below the level of an associated injury to the spinal cord. This disorder is usually caused by spinal cord injury, especially in the area of the fifth to the seventh vertebrae. Automobile accidents and sporting mishaps are common causes.
Not to be confused with Spastic quadriplegia. Tetraplegia, also known as quadriplegia, is paralysis caused by illness or injury that results in the partial or total loss of use of all their limbs and torso; paraplegia is similar but does not affect the arms. The loss is usually sensory and motor, which means that both sensation and control are lost. Tetraplegia is defined in many ways; C1–C4 usually affects arm movement more so than a C5–C7 injury; however, all tetraplegics have or have had some kind of finger dysfunction. So, it is not uncommon to have a tetraplegic with fully functional arms but no nervous control of their fingers and thumbs.
[ kwod″rĭ-ple´jah ]. paralysis of all four limbs; motor and/or sensory function in the cervical spinal segments is impaired or lost due to damage to that part of the spinal cord, resulting in impaired function in the upper limbs, lower limbs, trunk, and pelvic organs. paralysis of the arms, legs, and trunk of the body below the level of an associated injury to the spinal cord. This disorder is usually caused by spinal cord injury, especially in the area of the fifth to the seventh vertebrae.
tetraplegia, paralysis of the arms, legs, and trunk of the body below the level of an associated injury to the spinal cord. This disorder is usually caused by spinal cord injury, especially in the area of the fifth to the seventh vertebrae. Automobile accidents and sporting mishaps are common causes.
Tetraplegia, or quadriplegia as it is sometimes referred to, is the result of a severe spinal cord injury. It can occur as the result of numerous sporting accidents; rugby, horse riding, trampolining, diving and gymnastics are common activities where a freak accident can lead to paralysis. Tetraplegia differs from paraplegia as the victim suffers complete or partial paralysis from the neck downward, affecting all four limbs and the body. It is the result of damage to the spinal cord between C1 and C8.