Women have a pair of X chromosomes, men have only one from their mother. Color blindness is found in men much more often than women, and the reason is because men don't have a spare X chromosome. So if the red-green color blindness gene is not working in a man, there's no spare one to replace it with. red green color blindness ridley talks chromosome mutations chromosome x matt ridley sensitive proteins x chromosome x chromosomes x story color vision interviewee sex linked disorder genes females pairs colors. Downloads:
Red-green color vision defects and blue cone monochromacy are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The OPN1LW and OPN1MW genes are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one genetic change in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Color vision deficiency (sometimes called color blindness) represents a group of conditions that affect the perception of color. Red-green color vision defects are the most common form of color vision deficiency. Affected individuals have trouble distinguishing between some shades of red, yellow, and green.
Red Green Color Blindness. Red Green Color blindness is predominantly found only in men. The gene that leads to red green color blindness is found in the X Chromosome. Males only have one X chromosome whereas females have 2; typically in females the stronger chromosome takes precedence so they retain correct vision. 
Confidence votes 28. Red-green color blindness is a sex-linked trait. The receptors of red and green color are found on the X chromosome; therefore, men are more likely to be red-green color blind since they only have one. Blue-yellow color blindness is found on chromosome 7, and is equally distributed between men and women. 
Keywords: red green color blindness ridley talks chromosome mutations chromosome x matt ridley sensitive proteins x chromosome x chromosomes x story color vision interviewee sex linked disorder genes females pairs colors. Downloads:
The gene for red–green color blindness is transmitted from a color blind male to all his daughters who are heterozygote carriers and are usually unaffected. In turn, a carrier woman has a fifty percent chance of passing on a mutated X chromosome region to each of her male offspring. Color blindness, or color vision deficiency, is the inability or decreased ability to see color, or perceive color differences, under normal lighting conditions. Color blindness affects a significant percentage of the population. There is no actual blindness but there is a deficiency of color vision.
Red-green color blindness is a sex-linked trait. The receptors of red and green color are found on the X chromosome; therefore, men are more likely to be red-green color blind … since they only have one.   Blue-yellow color blindness is found on chromosome 7, and is equally distributed between men and women. 2 people found this useful. Most color blindness is caused by an inherited genetic defect where the functioning of the color receptive cones in the retina is deficient-or where the cones are absent alt … ogether. It is most commonly inherited from mutations on the X chromosome.
Description: The two genes that produce red and green light-sensitive proteins are located on the X chromosome. Mutations in these genes can cause color blindness. Color blindness is a common inherited sex-linked disorder that affects a person's ability to see or recognize certain colors. 
X-linked inheritance means that the gene causing the trait or the disorder is located on the X chromosome. Females have two X chromosomes; males have one X and one Y. Genes on the X chromosome can be recessive or dominant. Their expression in females and males is not the same. Examples of X-linked recessive conditions include red-green color blindness and hemophilia A: Red-green color blindness. Red-green color blindness simply means that a person cannot distinguish shades of red and green (usually blue-green). Their visual acuity (ability to see) is normal.
It is sex-linked: genetic red–green color blindness affects males much more often than females, because the genes for the red and green color receptors are located on the X chromosome, of which males have only one and females have two. Color blindness, or color vision deficiency, is the inability or decreased ability to see color, or perceive color differences, under normal lighting conditions. Color blindness affects a significant percentage of the population. There is no actual blindness but there is a deficiency of color vision.