Just follow these simple instructions for a fresh or thawed turkey: 1  Preheat oven to 325° F. Drain juices and pat dry with clean paper towels. 2  Place turkey breast side up on a flat rack in a shallow roasting pan 2 to 2½ inches deep. 3  Turn the wings back to hold the neck skin in place. Turkey breasts cook up tender and delicious, and are easy to roast when you follow these instructions: 1  Preheat oven to 325° F. 2  Remove whole breast from bag. 3  Drain juices and pat dry with clean paper towels. 4  Place breast, skin side up, on a flat roasting rack in a 2-inch deep roasting pan. 5  Do not add water to pan.
Place thawed turkey, breast side up, on flat rack in shallow roasting pan 2 to 2 1/2 inches deep. Brush or spray skin lightly with vegetable or cooking oil for best appearance. Insert oven-safe meat thermometer deep into the thigh without touching the bone. Place turkey in pre-heated oven and heat until hot (140° F). When the turkey is about done, loosely cover breast and top of drumsticks with a piece of foil to prevent overcooking. Your turkey is done when temperature is 180° F in thigh and 165° F in breast or stuffing. Lift turkey onto platter, and let stand for 15 minutes before carving.
Whether you're a novice cook or a seasoned pro, this will help you roast a tender, juicy, picture-perfect turkey every time. It's easy with the Butterball Open Pan Roasting Method. Place thawed or fresh turkey, breast up on a flat rack in a shallow pan, 2 to 2-1/2 inches deep. Around 4 1/2 to 5 hours. Place in a preheated 325 °F oven. Roasting will take about 15 minutes per pound if the turkey is not stuffed. Stuffed turkeys require an additional 1/2 to 1 hour cooking time.
Cooking Instructions. Use shallow (2inch deep) open pan with a flat rack in a 325 F oven. Place turkey, breast side up. DO NOT add water to pan; DO NOT cover turkey or pan. Brush or spray skin lightly with vegetable oil. Cook times are 4 to 4.5 hours for a 7 to 9 lb turkey; 4.5 to 5 hours for a 9 to 12 lb turkey; and 5 to 6 hours for a 12 to 14 turkey. DO NOT THAW. The turkey is prepared to go from freezer to oven without any thawing. Simply remove gravy packet by holding under running water. Keep gravy packet refrigerated until ready to use. Remove the neck and giblets along the backside of the turkey.
Just follow these simple instructions for a fresh or thawed turkey: Preheat oven to 325° F. Drain juices and pat dry with clean paper towels. Place turkey breast side up on a flat rack in a shallow roasting pan 2 to 2 1/2 inches deep. Turn the wings back to hold the neck skin in place. (Tucking the wings will help stabilize the turkey in the pan and when carving) Brush or spray skin lightly with vegetable or cooking oil for best appearance. When the turkey is about done, loosely cover breast and top of drumsticks with a piece of foil to prevent overcooking. Your turkey is done when temperature is 180° F in thigh and 165° F in breast or stuffing. Lift turkey onto platter, and let stand for 15 minutes before carving.
Cooking Instructions. 1  Preheat oven to 325°F / 165°C. 2  Before removing bag, place turkey under warm running water for a minute. 3  Remove plastic bag. 4  Remove giblet and neck pack from underside of turkey. 5  Place frozen turkey, breast side up, on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. 1 Preheat oven to 325°F / 165°C. 2  Before removing bag, place turkey under warm running water for a minute. 3  Remove plastic bag. 4  Remove giblet and neck pack from underside of turkey. 5  Place frozen turkey, breast side up, on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. 6  Brush skin with vegetable oil to prevent drying
· just now. Report Abuse. The Butterball website says 3 1/2 to 4 hours @ 325 325°F. Their instructions are: Place thawed or fresh turkey, breast up on a flat rack in a shallow pan, 2 to 2-1/2 inches deep. Brush or rub skin with oil to prevent the skin from drying and to enhance the golden color. Around 4 1/2 to 5 hours. Place in a preheated 325 °F oven. Roasting will take about 15 minutes per pound if the turkey is not stuffed. Stuffed turkeys require an additional 1/2 to 1 hour cooking time.
Frozen stuffed turkeys go from freezer to oven without thawing. Just follow these simple instructions for a perfectly roasted turkey: 1  Preheat oven to 325° F. Hold under running water and remove giblets, neck, and gravy packets. 2  Place turkey on flat rack in a shallow roasting pan, 2 to 2½ inches deep. 3  Brush or spray skin lightly with vegetable or cooking oil for best appearance. Turkey breasts cook up tender and delicious, and are easy to roast when you follow these instructions: 1  Preheat oven to 325° F. 2  Remove whole breast from bag. 3  Drain juices and pat dry with clean paper towels. 4  Place breast, skin side up, on a flat roasting rack in a 2-inch deep roasting pan. 5  Do not add water to pan.