This type of halva is crumbly and usually made from tahini (sesame paste) or other nut butters, such as sunflower seed butter. The primary ingredients are nut butter and sugar. In Bulgaria, the term halva (халва) is used for several varieties of the dessert. Tahini halva (тахан халва) is most popular and can be found in all food stores. Two different types of tahini halva are made – one using sunflower seed tahini and another using sesame seed tahini.
The most common type of grain flour used to make halva is semolina, which is made from durum wheat. It is most often coarsely ground, as opposed to the traditional cooking flour that is finely ground. The yellow coloring of the semolina flour, also referred to as sameed, gives the treat a rich hue. My grandmother used to call halva the dessert for the dead.. In our culture, whenever someone dies, they make halva and offer it to those who come to the house for grievances. I have no idea where this tradition came from but that's what they do.
This type of halva is made by frying flour (such as semolina) in oil, mixing it into a roux, and then cooking it with a sugary syrup. This variety is popular in Greece, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkey, Somalia, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. In Bulgaria, the term halva (халва) is used for several varieties of the dessert. Tahini halva (тахан халва) is most popular and can be found in all food stores. Two different types of tahini halva are made – one using sunflower seed tahini and another using sesame seed tahini.
Halva can come in two forms: one is flour-based, the other nut-based. The one I've been interested to try is the latter and made of sesame seeds. It's basically sesame paste that's mixed with hot sugar syrup to form a candy or confection. As I was contemplating what to do with this big block of leftover halva, I realized that I'd heard of people baking with it. I decided to give it a try by making Yottam Ottolenghi's brownies, where halva is used as a topping.
(Julien Zeitouni). Halva is a curious food. The Middle Eastern confection, which is most commonly made from sesame seeds mixed with honey or sugar, is not exactly sweet—at least not by American standards—but it’s certainly not savory either; its texture is one part cotton-candy airiness, one part dense fudge. Traditionally halva is cooked and kneaded until it can be formed into solid, sliceable bricks. Shamir’s softer take on the confection combines fresh tahini with honey and a variety of mix-ins ranging from roasted sesame seeds and pistachios to raw almonds, black caraway seeds, and toasted coconut flakes.
Derived from the Arabic word for “sweet”, the term halva or similar is used in countries around the world to refer to countless varieties of nut-or flour-based confectionery. This sesame-based version, popular throughout the Middle East, is from Lebanon and is swirled with chocolate, slivered almonds and pistachios. The flaky texture of store-bought halva is difficult to re-create at home because many traditional recipes include a meringue-like substance made from sugar syrup and boiled soapwort roots, however this version comes about as close as you can get.
A common Middle Eastern dessert, halva is a sweet confection that is traditionally served with a strong coffee or tea. There are two types: one is a flour-based concoction, and the other uses finely ground nuts as its base. My grandmother used to call halva the dessert for the dead.. In our culture, whenever someone dies, they make halva and offer it to those who come to the house for grievances. I have no idea where this tradition came from but that's what they do.
Halva is a confection made from semolina. Originally from India, the recipe spread throughout West Asia, the Balkans and the Mediterranean, while being adjusted to the local taste of each region. 