Cologne is located on both sides of the Rhine River, fewer than eighty kilometers from Belgium. The city's famous Cologne Cathedral (Koelner Kölner) dom is the seat of The Catholic archbishop Of. Cologne The university Of (Cologne universitaet Universität) zu koeln köln Is'one of europe s oldest. and largest universities Cologne is home to numerous universities and colleges, and host to some 72,000 students. Its oldest university, the University of Cologne (originally founded in 1388) is the largest university in Germany, as the Cologne University of Applied Sciences is the largest university of Applied Sciences in the country.
cologne. noun co·logne \kə-ˈlōn\. Tweet. : a liquid that has a light, pleasant smell and that people put on their skin: a light kind of perfume that does not have a strong smell. 1.
Fragrances are typically made up of several scents. The various scents used in fragrances are called notes. Perfumes generally have several notes, creating a layered fragrance that may change throughout the day. A top note, middle note and base note make up a traditional perfume. Perfume is also available in other bottle types, including spray, roll-on and even solid formulations that are smudged onto the skin. Both perfumes and cologne are commonly found in glass bottles, many of them made of dark or colored crystal to protect the scent.
An Eau de Parfum is 'The next one up' from an Eau de Toilette. They are useful for men, who find that their fragrance doesn't last or just would like a stronger strength. They contain 8%-15% of the perfume oil, and these can last pretty much all day. The Eau de Parfum is fairly rare in Men's fragrance, but not as rare as the pure perfume. If you are wanting a lasting fragrance, go for the EDT. Many men like Aftershave to put on after they have shaved & then spray on a little EDT. It is mostly up to you as to what you perfer to use. As well as Aftershaves, Eau de Toilettes and Eau de Colognes, there are two other main fragrance strength categories. These are Eau de Parfum and Parfum (or Perfume). A Parfum or Perfume is quite rare in Men's fragranc
The most concentrated are perfume oils. They have been pressed out, steamed out or chemically separated out of a plant, flower or fruit [source: Sell ]. In perfume oil, fragrance molecules are dissolved in 98 percent alcohol and 2 percent water. Everything else is alcohol-diluted perfume oil. From most to least concentrated, parfum is at least 25 percent perfume oil; eau de parfum is 15 to 18 percent; eau de toilette is 10 percent; and eaux de cologne and body spray are lighter [source: Turin and Sanchez ]. 
That collection of similarly pretty bottles on perfume shelves is in fact a fairly varied group of products. Names like eau de cologne and eau de parfum are not just fancy ways of saying perfume.. Perfume is, like the other designations, a specific version of a scent. 
When you are shopping for fragrances, you might notice a variety of types. Fragrances use essential oils to craft their scents. Perfume comes in several intensities. Eau de Parfum, for example, has approximately 15 percent essential oils, while Eau de Toilette has approximately 10 percent essential oils. Perfume is also available in other bottle types, including spray, roll-on and even solid formulations that are smudged onto the skin. Both perfumes and cologne are commonly found in glass bottles, many of them made of dark or colored crystal to protect the scent.
Like perfume, cologne is a type of fragrance. While most people are familiar with perfumes and colognes, these fragrances are quite different. All fragrances are characterized by a specific ratio of ingredients. For instance, colognes are made from a combination of essential oil extracts, water, and alcohol with an extract concentration of around five percent. One of the best scents for a young man is the family of citrus scents which includes the smells of orange, lemon, and lime. Although preferred by men, cologne is also worn by women. Colognes have a different amount of fragrance than perfumes.
Cologne and perfume typically have different fragrance varieties. Perfume is generally made with a feminine side and may include fruity or floral essential oils. Cologne is typically crafted with the masculine in mind and may include spicy or musky fragrances. Perfume is also available in other bottle types, including spray, roll-on and even solid formulations that are smudged onto the skin. Both perfumes and cologne are commonly found in glass bottles, many of them made of dark or colored crystal to protect the scent.