The noun ZYMOGEN has 1 sense: 1. any of a group of compounds that are inactive precursors of enzymes and require some change (such as the hydrolysis of a fragment that masks an active enzyme) to become active. Familiarity information: ZYMOGEN used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. 
For this reason, a zymogen is also called a proenzyme. The active site is the key feature of an enzyme. It is the place where the molecule that the enzyme acts on, called the substrate, binds and undergoes chemical change. An enzyme’s active site and overall function is dependent on the shape of the enzyme. When the zymogen is in the presence of an enzyme specifically designed to breakdown peptides, called a protease, some of the amino acids are removed.
zymogen. an inactive precursor that is converted into an active enzyme by action of an acid or another enzyme or by other means; a proenzyme. adj., adj zymogen´ic. an inactive precursor that is converted into an active enzyme by action of an acid or another enzyme or by other means; a proenzyme. zymogen cells. the secretory cells that secrete the zymogens.
zymogen. an inactive precursor that is converted into an active enzyme by action of an acid or another enzyme or by other means; a proenzyme. zymogen cells. the secretory cells that secrete the zymogens. zymogen granules. contained in the cytoplasm of the secretory cells in the relevant gland. Contain the zymogen.
Digestive enzymes are released in inactive forms called zymogens. This is necessary to prevent the digestive enzymes from digesting the cells that produce them. In a zymogen, a peptide blocks the active site of the enzyme. Cleaving off this peptide activates the enzyme. 
Noun. 1. zymogen-any of a group of compounds that are inactive precursors of enzymes and require some change (such as the hydrolysis of a fragment that masks an active enzyme) to become active. proenzyme. organic compound-any compound of carbon and another element or a radical. zymogen. n. 1. (Biochemistry) biochem any of a group of compounds that are inactive precursors of enzymes and are activated by a kinase. (ˈzaɪ mə dʒən, -ˌdʒɛn).
Definition of ZYMOGEN. : an inactive protein precursor of an enzyme secreted by living cells and converted (as by a kinase or an acid) into an active form —called also proenzyme. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary
zymogen. an inactive precursor that is converted into an active enzyme by action of an acid or another enzyme or by other means; a proenzyme. zymogen cells. the secretory cells that secrete the zymogens. zymogen granules. contained in the cytoplasm of the secretory cells in the relevant gland
A zymogen is the inactive precursor of an enzyme. The molecule is composed of amino acids strung together into a peptide. When the zymogen is in the presence of an enzyme specifically designed to breakdown peptides, called a protease, some of the amino acids are removed. This cleavage renders the zymogen a functional enzyme by changing the shape of the peptide and forming the active site where enzymatic action will occur
Medical Definition of ZYMOGEN. : an inactive protein precursor of an enzyme secreted by living cells and converted (as by a kinase or an acid) into an active form—called also proenzyme. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about zymogen. : an inactive protein precursor of an enzyme secreted by living cells and converted (as by a kinase or an acid) into an active form —called also proenzyme. ADVERTISEMENT.