Your charitable contribution tax deduction may be limited. There are limits specific to charitable contributions, and there are general limits on itemized deductions. 50%, 30%, and 20% Limits on Charitable Contributions. 1  Generally, you can deduct cash contributions in full up to 50% of your adjusted gross income.
When you make a charitable contribution, you benefit both the charity and your own tax situation, because you can deduct the amount of these gifts from your taxable income if you itemize your deductions. However, the IRS has lots of rules about how you must report and document all your charitable
1 You must file Form 1040 and itemize your deductions on Schedule A. If your total deduction for all noncash contributions for the year is more than $500, you must also file Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, with your tax return.
Leagle: Unfortunately, no, the amount you can deduct will depend on the fair rental value of the beach house. If it would cost $1,000 to rent the house for that week, you would not have a deductible charitable contribution because the amount you paid was less than the fair rental value ($600 - $1,000 = 0).
There can be limits on the amount of your charitable contribution deduction, but only if your total contributions for the year are more than 20% of your adjusted gross income. For most of us these limits will never apply.
You know your ticket has a fair market value of $25. To figure the amount of your charitable contribution, you subtract the value of the benefit you receive ($25) from your total payment ($65). You can deduct $40 as a charitable contribution to the church.
For example, if you pay $65 for a ticket to a dinner dance at a church and the event has a fair market value of $25, the amount you can deduct as a charitable contribution is $40, the cost of the ticket ($65) less the value of the dinner dance ($25).
If your contribution deduction is more than 20% of your adjusted gross income, Publication 526, Charitable Contributions, has a good explanation of the limits and a worksheet you can use to figure the deduction limits.