• Distributor has a network of retailers in the market whereas agent has a presence and impact among the big buyers of the market. • While an exporter has to sell through an agent, he sells to the distributor. This is a very important difference legally. Distributor. Distributors are big parties that buy out the products from the company and then add their margin of profit to the price quoted by the company before selling the products to the retailers. As they buy out products, they need a large place to store goods after taking physical possession from the company.
Here he writes about the benefits of using an agent or a distributor to sell your product in an international market. For many UK businesses, selling abroad involves using agents and distributors. Knowing the difference between the two and which function is appropriate to your scenario is important. 1 Getting the best deal from your agent or distributor. 2  This article explains what to negotiate in your contract with the agent or distributor. 3  Bribery and corruption liability under the Bribery Act 2010 is one of the most important risks to assess and minimise when appointing agents
When to use an Agency Agreement. You should use an Agency Agreement when you are considering marketing the products of another company or you would like to expand a current distribution network. When deciding whether you should use an Agency Agreement-think about whether you will be acting as an Agent or a Distributor. The primary difference between an Agent and a Distributor is stock holding. An agent acting for a company that sells widgets-will market, present and represent the widget manufacturer in the marketplace. Whereas a Distributor buys the widgets or stock from the manufacturer, and re-sells the product to the end user. 
Agent vs Distributor. Companies rely on agents and distributors for selling their products and services. Agents are not direct sales persons, whereas distributors are the direct salesman of the products. As such, they are different in many aspects. Agents are really campaigners of the products, and are quite familiar with the market. 1. Agents are not direct sales persons, whereas distributors are the direct salesman of the products. 2. The agents are only responsible for selling the products. 3. The agents are not involved in the delivery or after sales services.
Posted on. by admin. Agent vs Distributor. Agents and distributors are two of the important ways to let your products or services reach out to a large section of the population. Distributor. Distributors are big parties that buy out the products from the company and then add their margin of profit to the price quoted by the company before selling the products to the retailers. As they buy out products, they need a large place to store goods after taking physical possession from the company.
Moreover, distributors also provide after sales services, which the agents do not provide. While an agent can be called the company’s representative, a distributor cannot be called so, as he buys the product and then resells it. Agents can be direct employees of the companies or self-employed. On the other hand, distributors are not employed. 1. Agents are not direct sales persons, whereas distributors are the direct salesman of the products. 2. The agents are only responsible for selling the products. 3. The agents are not involved in the delivery or after sales services.
The difference between an Agent and a Distributor, and their respective agreements. The striking difference between an Agency Agreement and a Distribution Agreement, is that an Agency Agreement confers certain powers on the Agent to act on behalf of and bind a Principal. Unlike an Agent, a Distributor is not granted rights to act on behalf of and bind the Principal in its dealings with purchasers or in the course of its business.
It highlights the differences between agents and distributors, how to select the best representative for you and your product, what sort of agreement to enter into with your representative, and how to build a positive win-win partnership. 5 Agent and Distributor Selection Mar 2007 Advantages & disadvantages of in-market representation When choosing your in-market representative, you should be aware of the relative advantages and disadvantages offered by an agent or supplier.
3 Agent and Distributor Selection for different states, territories or Mar 2007 agents and distributors Exporters can choose between two types of in-market representation: an agent, who is a representative of the exporter; or a distributor, who is a customer of the exporter. 5 Agent and Distributor Selection Mar 2007 Advantages & disadvantages of in-market representation When choosing your in-market representative, you should be aware of the relative advantages and disadvantages offered by an agent or supplier.