Norwegian. adj. 1. (Placename) of, relating to, or characteristic of Norway, its language, or its people. 2. (Languages) of, relating to, or characteristic of Norway, its language, or its people. 3. (Peoples) of, relating to, or characteristic of Norway, its language, or its people. n. 4. (Languages) any of the various North Germanic languages of Norway
Norwegian Flag Meaning: The colors of the Norwegian flag are believed to have been influenced by the flags of France, the United States and Britain and are considered the colors of liberty and independence. The cross is common to most Scandinavian flags, and represents Norway's link to the other Scandinavian countries. Norwegian Flag History: The Norwegian flag was first adopted on July 17, 1821 and is based on the Danish flag, with a blue cross placed within the white cross of the Danish flag.
The usual Old Norse form of Norway is Noregr, and the usual mediaeval Latin form Nor(th)vegia, though the earliest known written occurrence of the name is English (in the late-ninth-century account of the travels of Ohthere of Halogaland), hålogaland in the form. norðweg 
Geography. Norway is situated in the western part of the Scandinavian peninsula. It extends about 1,100 mi (1,770 km) from the North Sea along the Norwegian Sea to more than 300 mi (483 km) above the Arctic Circle, the farthest north of any European country. It is slightly larger than New Mexico. Nearly 70% of Norway is uninhabitable and covered by mountains, glaciers, moors, and rivers.
The flag of Norway is a red with an indigo blue Scandinavian cross fimbriated in white that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog, the flag of Denmark. It is difficult to establish what the earliest flag of Norway looked like. During ancient times countries did not fly flags. Kings and other rulers flew flags, especially in battle. Saint Olav used a serpent within a white mark at the Battle of Nesjar. Prior to this the raven or dragon was used.
Norwegian (norsk) is a North Germanic language spoken mainly in Norway, where it is the sole official language. Along with Swedish and Danish, Norwegian forms a continuum of more or less mutually intelligible local and regional variants. From the 16th to the 19th centuries, Danish was the standard written language of Norway. As a result, the development of modern written Norwegian has been subject to strong controversy related to nationalism, rural versus urban discourse, and Norway's literary history.
Nor·way. A country of northern Europe in the western part of the Scandinavian Peninsula. Norway was ruled by numerous petty kingdoms from the ninth century, and raiding parties reached Normandy, Iceland, Greenland, islands off Scotland and Ireland, and the coast of the New World. Norway was finally unified in the 12th century. After 1397 it was controlled at various times by Denmark and Sweden
The noun NORWAY has 1 sense: 1. a constitutional monarchy in northern Europe on the western side of the Scandinavian Peninsula; achieved independence from Sweden in 1905. Familiarity information: NORWAY used as a noun is very rare. 