A nociceptor is a sensory neuron (nerve cell) that responds to potentially damaging stimuli by sending signals to the spinal cord and brain. This process, called nociception, usually causes the perception of pain. 
Nociception – The Pain Transmission System. When you roll your ankle, or pull a muscle in your lower back, pain is usually immediate. In these cases, pain is “acute“ – meaning new or sudden. Acute pain often originates from nociception – the nervous systems way of detecting, transmitting and processing potential damage. Nociception vs. Pain. Nociception doesn’t always result in pain, nor is is nociception the only way you can experience pain. There are many cases in which something can activate a nociceptor without pain being experienced (like during sports, for example) .
Nociception has been documented in non-mammalian animals, including fish and a wide range of invertebrates, including leeches, nematode worms, sea slugs, and fruit flies. The body possesses an endogenous analgesia system, which can be supplemented with analgesic drugs to regulate nociception and pain. There is both an analgesia system in the central nervous system and peripheral receptors that decreases the grade in which nociception reaches the higher brain areas.
Nociception triggers a variety of autonomic responses and may also result in a subjective experience of pain in sentient beings. Nociceptive neurons generate trains of action potentials in response to intense stimuli, and the frequency of firing determines the intensity of the pain. The body possesses an endogenous analgesia system, which can be supplemented with analgesic drugs to regulate nociception and pain. There is both an analgesia system in the central nervous system and peripheral receptors that decreases the grade in which nociception reaches the higher brain areas.
2 Mechanisms of Pain. This chapter provides an analysis of the differences between nociception and pain, on the basis of the anatomy of the peripheral and central nervous systems and the role of nociceptors in pain perception. Further Comments on the Distinction between Nociception and Pain. An unusual model to investigate the brain circuitry involved in nociception and pain was developed at the beginning of the 20th century by Charles Sherrington (1906) , who appreciated early on the distinction between nociception and pain.
nociception. the ability to feel pain, caused by stimulation of a nociceptor. Physiologically, it is composed of four processes: transduction, transmission, modulation, and perception. Called also pain sense, algesia, and algesthesia. The four processes that make up nociception: transduction, transmission, modulation, and perception.
Before discussing the anatomical and physiological bases for the generation of pain, it is important to reiterate the difference between nociception and pain. Further Comments on the Distinction between Nociception and Pain. An unusual model to investigate the brain circuitry involved in nociception and pain was developed at the beginning of the 20th century by Charles Sherrington (1906) , who appreciated early on the distinction
Anatomical distribution of nociception and pain. This figure schematizes the major neuroanatomical structures that differentiate nociception and pain, an understanding of which is essential for studies in which the animals may experience pain. Nociception (more...). Further Comments on the Distinction between Nociception and Pain. An unusual model to investigate the brain circuitry involved in nociception and pain was developed at the beginning of the 20th century by Charles Sherrington (1906) , who appreciated early on the distinction between
Nociceptive pain is usually time limited, meaning when the tissue damage heals, the pain typically resolves. (Arthritis is a notable exception in that it is not time limited.) Another characteristic of nociceptive pain is that it tends to respond well to treatment with opioids. UNDERSTANDING NOCICEPTIVE & NEUROPATHIC PAIN. For the last 300 years, our understanding of pain has been dominated by the idea that the human body is a complex machine which is separate from the process of perception.
Nociception triggers a variety of autonomic responses and may also result in a subjective experience of pain in sentient beings. Nociceptive neurons generate trains of action potentials in response to painful stimuli, and the frequency of firing signals the intensity of the pain. 