There clearly are rights issues involved in this debate and people involved in rights campaigns need to pay attention and get involved. TB is a notifiable disease in most developed countries including Australia, Hong Kong, Malaysia, United Kingdom and United States. Notification would be done either by sending TB Notification Form by registered post to the EDO Health, completing the appropriate TB Notification form on-line a website, or by telephoning on a universal access number.
However, only about 50% of the TB patients affected by the bacteria susceptible to be killed with the first line anti-TB drugs and a fraction of the MDR TB, which is much more expensive and difficult to treat disease, avail the free TB services at the government run TB facilities. Notification would be done either by sending TB Notification Form by registered post to the EDO Health, completing the appropriate TB Notification form on-line a website, or by telephoning on a universal access number.
1 that you are infected with the TB germ, (this is called latent TB infection), or. 2  that you have been immunised for TB in the past with a BCG vaccination (which leaves a scar on your arm), or. 3  that you have previously had TB disease and/or treatment. Latent infection means you have inactive or sleeping TB germs in your body; you cannot pass these germs on to anyone else and you are not sick with TB. People with latent TB infection have a 10% risk of developing TB disease during their life.
This disease is notifiable in the UK, see NOIDs article for more detail. Tuberculosis (TB) is a chronic granulomatous disease. In humans it is caused by bacteria of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (which includes M. tuberculosis, M. bovis and M. africanum). It is most commonly spread by inhalation of infected droplets (accounts for almost all cases in the UK)
The infectious diseases designated as notifiable at the national level during 2010 are listed in this section. A notifiable disease is one for which regular, frequent, and timely information regarding individual cases is considered necessary for the prevention and control of the disease. 
Some people with TB do not get better with treatment because their disease is caused by a TB strain that is resistant to one or more of the standard TB drugs. If that happens, their healthcare providers will prescribe different drugs and increase the length of treatment. 1 TB is spread through the air from one person to another. 2  The TB germ are passed through the air when someone who is sick with TB disease coughs, laughs, sings, or sneezes. 3  If you breathe air that has TB germs, you may get TB infection. 4  This means you have only dormant (sleeping) TB germs in your body.
Because the bacteria that cause tuberculosis are transmitted through the air, the disease can be contagious. Infection is most likely to occur if you are exposed to someone with TB on a day-to-day basis, such as by living or working in close quarters with someone who has the active disease. Medication can help get rid of the inactive bacteria before they become active. TB was once a widespread disease. It was virtually wiped out with the help of antibiotics developed in the 1950s, but the disease has resurfaced in potent new forms -- multidrug-resistant TB and extensively drug-resistant TB.
Watch video blog in Urdu on 'Making TB a notifiable disease '. Ayyaz Kiani is a public health specialist. He heads Devnet – a network of development consultants. Based in Islamabad, he has travelled around the world and continues to do so to meet fellow travelers. Notification would be done either by sending TB Notification Form by registered post to the EDO Health, completing the appropriate TB Notification form on-line a website, or by telephoning on a universal access number.
Your positive skin test may mean: 1  that you are infected with the TB germ, (this is called latent TB infection), or. 2  that you have been immunised for TB in the past with a BCG vaccination (which leaves a scar on your arm), or. Latent infection means you have inactive or sleeping TB germs in your body; you cannot pass these germs on to anyone else and you are not sick with TB. People with latent TB infection have a 10% risk of developing TB disease during their life.
Making TB a notifiable disease would make it mandatory for the government to ensure equal and fair distribution of resources to treat all the patients for free whether reporting at the public or private health care services. Notification would be done either by sending TB Notification Form by registered post to the EDO Health, completing the appropriate TB Notification form on-line a website, or by telephoning on a universal access number.