Question: What is a pagan? What is paganism?. Answer: From a Christian viewpoint, pagans are generally characterized as those who are caught up in any religious ceremony, act, or practice that is not distinctly Christian. Correspondingly, Jews and Muslims also use the term pagans to describe those outside their religion.
Okay, there’s a common theme here, and believe it or not, it’s not simply the question of people mistakenly thinking that Paganism is evil. It’s also the issue of people who can’t mind their own business. All kidding aside, there are going to be people in your life who think your religious beliefs are wrong. Also, keep in mind that some people just can’t be educated, because of their own unwillingness to learn. Someone who refuses to believe that a Pagan could possibly NOT be evil is someone you can’t really have a conversation with anyway.
Greetings! There are no Evil Religions, only when Men take that step away from Goodness, is there Evil. Pagan refers to Folks who follow their Family Tradition, and their own Hearts and Minds in choosing the Path that is best for them. Large Religions don`t like when people think for themselves.
Not many people are willing to do this. Keep in mind that not all non-Pagans think that a Pagan belief system is evil or wrong. There are many people, Christian and otherwise, who understand that spiritual paths are individual and unique choices. Also, keep in mind that some people just can’t be educated, because of their own unwillingness to learn. Someone who refuses to believe that a Pagan could possibly NOT be evil is someone you can’t really have a conversation with anyway.
Paganism is a term that developed among the Christian community of southern Europe during late antiquity to describe religions other than their own, Judaism, or Islam, the three Abrahamic religions. Throughout Christendom it continued to be used, typically in a derogatory sense. There has been much scholarly argument as to the origins of the term paganism. Paganism has also been understood by some to include any non-Abrahamic religions, but this is generally seen as insulting by adherents of those
Pagans are not evil. I am pagan. It is a umbrella term to describe a variety of religions. From Wicca, with it's Goddess worship to any number of reconstructionist religions, reconstructing the Old religions of many cultures that were Christianized by force in the Dark ages. There are no Evil Religions, only when Men take that step away from Goodness, is there Evil. Pagan refers to Folks who follow their Family Tradition, and their own Hearts and Minds in choosing the Path that is best for them.
If this is the right view of pagan life, it follows that we should look on paganism quite simply as a religion invented in the course of the second to third centuries AD, in competition and interaction with Christians, Jews and others. — North 1992, 187—88, There has been much scholarly argument as to the origins of the term paganism. Paganism has also been understood by some to include any non-Abrahamic religions, but this is generally seen as insulting by adherents of those religions.
A true Pagan, or even Wicca (similar beliefs), is not evil. I say true because many people say they are one of them and are not in it for the best intentions, but for more evil doings. I have been Wiccan for over 15 years. Both Pagan and Wicca are more Earth bound religions, or beliefs. There are no Evil Religions, only when Men take that step away from Goodness, is there Evil. Pagan refers to Folks who follow their Family Tradition, and their own Hearts and Minds in choosing the Path that is best for them.
The problem (as I see it) with relation to the concept of evil is that many Pagans believe in a natural order. Death is not evil, but natural. Harm is not evil, but merely something to be avoided because it’s bad, and it happens. Nothing or no one is evil, our mother earth does not create evil, we as humans turn things into “evil” by the choices we make and the consequences we choose. | April 14, 2012 at 1:10 PM | Reply. i dont think that the pagan belief system is as clear cut as that, at least not for me.