But he pointed out that more elephants are hurt by people than people by elephants. The dangerous job of elephant keeping. Being an elephant keeper has been described by one wildlife expert as one of the most dangerous jobs in the world. Four keepers have been killed in Europe in the past two years.
Elephants have actually killed many people, which is one of the reasons they are hunted. With their huge body, sharp tusks, and swatting trunks, they are very p … owerful creatures and are not to be reckoned with. Elephants can actually kill lions, if they are mad enough. They are extremely large animals. They are also territorial, and will attack if you get too close to them. Male elephants also go through musth, which is a form of heat that means they are ready to mate.
Elephants can be very dangerous. They are extremely large animals. They are also territorial, and will attack if you get too close to them. Male elephants also go through musth, which is a form of heat that means they are ready to mate. During this time, they are very aggressive and will attack almost anything that move
Elephant. The elephant is often portrayed as a lovable giant, and animals domesticated by trainers and zookeepers can be quite peaceful. But if agitated, abused or if encountered in the wild, an elephant can be one of the most dangerous creatures in the world. 
Elephants are dangerous animals and should not be tampered with. The dangerous Asian elephants are some of the biggest elephants in the world located in may parts of the Asian tropical forests. The gray Asian elephant coloration provides them with a very good elephant habitat. While most of the dangerous elephant animal attacks take place in many of the African countries from south of the Sahara desert to South Africa with an estimated over 500000 number of African elephants in the world.
Asian Males elephants in musth are responsible for many deadly elephant attacks. The Asian Elephants is very important to the cultures and religions of many Asian countries such as India, Sri Lanka, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Bangladesh, and southern China, Myanmar (Burma), Indonesia, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam. While most of the dangerous elephant animal attacks take place in many of the African countries from south of the Sahara desert to South Africa with an estimated over 500000 number of African elephants in the world.
Elephants have got the biggest brains and apart from man, elephants are some of the most intelligent animals in the world and regarded as one of the world's most dangerous animals. Elephant Attacks: 300-500 elephant related attacks and deaths a year. While most of the dangerous elephant animal attacks take place in many of the African countries from south of the Sahara desert to South Africa with an estimated over 500000 number of African elephants in the world.
The African Bush Elephant or the dangerous African Savanna Elephant (Loxodonta africana) is larger of than two species of African elephant. The great Savannah elephant and the African Forest Elephant have usually been classified as a single species, known as the beautiful dangerous African Elephant. While most of the dangerous elephant animal attacks take place in many of the African countries from south of the Sahara desert to South Africa with an estimated over 500000 number of African elephants in the world.
The Most Dangerous Animals in the World. There are many dangerous animals in the world but only the deadliest ones make this top ten list. Ordered by the estimated number of humans they kill each year, snakes and scorpions top the list, mainly due to their aggressive behavior and lethal poisons. These crocs are typically found in the southern parts of Asia, Australia, and throughout Africa. Death Toll: 2,000+ per year. The elephant is the largest land animal in the world and can easily crush anyone that stands in its way, which is why an enraged elephant is one of the most dangerous of all animals.