A American Heart Association-Stroke Association answered. Collateral circulation is the process in which a system of small, normally closed arteries connect and start to carry blood to part of the heart when a coronary artery is blocked, or to part of the brain when a cerebral artery is blocked. These arteries can serve as alternate routes of blood supply.
the flow of blood from the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery to the lungs, where carbon dioxide is exchanged for oxygen, and back through the pulmonary vein to the left atrium. See also pulmonary circulation.
Medical Definition of COLLATERAL CIRCULATION. : circulation of blood established through enlargement of minor vessels and anastomosis of vessels with those of adjacent parts when a major vein or artery is functionally impaired (as by obstruction); also: the modified vessels through which such circulation occurs.
This is often a result of anastamoses, branches formed between adjacent blood vessels. Collateral circulation can be established in the venous system (between veins) or in the arterial system (between arteries). It may arise from pathological conditions such as congestion or ischaemia. An example of the usefulness of collateral circulation is a systemic thrombo-embolism in cats. This is when a thrombus lodges above the external iliac artery (common iliac artery), blocking the external and internal iliac arteries and effectively shutting off all blood supply to the hind leg.
Collateral circulation is a network of tiny blood vessels, and, under normal conditions, not open. When the coronary arteries narrow to the point that blood flow to the heart muscle is limited (coronary artery disease), collateral vessels may enlarge and become active.
Collateral circulation is circulation in an area of tissue or an organ with a number of different pathways for blood to reach it. This is often a result of anastamoses-branches formed between adjacent blood vessels. An example of the usefulness of collateral circulation is a systemic thrombo-embolism in cats.