Confidence votes 32. There is no 'blanket' cost for a move from California to Texas because each moving scenario is different. Several factors are considered when determining the cost of a move, including: -the city/zip codes you're moving to and from (serviceability concerns). A Greyhound bus ticket from Los Angeles to Texas will cost approximately $174.24 - $221.00 depending on the fare type selected.
Answers. Best Answer: I checked out the rates that others have paid on Transport Reviews and on CarShippingRates.com and the most common rate charged to move from Texas to California was $600. The average cost was $687. So it appears that you are looking in the $600 to $750 range. To simplify things you can get a price quote for your specific move from companies that are well rated on Transport reviews by filling out a free quote on Vehicle Transport.com (http://www.vehicletransport.com/). Hope this helps.
How much does it cost to move to California from Texas is a question that has no precise answer – every move is unique not only because people have a different amount of things but also because of the different services every person requests from the moving company. After your move from Texas to California you will need to have a local driver license. When you become a resident you have 10 days to get one. For your application process you need to go to a DMV office. It is better to take an appointment in advance in order to save time
This moving cost calculator is intended to provide a range of moving estimates that you might receive from moving companies. It's JUST an estimated range. There are many factors that go into how much a moving company will charge for your move. Enter in your information to the left, and we'll give you an estimate of how much truck rental, full service moving, and self service moving will cost. You can also get free multiple moving quotes.
The cost of a plane ticket from California to Texas will vary  depending on the carrier used and if it is a non stop flight or  not. The average cost for a non stop flight f … rom San Francisco to  Dallas is $300. Answered. In Education. How much does it cost to ship a car from California to Texas? It costs between $500 and $750 to ship a car from California to  Texas.
How much does it cost to ship a car from California to Texas? It costs between $500 and $750 to ship a car from California to  Texas. A Greyhound bus ticket from Los Angeles to Texas will cost approximately $174.24 - $221.00 depending on the fare type selected.
Moving from Texas to California. In the things to take care of for your move from Texas to California your first task is finding the right moving company. Every move across country requires you to check the moving company well. After your move from Texas to California you will need to have a local driver license. When you become a resident you have 10 days to get one. For your application process you need to go to a DMV office. It is better to take an appointment in advance in order to save time
How much does a bus ticket from Los Angeles California to Texas cost? A Greyhound bus ticket from Los Angeles to Texas will cost approximately $174.24 - $221.00 depending on the fare type selected. The price of a bus ticket depends on the fare … type purchased (example: refundable, non-refundable, return, one-way).