Symptoms are often apparent by age 2. Many of these symptoms may be hard to pinpoint. They might be confused with personality traits, or with other development issues. That’s why it is essential to see a professional if you suspect your child might suffer from an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a number of different doctors and specialists will play important roles in helping your child with an ASD diagnosis. The Basics of Autism. Autism affects a child’s ability to communicate and develop social skills. Autistic children may seem emotionally detached. According to the Mayo Clinic, they may exhibit obsessive behavior, including intensive preoccupation with a particular object.
Your doctor can make basic measures of your child’s development in the areas of language, behavior, and social skills. If your doctor notices anything unusual about your child, you may be referred to a specialist. The Basics of Autism. Autism affects a child’s ability to communicate and develop social skills. Autistic children may seem emotionally detached. According to the Mayo Clinic, they may exhibit obsessive behavior, including intensive preoccupation with a particular object.
Often parents are the first to notice that their child is showing unusual behaviors such as failing to make eye contact, not responding to his or her name or playing with toys in unusual, repetitive ways. For a description of early indicators of autism, see Learn the Signs. Unfortunately, doctors unfamiliar with diagnosing autism sometimes dismiss parent concerns, delaying diagnosis and the opportunity for early intervention therapies. Autism Speaks and other autism organizations are working hard to raise awareness of early signs among physicians as well as parents.
1 For a MAPS doctor or other treating physician, seeing a child affected with autism is more complex and takes a significant amount of time. 2  My appointments with my son’s doctor are anywhere from 1-2 hours. 3  That reduces the number of patients the doctor can see in one day down to 3-4 vs. 30-60. 1 That reduces the number of patients the doctor can see in one day down to 3-4 vs. 30-60. 2  Hence, their large hourly rates and most also do not accept insurance. 3  There are a lot of parents looking for answers for their child affected by autism where medical testing and treatment is concerned.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Diagnosing autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can be difficult, since there is no medical test, like a blood test, to diagnose the disorders. Doctors look at the child’s behavior and development to make a diagnosis. ASD can sometimes be detected at 18 months or younger. By age 2, a diagnosis by an experienced professional can be considered very reliable. Developmental screening is a short test to tell if children are learning basic skills when they should, or if they might have delays. During developmental screening the doctor might ask the parent some questions or talk and play with the child during an exam to see how she learns, speaks, behaves, and moves.
If your child has an autism spectrum disorder, push the doctor to diagnose your child with Autism. For the past 10 years, TACA has witnessed many children receive these two diagnosis and then not receive any help for their affected child. Autism Awareness has come a long way. Now, many more people know at least some basic signs or symptoms of autism. With 1 in every 58 boys now being diagnosed with autism, almost everyone knows someone with a child with autism.
Gaining a diagnosis as an adult isn't easy, especially as Aspergers syndrome isn't widely heard of among doctors. The typical route for getting diagnosed is to visit your doctor and ask for a referral to a psychiatrist or clinical psychologist, preferably one with experience of diagnosing autism. Make sure the diagnosis is the only thing you are seeing your doctor about. If you try and drop it into a consultation about another subject they may not address it fully. A good way to bring up the subject is to mention that you have been reading about autism and Asperger syndrome.
Autism and Asperger's syndrome Associations often get calls from adults who suspect they may have Asperger syndrome or high-functioning autism (HFA) and are looking for a diagnosis. In this article the term Asperger syndrome is used to include all forms of high-functioning autism. Make sure the diagnosis is the only thing you are seeing your doctor about. If you try and drop it into a consultation about another subject they may not address it fully. A good way to bring up the subject is to mention that you have been reading about autism and Asperger syndrome.