muscle cell-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle fiber, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organ
mus•cle. 1. a tissue composed of elongated cells, the contraction of which produces movement in the body. 2. a specific bundle of such tissue. 3. muscular strength; brawn. 4. power or force, esp. of a coercive nature: They put muscle into their policy and sent the marines.
1. muscle cell-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle fiber, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organ
somatic cell, vegetative cell-any of the cells of a plant or animal except the reproductive cells; a cell that does not participate in the production of gametes; somatic cells are produced from preexisting cells; striated muscle cell, striated muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell in striated muscle tissue.
Skeletal muscle: Along with smooth and cardiac muscle, one of the types of muscle tissue in the body. Skeletal muscle represents the majority of muscle tissue. It is the type of muscle that powers movement of the skeleton, as in walking and lifting.
Muscle cell. Definition. noun, plural: muscle cells. Any of the long, tubular mature contractile cells that make up the muscle tissue. Supplement. The muscle tissue is one of the four fundamental types of animal tissues. The muscle tissue is comprised of specialized cells capable of contraction.
the contractile tissue that effects the movement of and within the body. Muscle tissue in the higher animals is classified as striated, smooth, or cardiac, according to its structure and function.
A body tissue composed of elongated cells (called muscle fibers) that contract to produce movement. In vertebrate animals, voluntary movement is produced by the action of muscles on bone. Movement of the muscles of the heart and other organs is involuntary and controlled by the autonomic nervous system.
Skeletal muscle structure. Different types of muscle tissue. An organism's muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells. Multi-unit smooth muscle cells operate independently and single-unit, or visceral, smooth muscle cells operate together as a unit.