Veiled Chameleon Size. Adult male veiled chameleons may reach a total length of 2 feet, and females can attain approximately 18 inches, making the veiled chameleon one of the larger chameleon species seen in captivity. Hatchling veiled chameleons are approximately 3 to 4 inches in total length. For adult veiled chameleons, bigger is better as far as their enclosures are concerned. The ideal cage for an adult male veiled chameleon would be a screened enclosure measuring about 2 feet wide by 2 feet long by 4 feet tall.
Female veiled chameleons can produce three clutches of eggs a year. Each clutch may have 20 to 70 eggs and take 6 to 9 months to hatch. Brookesia is a chameleon genus found in Madagascar and its members are considered the world's smallest chameleons. Brookesia chameleons have a short, non-prehensile tail. 
Veiled chameleons are one of about 80 species of Old World chameleons, also called true chameleons. They are aggressive and brightly colored. They have a casque, a helmet-like ridge, on top of their heads, which is a tiny swelling as a hatchling, but grows to two inches (5 cm) in height as the animal matures. Males have a larger body and casque when mature than females. Male body length can reach between 17 and 24 inches (43 to 61 cm) from head to the tip of the tail and they are usually thin in appearance. Females reach between 10 and 14 inches (25 to 35.5 cm) in length
There is marked sexual dimorphism. Males have a larger body and casque when mature than females. Male body length can reach between 17 and 24 inches (43 to 61 cm) from head to the tip of the tail and they are usually thin in appearance. Females reach between 10 and 14 inches (25 to 35.5 cm) in length
A panther chameleon will develop their full-coloration at 18 months old. Even at 6 months of age they will display nice colors. At 10 months of age, you will think you have fully-colored panther chameleon. The full-blown colors don’t come out until about 18 months. On average, chameleons can live up to 7-8 years with good care. Some panthers can live much longer and are the exception to this rule. Long-lived chameleons are generally fed nutritious gut-loaded crickets with less dependence on powdered supplements.
Typically, most breeds of chickens mature at about 6 months of age. This is when their bone structure has reached 'adult' proportions, and when hens begin to lay eggs. However … , they will continue to put on weight and fill out until close to 18 months. 
Male panther chameleons can grow up to 20 inches in length, with a typical length of around 17 in (45 cm). Females are smaller, at about half the size. In a form of sexual dimorphism, males are more vibrantly colored than the females. Panther chameleons reach sexual maturity at a minimum age of seven months. When gravid, or carrying eggs, females turn dark brown or black with orange striping to signify to males they have no intention of mating. The exact coloration and pattern of gravid females varies depending on the color phase of the chameleon.
Small chameleon species lay two to four eggs while larger chameleons lay 80 to 100 eggs at one time. No matter what species, chameleons become mature at 1 to 2 years of age. The exception is the Madagascan chameleon. It has been labeled as the vertebrate with the world's shortest life span, according to Encyclopedia Britannica. 