Gold Dust Croton: Croton 'Gold Dust' leaves are sprinkled with little gold spots hence it's name gold dust. The 'Gold Dust' Croton is the easiest of all the Croton varieties to grow. Just place it near a sunny window and water when the soil has dried to the touch. Decorative container not included. Bloom Period: The Gold Dust Croton does not produce any noticeable flowers.
Genus: Aucuba. The dense, glossy foliage of this evergreen plant is splattered with yellow. Gold-dust plant can be planted near nearby tree roots, and it responds well to pruning. Combine it with yellow-blooming or variegated plants for appealing color harmonies. -Debra Lee Baldwin, Regional Picks: Southern California, Fine Gardening issue #127. Noteworthy Characteristics: Poisonous.
Aucuba japonica is known by a few common names: Gold Dust Plant, Japanese Laurel, Spotted Laurel and Japanese Aucuba. A few cultivars are available... 'Crotonifolia' has broad leaves spotted with yellow. Green leaves heavily dusted with golden-yellow spots makes Gold Dust Plant a cheery house plant, and a beautiful accent among other foliage plants. You'll have easy success with this compact, upright shrub because it adapts well to indoor conditions.
Common Disease and Disorders with the Gold-Dust Plant Aucuba japonica Ornamental Disease Note No. 21. Tom Creswell, Plant Pathologist Mike Benson, Plant Pathologist. Aucuba japonica, the gold-dust plant, is commonly planted in the landscape of North Carolina. It grows best in part shade. Aucuba may be affected by several diseases and cultural problems that limit successful cultivation.
Gold dust plant grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 7 to 10, where it will tolerate temperatures as low as minus 5 degrees Fahrenheit. The plant requires partial to full shade, as its ornamental leaves will scorch and blacken in full sun. Liven up patios and indoor spaces with a containerized gold dust plant. The plant handles containers well, as long as the potting soil is well-draining and the container has a hole in the bottom. Water container plants frequently in summer and use a balanced liquid fertilizer once a month.
Aucuba japonica, commonly called spotted laurel, Japanese laurel, Japanese aucuba or gold dust plant (U.S.), is a shrub (1–5 m, 3.3–16.4 ft) native to rich forest soils of moist valleys, thickets, by streams and near shaded moist rocks in China, Korea, and Japan. 
Mecardonia GOLD DUST is excellent for planting alone, but is also very well suited mixed with other bedding plants as a low border or ground cover among more leggy annuals. But Gold Dust can also be used as rock plant or as ground cover in small garden beds. 
Gold-dust plant. Aucuba. Gold dust plant's gold-splashed leaves light up shady places and create dramatic tropical effects even where winters are cold. A great filler for winter holiday bouquets, glossy green gold dust plant foliage ranges from medium to narrow in width. Some varieties are female or male only, others such as 'Crotonfolia' may be either. If you want the red berries for striking winter color, plant female varieties near a male pollinator plant.
Overview. The gold dust plant (Aucuba japonica) is native to Japan. This slow growing, hardy evergreen shrub is distinctive for the splash of yellow or specks of gold in the middle of each broad, dark green leaf. The gold dust plant will grow to a maximum height of 10 feet if planted outdoors and properly cared for. Gold dust shrubs may suffer from several fungal diseases, including root rot or crown rot. Care should be taken to ensure the plant does not sit in standing water, and it should never be watered from above, as fungi can infect the leaves as well. Keywords: gold dust, plant care, Aucuba japonica, gold dust care.
Full sun may blacken the plant's leaves. Gold dust plant (Aucuba japonica Vaiegata) is an evergreen aucuba cultivar grown for its 3- to 8-inch green leaves, which are splattered with attractive yellowish gold speckles. The slow-growing shrub grows up to 10 feet tall, with a spread of up to 6 feet. Liven up patios and indoor spaces with a containerized gold dust plant. The plant handles containers well, as long as the potting soil is well-draining and the container has a hole in the bottom. Water container plants frequently in summer and use a balanced liquid fertilizer once a month.