Factory farming represents a broken covenant. Our dependence on animals was supposed to be a mutually beneficial relationship, a symbiotic relationship. Yet it is becoming clear that what has now evolved in animal husbandry looks very much like exploitation. The original intent of this website was to present both the good side and the downside of factory farming. It quickly became an exercise in futility since no sustainable upside could be found, not for us, the workers, the community and certainly not for the animals.
Confinement at high stocking density is one part of a systematic effort to produce the highest output at the lowest cost by relying on economies of scale, modern machinery, biotechnology, and global trade. There are differences in the way factory farming techniques are practiced around the world. Livestock production is also particularly water-intensive in indoor, intensive systems. Eight percent of global human water use goes towards animal production, including water used to irrigate feed crops.
Factory Farming. 97% of the 10 billion animals tortured and killed each year are farm animals. Factory farming is an industrial process in which animals and the products they generate are mass produced. Leather is inextricably linked to the modern day factory farming system, an industrial process in which animals and the products they generate are mass-produced. The animals are seen not as individual, sentient beings with unique physical and psychological needs but as a means to an end-meat, leather, and so on
Because factory farming is a business, its goal is to maximize production and, consequently, profit. Since the animals are seen as mere commodities, they are bred, fed, confined, and drugged to lay more eggs, birth more offspring, and die with more meat on their bones. Leather is inextricably linked to the modern day factory farming system, an industrial process in which animals and the products they generate are mass-produced. The animals are seen not as individual, sentient beings with unique physical and psychological needs but as a means to an end-meat, leather, and so on
The banning of factory farming would be catastrophic for the human population and while some of its practices are distasteful other practices taken from factory farming have benefited the agriculture buisness, the efficiency of farming while keeping the animals in mind. These people would not be able to afford an increase in price for any goods much less things they need to survive such as food. Globally banning factory farming would prove disastorous to the less stable places in the world that are increasingly counting on expanding cheap sources of food i.e factory farmed food.
Overfishing is a form of overexploitation where fish stocks are reduced to below acceptable levels. Overfishing can occur in water bodies of any size, such as ponds, rivers, lakes or oceans, and can result in resource depletion, reduced biological growth rates and low biomass levels. Sustained overfishing can lead to critical depensation, where the fish population is no longer able to sustain itself.
Factory farming and industrial agriculture are used interchangeably, although industrial agriculture tends to be used more to describe this intensive type of crop (plant) production and factory farms is used when referring to industrial animal production. 1 Shop Sustainable. 2  When you buy sustainably grown and produced foods, you send a message with your food dollars: “I do not support industrial and factory farming!”. 3  You can buy local foods by joining a CSA group, visiting a farmers market or using the Eat Well Guide to find a farm near you.
Conclusion. Factory farming is good for food production and is more efficient for farmers which leads to a boost in the economy of places utilizing factory farming while providing consumers with cheap food. These benefits make factory farming worthwhile and the practice should not be banned. These people would not be able to afford an increase in price for any goods much less things they need to survive such as food. Globally banning factory farming would prove disastorous to the less stable places in the world that are increasingly counting on expanding cheap sources of food i.e factory farmed food.
A shrimp farm is an aquaculture business for the cultivation of marine shrimp or prawns for human consumption. Commercial shrimp farming began in the 1970s, and production grew steeply, particularly to match the market demands of the USA, Japan and Western Europe. Livestock production is also particularly water-intensive in indoor, intensive systems. Eight percent of global human water use goes towards animal production, including water used to irrigate feed crops.