The term substantive due process itself is commonly used in two ways: first, to identify a particular line of case law; and second, to signify a particular political attitude toward judicial review under the two Due Process Clauses. Although economic due process restrictions on legislation were largely abandoned by the courts, substantive due process rights continue to be successfully asserted today in non-economic legislation affecting intimate issues like bodily integrity, marriage, religion, childbirth, child rearing, and sexuality.
Substantive due process is to be distinguished from procedural due process. The distinction arises from the words of law in the phrase due process of law . Although economic due process restrictions on legislation were largely abandoned by the courts, substantive due process rights continue to be successfully asserted today in non-economic legislation affecting intimate issues like bodily integrity, marriage, religion, childbirth, child rearing, and sexuality.
Courts have split substantive due process cases into two categories: those involving fundamental rights and those involving non-fundamental rights. (Non-fundamental rights are addressed in Subchapter 2.) The standard of scrutiny is different for each category, but the essential analytical method is the same. Procedural Due Process issues involve an analysis of the procedure required by the Constitution when states seek to deprive people of life, liberty or property. (Procedural Due Process will be addressed in Subchapter 3.).
Substantive Due Process Law & Legal Definition. Substantive due process is a fundamental legal theory enumerated in the U.S. constitution. The principle of substantive due process states that the due process clause in the constitution should protect the substantive right of a citizen. Freedom of speech and expression is an example of a substantive right. The term ‘substantive due process’ is commonly used in two ways: 1. to identify a particular line of cases; 2. to signify a particular attitude towards judicial review.
The substantive limitations placed on the content or subject matter of state and federal laws by the Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. In general, substantive due process prohibits the government from infringing on fundamental constitutional liberties. By contrast, procedural due process refers to the procedural limitations placed on the manner in which a law is administered, applied, or enforced. The year 1856 marked the introduction of substantive due process in U.S. Jurisprudence. In that year the U.S. Supreme Court faced a constitutional challenge to the Missouri Compromise of 1820, a federal law that abolished Slavery in the territories.
We saw in Subchapter 1 that substantive due process claims are split into two categories, those involving fundamental rights, discussed above, and those involving non-fundamental rights. If the category of fundamental rights involves those rights concerning autonomy and privacy, the category of non-fundamental rights includes economic issues and social welfare concerns. State regulation in these non-fundamental areas of life is not subject to the strict scrutiny standard discussed above.
The U.S. Supreme Court used substantive due process to give added force to the 4th, 5th and 6th Amendments of the U.S. Constitution. Substance of the Regulation. Not everything is a legitimate subject for government in the United States to regulate. In planning and zoning, substantive due process is about the substance (topic) of regulation, that the regulation is directly related to its purpose, and is the least amount of regulation to do the job.
The term substantive due process was first used explicitly in 1930s legal casebooks as a categorical distinction of selected due process cases, and by 1950 had been mentioned twice in Supreme Court opinions. Although economic due process restrictions on legislation were largely abandoned by the courts, substantive due process rights continue to be successfully asserted today in non-economic legislation affecting intimate issues like bodily integrity, marriage, religion, childbirth, child rearing, and sexuality.
The substantive limitations placed on the content or subject matter of state and federal laws by the Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. In general, substantive due process prohibits the government from infringing on fundamental constitutional liberties. By contrast, procedural due process refers to the procedural limitations placed on the manner in which a law is administered, applied, or enforced. 
Best Answer: Procedural due process refers to the requirement that decisions made by the state must exhibit fundamental fairness in taking an action that culminates in an individual being denied life, liberty, or property.. 