So, the question of how long alcohol is detectable in urine or how long does alcohol stay in your system depends on the rate at which your body would break it down. Usually, normal human beings metabolize wine at about the same rate which is around 0.015 BAC per 60 minutes. Here is a list of alcohol drug tests and the answer to how long is alcohol detectable in urine with each test. Breathalyzer Test: 24 hours. Urine Test: 9-13 hours (if traditional method used). Urine Test: 72-96 hours (if done using EGT (Ethyl Gluconoride) metabolite).
Actually, alcohol stays in your system up to 3-4 days after your last drink (urine screen). It will not show up using a breathalyzer after a day. If your probation officer is giving you a urine screen, again, it can show up 3-4 days later. I know, because I work as a drug and alcohol counselor. Hope this helps. You're doing fine, just don't drink the day of your test, and avoid all specifically prohibited drugs. Alcohol doesn't stay in your system long-term, unlike marijuana, and some other drugs which you don't want to have showing up in your urine.
On average it takes the body 3 hours to metabolize one ounce of  wine. Therefore, a standard five ounce glass of wine will be in  your system for approximately 15 hours.  …   It takes about an hour for the body to metabolize one standard  drink (five ounces of dinner wine). 51 people found this useful. If your are asking how long does it stay in your system as far as long term, 2 days is considered enough to pass a urine test. I have heard of some urine test that can detect ethanol up to 80 hours after last ingestion, but these test are rarely used as they are expensive and only used for certain jobs.
If you are talking about the alcohol, it takes and hour for you body to dissolve (for lack of a better word) 1 beer, shot, or glass of wine. So two drinks, two hours, ect. ect. The EtG, a widely-used urine alcohol test is unreliable. Unfortunately, is sensitive for several days after any exposure to alcohol products. If your are asking how long does it stay in your system as far as long term, 2 days is considered enough to pass a urine test. I have heard of some urine test that can detect ethanol up to 80 hours after last ingestion, but these test are rarely used as they are expensive and only used for certain jobs.
It is those BAC readings that can be used to interpret how long does alcohol stay in your system. References: 1  Marcus, Kim. 2  You don’t have to abstain while dieting. 3  Wine Spectator, May 31, 1997, p. 13; Kahn, H. S., et al, 4  2Barr, Andrew. 5  Drink: A Social History of America. 6  New York: Carroll & Graf, 1999, p. 233. If a person drinks 250 ml of wine, it would take three hours for the body to metabolize the alcohol. A 500 ml beer would take about two hours. But a strong 500ml strong beer would take much longer since it contains about three units of alcohol.
Alcohol is metabolized by the body at the rate of approximately 1 standard drink every hour (if you want to be safer, you can use 1 1/2 hour) If you were to drink 6 beers (12 ounce), the alcohol would be eliminated in approximately 6 - 9 hours. Urine produced AFTER this period would be negative for alcohol. How long does alcohol stay in your urine for a UA test that screens for alcohol, cocaine and marijuana (not the etg test).
Confidence votes 16.4K. On average it takes the body 3 hours to metabolize one ounce of wine. Therefore, a standard five ounce glass of wine will be in your system for approximately 15 hours. It takes about an hour for the body to metabolize one standard drink (five ounces of dinner wine). If your are asking how long does it stay in your system as far as long term, 2 days is considered enough to pass a urine test. I have heard of some urine test that can detect ethanol up to 80 hours after last ingestion, but these test are rarely used as they are expensive and only used for certain jobs.
Usually, alcohol would stay within your system for around 24 hours after you have had a few drinks and this would be the time period during which it would be detectable in your urine. However, there are a few special tests which can detect its presence in urine for up to 48 hours. Here is a list of alcohol drug tests and the answer to how long is alcohol detectable in urine with each test. Breathalyzer Test: 24 hours. Urine Test: 9-13 hours (if traditional method used). Urine Test: 72-96 hours (if done using EGT (Ethyl Gluconoride) metabolite).
If you drink a large (250ml) glass of wine, your body takes about three hours to break down the alcohol. If you drink one pint of beer, your body takes about two hours to break it down. One pint of strong lager is equivalent to three units, so this will take longer. 