Asperger syndrome (AS), also known as Asperger's syndrome, Asperger disorder (AD) or simply Asperger's, is an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) that is characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, alongside restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests. 
Berger's disease. Etymology: Jean Berger, twentieth century French nephrologist. a kidney disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of macroscopic hematuria, proteinuria, and a granular deposition of immunoglobulin A (IgA) from the glomerular mesangium. 
4. Since its first description by Berger and Hinglais in 1968, IgA nephropathy (IgAN) has remained the most common form of idiopathic glomerulonephritis leading to chronic kidney disease (CKD) in developed countries. 
Buerger’s disease affects blood vessels in the arms and legs. Blood vessels swell, which can prevent blood flow, causing clots to form. This can lead to pain, tissue damage, and even gangrene (the death or decay of body tissues). 
Not to be confused with Buerger's disease. IgA nephropathy (also known as IgA nephritis, IgAN, Berger disease (/bɛərˈʒeɪ/), Berger's disease, Berger's syndrome, Berger syndrome, or synpharyngitic glomerulonephritis) is a form of glomerulonephritis (inflammation of the glomeruli of the kidney). A subset of IgA nephropathy patients, who have minimal change disease on light microscopy and clinically have nephrotic syndrome, show an exquisite response to steroids, behaving more or less like minimal change disease. In other patients, the evidence for steroids is not compelling.
Causes. IgA nephropathy is caused by a buildup of the IgA protein in the kidneys. IgA proteins help the body fight infections. There are more of these proteins when you have an infection like the cold or flu. The protein buildup can damage the filters of the kidneys. 
In some patients with IgA nephropathy, this loss of kidney function progresses to chronic kidney failure, which requires dialysis treatment or a kidney transplant. IgA Nephropathy is sometimes called Berger's Disease, because a French physician named Berger was one of the first to describe the disease. The most common sign is blood in the urine. 
In this article. Asperger's syndrome, also called Asperger's disorder, is a type of pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) . PDDs are a group of conditions that involve delays in the development of many basic skills, most notably the ability to socialize with others, to communicate, and to use imagination. Asperger's Syndrom