CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Androderm ® (testosterone patch) is a prescription medication approved for the treatment of low testosterone levels due to a variety of causes in men. It comes as a skin patch that is applied to the skin and changed every evening. The testosterone in the patch is absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream. Androderm is classified as a Schedule III controlled substance. This means it has the potential for abuse. As a Schedule III controlled substance, there are strict laws and regulations controlling its sale and use.
Androderm ® (testosterone patch) is a prescription medication that belongs to a class of drugs called androgens. Androgens are male sex hormones. Androderm is approved as a testosterone replacement in men with low testosterone levels, also known as testosterone deficiency. It comes in the form of a patch that is applied to the skin and changed once a day. 
Uses For Androderm. Testosterone transdermal patch is used for the treatment of males whose bodies do not make enough natural testosterone, a condition called hypogonadism. Testosterone is a male hormone responsible for the growth and development of the male sex organs and maintenance of secondary sex characteristics. For patients using the patch 1  : After opening the pouch that contains the patch, apply the patch immediately. 2  Apply the patch to a clean, dry area of the skin on your back, abdomen or stomach, thighs, or upper arm. 3  Do not put the patch over burns, cuts, or irritated skin.
Androderm is a transdermal testosterone medication that is similar in action to testosterone gels like AndroGel. This is a very common testosterone product used in the treatment of low testosterone, and compared to gels it is much stronger. In fact, Androderm’s bioavailability is double that of AndroGel. Hepatotoxicity: Androderm is not a hepatotoxic anabolic steroid and will cause no stress or damage to the liver. Skin Irritation: The side effects of Androderm can include skin irritation at the applied site in approximately one in twenty men who use the transdermal testosterone patch.
ANDRODERM has a central drug delivery reservoir surrounded by a peripheral adhesive area. The ANDRODERM 2 mg/day system has a total contact surface area of 32 cm² with a 6.0 cm² central drug delivery reservoir containing 9.7 mg testosterone USP, dissolved in an alcohol-based gel. DRUG DESCRIPTION. ANDRODERM (testosterone transdermal system) is designed to deliver testosterone continuously for 24 hours following application to intact, non-scrotal skin (e.g., back, abdomen, thighs, upper arms). Two strengths of ANDRODERM are available that deliver approximately 2 mg or 4 mg of testosterone per day
Androderm® is a testosterone transdermal delivery patch. This means that when the patch is applied to the skin, the testosterone passes from the patch, through the skin and into the bloodstream. The testosterone in Androderm® is identical to the naturally occurring testosterone present in the body. Ask your doctor if you have any questions about why this medicine has been prescribed for you. Your doctor may have prescribed it for another reason
What Androderm® is used for. Androderm® is used to replace testosterone in males when the body is unable to produce enough of its own. Testosterone is a hormone that is necessary for the normal development and maintenance of male reproductive tissues and other characteristic male traits. This means that when the patch is applied to the skin, the testosterone passes from the patch, through the skin and into the bloodstream. The testosterone in Androderm® is identical to the naturally occurring testosterone present in the body.
The Androderm patch delivers testosterone to yourbody through your skin. Androderm is prescribed for men whose bodies do not produce enoughtestosterone, a condition known as testosterone deficiency. The center of each Androderm patch contains a testosterone gel. The edges of the patchare coated with adhesive to hold the patch in placeon your skin. The round patch contains 12.2 mg oftestosterone which delivers approximately 2.5 mg oftestosterone over a 24-hour period. 