This acquisition cost may be the sum of the cost of production as incurred by the original producer, and further costs of transaction as incurred by the acquirer over and above the price paid to the producer. Usually, the price also includes a mark-up for profit over the cost of production. More generalized in the field of economics, cost is a metric that is totaling up as a result of a process or as a differential for the result of a decision.
Use cost of production in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The cost of production for bringing a new product to shelves is often so much that the decision must be highly considered to wage whether it has a payback time that is worth the wait. 10 people found this helpful. The company went bankrupt because rent, utilities, supplies and the high cost of production in general made their product too expensive for the average consumer.
The change in total cost that comes from making or producing one additional item. The purpose of analyzing marginal cost is to determine at what point an organization can achieve economies of scale. The calculation is most often used among manufacturers as a means of isolating an optimum production level. Next Up. 
DEFINITION of 'Production Cost'. A cost incurred by a business when manufacturing a good or producing a service. Production costs combine raw material and labor. To figure out the cost of production per unit, the cost of production is divided by the number of units produced. In production, there are direct costs and indirect costs. For example, direct costs for manufacturing an automobile are materials such as the plastic, metal or labor incurred to produce such an item. Indirect costs include overhead such as rent, salaries or utility expense.
Cost of Production. The Cost of Production Unit surveys dairies farms on a quarterly basis to obtain costs associated with milk production. The cost of production surveys covers the four major milk production areas in the state: North Coast, North Valley, South Valley, and Southern California. 1  Feed Summary Data. 2  Cost of Production Data.
The total costs can be grouped into total cost, average total costs and the marginal total costs. Total cost is the total variable cost plus the total variable cost. It is the overall cost of production in a firm. The average total cost is the total cost divided by the total number of units being produced. This implies that the average cost is the cost of producing one unit of a commodity. The total marginal cost is the additional costs incurred due to addition of one unit of input. The other topic on cost that is of important in understanding the whole cost of production concept is evaluating how cost will changes at different levels of production. When considering the changes in costs due to changes in the amount or level of production we have to consider opportunity cost.
For example, if the total cost of producing 3 units of output is $15 and the total cost of producing 4 units of output is $17, the marginal cost of the 4th unit (or the marginal cost associated with going from 3 to 4 units) is just ($17-$15)/(4-3) = $2. The Costs of Production. In economic terms, the true cost of something is what one has to give up in order to get it. This includes explicit monetary costs of course, but it also includes implicit non-monetary costs such as the cost of one's time, effort, and foregone alternatives.
1 Cost of Production versus Cost of Production byGary Frank 1 August 17, 1998 Introduction Cost of production per unit is the costs associated with production divided by thenumber of units produced. In the example, $210 cost - $40 of straw income = $170 of residual costs.This divided by 50 bushels of wheat grain produced to equal a total cost of production of$3.40 cost per bushel.This method allows the comparison between the cost per bushel and the price perbushel of wheat grain.
Overview. Monthly milk cost-of-production (COP) estimates, and annual milk COP estimates by State and size of operation are shown below. Estimates since 2010 are based on the 2010 Agricultural Resource Management Survey (ARMS) data from milk producers. 
Production costs can be used to compare the expenses of different activities within the company. In production, there are direct costs and indirect costs. For example, direct costs for manufacturing an automobile are materials such as the plastic, metal or labor incurred to produce such an item. Indirect costs include overhead such as rent, salaries or utility expense.