prions cause neurodegenerative disease by. aggregating extracellularly within the central nervous system to form plaques known as amyloid, which disrupt the normal tissue structure. This disruption is characterized by 'holes' in the tissue with resultant spongy architecture due to the vacuole formation in the neurons. prion propagation/reproduction. by transmitting a mis-folded protein state; as with viruses the protein itself does not self-replicate, rather it induces existing polypeptides in the host organism to take on the rogue form.
A prion (/ˈpriːɒn/) is a protein that can fold in multiple, structurally distinct ways, at least one of which is transmissible to other prion proteins. It is this form of replication that leads to disease that is similar to viral infection. These refolded prions can then go on to convert more proteins themselves, leading to a chain reaction resulting in large amounts of the prion form. All known prions induce the formation of an amyloid fold, in which the protein polymerises into an aggregate consisting of tightly packed beta sheets.
Prions are not considered living organisms because they are misfolded protein molecules which may propagate by transmitting a misfolded protein state. If a prion enters a healthy organism, it induces existing, properly folded proteins to convert into the misfolded prion form. In this way, the prion acts as a template to guide the misfolding of more proteins into prion form. In yeast, this refolding is assisted by chaperone proteins such as Hsp104p. These refolded prions can then go on to convert more proteins themselves, leading to a chain reaction resulting in large amounts of the prion form. All known prions induce the formation of an amyloid fold, in which the protein polymerises into an aggregate consisting of tightly packed beta sheets.
Prion Diseases. Several conditions fall under the term prion diseases. A prion is a type of protein that can trigger normal proteins in the brain to fold abnormally. Prion diseases can affect both humans and animals and are sometimes transmitted to humans by infected meat products. The most common form of prion disease that affects humans is Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).
Prion diseases are caused by misfolded forms of the prion protein, also known as PrP. These diseases affect a lot of different mammals in addition to humans – for instance, there is scrapie in sheep, mad cow disease in cows, and chronic wasting disease in deer. Prion diseases are a group of neurodegenerative diseases caused by prions, which are “proteinaceous infectious particles.” For some background, first see this introduction to prions.
The conversion of normal prion protein (PrP C) into abnormal prion protein (PrP Sc) and replication of prions in the brain causes degeneration of neural tissue and, ultimately, death. The process by which the prion recruits normal prion protein (PrP C) to convert to the disease-causing form remains unknown. 
This post is part of a series introducing the basics of prion disease. Read the full series here. Prion diseases are a group of neurodegenerative diseases caused by prions, which are “proteinaceous infectious particles.” For some background, first see this introduction to prions.
Prion: A small proteinaceous infectious disease-causing agent that is believed to be the smallest infectious particle. A prion is neither bacterial nor fungal nor viral and contains no genetic material. 
We now know that a normal cellular protein, called PrP (for proteinaceous infectious particle) and which is found in all of us, is centrally involved in the spread of prion diseases. This protein consists of about 250 amino acids. Prions can be transmitted, possibly by eating and certainly by inoculation either directly into the brain or into skin and muscle tissue. Exponential amplification of the prion (converting pN into pD in the body) would then result in disease.
prions are infectious by. their effect on normal versions of protein. Sterilizing prions therefore involves the denaturation of the protein to a state where the molecule is no longer able to induce the abnormal folding of normal proteins. prion propagation/reproduction. by transmitting a mis-folded protein state; as with viruses the protein itself does not self-replicate, rather it induces existing polypeptides in the host organism to take on the rogue form.