Thanksgiving Day is a national holiday celebrated primarily in Canada and the United States as a day of giving thanks for the blessing of the harvest and of the preceding year. It is celebrated on the second Monday of October in Canada and on the fourth Thursday of November in the United States. Thanksgiving is now a statutory holiday in most jurisdictions of Canada, with the exception of the Atlantic provinces of Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland and Labrador, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia.
Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving Day is on the fourth Thursday of November. It is a time to give thanks for the harvest and of the preceding year. Today, Thanksgiving means spending time with family and friends over a large feast. Thanksgiving Day has been celebrated in the United States since 1863. Celebration\ Observance. Thanksgiving Day centers around family and friends where a meal is shared. The meal traditionally includes turkey, stuffing, mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes, cranberry sauce, rolls, gravy, and pumpkin pie. It's a time to reflect and give thanks for what they have.
Thanksgiving Day in the United States is a holiday on the fourth Thursday of November. It precedes Black Friday. Thanksgiving Day is a federal holiday in the United States. Thanksgiving Day is a time for many people to give thanks for what they have. Thanksgiving Day parades are held in some cities and towns on or around Thanksgiving Day. Some parades or festivities also mark the opening of the Christmas shopping season.
Thanksgiving in 2014 is on Thursday, the 27th of November. In the United States, Thanksgiving is always celebrated on the fourth Thursday of November. 
Thanksgiving Day finds its roots in America. It is celebrated with lot of fervor and euphoria on the fourth Thursday in the month of November. For the people in US Thanksgiving is a time for merrymaking, shopping, family reunion, feasts and family dinners. People also take time to thank God for his constant grace and for all the material possessions man enjoys.
Thanksgiving Day in Canada is celebrated on the second Monday in October. The first Canadian Thanksgiving Day was observed on April 15, 1872, to celebrate the recovery of the prince of Wales (later King Edward VII) from a serious illness. The most widely known early Thanksgiving is that of the Pilgrims in Plimoth, Massachusetts, who feasted for 3 days with the Wampanoag people in 1621. Turkey has become the traditional Thanksgiving fare because at one time it was a rare treat. During the 1830s, an eight-to ten-pound bird cost a day’s wages.
Thanksgiving, or Thanksgiving Day, is a holiday celebrated in the United States on the fourth Thursday in November. Since being fixed at the fourth Thursday in November by law in 1941, the holiday in the United States can occur on any date from November 22 to 28. When it falls on November 22 or 23, it is not the last Thursday, but the penultimate
In the United States, Thanksgiving is always celebrated on the fourth Thursday of November. In Canada, Thanksgiving is celebrated the 2nd Monday in October. Here's a chart that shows what day of the week Thanksgiving is celebrated from 2012 - 2022: 
Thanksgiving, or Thanksgiving Day as it is called by many is celebrated on the fourth Thursday in November each year. It is at the end of the harvest season and is an annual Federal holiday to express thanks for material and spiritual possessions. 