Thus I submit that the definition of a singer songwriter should simply be someone that performs their own songs either in public or on recordings, without regard to style or genre. Personally I do not stop being a singer songwriter because I write a Jazz tune and play it with my band, as an example. At some point we should do a complete re-write of this article, source the definition of the hyphenated term singer-songwriter and it's history, and then only add artists' names that have a source explaining why they are significant to defining this term.
1 All together, it makes for a solid little album from a singer-songwriter with a strong vision and voice. 2  The result is a crafty blend of soulful hip-hop that positively reflect the singer-songwriter's life experiences. 1 His work inspired generations of singer-songwriters. 2  All together, it makes for a solid little album from a singer-songwriter with a strong vision and voice. 3  The result is a crafty blend of soulful hip-hop that positively reflect the singer-songwriter's life experiences.
The format of a singer-songwriter concert is frequently a solo artist performing their own works, possibly with a backup band, introducing each song with some explanation of its origin, meaning, etc. For the most part, these are fairly serious songs with personal meaning to the artist. At some point we should do a complete re-write of this article, source the definition of the hyphenated term singer-songwriter and it's history, and then only add artists' names that have a source explaining why they are significant to defining this term.
Full Definition of SONGWRITER. : a person who composes words or music or both especially for popular songs. — song·writ·ing \-ˌrī-tiŋ\ noun. See songwriter defined for English-language learners. See songwriter defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A person who sings and writes popular songs, especially professionally. Example sentences. 1  His work inspired generations of singer-songwriters. 2  All together, it makes for a solid little album from a singer-songwriter with a strong vision and voice. 1 His work inspired generations of singer-songwriters. 2  All together, it makes for a solid little album from a singer-songwriter with a strong vision and voice. 3  The result is a crafty blend of soulful hip-hop that positively reflect the singer-songwriter's life experiences.
Even though this article concentrates on the specific genre, it really should mention the broader definition of the term singer-songwriter in the intro. Many musicians who are not traditional singer-songwriters but do sing and write and/or compose their music are linked to this article. At some point we should do a complete re-write of this article, source the definition of the hyphenated term singer-songwriter and it's history, and then only add artists' names that have a source explaining why they are significant to defining this term.
As opposed to contemporary pop music singers who may write or co-write their own songs, the term singer-songwriter describes a distinct form of artistry, closely associated with the folk-acoustic tradition. The concept of a singer-songwriter can be traced to ancient bardic oral tradition, which has existed in various forms throughout the world. Poems would be performed as chant or song, sometimes accompanied by a harp or other similar instrument.
singer-songwriter (singer-songwriters plural) A singer-songwriter is someone who writes and performs their own songs, especially popular songs. n-count Twenty years ago singer-songwriter John Prine released his first album. 
Singer-songwriter is used to define popular music artists who write and perform their own material, which is often self-accompanied generally on acoustic guitar or piano. Such an artist performs the roles of composer, lyricist, vocalist, instrumentalist, and often self-manager. The concept of a singer-songwriter can be traced to ancient bardic oral tradition, which has existed in various forms throughout the world. Poems would be performed as chant or song, sometimes accompanied by a harp or other similar instrument.