Peat moss reduces the leaching of nutrients present in or added to the soil, releasing them slowly over time. It is consistant in texture and easily workable. Applications include potting plants, lawn / garden soil admendments and turf management on golf courses. Peat moss comes from the surface layers of peat bogs and is made of partially decomposed plants and essential nutrients. Organic peat moss aerates plant roots by lossening heavy clay soils, or adds body to loose sandy soils.
With a near-neutral pH, it makes nutrients available to plants just as sphagnum peat does. Often called coconut peat, it is the recycled waste product of the fibrous husk of the coconut. Thus it is a renewable resource. It comes in compressed bricks, which are bulked up by adding water. 
The benefits of peat moss are surprisingly vast, not just for the garden, but to the environment as a whole. Peat regularly thrives in peat bogs and is a soft, lighter version of regular soil. It has a crumbly texture with many fibers that allow it to absorb lots of water and nutrients, releasing them as needed. It can add much-needed nutrients to your plants through the soil as a type of time-release fertilizer. Peat moss can also hold 20 times its weight in moisture, so it acts as a time-release for watering as well.
Peat moss provides the cell structure of an ideal sponge for nutrient and water absorption. It will absorb them or add them to the ground over time, depending on what you saturate the peat moss with. It can add much-needed nutrients to your plants through the soil as a type of time-release fertilizer. Peat moss can also hold 20 times its weight in moisture, so it acts as a time-release for watering as well.
Nutrients. Peat moss, composed primarily of sphagnum moss, does not itself add many nutrients to the soil. It does, however, absorb and retain nutrients that are in soil -- either naturally or derived from compost or fertilizers -- making them available to plants. It is composed of the partially rotted remains of plants that have died in water-soaked areas known as bogs. Easily available from garden shops, nurseries and big box stores with garden departments, peat moss offers many benefits when it is mixed into topsoil or gardening soil.
By Jackie Carroll. Peat moss first became available to gardeners in the mid-1900s and since then it has revolutionized the way we grow plants. It has a remarkable ability to manage water efficiently and hold on to nutrients that would otherwise leach out of the soil. It also holds onto nutrients so that they aren’t rinsed out of the soil when you water the plant. Peat moss alone does not make a good potting medium. It must be mixed with other ingredients to make up between one-third to two-thirds of the total volume of the mix.
With a pH around 4.0, sphagnum peat moss is a great soil amendment for acid-loving plants such as azaleas and blueberries. When planting acid-loving plants, mix sphagnum peat moss with soil at a 50/50 ratio in the planting hole and apply a 2-inch layer over the soil surface. The peat helps to lower the soil's pH, allowing the plants to absorb nutrients such as iron. 
It holds several times its weight in moisture, and releases the moisture to the plants roots as needed. It also holds onto nutrients so that they aren’t rinsed out of the soil when you water the plant. Peat moss alone does not make a good potting medium. It must be mixed with other ingredients to make up between one-third to two-thirds of the total volume of the mix.
Overview. Hydroponics is an alternative gardening practice of growing plants without soil. Instead of soil, gardeners choose to use other mediums that adequately provide water and nutrient support for the plant, such as sphagnum peat moss. The moss is able to sufficiently retain water and minerals for the plant while providing drainage and root support. Gardeners can use sphagnum peat moss to grow plants in weaved containers that normally wouldn't allow for soil. Also, peat moss can effectively plug up lattice or net-pots used in hydroponics, slowing the drainage of the nutrient solution as it flows into the reservoir for recycling.
CORVALLIS, Ore. – Generations of gardeners have recognized the benefits of adding peat moss to garden and potting soil. Although it has little nutrient value, it's a good soil amendment. It lightens the soil, allows air to enter, holds moisture without being soggy and generally improves soil structure. Not as acidic as peat, coir is similarly low in nutrients. Available in bales at garden centers ready for use, coir, is also sold in compressed bricks, that expand into several times their volume when moistened. The price of coir is usually comparable to peat.