Eggs hatch after 25 to 30 days of incubation. The young, called goslings, can walk, swim, and feed within 24 hours. Both parents (especially the gander) vigorously defend the goslings until they are able to fly, which is at about ten weeks. The young geese remain with their family group for about one year. If the nest or eggs are destroyed, geese often re-nest in or near the first nest. Canada geese can raise one clutch per year. Longevity and Mortality Predators of Canada geese and their eggs include humans, coyotes, raccoons, skunks, bobcats, and foxes, as well as gulls, eagles, crows, ravens, and magpies.
(Betsy flipping her eggs). Incubation lasts about 25-30 days. Most Canada geese remain on their nests for 23 out of 24 hours, taking short nesting breaks to stretch and feed. Others may take longer nest breaks lasting up to an hour or more. They're a lot of fun to watch when they take nesting breaks. The eggs could have been laid by an immature goose who wasn't ready to have a nest this year. A Canada goose egg is about three times the size of a chicken egg and weighs about 5 ounces. Nests are spaced about 30-50 feet from each other and ganders patrol their territory, seldom venturing into other gander territories.
Nesting Canada geese build their nests with dried grass and reeds piled about 6-12 inches off the ground. Most of the nests contain between four to seven eggs. This year, Smoky had 12 eggs but I suspect that another goose might have dumped her eggs in Smoky's nest! The eggs could have been laid by an immature goose who wasn't ready to have a nest this year. A Canada goose egg is about three times the size of a chicken egg and weighs about 5 ounces. Nests are spaced about 30-50 feet from each other and ganders patrol their territory, seldom venturing into other gander territories.
In the spring, the female will lay about 20 eggs which she will set … on both day and night until the eggs hatch about 28 days later.   I am not joking, but if you want to use an incubator there are many sites on the web to tell you how and where to get the eggs. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The incubation period for Canada Geese in the wild is 25-28 days. Incubation actually starts only after the goose lays all of her eggs. It is exciting to watch, but remember to watch from a distance, so the mother will not feel threatened and abandon the nest. RE: How long does it take for goose eggs to hatch? I saw a nest at work with quite a few goose eggs in it and am wondering how long the incubation period is? I&#39;m very excited to see the babies.
Winter of '08/'09 I had been sent some eggs that were thought to be goose eggs, so I asked the experts here on BYC (mainly Miss Prissy) the best ways to hatch goose eggs. Here is what I came up with. Most goose eggs take from 28 to 32 days to hatch. However, it is not uncommon for them to hatch anywhere from day 26 to day 35. Goose eggs take the same temperature as chickens---99.5 forced air and 101.5 still air. They also need a much higher humidity--at least 65% from days 1-26, then 85% or more until they hatch. 
Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime.
Infertile eggs should be discarded and fertile eggs should be returned to the nest. 5. Wait until the eggs hatch. Incubation can take 28 to 35 days, and hatching can take as long as three days. 1  Keep the conditions of the nest clean throughout this entire period and continue turning the eggs each day during the entire process. Store the eggs briefly. Place them in a styrofoam carton and store the eggs for seven days in a cooled area. The temperature should be kept between 55 and 60 degrees Fahrenheit (13 and 16 degrees Celsius), with 70 to 75 percent humidity.