Answers. Best Answer: Icha Icha Paradise: The first book to appear in the series. It was so famous that it was made into a movie. Icha Icha Violence: The second book. Also became a movie, as seen in episode 101. Icha Icha Tactics: The third book. Naruto Uzumaki gives this book to Kakashi when he returns to Konoha after a two-and-a-half year absence.
1 As a result of Jiraiya's death, this is the last book in the series. 2  Ero Ero Paradigm (エロエロパラダイム, Ero Ero Paradaimu): A book that can be seen holding by Kakashi on the cover of chapter 531. 3  Icha Icha Strap: A book only seen in the game Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3 that can be given to Ebisu.
Best Answer: Icha Icha Paradise: The first book to appear in the series. It was so famous that it was made into a movie. Icha Icha Violence: The second book. Also became a movie, as seen in episode 101. Icha Icha Tactics: The third book. Naruto Uzumaki gives this book to Kakashi when he returns to Konoha after a two-and-a-half year absence.
6,040 pages on this wiki. Icha Icha (イチャイチャ, Icha Icha) is a series of best-selling novels written by Jiraiya. Little is known about the novel's plot, but it is noted to be about a passionate love between a man and a woman. Kakashi Hatake is a big fan of the series and is shown reading one of them most of the time.
Answer by Noemikez3. Confidence votes 2.1K. The name of the book Kakashi reads is called Icha Icha or Make Out written by Jiraya. There are 3 official books in the series Make-Out Paradise, Make-Out Violence, and Make-Out Tactics. There is also the unofficial Make-Out Strap book only seen in the Naruto video game Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3.
1 Ero Ero Paradigm (エロエロパラダイム, Ero Ero Paradaimu): A book that can be seen holding by Kakashi on the cover of chapter 531. 2  Icha Icha Strap: A book only seen in the game Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3 that can be given to Ebisu.
Kakashi exited his apartment with the latest edition of the Icha Icha series in his happy little hands. Naruto had given it to him as a gift when he'd returned to the village the other day. Unfortunately he'd been unable to read it immediately because Tsunade had ordered him to test Naruto and Sakura.