If you are talking about Printer is in Paused state, please try the following to get it working. - Go to Devices and Printers through the start menu. - Right click on the Printer which is paused and select See what's Printing. - Click on Printer from the menu bar in the new window that opened. - Uncheck (or click) on Pause Printing from the list. This should get the printer working.
Print a document. 1  Open an item that you want to print, then choose Print from the File menu, or press Command-P. 2  Choose your printer from the Printer pop-up menu, which lists nearby printers. 3  You may need to wait a moment for the printer to appear in the menu. You can take any of these actions from the print queue: 1  View status messages about your printer, such as Printer is not connected.. 2  View jobs that are in progress, waiting to be printed, or couldn't be printed because of a problem with the printer or its connection. 3  Pause, resume, or delete jobs.
Printers on Mac OS X have options to pause, resume and cancel print jobs that are in progress. Managing your business printing jobs allows you to determine if a print job has been successfully sent or if issues are preventing it from printing. You can unpause a print job in process by accessing the printer's job settings. Pausing a print job makes it possible to let more important print jobs go first in the queue. When the high-priority print jobs have run, you can unpause the printer.
If the printer status is Paused: (Windows® XP and Windows Vista®). Right click on the icon for your Brother machine and choose Resume Printing. (If the menu reads Pause Printing, there is no problem in the printer status.). If you are not the administrator, choose Run As administrator Resume Printing and click continue. Check your printer's status. If the printer status is Offline: (Windows® XP and Windows Vista®). Right click on the icon for your Brother machine and choose Use Printer Online. If you are not the administrator, choose Run As administrator Use Printer Online and click continue. (Windows® 7 or later). See what's printing Printer Use Printer Offline (Take the checkmark off.). If Use Printer Offline is greyed out, click Open As Administrator
In reply to: my printer is paused and i can't get it off pause. click on ur printer icon on the task bar then you wii see three titles which are printer,document,view,click on printer,under printer u will see unpause then unmark it and start printing. Flag. Permalink. 3 total posts. Collapse -. Re: my printer is paused and i can't get it off pause. by Kees Bakker / August 14, 2004 5:36 AM PDT. In reply to: my printer is paused and i can't get it off pause. Usually, a reboot clears all printing problems not caused by a defective printer or a wrong driver installed.
If, by accident, you paused the printer itself and it won't come off pause just go to the printer-settings window, right click on the printer and unpause it (only after following the above). Source(s): smgray99 · 10 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Once reported, our moderators will be notified and the post will be reviewed. You are reporting the following post: my printer is paused and i can't get it off pause. This post has been flagged and will be reviewed by our staff. 3 total posts. Collapse -. Re: my printer is paused and i can't get it off pause. by Kees Bakker / August 14, 2004 5:36 AM PDT. In reply to: my printer is paused and i can't get it off pause. Usually, a reboot clears all printing problems not caused by a defective printer or a wrong driver installed.
Select Start | Devices and Printers. Double-click on the printer to which you are trying to print and then double-click on See what's printing (if you have a printer icon in the system tray, you may be able to open this dialog by clicking on it). Select the document that is paused, then click on Document and select Resume. 