The aortic valve is a flap-like opening located between the left side of the heart and the aorta. The aorta is the main artery carrying blood from the heart. Blood is pumped by the left ventricle across the aortic valve into the aorta and the arteries of the body. 
All the valves are trileaflet, with the exemption of the mitral valve, which has two leaflets. All four cardiac valves are surrounded by fibrous tissue forming partial or complete valvular rings, or annuli. These annuli join the fibrous skeleton of the heart to support and anchor the valvular structures. The aortic valve is situated between the left ventricular outflow tract and the ascending aorta. The normal human heart contains four valves that regulate blood flow into and out of the heart. The aortic and pulmonic valves are identified as the semilunar valves, whereas the tricuspid and mitral valves are referred to as the atrioventricular valves.
Aortic valve stenosis is usually defined by restricted systolic opening of the valve leaflets, with a mean transvalvular pressure gradient of at least 10 mm Hg. The cause of the stenosis can be further defined based on the anatomy and disease process affecting the valve. Calcific aortic stenosis, formerly referred to as degenerative, affects trileaflet aortic valves, often in patients with other risk factors for atherosclerotic disease. The aortic valve leaflets undergo an active disease process, with lipid deposition, inflammation, and osteo-calcific changes.
Aortic Valve (Definition). The aortic valve is one of 4 valves in the heart, each of which separates 2 cardiac chambers. It opens when blood is actively ejected from the left ventricle into the aorta artery, to be carried to the rest of the body. 5. Get help from a doctor now ›. See below: The aortic valve is the outflow valve and it is located on the left side of the heart. It opens to allow blood to leave the left ventricle and it closes to prevent backflow of blood into the ventricle.
The aortic valve normally has three cusps or leaflets, although in 1-2% of the population it is found to congenitally have two leaflets. It lies between the left ventricle and the aorta. The aortic valve is one of the two semilunar valves of the heart, the other being the pulmonary valve. The heart has four valves and the other two are the mitral and the tricuspid valves.
When you have aortic valve regurgitation, the aortic valve doesn't close as it should. With each heartbeat, some of the blood leaks back (regurgitates) through the aortic valve into the left ventricle. The body does not get enough blood, so the heart has to work harder to make up for it. The most common causes of sudden (acute) aortic valve regurgitation include: 1  Endocarditis, which is an infection in the heart. 2  Aortic dissection, which means that the inner layer of the aorta separates from the middle layer. 3  Problems with a replacement (artificial) aortic valve. 4  Trauma to the heart valve or aorta.
Aortic valve regurgitation is a problem with the aortic valve. The aortic valve allows blood to flow from the heart 's lower left chamber (ventricle) into the aorta and to the body. The most common causes of sudden (acute) aortic valve regurgitation include: 1  Endocarditis, which is an infection in the heart. 2  Aortic dissection, which means that the inner layer of the aorta separates from the middle layer. 3  Problems with a replacement (artificial) aortic valve. 4  Trauma to the heart valve or aorta.
Definition. Aortic valve regurgitation — or aortic regurgitation — is a condition that occurs when your heart's aortic valve doesn't close tightly. Aortic valve regurgitation allows some of the blood that was just pumped out of your heart's main pumping chamber (left ventricle) to leak back into it. The leakage may prevent your heart from efficiently pumping blood to the rest of your body. As a result, you may feel fatigued and short of breath.
In older adults, mild thickening, calcification, or both of a trileaflet aortic valve without restricted leaflet motion (i.e., aortic sclerosis) affects about 25% of the population older than 65 years. Calcific aortic stenosis (Fig. 1) , however, affects approximately 2% to 3% of those older than 75 years. Calcific aortic stenosis, formerly referred to as degenerative, affects trileaflet aortic valves, often in patients with other risk factors for atherosclerotic disease. The aortic valve leaflets undergo an active disease process, with lipid deposition, inflammation, and osteo-calcific changes.