One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). While the sugar present in a RNA molecule is ribose, the sugar present in a molecule of DNA is deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is the same as ribose, except that the former has one more OH. DNA does not usually exist as a single molecule, but instead as a tightly-associated pair of molecules.
The sugar in RNA is ribose, whereas the sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The only difference between the two is that in deoxyribose, there is an oxygen missing from the 2' carbon … (there is a H there instead of an OH). This makes DNA more stable/less reactive than RNA. Both DNA and RNA contain sugars. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose, and the sugar in RNA is ribose, which is similar to deoxyribose but contains one more atom of oxygen per mole … cule.
In DNA, the sugar found is 2-deoxyribose. In RNA, the sugar found is ribose. Both are 5-carbon sugars. The only difference between them is that the first mentioned above has … one oxygen atom less than ribose sugar, at the position 2'. Both DNA and RNA contain sugars. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose, and the sugar in RNA is ribose, which is similar to deoxyribose but contains one more atom of oxygen per mole … cule.
Ribose Sugar. The sugar found in RNA (as opposed to deoxyribose in DNA). Ribose is a 5-carbon sugar, and has one more oxygen on it than deoxyribose does. At the center of each RNA nucleotide is a 5 carbon sugar-ribose sugar, attached to that is the phosphate group & a nitrogenous bases. Deoxyribose is the sugar molecules found in DNA. They have one less oxygen atom than ribose sugar which is found in RNA. The backbone of the DNA is made up of phosphate and deoxyribose.
The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, a pentose sugar (meaning it has 5 carbons). D eoxyribose is a 5 carbon pentose which has one less oxygen molecule compared to pentose ribose. In DNA, the sugar found is 2-deoxyribose. In RNA, the sugar found is ribose. Both are 5-carbon sugars. The only difference between them is that the first mentioned above has … one oxygen atom less than ribose sugar, at the position 2'. Answered.
DNA is composed of a) Sugars b) Nitrogenous bases DNA expanded stands for De-oxyribo Nucleic Acid. The sugars found in DNA are de-oxy ribose. These are sugars with 5 carbons (pentoses). Unlike the sugars in RNA (ribose) which also have 5 carbons, de-oxy ribose lacks a hydroxyl (-OH) group in the second position. This is considered to be one of the reasons DNA is more stable than RNA. The nitrogenous bases found in DNA are purines (adenine and guanine) and pyrmidines (cytosine and thymine)
In DNA Deoxyribose is the sugar found. In RNA ribose is the sugar found. The way to distinguish between DNA and RNA is that DNA does not contain oxygen at carbon 2. Best Answer: DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose (hence deoxyribonucleic acid and RNA contains ribose (hence ribonucleic acid) The two molecules differ in sugars in that in DNA, deoxyribose has one less oxygen than RNA's ribose. Source(s): đάνίđ · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.