In humans there are 13 vitamins: 4 fat-soluble (A, D, E, and K) and 9 water-soluble (8 B vitamins and vitamin C). Water-soluble vitamins dissolve easily in water and, in general, are readily excreted from the body, to the degree that urinary output is a strong predictor of vitamin consumption. Anti-vitamins are chemical compounds that inhibit the absorption or actions of vitamins. For example, avidin is a protein in egg whites that inhibits the absorption of biotin. Pyrithiamine is similar to thiamine, vitamin B1, and inhibits the enzymes that use thiamine.
Different Types of Vitamins. Vitamins, one of the most essential nutrients required by the body, can be broadly classified into two broad categories namely, water-soluble vitamins and fat-soluble vitamins. On the contrary, fat-soluble vitamins (Vitamins A, D, E, and K) get stored in the body's fatty tissues. There are distinctive kinds of vitamins and each vitamin play a unique role in promoting health fitness.
Water-Soluble Vitamins. These types of vitamins require regular supply in the form of dietary sources or supplements. These are nontoxic and easily absorbed into the body through the gastrointestinal tract and then disseminated in the tissues. Any excess quantity of this vitamin consumed does not accumulate in the body and gets stored. Dietary sources of vitamin A include milk, dairy products such as cheese, butter, yogurt, fish liver oils, eggs, chicken, liver, beef, kidney, fruits like mangoes, peaches, apricots, cantaloupe, winter squash, leafy vegetables, pumpkin, carrots and sweet potatoes.
The vitamin A found in plants serves different functions than the vitamin A found in animals. The animal sources of vitamin A are liver, whole milk, and fortified foods, and the plant sources include colorful fruits and vegetables like carrots, spinach, kale, and cantaloupe. Vitamins are an essential part of our diet. Without an adequate amount of vitamins, a deficiency will occur. Vitamins are naturally found in the foods that we consume and are also found in supplements. A well-balanced diet is often enough to meet the vitamin needs of healthy individuals.
Water-soluble vitamins. Water-soluble vitamins travel freely through the body, and excess amounts usually are excreted by the kidneys. The body needs water-soluble vitamins in frequent, small doses. These vitamins are not as likely as fat-soluble vitamins to reach toxic level
VITAMIN A (Retinol, retinal, and retinoic acid — three active forms of vitamin A in the body — are retinoids, preformed vitamin A. Beta carotene can easily be converted to vitamin A as needed.). Essential for vision Lycopene may lower prostate cancer risk. Keeps tissues and skin healthy. 
There are two different types of vitamin A. The first type, preformed vitamin A, is found in meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. The second type, provitamin A, is found in fruits, vegetables, and other plant-based products. 
Here is a list of different vitamin types: 1  Vitamin A: it helps a great deal in improving your eyesight. 2  Also it aids in maintaining healthy skin. 3  Rich sources of vitamin A are: eggs, milk, apricots, carrots, spinach and sweet potatoes etc. On the contrary, fat-soluble vitamins (Vitamins A, D, E, and K) get stored in the body's fatty tissues. There are distinctive kinds of vitamins and each vitamin play a unique role in promoting health fitness.
Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body's cells and are not excreted as easily as water-soluble vitamins. They do not need to be consumed as often as water-soluble vitamins, although adequate amounts are needed. If you take too much of a fat-soluble vitamin, it could become toxic. Water-soluble vitamins travel freely through the body, and excess amounts usually are excreted by the kidneys. The body needs water-soluble vitamins in frequent, small doses. These vitamins are not as likely as fat-soluble vitamins to reach toxic levels