Therefore, castings are supplied with available nutrients. The nutrients are also water-soluble and immediately available to the plant. You will find that most potting soils have a nutrient life for 2 to 5 days, where worm castings will last up to 6 times as long. You will need 5 times as much potting soil to do the same job as worm castings. So in the long run, worm castings are much cheaper and do a much better job. Because Worm Castings will never burn plants, you can use as much of it as you like. Benefits of Worm Castings. 1  The humus in the worm castings extracts toxins and harmful fungi and bacteria from the soil. 2  Worm Castings therefore have the ability to fight off plant diseases
An earthworm produces its weight in castings daily. Worm castings are a wonderful fertilizer, rich in nutrients otherwise unavailable to plants. In cold weather, a soil search will turn up mature and young earthworms as well as eggs. By late spring, most worms are mature. 
Worm Castings Problems. The nutrients in worm castings are important for plant growth. Worm mounds in yard areas are more of a problem than those in garden beds. Worm mounds in soil are just concentrated nutrients and cause no harm to most plants. Worm castings in lawn area, however, cause more of an issue. 
3. Earthworm castings are easy to use. This makes an excellent potting mix or mix to plant in the ground: 25% earthworm castings mixed with 75% soil is a common mix. On established plants, simply sprinkle about 1/4 inch earthworm castings around the plant that is to be fed and fertilized. Work it into the soil lightly.
Mix and aggregate soil. As they consume organic matter and mineral particles, earthworms excrete wastes in the form of casts, a type of soil aggregate. Charles Darwin calculated that earthworms can move large amounts of soil from the lower strata to the surface and also carry organic matter down into deeper soil layers. A large proportion of soil passes through the guts of earthworms, and they can turn over the top six inches (15 cm) of soil in ten to twenty years.
As well as an abundance of available nutrients, Wiggle Worm Soil Builder™ Pure Earthworm Castings also provide a perfect mix of nutrients that are not readily available, but present for long term nutritional needs. This allows plants to feed as needed for weeks and months at a time, depending on the plant. Yet another benefit of Wiggle Worm Soil Builder™ Pure Earthworm Castings is their ability to improve soil structure. These miniature football shaped particles improve aeration of the soil as they don't pack together. This allows roots the ability to grow fast and fibrous which promotes rapid plant growth.
As the organic matter moves through the alimentary canal of the earthworm, a thin layer of oil is deposited on the castings. This layer erodes over a period of 2 months. So although the plant nutrients are immediately available, they are slowly released to last longer. Because Worm Castings will never burn plants, you can use as much of it as you like. Benefits of Worm Castings. 1  The humus in the worm castings extracts toxins and harmful fungi and bacteria from the soil. 2  Worm Castings therefore have the ability to fight off plant diseases
You will need 5 times as much potting soil to do the same job as the worm castings. So, in the long run, worm castings are much cheaper and do a much better job. Also, castings hold 2-3 times their weight in water. That means you water less and the pot will stay damper for a longer period. Earthworm castings, in addition to their use as potting soil, can be used as a planting soil for trees, vegetables, shrubs, and flowers. They may be used as mulch so that the minerals leach directly into the ground when watered.
Instead of teeth, earthworms have a gizzard like a chicken that grinds the soil and organic matter that they consume. Their main intent is to eat the soil microorganisms that live in and on the soil and organic matter. Worm excrement is commonly called worm casts or castings. Earthworms are part of a host of organisms that decompose organic matter in the soil. As earthworms digest the microorganisms and organic matter in soil, the form of nutrients is changed as materials pass through the earthworm’s gut.