Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks.
pumice The type of igneous rock that floats is called Pumice. It isn't lighter than other rocks, just less dense because it has lots of very small air bubbles trapped in it. Y … ou can see these if you look at the exterior of the rock. A non porous rock is a rock which has interlocking grains so water can't get into it. A porous rock is like a sponge and a non porous rock is like a stone.
Rocks with rounded grains are more likely to absorb water than rocks with interlocking grains. This is because the water can get into the gaps between the grains. Rocks that absorb water are described as being porous. Rocks with rounded grains are usually softer and more crumbly than rocks with interlocking grains. So porous rocks tend to be softer than non-porous rocks.
Pumice is a light-colored, extremely porous igneous rock that forms during explosive volcanic eruptions. It is used as aggregate in lightweight concrete, as landscaping aggregate, and as an abrasive in a variety of industrial and consumer products. 
Because the pores are formed by trapped gas bubbles porous igneous rocks generally are still water proof as each pore (or most of them) areclosed and separate from each other. All down to the formation of the rock types. Igneous are created by the cooling of magma, either within the earth itself (Intrusive) or as it erupts out of the ground (Extrusive). This cools to form vaious hard rocks such as Granite.
Porous rocks. Rocks with rounded grains are more likely to absorb water than rocks with interlocking grains. This is because the water can get into the gaps between the grains. Rocks that absorb water are called porous. Rocks with rounded grains are usually softer and more crumbly than rocks with interlocking grains. So porous rocks tend to be softer than non-p
Believe it or not, some porous rocks are considered impermeable. No rock is completely impermeable, but some porous rocks like shale and pumice are mostly impermeable, because … the pores are not interconnected, thus not allowing fluids or gases to pass through them. This is why shale makes a good cap-rock, and pumice floats instead of sinking. 2 people found this useful. A non porous rock is a rock which has interlocking grains so water can't get into it. A porous rock is like a sponge and a non porous rock is like a stone.
Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks.
None of these have pores usually. But when the magma erupts as in a volcanoe, and if the volcanoe also contains lots of gass then you get very porous igneous rocks, such as vascular basalt, right through to pumice, whick is a glassy sponge, so light it floats on water. All down to the formation of the rock types. Igneous are created by the cooling of magma, either within the earth itself (Intrusive) or as it erupts out of the ground (Extrusive). This cools to form vaious hard rocks such as Granite.