RE: What happens during the process of translation? A) Messenger RNA is made from DNA B) The cell uses information from messenger RNA to produce proteins C) Transfer RNA is made from messenger RNA D) Copies of DNA molecules are made. Source(s): process translation: https://biturl.im/8RrsP.
The Cell uses a messenger Rna code to make proteins. This is called The Genetic Code. During the process of translation ,The cell uses information from mRNA to produce protein. This mRNA was produced through the process of transcription, which occurs in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. 7 people found this useful. 
In molecular biology and genetics, translation is the process in which cellular ribosomes create proteins. In translation, messenger RNA (mRNA) —produced by transcription from DNA —is decoded by a ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide. The polypeptide later folds into an active protein and performs its functions in the cell.
Protein synthesis is accomplished through a process called translation. After DNA is transcribed into a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule during transcription, the mRNA must be translated to produce a protein. 
Best Answer: B) The cell uses information from mRNA to produce protein. This mRNA was produced through the process of transcription, which occurs in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. A) Messenger RNA is made from DNA B) The cell uses information from messenger RNA to produce proteins C) Transfer RNA is made from messenger RNA D) Copies of DNA molecules are made. Source(s): process translation: https://biturl.im/8RrsP.
The Cell uses a messenger Rna code to make proteins. This is called The Genetic Code. During the process of translation ,The cell uses information from mRNA to produce protein. This mRNA was produced through the process of transcription, which occurs in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. During the process of translation, an mRNA message is decoded into a polypeptide chain (protein). + 21 others found this useful. Debbie Heitman. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Polypeptides (i.e. proteins) are created during the process of translation. Translation occurs at the ribosomes-the mRNA codon (3-base code) is matched with the correspondin … g anti-codon on tRNA. The tRNA carries an amino acid, which is joined to the chain being created. During the process of translation, an mRNA message is decoded into a polypeptide chain (protein). + 21 others found this useful. Debbie Heitman. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Report Abuse. Transcription is the process by which genetic information from DNA is transferred into RNA. DNA sequence is enzymatically copied by RNA polymerase to produce a complementary nucleotide RNA strand. One significant difference between RNA and DNA sequence is the presence of U, or uracil in RNA instead of the T, or thymine of DNA.
Translation of an mRNA molecule by the ribosome occurs in three stages: initiation, elongation, and termination. During initiation, the small ribosomal subunit binds to the start of the mRNA sequence. Translation occurs in a structure called the ribosome, which is a factory for the synthesis of proteins.
translation / RNA translation. Translation is the process by which a protein is synthesized from the information contained in a molecule of messenger RNA (mRNA). Translation occurs in a structure called the ribosome, which is a factory for the synthesis of proteins.