Shredding the cabbage. Place the shredded cabbage in a bowl and add salt. If you want to add some other herbs or greens, this is a good time to do it. I sometimes add one or two apples, caraway seeds, a few carrots or perhaps some coriander leaves. Greens add taste and makes your sauerkraut look appealing
Korea has a version of sauerkraut called kimchee, which is fermented spiced cabbage. Sauerkraut and kimchee contain beneficial bacteria that help with the digestive process and are a great way to naturally cure yeast infections. There’s also research linking kimchee with high antibiotic potency and longevity. Sauerkraut and kimchee can be used as a garnish or added to salads and sandwiches.
Yeast Allergy Vs. Yeast allergy and Yeast symptom are not the same. Yeast allergy is when your body is allergic to the yeast, and when it enters your body your mast cells release Histamine. The histamine is what causes the reactions (like swelling, upset stomach, etc.). Yeast Syndrome is when the yeast begins to grow in your gut. This syndrome is often called Candidiasis. 
Fermented Foods. Sauerkraut and kimchi are the most commonly used fermented foods. Both are types of fermented cabbage. The cabbage actually comes ‘pre-loaded’ with the bacteria need to ferment itself. When you buy either sauerkraut or kimchi in the supermarket, make sure that you buy the ‘raw’ or ‘unpasteurized’ form. 
Since sauerkraut is a food, it is not meant to treat or cure any disease. As a result, no specific health claims are made for it. However, since it does contain several strains of lactic acid bacteria, I believe that it belongs in a healthy lifestyle. Fermented cabbage has less sugars and more beneficial microbes than the raw cabbage, while still maintaining most of the vitamin C and other nutrients in the raw cabbage. While the live cultures use up some of the cabbage's nutrients, the benefits they provide outweigh the losses.
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus or yeast found in the human body. It normally exists on many surfaces of the body, including the skin and the gastrointestinal tract, coexisting with other microorganisms like bacteria and other types of fungi. 
In sauerkraut, the fermentation process has a very specific purpose: to quickly proliferate through the food by lactic acid-producing bacteria (LABs), primarily Lactobacilli. These Lactobacilli cause the pH to be reduced, making the environment acidic and unsuitable for the growth of unwanted bacteria. In the presence of oxygen yeasts can be oxidized to form vinegar-not something we want in our sauerkraut. Yeasts can also cause off-flavors and discoloration, visible signs you need a better seal on your sauerkraut. Pink sauerkraut (not from red cabbage) is a sign of yeast.
Sauerkraut is basically cabbage fermented in salt water. The right amount of salt in the water is important to allow the live cultures of lactic acid bacteria and friendly yeasts to thrive, yet keep the harmful bacteria from multiplying. This keeps the cabbage crunchy and unspoiled. Fermented cabbage has less sugars and more beneficial microbes than the raw cabbage, while still maintaining most of the vitamin C and other nutrients in the raw cabbage. While the live cultures use up some of the cabbage's nutrients, the benefits they provide outweigh the losses.
Temperature is also an important consideration. Cabbage ferments best at about 65-75 degrees F. Over 75 degrees, it may ferment too quickly and become soft. If you eat it the ferment too soon, the beneficial bacteria and yeasts haven’t had a chance to take over. Fermented cabbage has less sugars and more beneficial microbes than the raw cabbage, while still maintaining most of the vitamin C and other nutrients in the raw cabbage. While the live cultures use up some of the cabbage's nutrients, the benefits they provide outweigh the losses.