1 SRS is delivered by a team involving a radiation oncologist and a neurosurgeon. 2  Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) refers to one or several stereotactic radiation treatments with the body, excluding the brain or spine. 1 Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) refers to a singe or several stereotactic radiation treatments of the brain or spine. 2 
Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT). Stereotactic body radiation therapy (known as SBRT) is a very precise form of radiation therapy is a non-surgical approach that delivers high doses of radiation therapy in an incredibly targeted manner, in much higher doses. 
November 18, 2010January 16, 2014 by Colorado CyberKnife. Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT), also called stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR), is a type of radiation therapy in which a few very high doses of radiation are delivered to small, well-defined tumors. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery. Stereotactic radiosurgery is a nonsurgical, highly precise form of radiation therapy we use to treat cancers of the brain, lung, as well as other types of cancer that require a high degree of precision. With regular radiation therapy treatment, healthy tissue also receives radiation. 
Stereotactic radiation therapy. Stereotactic radiation therapy is a type of external beam radiation therapy. Stereo means 3-dimensional (3-D) and tactic means to probe. Stereotactic radiation therapy allows radiation beams to be given to a very specific area, usually the brain. There are 2 ways to deliver stereotactic radiation therapy treatment. 1  Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) delivers a single high dose of radiation to the tumour (called a single fraction). People receiving stereotactic radiation therapy to the brain wear a special head frame (stereotactic frame) during their treatment. 1  When SRS is used, the head frame is attached to the skull. 2  When SRT is used, a removable head frame or a special face mask keeps the head in position.
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a non-surgical radiation therapy used to treat functional abnormalities and small tumors of the brain. It can deliver precisely-targeted radiation in fewer high-dose treatments than traditional therapy, which can help preserve healthy tissue. When SRS is used to treat body tumors, it’s called stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). SRS and SBRT are usually performed on an outpatient basis.
Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is used to treat small tumors in the chest, abdomen or pelvis that cannot be removed surgically or treated with conventional radiation therapy, including: 1  Small lung cancers. 2  Cancers that started elsewhere and spread to the lung (lung metastases). 1 Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) refers to a singe or several stereotactic radiation treatments of the brain or spine. 2  SRS is delivered by a team involving a radiation oncologist and a neurosurgeon.
Stereotactic radiosurgery, or SRS, is a special form of radiation therapy. It is not surgery. Description. Radiation either kills tumor cells directly or interferes with their ability to grow. However, radiation cannot tell the difference between tumor cells and healthy cells—it affects both. 
Stereotactic radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy that uses special equipment to position the patient and precisely deliver radiation to a tumor. The total dose of radiation is divided into several smaller doses given over several days. Stereotactic radiation therapy is used to treat brain tumors and other brain disorders. It is also being studied in the treatment of other types of cancer, such as lung cancer. Also called stereotactic external-beam radiation therapy and stereotaxic radiation therapy. What differentiates Stereotactic from conventional radiotherapy is the precision with which it is delivered.
There are two types of stereotactic radiation: 1  Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) refers to a singe or several stereotactic radiation treatments of the brain or spine. 2  Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) refers to one or several stereotactic radiation treatments with the body, excluding the brain or spine. 1 Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) refers to a singe or several stereotactic radiation treatments of the brain or spine. 2  SRS is delivered by a team involving a radiation oncologist and a neurosurgeon.