Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Lani in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Lani in Nautical Flags page. Names also often had repulsive or vulgar meanings in an attempt to protect the child from evil forces. Today, names are used in a more gender based way (e.g. names ending in-lani are used more frequently for girls) and names with negative meanings are generally no longer used.
Lani is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced La-ni. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2533 in baby name popularity for girls with 70 occurrences. Names also often had repulsive or vulgar meanings in an attempt to protect the child from evil forces. Today, names are used in a more gender based way (e.g. names ending in-lani are used more frequently for girls) and names with negative meanings are generally no longer used.
[ 2 syll. la-ni, lan-i ] The baby girl name Lani is also used as a boy name, though the use for girls is far more popular. It is pronounced as L AA-Niy- †. Lani's language of origin is Hawaiian. It is predominantly used in Hawaiian and English. It is derived literally from the word lani with the meaning 'heaven, sky'. This is also a common element found in longer Hawaiian names. In addition, Lani is a form (Hawaiian) of the English and Hawaiian Kalani. Lani is also a shortening of the Hawaiian Kealani. Lani has 15 forms.
Lani in the Hawaiian language means  heaven , and in some cases,  sky .. The word is derived from Proto-Polynesian * raŋi. 
Rae is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Rae. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2173 in baby name popularity for girls with 87 occurrences. It ranked 10372 in popular baby names for boys with 7 occurrences.
Personal experiences with the name Lani: | Edit. Surf's Up the movie and My Nickname. My middle name is Nohalani so people often call me Lani. I love it! It's spunky, original and breezy. I love the meaning and Hawaiian association. ------. My name is Lani, and I've grown to love it, but growing up in the Midwest I was commonly called Lainey and other similar names. 
Lalani /la-la-ni/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Lalani's root is Hawaiian, and the name Lalani means heavenly lei; royal child of heaven. Lalani is a variant transcription of Leilani (Hawaiian). Compare surname Lalwani. Kreatif forms: Lalali, Lialani, Loelani. Lalani is a rare given name for females but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#29696 out of 150436, Top 20%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Lalani and related names.
Scottish Meaning: The name Rae is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Rae is: Grace. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
View the Lani Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lani has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lani to other names. Names also often had repulsive or vulgar meanings in an attempt to protect the child from evil forces. Today, names are used in a more gender based way (e.g. names ending in-lani are used more frequently for girls) and names with negative meanings are generally no longer used.
View the Rae Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rae has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rae to other names. Rae is a variant spelling of Ray. The name Raelene is a form of Rae. Rae falls into the animal name category. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Rae. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2173 in baby name popularity for girls with 87 occurrences. It ranked 10372 in popular baby names for boys with 