A combination of muscles and tendons keeps your arm bone centered in your shoulder socket. These tissues are called the rotator cuff. They cover the head of your upper arm bone and attach it to your shoulder blade. The upper end of the biceps muscle has two tendons that attach it to bones in the shoulder. Anatomy. There are two attachments of the biceps tendon at the shoulder joint. Your shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint made up of three bones: your upper arm bone (humerus), your shoulder blade (scapula), and your collarbone (clavicle). The head of your upper arm bone fits into a rounded socket in
The rotator cuff tendons are one of the key reasons that the shoulder is so useful. The tendons can be subject to a considerable amount of wear and tear, or degeneration, as we use our arms, especially overhead activities. This wear and tear can lead to weakening of the rotator cuff tendons, through a condition know as impingement. The rotator cuff tendons are also subject to degeneration as we age. An injury to these tendons can result in a weak painful, shoulder – due to tearing of the rotator cuff tendons.
Shoulder tendonitis (or tendinitis) is an inflammation injury to the tendons of your shoulder's rotator cuff. Because inflammation is not always present in injuries to the shoulder tendons, this group of injuries are medically known as a rotator cuff tendinopathy or tendinopathies. 
Muscles are able to move bones by pulling on these tendons. This large tendon called the rotator cuff connects the humerus with the scapula (shoulder blade) and helps raise and rotate the arm. As the arm is raised, the rotator cuff also keeps the humerus tightly in the socket (glenoid) of the scapula. This wear and tear can lead to weakening of the rotator cuff tendons, through a condition know as impingement. The rotator cuff tendons are also subject to degeneration as we age. An injury to these tendons can result in a weak painful, shoulder – due to tearing of the rotator cuff tendons.
It also helps keep your shoulder stable. Tendons attach muscles to bones. Your biceps tendons attach the biceps muscle to bones in the shoulder and in the elbow. If you tear the biceps tendon at the shoulder, you may lose some strength in your arm and be unable to forcefully turn your arm from palm down to palm up. Anatomy. There are two attachments of the biceps tendon at the shoulder joint. Your shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint made up of three bones: your upper arm bone (humerus), your shoulder blade (scapula), and your collarbone (clavicle). The head of your upper arm bone fits into a rounded socket in your shoulder blade.
The muscles are attached to the bones by tendons. The tendons of the rotator cuff allow the muscles to move the arm. If the tendons tear, the humerus can't move as easily in the socket. This makes it hard to move the arm up or away from the body. As people age and are less active, tendons start to degenerate and lose strength.
This socket is called the glenoid. A combination of muscles and tendons keeps your arm bone centered in your shoulder socket. These tissues are called the rotator cuff. They cover the head of your upper arm bone and attach it to your shoulder blade. The most common type of arthritis in the shoulder is osteoarthritis, also known as wear and tear arthritis. Symptoms, such as swelling, pain, and stiffness, typically begin during middle age. Osteoarthritis develops slowly and the pain it causes worsens over time.