Yareli's language of origin is Hebrew and Turkish. It is predominantly used in English. The name could be derived from Yara or Yaira, and possibly introduced into Latin America via the large-scale immigration of Arabic speakers and the Lebanese. Yareli is a variant of Yaira (Hebrew). Yareli is also a variant of Yara (Arabic and Iranian) in the English language. Variants of Yareli include Yarelea, Yareleah, Yarelee, Yareley, Yarelie, Yarely, and Yaresly. Yareli is a rather popular baby girl name
Meaning: The American name Yarely means-a form of Oralee. 
Yarelys. Exotic female name. Amazing, sexy, funny, smart, naturally beautiful, determined to accomplish anything she sets her mind to. The perfect lover, beware of getting too close, she is capable of breaking your heart. Very great friend to have in your life, her happiness is truly contagious, her heart is pure. 
[ syll. ya-re-ly, yar-ely ] The baby girl name Yarely is pronounced as YaaR-Liy †. The origin of Yarely is the Hebrew, Turkish, and Australian Aboriginal languages. Yarely is a variant transcription of the name Yareli (English). Baby names that sound like Yarely include Eurael, Euraile, Eurale, Euryle, Urale, Uriell, Yarelee, Yareley, Yareli (English), Yarelie, Yerialle, Yeriel, Yeriele, Yerielle, Euraele, Eurayle, Uriele, Urielle, Yeriale, and Uriela (Hebrew).
Yareli is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ya-re-li. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 758 in baby name popularity for girls with 367 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Yareli Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Yareli has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Yareli to other names. 
The name Yarely has the following meaning: God is my light. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. The name Yarely is very likely a(n) English variant of the name Yareli. See other suggested English girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Yareli. As a baby girl name, Yarely is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Yarely for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Yareli, of which the name Yarely is a variant
You love beauty and philosophy, and you desire achievement. You have a strong need for freedom-physical, mental and spiritual. You are seeking freedom, opportunities to enjoy life: to make love, to go places and to do things. It is a symbol of Earth, the 4th element. Fours are here to build a firm foundation, to labor with concentration and secure the right to work out their patterns of freedom from any obstacles-poverty, heartache and failure.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Yareli. Yareli is a female given name used within the Spanish-speaking populations of North and South America; however, it appears to have originated from some other Native American language. Yareli first appeared on the American female naming charts in 2002 so this is a new name. It’s unclear what prompted her sudden appearance on the charts but she has made a notable climb from complete obscurity to relative low-moderate usage.