The theory of meaning and the symbol grounding problem. The theory of meaning is an enormous topic in the philosophy of language. In its most general form, it is the attempt to explain how our language connects to the external world; that is, the relation between what we say and what we are speaking about. The first question has been called the “meaning grounding problem” and it concerns where meaning comes from or how an entity can acquire meaning. We recognize some marks, symbols, sounds, gestures, signs, and so on as meaningful yet others are meaningless.
But just knowing the relationship between symbols or sounds does not ever amount to knowing the meaning of those symbols and sounds. Consider a subspecies of the meaning grounding problem which concerns how symbols or data acquire meaning. This is known as the symbol grounding problem. The first question has been called the “meaning grounding problem” and it concerns where meaning comes from or how an entity can acquire meaning. We recognize some marks, symbols, sounds, gestures, signs, and so on as meaningful yet others are meaningless.
The questioner shows the earth ground symbol for protective earth and this I dispute on behalf of the whole of the EU !!! But who is to say what region the questioner's symbols apply to and it wouldn't surprise me if the bureaucrats have changed their mind on things again. up vote 2 down vote. In this case, it is a matter of context. The symbols are denoting separate grounds, and that's where their meaning ends. It is very unlikely the power ground is tied to the chasis, and the digital ground is tied to earth.
That symbol is not Building Earthing, it is circuit reference ground. That too need not be connected to building earthing, it's just what any voltage in the circuit is referenced against. Why they choose to connect to it I haven't examined, I'll look at the schematic later-that's why I am not writing up an answer now. up vote 2 down vote. In this case, it is a matter of context. The symbols are denoting separate grounds, and that's where their meaning ends. It is very unlikely the power ground is tied to the chasis, and the digital ground is tied to earth.
Solution: The use of grounding symbols is not always strictly adhered to industry standards; it can be confusing as to which ones are used and in what context. Most of the time the ground symbol you are most familiar with, the 3 decreasing-length lines, is the one that is used in a generic sense to illustrate ground. Three diagonal lines and the decreasing horizontal bars represents chassis and earth ground respectively. Furthermore, the three decreasing-length parallel lines represents analog or circuit ground. The hollow triangle usually means digital ground, but is often used as a reference ground. A letter or number in the triangle may be used to indicate references that are in common with each other.
Symbol grounding is the connection of symbols, such as written or spoken words, with the objects, ideas or events to which they refer. The AI is able to manipulate symbols that have meaning to an outside observer, but it does not have a semantic understanding of the the symbols. Therefore, the AI can not be said to possess consciousness, because it does not actually interpret the symbols or understand to what they refer. It does not achieve semiosis.
SUMMARY: The Symbol Grounding Problem is related to the problem of how words get their meanings, and of what meanings are. The problem of meaning is in turn related to the problem of consciousness, or how it is that mental states are meaningful. But it is not the same as meaning, which is a property of certain things going on in our heads. Natural Language and the Language of Thought. Another symbol system is natural language. On paper, or in a computer, it too is just a formal symbol system, manipulable by rules based on the arbitrary shapes of words.
The Symbol Grounding Problem http://www.ecs.soton.ac.uk/~harnad/Papers/Harnad/harnad90.sgproble...5 of 15 20/04/2004 16.15 accomplish something very like this is that their efforts are grounded in a first language and in real worldexperience and knowledge. The Symbol Grounding Problem http://www.ecs.soton.ac.uk/~harnad/Papers/Harnad/harnad90.sgproble...6 of 15 20/04/2004 16.15 similarity. To be able to identify is to be able to assign a unique (usually arbitrary) response -- a name --to a class of inputs, treating them all as equivalent or invariant in some respect.
Formal Symbols. To answer this question we have to formulate the symbol grounding problem (Harnad 1990): First we have to define symbol: A symbol is any object that is part of a symbol system. But it is not the same as meaning, which is a property of certain things going on in our heads. Natural Language and the Language of Thought. Another symbol system is natural language. On paper, or in a computer, it too is just a formal symbol system, manipulable by rules based on the arbitrary shapes of words.
Grounding: Terms and Symbols. Power line ground is a safety device. Currents that do not follow their normal path will be directed to earth through an alternate path. In (modern) residential wiring this will be the green or bare copper wire in your power lines. Furthermore, the three decreasing-length parallel lines represents analog or circuit ground. The hollow triangle usually means digital ground, but is often used as a reference ground. A letter or number in the triangle may be used to indicate references that are in common with each other.