1 Simple signifies a single layer of epithelial cells.  2 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 3  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. CONTRAST WITH CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The characteristics of epithelial cells (above) contrast with those of connective tissue cells, which are not attached to one another and so tend to be randomly distributed, often with conspicuous spaces containing extracellular matrix in between neighboring cells.
1 By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. 2  Regardless of whether the surface cells are squamous, cuboidal, or columnar, the underlying cells are usually cuboidal. CONTRAST WITH CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The characteristics of epithelial cells (above) contrast with those of connective tissue cells, which are not attached to one another and so tend to be randomly distributed, often with conspicuous spaces containing extracellular matrix in between neighboring cells.
The most basic characteristic of epithelial tissue is that it covers the surfaces of the body, whether external or internal. It acts as a protective covering or boundary for such surfaces, including the outer layer of the skin, as well as the inner surface of hollow organs like the stomach, colon, and blood vessels. Respiratory epithelium separated by bands of inflamed tissue and muscle. Skin is epithelial tissue more than one cell thick and known as stratified epithelium. Epithelial cells lining the digestive tract -- including those of the esophagus, stomach and intestines -- undergo continuous division.
Can be found in the lining of the trachea, most of the upper respiratory tract. There role is to keep mucus and any other debris from entering the lower reaches of the lung tissue by moving in a upward direction. 19. Transitional epithelium is actually stratified squamous epithelium with special characteristics. Simple means that there is only one layer of these cells, not as much protection as stratified which indicates several layers of cells. Stratified epithelia are named according to the cells at the apical surface of the epithelial membrane, not those resting on a basement membrane like the simple epithelia.
The tissues of the human body include four major types. 5.2 Epithelial Tissues (p. 97; Table 5.2)A. General Characteristics (p. 97)1. Epithelial tissue is widespread throughout the body, covers organs, and lines bodysurfaces.2. Simple squamous epithelium is made up of a single layer of thin, flattened cells.2. It functions in the exchange of gases in the lungs and lines blood and lymphvessels as well as body cavities.C. Simple Cuboidal Epithelium (p. 97; Fig.
1 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 2  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. 3  Regardless of whether the surface cells are squamous, cuboidal, or columnar, the underlying cells are usually cuboidal. CONTRAST WITH CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The characteristics of epithelial cells (above) contrast with those of connective tissue cells, which are not attached to one another and so tend to be randomly distributed, often with conspicuous spaces containing extracellular matrix in between neighboring cells.
List the functions and characteristics of epithelial tissue. Distinguish the difference between simple, stratified, pseudostratified, and transitional, epithelium (classification based on arrangement or relative number of layers). Identify the 3 general types of epithelial cells based on shape: 
Definition. A type of simple epithelium that appears to be stratified, but is not. Consists of one layer of cells that are all attached to the basement membrane, but not all extend to the free surface. Term. 
16. List five major functions of epithelium in the body, and give examples of each. 1. protection; epithelium covering body surface protects against bacterial invasion and chemical damage. 2. absorption; epithelium specialized to absorb substances lines the stomach and small intestines. 3. filtration; in kidney tubules, epithelium filters (and absorbs and secretes). 4. excretion; Sweat is excreted from the body by epithelial cells in the sweat glands. 5. secretion; In glands, epithelial tissue is specialized to secrete specific chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones and lubricating fluids.