If you manage to look past Archeops' horrific ability, Archeops has an amazing Attack stat, above average Special Attack, and good Speed. These are what make Archeops usable at all, and as long as you can stave off getting hit, Archeops makes for a very good Pokemon. Abilities. Defeatist: Halves both Attacking stats when HP falls below 50%, one of the more crippling abilities in the game, and the main reason Archeops is stuck in RU. Rock Slide is an alternative to Stone Edge if you want less power but better accuracy. Double & Triple Battle Options. Archeops can be used, although it has several problems in this format, thanks to the abundance of good Steel types with Bullet Punch that will likely drop Archeops in one hit, or at least below 50%.
Countering Archeops. Just hit the darn thing, once it's below 50% it will be able to hit just as hard as stuff like unboosted Linoone (which really isn't much). Stealth Rock is another good way to get it down as just after three switch ins its ability kicks in and you can have a heyday. Rock Slide is an alternative to Stone Edge if you want less power but better accuracy. Double & Triple Battle Options. Archeops can be used, although it has several problems in this format, thanks to the abundance of good Steel types with Bullet Punch that will likely drop Archeops in one hit, or at least below 50%.
630 pages on this wiki. Archeops is a Rock/Flying-type Pokemon pokémon that evolves From archen at level, 37 who is only obtainable from A Plume. Fossil a Shiny archeops has a blue head and green, wings whilst the normal one is-vice. versa 
Physiology. Archeops is a large, ancient avian flying Pokemon. Pokémon it possesses traits of both birds and. Reptiles its head-snake like in; appearance it is, featherless, scaly and red with a green stripe running along the. Top its mouth is lined with sharp. fangs 1 Archeops, its pre-evolution form, Archen, and Aerodactyl are the only three Pokemon pokémon that Are / Rock flying, type and all three bear similarities to ancient flying creatures that were. 2  Fossilized-stat, Wise archeops is better than its, Counterpart.  carracosta
Explanation to Item/Moveset. Archeops has been one of my favorite and most used Pokemon in the Black and White series of games. This moveset and items are mostly for an offensive attack first, and attack hard kind of Archeops. (like someone said previously) The move Acrobatics is a good move to have for this guy.
Unfortunately for Archeops its ability is what kills it and ultimately a Pokemon like Aerodactyl another Flying/Rock type has access to a Mega evolution and doesn't have awful abilities such as Defeatist which definitely doesn't help. This moveset and items are mostly for an offensive attack first, and attack hard kind of Archeops. (like someone said previously) The move Acrobatics is a good move to have for this guy.
Physiology. Archeops is a large, ancient avian flying Pokemon. Pokémon it possesses traits of both birds and. Reptiles its head-snake like in; appearance it is, featherless, scaly and red with a green stripe running along the. top 1 Archeops, its pre-evolution form, Archen, and Aerodactyl are the only three Pokemon pokémon that Are / Rock flying, type and all three bear similarities to ancient flying creatures that were. 2  Fossilized-stat, Wise archeops is better than its, Counterpart.  carracosta
Overview. With its phenomenal 140 / 112 / 110 offenses, Archeops is a regular wrecking ball of flying fury. Its overall good movepool, along with new toys from BW2, such as Heat Wave and Roost, allows Archeops to become a scary Pokemon to deal with. Knocking Archeops into Defeatist range is a good way of dealing with it, as doing so severely limits its offensive potential. The best way of dealing with Archeops is Stealth Rock, as it puts Archeops into Defeatist range after three switch-ins.
Archeops is actually not rubbish in competitive play. Even with Stealth Rock Weakness, Defeatist won't activate at full health. It has a base 110 speed which means it can outspeed most things in UU, including Mienshao, Virizion, Victini & Zapdos. It has a really good 140 base attack, and access to STAB Flying Gem Acrobatics. Even with Defeatist, as long as you provide some good support, Archeops is a really dangerous sweeper. In game, it's not useful since you only get Archen at Nacrene City, post E-4 (B2W2). 