Since 1959, Kokanee beer has been brewed in Creston at the Columbia Brewery. The town is also home to two grain elevators. Many apple, and cherry orchards grow in Erickson, British Columbia, an unincorporated area outside of Creston, and the valley is also an important dairy centre. The Creston Area produces the largest cherries grown in the Northern hemisphere and exports them globally. A primary market is Europe while Asia is second.
Free Tipping Fees for Yard and Garden Waste for the month of October. For the months of April and October residents in the East Waste Sub-region will be able to deposit their yard and garden waste at no tipping fee at the following facilities: Creston Landfill; Crawford Bay Transfer Station; Boswell Transfer Station. Read on... 1  Upcoming Events. All Town of Creston and Erickson water service areas will have watering restrictions lifted effective October 1, 2015. From July 1 – September 14, 2015, due to Water Conservation Level 3 being introduced, a significant decrease in average water consumpti
The Salmo-Creston highway, which is part of the Crowsnest Highway, connected with earlier highways eastward of Creston. Creston is one of the few towns in British Columbia that does not observe Daylight saving time. Many apple, and cherry orchards grow in Erickson, British Columbia, an unincorporated area outside of Creston, and the valley is also an important dairy centre. The Creston Area produces the largest cherries grown in the Northern hemisphere and exports them globally. A primary market is Europe while Asia is second.
The information within this site provides contacts, quantitative and qualitative data, and a snap shot of Creston BC's amenities. The Lifestyles and Businesses Sections provide further information that may offer insight into our community and it's progressive nature. Just as the communities maintain their individual character while belonging to the whole valley, so do the services within the community operate in a similar manner. This spirit promotes a supportive environment for all to live and grow.
Creston (Ktunaxa: kxunamaʔnam) is a town of 5,306 people in the Kootenay region of southeastern British Columbia, Canada. Many apple, and cherry orchards grow in Erickson, British Columbia, an unincorporated area outside of Creston, and the valley is also an important dairy centre. The Creston Area produces the largest cherries grown in the Northern hemisphere and exports them globally. A primary market is Europe while Asia is second.
Just a block from downtown Creston, two huge grain elevators stand overlooking the wide Creston Flats. The elevators are idle, but agriculture continues to play an essential role in the town today. This is evident is Creston's many farms and orchards, and their involvement in the slow food movement. Consistent with Creston's agricultural heritage, the people here are down to earth, hard-working and innovative. A group of local farmers grows a variety of grains that are pre-purchased by shareholders in a community supported agriculture program.
Welcome New CrestonValley.com Businesses! Creston BC is a harmonious cluster of small communities each with their own distinct character. Just as the communities maintain their individual character while belonging to the whole valley, so do the services within the community operate in a similar manner. This spirit promotes a supportive environment for all to live and grow.
Creston residents enjoy a mild climate, stunning scenery and small town living at its best. There is an amazing array of ways to enjoy the community, from a thriving arts and culture scene, to volunteerism, to a quiet walk on a local trail, or a challenging hike in the backcountry. 
Welcome to the Creston Golf Club. The Creston Golf Club is known as one of the finest competitive venues in golf and has carried a storied history since its inception in 1954. It is surrounded by farmlands and forest. The course is playable for every level of golfer, from novice to expert. 
Flu vaccine likely a poor match a€” â again€” a â with'this fall. S strain the seasonal flu vaccine is likely a poor match for the strain of the virus Circulating.In., b c offering just 30 to 50 per cent€” protection a â though officials still urge people to. get the shot The seasonal flu vaccine is likely a poor match for the strain of the virus circulating in B.C., offering just 30 to 50 per cent protection a€” â though officials still urge people to get the. shot