1 charge with an offense. 2  charge with offense. 3  charge with one’s share. 4  charge with the commission of a crime. 5  chargeability. 6  chargeable. 7  chargeableness. 8  charged. 9  charged for being drunk, assault. 10  Charged for phone service never received.
The act of perpetrating an offence. There are crimes of commission and crimes of omission. COMMISSION, practice. An instrument issued by a court of, justice, or other competent tribunal, to authorize a person to take depositions, or do any other act by authority of such court, or tribunal, is called a commission. For a form of a commission to take. 3. By commission is also understood an act performed, opposed to omission, which is the want of performance of such an act; is, when a nuisance is created by an act of commission, it may be abated without notice; but when it arises from omission, notice to remove it must be given before it is abated. 1 Chit.
n. Forensic is used to describe the work of scientists who examine evidence in order to help the police solve crimes. To add entries to your own vocabulary, become a member of Reverso community or login if you are already a member. authority or power given in a general area, without precisely defined terms of reference. Royal Commission. n (in Britain) a body set up by the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister to gather information about the operation of existing laws or to investigate any social, educational, or other matter.
(February 2009). An accessory is a person who assists in the commission of a crime, but who does not actually participate in the commission of the crime as a joint principal. The distinction between an accessory and a principal is a question of fact and degree: 
Full Definition of CRIME. 1. : an act or the commission of an act that is forbidden or the omission of a duty that is commanded by a public law and that makes the offender liable to punishment by that law; especially: a gross violation of law. 2. : a grave offense especially against morality. 3. 4. — crime·less \-ləs\ adjective. Definition of CRIME for Kids. 1. : the act of doing something forbidden by law or the failure to do an act required by law.
Definition of COMMISSION for Kids. 1. : an order granting the power to perform various acts or duties: the right or duty to be performed. 2. 3. : authority to act as agent for another: a task or piece of business entrusted to an agent.4.efinition of COMMISSION for Kids. 1. : an order granting the power to perform various acts or duties: the right or duty to be performed. 2. 3. : authority to act as agent for another: a task or piece of business entrusted to an agent. 4.
Full Definition of COMMISSION. 1. a: a formal written warrant granting the power to perform various acts or duties b: a certificate conferring military rank and authority; also: the rank and authority so conferred. 2. : an authorization or command to act in a prescribed manner or to perform prescribed acts: charge. Definition of COMMISSION for Kids. 1. : an order granting the power to perform various acts or duties: the right or duty to be performed. 2. 3. : authority to act as agent for another: a task or piece of business entrusted to an agent. 4.
1 charge with offense. 2  charge with one’s share. 3  charge with the commission of a crime. 4  chargeability. 5  chargeable. 6  chargeableness. 7  charged. 8  charged for being drunk, assault. 9  Charged for phone service never received. charge with an offense. 2  charge with offense. 3  charge with one’s share. 4  charge with the commission of a crime. 5  chargeability. 6  chargeable. 7  chargeableness. 8  charged. 9  charged for being drunk, assault. 10
Omission is not performing an act that is usually done or expected to be performed by a 'normal' person. LIke stopping at a scene of a traffic accident if you are a medical professional to assist, or not stopping if you are the first person, which is a crime. Commission is performing an act that results in some harm. Like, giving too much of a medication or too much oxgen or any other act that another. 
7. a the authority given to a person or organization to act as an agent to a principal in commercial transactions. b the fee allotted to an agent for services rendered. 8 the state of being charged with specific duties or responsibilities. 9 the act of committing a sin, crime, etc. 10 something, esp. a sin, crime, etc., that is committed. 11 good working condition or (esp. of a ship) active service (esp. in the phrases in or into commission, out of commission). n authority or power given in a general area, without precisely defined terms of reference. Royal Commission. n (in Britain) a body set up by the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister to gather information about the operation of existing laws or to investigate any social, educational, or other matter.