TCP/IP protocol: TCP/IP uses client/server communication model. In this model a computer user (client) requests a service (sending a webpage) and is provided with it by another computer (server) on the network. We all know even higher layer application protocols that use TCP/IP to get to the Internet.
By Tim Fisher. Knowing the IP address of the default gateway on your home or business network is important information if you want to successfully troubleshoot a network problem. In most cases, the default gateway IP address is the private IP address assigned to your router.
A default gateway in computer networking is the node that is assumed to know how to forward packets on to other networks. In a home or small office environment, the device, such as a DSL router or cable router that connects the local network to the Internet will act as the default gateway for all network devices.
An Internet Protocol (IP) address is a unique number that can identify each host (computers, routers, switches, etc.) on a network. When a host sends information to the IP address of a second receiving host it includes IP of origination, IP of destination and other information. IP addresses are a part of the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) suite of protocols and will be present on every system that is connected to the Internet. The IP protocol is installed by default on most operating systems
1 The DHCP server provides IP address, subnet mask, default gateway (IP router), DNS domain name, DNS server, and WINS server configuration information. 2  TCP/IP is configured to use a dynamic configuration by default. 3  Whether your network requires a manual TCP/IP configuration. TCP/IP is installed by default. Before you configure TCP/IP you need to know: 1  Whether your network supports a dynamic TCP/IP configuration, which uses the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). 2  A dynamic configuration is the simplest to complete and can be used if there is a DHCP server on your network.
TCP/IP is a two-layer program. The higher layer, Transmission Control Protocol, manages the assembling of a message or file into smaller packet s that are transmitted over the Internet and received by a TCP layer that reassembles the packets into the original message. TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol) is the basic communication language or protocol of the Internet. It can also be used as a communications protocol in a private network (either an intranet or an extranet).
When you configure the TCP/IP protocol on a Microsoft Windows computer, an IP address, subnet mask, and usually a default gateway are required in the TCP/IP configuration settings. To configure TCP/IP correctly, it is necessary to understand how TCP/IP networks are addressed and divided into networks and subnetworks. IP Address -- A unique 32-bit address for a host on a TCP/IP network or internetwork. Network -- There are two uses of the term network in this article. One is a group of computers on a single physical network segment; the other is an IP network address range that is allocated by a system administrator.
TCP/IP layers: TCP/IP is a two-layer protocol. The upper layer-Transmission Control Protocol-assembles a message or file into smaller packets transmitted over the Internet and received by a TCP layer that reassembles these packets into their originals. TCP/IP uses client/server communication model. In this model a computer user (client) requests a service (sending a webpage) and is provided with it by another computer (server) on the network. We all know even higher layer application protocols that use TCP/IP to get to the Internet.
Typically in a TCP/IP network, nodes such as servers, workstations and network devices each have a defined default route setting, (pointing to the default gateway), defining where to send packets for IP addresses for which they can determine no specific route. The gateway is by definition a router. In a home or small office environment, the device, such as a DSL router or cable router that connects the local network to the Internet will act as the default gateway for all network devices.