The issue is not the extinction of a particular species. Though pandas are in fact, cute animals, the danger reflects a broader damage that humans are inflicting on the enviro … nment.   Additional Information: The Giant Panda is a barometer for the entire ecosystem of the Yangtze Basin. Confidence votes 628. No. However, they are an endangered species. No, the Panda isn't extinct, but it is endangered. There aren't many left in the wild, only around 1000, which may sound alot, but it's not compared to what there used to be. Places like zoos are running breeding programs to try and encourage the pandas to reproduce
The giant panda. Fact file. Name: Giant panda. Status: Endangered. Habitat: Forests in Central China. Description: The giant panda is a type of bear, although for a long time scientists weren't certain what its closest relatives were. You probably know what a panda looks like-it is very large and has a distinctive black and white coat. There are also a few giant pandas in zoos-a zoo in China has even managed to get their pandas to have a baby! Image bank-click on the pictures for more information. Images of giant panda © 2001 John White; image of bamboo courtesy of J. S. Peterson.
In the wild, giant pandas are only found in the remote, mountainous regions of central China, in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces, according to the National Zoo. In this area, there are cool, wet bamboo forests that are perfect for the giant panda's needs. Giant pandas are bears that are native to China, where they are considered a national treasure. Even with this exalted status, giant pandas are endangered: only about 1,600 live in the wild, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). About 100 live in zoos around the world.
The name giant panda is sometimes used to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda. Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the giant panda's diet is over 99% bamboo. Giant pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
The giant panda is one of the world's rarest animals and it is very shy. The giant panda eats a lot of bamboo. As people cut down more and more bamboo to clear land for building, industry and farming, the panda loses its food source and its home. The giant panda is very slow to reproduce, it has only a few babies during its life, and this also contributes to its vulnerability. There are also a few giant pandas in zoos-a zoo in China has even managed to get their pandas to have a baby! Image bank-click on the pictures for more information. Images of giant panda © 2001 John White; image of bamboo courtesy of J. S. Peterson.
The giant panda is a conservation reliant endangered species. A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country. Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the giant panda's diet is over 99% bamboo. Giant pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.