Mexican cuisine is primarily a fusion of indigenous Mesoamerican cooking with European, especially Spanish, elements added after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire in the 16th century. The basic staples are native foods such as corn, beans and chili peppers. Mexican cuisine is an important aspect of the culture, social structure and popular traditions of Mexico. The most important example of this connection is the use of mole for special occasions and holidays, particularly in the South and Center regions of the country.
La comida (Lunch). 1  Between 1:30pm and 4:00pm. 2  In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 3  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas. 1 In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 2  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas.
1 Between 1:30pm and 4:00pm. 2  In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 3  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas. 1 In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 2  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas.
Generally eaten between 2 and 4 pm, comida is the main meal of the day. It may consist of several courses, including soup (sopa) or salad (ensalada), a main dish (guisado) and dessert (postre). It is often accompanied by a fruit flavored water (agua fresca). A light breakfast eaten first thing in the morning-perhaps just coffee, hot chocolate or atole (a thick hot drink that is made with corn, rice or oats) and sweet bread or fruit. A heavier morning meal is usually refered to as almuerzo.
1 In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 2  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas. 3  Get ready to chat before, during and after eating, as lunch tends to be a leisurely meal. The traditional eating habits of Mexicans cater to a lifestyle around their work and daily activities. While our hefty meal is dinner, Mexicans eat small portions during dinner time. In the Mexican culture, work ceases during the middle of the day (similar to our lunch break but for a longer period of time).
1 Between 1:30pm and 4:00pm. 2  In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 3  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas. The traditional eating habits of Mexicans cater to a lifestyle around their work and daily activities. While our hefty meal is dinner, Mexicans eat small portions during dinner time. In the Mexican culture, work ceases during the middle of the day (similar to our lunch break but for a longer period of time).
La comida (Lunch). 1  Between 1:30pm and 4:00pm. 2  In Mexico, lunch is the main meal of the day-expect to eat a lot! 3  La comida typically consists of an appetizer, a soup or salad and the main course: seafood, meat or poulty, rice and/ or beans and of course some hot tortillas. The traditional eating habits of Mexicans cater to a lifestyle around their work and daily activities. While our hefty meal is dinner, Mexicans eat small portions during dinner time. In the Mexican culture, work ceases during the middle of the day (similar to our lunch break but for a longer period of time).