There are three main types of lymphocytes: B cells, T cells, and natural killer (NK) cells. Lymphocytes compose approximately 15 to 40% of the total white blood cells in the body. In a healthy adult a lymphocyte count of 1000 - 4800 cells per microliter of blood is considered the normal range. For adults, a lymphocyte count of less than 1000 cells per microliter of blood is considered a low number of lymphocytes in his blood. Lymphocytopenia or lymphopenia are alternate terms for low lymphocyte counts. When the lymphocyte count is lowered, the body's ability to resist and fight off infections is severely compromised and its susceptibility to cancer is increased. In addition, low lymphocyte counts may also lead to damage to various organs
The condition that you are possibly faced with is an infection and is called lymphocytopenia. This simply means that you have a low level of immune system lymphocytes in your blood. Other white blood cells like lymphocytes are created in the bone marrow but have to travel to other parts of the body for maturation and differentiation. T-cells will go to the thymus and then to lymph nodes, B-cells will mature in the bone marrow itself, and memory cells and helper T-cells will migrate to the spleen.
Lymphocytes are categorized as part of the white blood cells but they are actually part of the lymphatic system. Leukocytes are those white blood cells that are created in the bone marrow and mature there before being released into the blood. Other white blood cells like lymphocytes are created in the bone marrow but have to travel to other parts of the body for maturation and differentiation. T-cells will go to the thymus and then to lymph nodes, B-cells will mature in the bone marrow itself, and memory cells and helper T-cells will migrate to the spleen.
Low Lymphocytes in Cats. Lymphocytes are one of the white blood cells a differential measures. If Tessa's recent blood tests came back revealing a low lymphocyte count, remember that her health state goes beyond one number before you switch to anxiety mode. There's a big picture to consider, including the other test values and her behavior.
Definition. Lymphocytosis (lim-foe-sie-TOE-sis), or a high lymphocyte count, is an increase in white blood cells called lymphocytes (LIM-foe-sites). Lymphocytes are an important part of the immune system. They help fight off diseases, so it's normal to see a temporary rise in the number of lymphocytes after an infection. 
A lymphocyte count is usually part of a peripheral complete blood cell count and is expressed as the percentage of lymphocytes to the total number of white blood cells counted. A general increase in the number of lymphocytes is known as lymphocytosis, whereas a decrease is known as lymphocytopenia. 
The CBC will show whether you have a low number of white blood cells. Lymphocytes account for 20 to 40 percent of all white blood cells. Although a CBC will show an overall low white blood cell count, it won't show whether the number of lymphocytes is low. You may need a more detailed test, called a CBC with differential, to find out whether you have a low lymphocyte count.
81 Followers. A. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell. White blood cells are part of your immune system and help your body fight off diseases, including infections and cancer. There are two main types of lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins in the body
1 White blood cell types (WBC differential). 2  The major types of white blood cells are neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils. 3  Immature neutrophils, called band neutrophils, are also part of this test. 4  Each type of cell plays a different role in protecting the body. 