This can damage the blood vessels of the brain, heart, and kidneys, resulting in a stroke, heart failure, or kidney failure. High blood pressure may also increase the risk of heart attacks. These problems may be less likely to occur if blood pressure is controlled. Bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. It works by affecting the response to some nerve impulses in certain parts of the body, like the heart. As a result, the heart beats slower and decreases the blood pressure. When the blood pressure is lowered, the amount of blood and oxygen is increased to the heart
Bisoprolol is in a group of drugs called beta-blockers. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins). Bisoprolol is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). Bisoprolol may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
View this article online at: patient.info/medicine/bisoprolol-a-beta-blocker-cardicor-congescor-emcor Bisoprolol-a beta-blocker (Cardicor,Congescor, Emcor) Treatment with bisoprolol is usually long-term. Continue to take the tablets regularly unlessyou are told otherwise.There are several different strengths of tablet. 
Control of blood pressure. Beta blockers are commonly used to help lower blood pressure, usually as a part of a treatment plan that may include an ACE inhibitor (for example, ramipril) and/or a calcium channel blocker (for example, amlodipine). Read more about calcium channel blockers. Beta blockers are classified as being non-selective and selective. Non-selective beta blockers, such as propranolol, are active in blocking adrenaline and noradrenaline in other areas of the body, as well as the heart.
Bisoprolol is in a group of drugs called beta-blockers. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins). Bisoprolol is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). Bilocor is an international brand of bisoprolol, a beta blocker used in the treatment of hypertension, alone or in combination with other agents.
Bisoprolol is in a group of drugs called beta-blockers. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins). Bisoprolol is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). Bisoprolol may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. A: Zebeta (bisoprolol) belongs to a class of drugs called beta-blockers that affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins).
A: Bisoprolol (Zebeta) belongs to the group of drugs known as beta blockers. Bisoprolol affects the heart and blood vessels and is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). The most common side effects of bisoprolol include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, decreased heart rate, and fatigue. A: Zebeta (bisoprolol) belongs to a class of drugs called beta-blockers that affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins).
Zebeta (bisoprolol fumarate) is a type of antihypertensive drug called a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent (beta blocker) used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). Zebeta is available in generic form. 