Appendix. Extending from the inferior end of the large intestine’s cecum, the human appendix is a narrow pouch of tissue whose resemblance to a worm inspired its alternate name, vermiform (worm-like) appendix. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. Right Side: The appendix is located on the right side in men and women. However is can vary. It can be located anywhere on the right side up to the ribs and also down into the pelvis and in the middle of the lower abdomen. The appendix is a piece of tubing located at the bottom of the colon on the right lower part of the abdomen. It has no known function in modern humans, but was thought to possibly be a type of extra stomach back in our cavepeople days.
The appendix is usually located in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen, near the right hip bone. The base of the appendix is located 2 cm beneath the ileocecal valve that separates the large intestine from the small intestine. 
Appendix Location-Where is Your Appendix. Appendix, which is located in the lower right quadrant of the abdominal region has generated a lot of confusion and controversies among researchers. This article tries to answer some questions by positing the exact appendix location and its utility in the human body. Some people may have their appendix slightly located in the middle of the body, while some may have it at the extreme right. There is a medical condition called situs inversus, in which the person has some or all of his organs on the opposite side.
A. The appendix is a thin tube about 4 inches long that protrudes off the large intestine where it joins the small intestine. In most people, the appendix is located in the lower right part of the abdomen (belly). The exact location of the appendix can vary somewhat. http://www.webmd.com/digestive-disorders/picture-of-the-appendix. This answer should not be considered medical advice...
The appendix is a small, pouch-like sac of tissue that is located in the first part of the colon (cecum) in the lower-right abdomen. Lymphatic tissue in the appendix aids in immune function. The official name of the appendix is veriform appendix, which means worm-like appendage.. 
The location of appendix in human body is same for men and women and for different age groups. It is at the intersection of small and large intestine. It looks like a narrow tube that can be three to four inches long. However usually, it is found near lower right abdomen. 
In human anatomy, the appendix is a blind-ended tube connected to the cecum (or caecum), from which it develops embryologically. The cecum is a pouchlike structure of the colon. The appendix is located near the junction of the small intestine and the large intestine. The appendix averages 10 cm in length, but can range from 2 to 20 cm. The diameter of the appendix is usually between 7 and 8 mm. 
Front View of the Appendix. The appendix sits at the junction of the small intestine and large intestine. It’s a thin tube about four inches long. Normally, the appendix sits in the lower right abdomen. The function of the appendix is unknown. One theory is that the appendix acts as a storehouse for good bacteria, “rebooting” the digestive system after diarrheal illnesses. Other experts believe the appendix is just a useless remnant from our evolutionary past.
Lower right quadrant in abdomen is the exact location of appendix in human body. In other words, if you divide your stomach in four regions, then appendix is located in the lower region on the right side. Some people may have their appendix slightly located in the middle of the body, while some may have it at the extreme right. There is a medical condition called situs inversus, in which the person has some or all of his organs on the opposite side.