DGPS operation (where available) will dramatically improve the performance of even low cost GPS receivers. Horizontal accuracy of +/- 5 meters and altitude accuracy of +/- 10 meters (relative to the WGS-84 geode) with suitable DGPS receivers and low cost GPS receivers such as the Garmin GPS-12XL can be expected. These measurements are referenced to geodetic altitude or ellipsoidal altitude in some GPS equipment. Garmin and most equipment manufacturers utilize a mathematical model in the GPS software which roughly approximates the geodetic model of the earth and reference altitude to this model.
From the Garmin line, it’s the cycling devices that get the added love. The Edge 500 and Edge 705 use barometric altimeters. In general, as a result elevation graphs from the Edge series of devices tend to be quite accurate. 
Different devices can sync with Garmin Connect in different ways. Most devices use Garmin Express to upload data using your computer or Garmin Connect Mobile to upload data using your smart phone. vivofit – Vívofit press and hold the button on your vivofit vívofit until YOU see sync on the, device screen then release. the button Garmin Connect allows you to arrange all your favorite and most-used features on your own fully customized dashboard. In fact, you can create more than one dashboard page to sort features by sport, data type or any way you choose.
With your course loaded up, swipe across to the elevation screen. If you need a refresher on how to load a course, read my foolproof guide to course navigation on the garmin edge 800. The elevation screen will look something like the image below. This was the first half of the Cheshire Cat 2013. Notice the scale. 
First, what it is not. It is not a singular form of the word data which some of you may have heard. Data is a collective noun and the plural of datum is datums when used in a geophysical sense. For GPS, navigation, and geophysical use a datum represents a reference point from which you can measure things. Time is used in your gps to calculate position. The time used by your gps is a special gps time that is transmitted as part of the satellite message. In addition the satellite transmits information in the form of leap seconds adjustments to permit your unit to adjust the clock display to agree with standard UTC time.
Sharpen your cycling performance with Edge 500, a lightweight GPS-based bike computer for performance-driven cyclists. Loaded with data, Edge 500 tracks your distance, speed, location and elevation with high sensitivity GPS. Add an ANT+® compatible heart rate monitor, speed/cadence sensor or compatible power meter for a finely-tuned analysis of your ride. Loaded with data, Edge 500 tracks your distance, speed, location and elevation with high sensitivity GPS. https://buy.garmin.com/en-US/US/into-sports/discontinued/edge-500/prod36728.html 010-00829-06 010-00829-06. 199.99 USD.
If your Garmin Edge device can receive segments from Garmin Connect, it will also work with Strava Live Segments. The Garmin Edge 520 will be the first to use Strava Live Segments; Edge 510, 810 and 1000 with become compatible in the fall of 2015. Garmin Connect allows you to arrange all your favorite and most-used features on your own fully customized dashboard. In fact, you can create more than one dashboard page to sort features by sport, data type or any way you choose.
Overview The Garmin Montana GPS series is Garmin's answer to a GPS unit for both outdoor use and one that can also be used for auto navigation. Just like its name, the Montana is big. 
WGS-84 is a world wide datum and is the master datum for use with a gps. Garmin always stores internal information in this datum. The origin is the center of the earth and then a ellipse is defined using the major and minor axis. Time is used in your gps to calculate position. The time used by your gps is a special gps time that is transmitted as part of the satellite message. In addition the satellite transmits information in the form of leap seconds adjustments to permit your unit to adjust the clock display to agree with standard UTC time.
GPX, or GPS Exchange Format, is an XML schema designed as a common GPS data format for software applications. It can be used to describe waypoints, tracks, and routes. The format is open and can be used without the need to pay license fees. Location data (and optionally elevation, time, and other information) is stored in tags and can be interchanged between GPS devices and software. Common software applications for the data include viewing tracks projected onto various map sources, annotating maps, and geotagging photographs.