The official website of Erie County, Pennsylvania, recommends never leaving a child under 10 home alone. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision.
The law on leaving your child on their own. The law doesn’t say an age when you can leave a child on their own, but it’s an offence to leave a child alone if it places them at risk. Use your judgement on how mature your child is before you decide to leave them alone, eg at home or in a car. 
1 Children under 8 years old should never be left alone, even for short periods of time. 2  Children between the ages of 9 and 12, based on level of maturity, can be left home alone for brief periods of time. 1 It is not recommended, however, that 13 year olds baby sit infants, small children and children that require special attention due to medical conditions. 2  Children 15 and older can be left home alone overnight, depending on the level of maturity of the child.
The following table lists legal age restrictions for children left at home alone categorized by state within the U.S. Please note that city and county ordinances within each state may have more definitive and restrictive laws. The following is a state by state listing of specific age restrictions on home alone children. This list was obtained from information on the web as well as contacts within certain state agencies. Where no information can be found, the age restriction is listed as unknown.
Georgia’s Guidelines for leaving a child without adult supervision: 1  Children under 8 years old should never be left alone, even for short periods of time. 2  Children between the ages of 9 and 12, based on level of maturity, can be left home alone for brief periods of time. 1 It is not recommended, however, that 13 year olds baby sit infants, small children and children that require special attention due to medical conditions. 2  Children 15 and older can be left home alone overnight, depending on the level of maturity of the child.
8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods). Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone
A parent who leaves a child home alone before he is ready may face charges of neglect in Pennsylvania. Although Pennsylvania doesn't have a set minimum age at which it's legal for children to be left home alone, a parent is still responsible for knowing when her child may be safely left home without supervision. A young babysitter must be able to handle the responsibility of the child as well. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision.
The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. The following is a state by state listing of specific age restrictions on home alone children. This list was obtained from information on the web as well as contacts within certain state agencies. Where no information can be found, the age restriction is listed as unknown.
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. 