Posted on March 18, 2014 by BGH. Nestled in the Byron Bay Hinterland, Bangalow is a picturesque village with historic buildings, unique boutiques and colourful markets. We are lucky in this area to have both farmers markets and arts and crafts markets so it’s easy to shop for locally grown and produced items. In the afternoon the drumming circle begins to beat out their catchy dance rhythms under the shade of the beautiful old trees as the market draws to a close. It’s a great experience and fun way to spend a Sunday in Bangalow.
Markets for 2015: Bangalow Market is on the 4th Sunday each month and in some months the 4th Sunday is not the last Sunday in the month, and they are marked with an *. 25th January 22nd February 22nd March* 26th April 24th May* 28th June 26th July 23rd August* 27th September 25th October 29th November* This is the 5th Sunday because the Bangalow Show is on the weekend of the 22nd 27th December.
After the Byron Bay Farmers’ Market became very popular within the local community, the Byron Farmers’ Market Association decided to initiate another Farmers’ Market in the neighbouring town of Bangalow. The Market began in 2004, and is still a popular place for people to pick up their weekly fruit and veg. The Bangalow Farmers’ Market is held each Saturday morning from 8am until 11am. It is located at 1 Byron Street (in the Bangalow Hotel car park), right in the town of Bangalow. Although this is a fairly small Farmers’ Market, it has everything you need to stock up your pantry with local produce. The Byron Farmers’ Market Association works closely with both organic and conventional local farmers to ensure that both the Byron and the Bangalow Farmers’ Markets are a viable business venture. This association also makes sure that produce is priced fairly, and is of a very high quality.
Next On: Sunday, 25 October 2015 - 9:00am. Set below the shade of the camphor laurel and fig trees, the Bangalow markets are some of the best on the North Coast. Bangalow is a small, historical town about 20 minutes south-west of Byron Bay. Beneath the canopy of the huge trees, there is also live entertainment performed by local talent. Sitting on the roots of the fig trees, drinking a hot coffee, and enjoying the music is an experience unique to the Bangalow Markets.
Byron Rural Lands Strategy. Byron Council staff member will be at Bangalow Farmers Markets this Saturday May 16 from 8am to meet with interested community members and hear their thoughts about the future for our rural lands in... read more. Come and see our great range of fresh seasonal produce grown locally in the greater Northern Rivers region. 1  bananas. 2  eggplant. 3  tomatoes. 4  spring onions. 5  lettuce. 6  beans. 7  potatoes. 8  pineapple. 9  cabbage.
The North Coast of NSW is home to a culture steeped in rural traditions, with country towns and villages nestled in the lush green hills and valleys formed from ancient volcanoes. With Nimbin to the west and Byron Bay to the east Bangalow is in the centre of the counter culture. The village an historical treasure. The markets on the 4th Sunday of every month are a gathering of locals, a get-together of; artists, artisans, bakers, victuallers, therapists, farmers and friends. And from afar visitors are welcomed to join the day.
Each month, a percentage of the Bangalow Market profits are given to community groups and charities. The markets are now run by the Bangalow Park Trust, who care for and maintain the luscious market grounds and parking area. Beneath the canopy of the huge trees, there is also live entertainment performed by local talent. Sitting on the roots of the fig trees, drinking a hot coffee, and enjoying the music is an experience unique to the Bangalow Markets.
6:21am 28th September 2015. Bangalow Market is on the 4th Sunday each month and in some months the 4th Sunday is not the last Sunday in the month, and they are marked with an *. 25th January 22nd February 22nd March* 26th April 24th May* 28th June 26th July 23rd August* 27th September 25th October 29th November* This is the 5th Sunday because the Bangalow Show is on the weekend of the 22nd 27th December.