Nutrients move through the ecosystem in biogeochemical cycles. A biogeochemical cycle is a circuit/pathway by which a chemical element moves through the biotic and the abiotic factors of an ecosystem. It is inclusive of the biotic factors, or living organisms, rocks, air, water, and chemicals. 
Options are influenced by implied volatility (vega). 1  Vega gives us an approximation of the amount that the options price will change given a 1% move in implied volatility. 2  Implied volatility is the most misunderstood and the most important component of time value. Factors in Options Pricing. There are several factors that determine the price of an options contract. Most traders are trying to take advantage of directional moves in the underlying stock, and that is the primary driver of the price of an options contract, especially its intrinsic value.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Horsepower and the weight of vehicle determines this overall. A vehicle may be limited in some ways, but the potential top speed is determined by how much energy is a available(horsepower) and the amount of mass that particular amount of energy must move. Horsepower is a measure of energy. Torque is a measure of force. w = F * d, (w)Work = (F)force * (d)displacement. displacement here doesnt refer to engine size, it refers to a measurable quantity of distance or time over which the force is exerted. So in a car, torque is the force we are dealing with. The displacement over which torque is exerted, would then be an angle measure per unit of time. For this, we will use revolutions(big surprise) and for ease, we will use one full revolution, which is equal to 360 degrees. * rpm * 2pi. The w represents an arbitrary amount of energy produced per minute as a given quantity of torque is exerted. We want that w to be horsepower. Horsepower is defined as 550 ft.lbs. of torque per second. Our figures are already in minutes, so we will convert this to 1Horsepower = 33,000ft.lbs./minute.
The difference between mass and weight causes a lot of confusion amongst a lot of people. Put simply, weight is a measure of gravity's effect on something. Mass is the amount of matter in an object. Move to a different planet and an object's weight will change, but its mass will be the same. There are a couple of ways to measure mass. The most common method is to use a balance. Hey, wait a minute! (you should be saying) People weigh stuff all the time with a balance! Think about it.
The Prepona Butterfly is the fastest of all butterfly species, with the capability of flying at a top speed between 40 and 50 miles per hour! A butterfly is a flying insect of the order Lepidoptera.  Its body is made up of a head, thorax and abdomen, and like all  insects, it has six jointed legs. It has four wing … s which, together  with the six legs, are attached to the thorax.
You can fast for up to 36 hours  without your body actually starting to break muscle tissues to  maintain your daily caloric intake, and that is where you should  draw the line. Some people have of course fasted for longer times,  but it isn't necessarily very wise and can lead to severe health  problems. A butterfly is a flying insect of the order Lepidoptera.  Its body is made up of a head, thorax and abdomen, and like all  insects, it has six jointed legs. It has four wing … s which, together  with the six legs, are attached to the thorax
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A butterfly is not a very fast insect. Butterflies will typically fly at less than 1 mile per hour on any given day. A butterfly is a flying insect of the order Lepidoptera.  Its body is made up of a head, thorax and abdomen, and like all  insects, it has six jointed legs. It has four wing … s which, together  with the six legs, are attached to the thorax
Share to: Two Factors are the type of material. The best material water moves through is a partially permeable membrane. Another factor is the substances dissolved in the water and the … substances inside the material. There can also be if there are pores that are connected. 6 people found this useful. The Prepona Butterfly is the fastest of all butterfly species, with the capability of flying at a top speed between 40 and 50 miles per hour!