Yet you still need to check your voicemail. Years ago, cell phone carriers did not allow you to check voicemail from another phone because they wanted you to use your phone minutes to do so. Today, most carriers have simply procedures that allow people to tap into their voicemail when using a different phone. 1 Follow instructions on how to listen to your voicemail. 2  It's usually to push a certain number (like 1). 3  That's all there is to it. 4  You should be able to hear your voicemail messages now.
1 Most carriers won't charge you anything to check your voicemail from another phone. 2  Some might, though, so check your plan. 3  It can cause you major legal problems to tap into someone else's voicemail. 4  Only use these instructions to listen to your own. 1 Follow instructions on how to listen to your voicemail. 2  It's usually to push a certain number (like 1). 3  That's all there is to it. 4  You should be able to hear your voicemail messages now.
Set up your voicemail. 1  Press and hold the 1 on your phone's dialpad to call and connect to your voicemail. 2  If prompted for a password the first time you access your new voicemail account, use the last four digits of your mobile number. 3  When prompted, create your new password. To change your password from your phone: 1  Press and hold the 1 on your phone's dialpad to call and connect to your voicemail. 2  Press the * key to access the main menu. 3  Press 5 to access the Password Security menu. 4  To change your password, press the 1 key
Check your AT&T home phone voicemail by dial *98 from your home phone. Enter your password followed by the pound (#) key and then you are all set. 1  If you are checking voicemail away from home you can enter the AT&T Service Access number (1-888-288-8893). Call your cell phone by typing your own number into the phone and then enter your pin or pass code when prompted. If you don't have it memorized, you may have to look it up. Many phones have your cell phone number saved in the contacts automatically as 'Me'.
Use any landline or cell phone to dial your mobile or landline number. 1  Dial the full number. Make sure someone doesn't actually answer the phone you are calling when it rings, though. 2  Make sure you dial the area code with the number. 1 Follow instructions on how to listen to your voicemail. 2  It's usually to push a certain number (like 1). 3  That's all there is to it. 4  You should be able to hear your voicemail messages now.
To check your voicemail messages, press and hold the 1 on your phone's dialpad to call and connect to voicemail. To check messages online through My T-Mobile: 1  Log in to My T-Mobile. 2  Click TOOLS in the upper right corner of the screen. 3  Under Voicemail, click Access voicemail. To change your password from your phone: 1  Press and hold the 1 on your phone's dialpad to call and connect to your voicemail. 2  Press the * key to access the main menu. 3  Press 5 to access the Password Security menu. 4  To change your password, press the 1 key
Best Answer: Call your phone. Once you hear your voicemail greeting, hit the star key (for most mobile providers). It's then going to ask you for your passcode. This is usually a 4 digit code you picked when you first activated your phone and set up your voicemail. 
To call your voicemail using One-Touch Message Access: Press and hold the 1 key. (Your phone will dial your voicemail box.) To call your voicemail using your phone's menu: 1. Select. 2. Press the TALK key to dial your voicemail box. Note: When you are roaming off the Nationwide Sprint PCS Network, you may not receive notification of new voicemail messages. 
1 From any forwarding phone number dial your Google Voice number and as you hear your Google voicemail greeting, Press the * key and enter your PIN to access your messages. 2  Sign in to Google Voice and check your Inbox. With Google Voicemail you can have your voicemail for all of your forwarding phones in one place, with transcriptions, access to your past voicemails, and voicemail sharing options. Click on a Google voicemail feature below to learn more about how it works: There are four easy ways to check your Google Voice messages: