An English-based creole language (often shortened to English creole) is a creole language derived from the English language – i.e. for which English is the lexifier. 1 Bahamian Creole: is the vernacular language of the Bahamas. 2  Turks and Caicos Creole is an English-based creole, widely spoken throughout in the Turks and Caicos Islands, with each island having a different variation.
Creole. Creole includes a number of languages, and a great variety of Creole languages can be found throughout the world, from Africa to the Caribbean. The factor that ties all Creole languages together is that they developed from a necessity for communication between non-mutually intelligible linguistic groups. Creole can be found in a variety of areas, most notably on the island of Haiti and in the southern United States, especially in Louisiana. While the Haitian and Louisiana forms of Creole are both French-based and generally recognized as the most prominent Creole languages, other types of Creole do exist. The English-based Gullah language of the Caribbean is technically considered a Creole language, as is the English-based Jamaican Creole
With respect to importation, Stewart (1967), Dillard (1972), and Hancock (1986) favor the hypothesis that many slaves arrived in the American colonies and the Caribbean already speaking some variety of West African Pidgin English (WAPE) or Guinea Coast Creole English (GCCE). 
1 Manglish: An English-based creole spoken in Malaysia. 2  Singlish: A language spoken in Singapore that includes elements of various Chinese varieties, Malay, and a host of others that are spoken on the island nation. 3  Today, it is spoken by most Singaporeans. 1 Bahamian Creole: is the vernacular language of the Bahamas. 2  Turks and Caicos Creole is an English-based creole, widely spoken throughout in the Turks and Caicos Islands, with each island having a different variation.
Based on English, with strong influences from many African languages, Gullah is a creole spoken by the Geechees on the Sea Islands off the coast of South Carolina and Georgia. Decreolization is the process through which a creole language gradually becomes more like the standard language of a region. (See Examples and Observations, below.). See also: 1  African-American Vernacular English.
Welcome to the Language Varieties Web Site!! This site is about varieties of language that differ from the standard variety that is normally used in the media and taught in the schools. These include pidgins, creoles, regional dialects, minority dialects and indigenized varieties. People don't think one way is right and one way is wrong-just that they're different. It's the same with the language varieties described in this site. * * * * * * Click on any of the locations on the map below to find out more about a language variety spoken there. (Or click on the name of the variety below the map.).
1 Bislish: An English-based mesolect creole spoken in the Philippines. 2  Manglish: An English-based creole spoken in Malaysia. 3  Singlish: A language spoken in Singapore that includes elements of various Chinese varieties, Malay, and a host of others that are spoken on the island nation. 1 Bahamian Creole: is the vernacular language of the Bahamas. 2  Turks and Caicos Creole is an English-based creole, widely spoken throughout in the Turks and Caicos Islands, with each island having a different variation.
1 Jamaican Patois, sometimes called Jamaican Creole, is an English-based creole language spoken in Jamaica, distinct from Jamaican Standard English, a dialect of English. 2  It derives from a history of contact among many different types of speakers with many ethnic, linguistic, and social backgrounds. 1 Bahamian Creole: is the vernacular language of the Bahamas. 2  Turks and Caicos Creole is an English-based creole, widely spoken throughout in the Turks and Caicos Islands, with each island having a different variation.