Ref 101 LOW TEMPERATURE REFRIGERATION (12 HRS). This course introduces specific pump-down controls. Students will complete piping and wiring a real walk-in freezer, pressurizing, leak checking, vacuuming, as well as refrigerant charging.
The refrigeration system in that event was likely rated for general purpose and the humidity damaged the packaging which was an important aspect of the purchase in order to get it out the door. We control the humidity in a space by manipulating the temperature of the cooling coil.
A walk in cooler moves heat from the box to the space around the condenser. Typical temperature ranges are from 35 degrees Fahrenheit to 41 degrees. Below 35 degrees a forced defrost cycle is needed to avoid freeze ups.
This course includes the basic refrigeration cycle, application of low, medium and high temperature systems, and the typical equipment associated with those systems and basic wiring of controls, such as thermostatic expansion valves, capillary tubes, and defrost clocks and defrost systems.
This is a comprehensive training program in Refrigeration Equipment Repair and Maintenance. It covers the basic principles of low, medium, and high temperature refrigeration systems. It emphasizes the differences that refrigeration and comfort cooling systems have.
Fortunately floral applications benefit from high humidity because in order to do the work with only a gentle breeze, we increase the size of the coil which inadvertently raises the coil temperature. As such, the proper conditions are obtained. This article is courtesy of Austin Industrial Refrigeration.
Leave a comment. Flowers do best with High Humidity and Low Velocity refrigeration Aside from the box temperature, other considerations that are particular to medium temperature applications (walk-in coolers & refrigerators) are the air velocity and humidity of the refrigerated space.
Here are some general guidelines for temperature ranges based on the type of refrigeration unit you have: 1  Reach-In Refrigerators 35F to 38F. 2  Walk-In Refrigerators 35F to 38F. 3  Reach-In Freezers +5F to -10F. 4  Walk-In Freezers 0F to -10F. 5  Ice Cream Freezers -10F to -20F.