The meaning of lieutenant differs in different military formations (see comparative military ranks), but is often subdivided into senior (first lieutenant) and junior (second lieutenant) ranks. In navies it is often equivalent to the army rank of captain; it may also indicate a particular post rather than a rank. However, their efforts failed, and the French word is still used, along with its many variations, (e.g. lieutenant colonel, lieutenant general, lieutenant commander, flight lieutenant, second lieutenant and many non-English language examples), in both the Old and the New World.
Full Definition of LIEUTENANT GENERAL. : a commissioned officer in the army, air force, or marine corps who ranks above a major general and whose insignia is three stars. See lieutenant general defined for English-language learners. See lieutenant general defined for kids. lieutenant general. noun. Tweet. : a military officer who has a rank just below a general. : a commissioned officer in the army, air force, or marine corps who ranks above a major general and whose insignia is three stars. See lieutenant general defined for English-language learner
In modern armies, lieutenant general normally ranks immediately below general and above major general; it is equivalent to the navy rank of vice admiral, and in air forces with a separate rank structure, it is equivalent to air marshal. (Redirected from Lieutenant General). Not to be confused with lieutenant colonel general. Lieutenant general, lieutenant-general and similar (abbrev Lt Gen, LTG and similar) is a military rank (NATO code OF-8) used in many countries.
Definition of LIEUTENANT for Kids. 1. : an official who acts for a higher official. 2. : first lieutenant. 3. : second lieutenant. 4. : a commissioned officer in the navy or coast guard ranking above a lieutenant junior grade. 
The seeming incongruity that a lieutenant general outranks a major general, (while a major outranks a lieutenant), is due to the derivation of the latter rank from sergeant major general, which was also subordinate to lieutenant general. (Redirected from Lieutenant General). Not to be confused with lieutenant colonel general. Lieutenant general, lieutenant-general and similar (abbrev Lt Gen, LTG and similar) is a military rank (NATO code OF-8) used in many countries.
• LIEUTENANT GENERAL (noun). The noun LIEUTENANT GENERAL has 1 sense: 1. a general officer ranking above a major general and below a full general. Familiarity information: LIEUTENANT GENERAL used as a noun is very rare. 
Exemples. 1  The investigation also resulted in a ROK lieutenant general and major general being relieved of their positions. 2  Campaigning in Hungary he again showed his worth as a field commander, and in 1685 was promoted to major general and then lieutenant general in 1688. 
lieutenant general. noun. 1  A commissioned rank in the US Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps that is above major general and below general. 2  One who holds this rank. 