Aesop's Fables or the Aesopica is a collection of fables credited to Aesop, a slave and storyteller believed to have lived in ancient Greece between 620 and 560 BCE. Of diverse origins, the stories associated with Aesop's name have descended to modern times through a number of sources. Two fables are also featured in the 1971 TV movie Aesop's Fables in the U.S.A. Here Aesop is a black story teller who relates two turtle fables, The Tortoise and the Eagle and the Tortoise and the Hare to a couple of children who wander into an enchanted grove.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Aesop's fables or Babrius. Babrius may have written a collection of fables, which was discovered in the 19th century) based on Aesop's fables, only in Greek verse. Babrius may have been a Hellenistic Roman. 
A fable is a very short story with a lesson to teach, called a moral. Fables are fun to tell, and help teach good behavior as well. Aesop was a storyteller. He lived around 2,500 years ago in ancient Greece. Aesop's favorite story to tell was a fable, because they were short and they were fun. Some scholars think Aesop never existed. Others believe he was a slave in ancient Greece.
in About Greek Mythology. Aesop was an Ancient Greek writer who lived in the 6th century BC in Athens, Greece. Aesop (Aisopos in Greek, αίσωπος) is known about the myths he wrote, referred to as Aesop’s Fables. Little is known about the life of Aesop. According to historical facts he was a slave, while some legends suggest Aesop was an ugly hunchbacked slave, although his real appearance is a mystery. Aesop – The Ancient Writer of Greek myths and Fables. As a genre of fables they are close to the artistic atmosphere of fairy tales about animals. They are not the typical Greek myths that we know from the Greek mythology about Gods and Heroes.
What is the name of the ancient greek who wrote a group of fables? Aesop's fables or Babrius    Babrius may have written a collection of fables, which was  discovered in the 19th century) based on Aesop's fables, only in  Greek verse … . Babrius may have been a Hellenistic Roman. 1 Katakolon, Greece Sightseeing Information If you are planning a trip to Greece, you should consider touring Katakolon, one of the sight-seeing capitals of Greece. 2  There are a variety of things to do, and amazing sit…. 3  The Components of a Fable Some of the most well-known stories are considered to be fables.
1 The Components of a Fable Some of the most well-known stories are considered to be fables. 2  However, it can be difficult to know when a story is actually a fable and when it is another literary work, s…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. 1 Katakolon, Greece Sightseeing Information If you are planning a trip to Greece, you should consider touring Katakolon, one of the sight-seeing capitals of Greece. 2  There are a variety of things to do, and amazing sit…. 3  The Components of a Fable Some of the most well-known stories are considered to be fables.
COPYRIGHT 2004 The Gale Group Inc. Little is known about the ancient Greek writer Aesop (c. 620 B.C.E.–c. 560 B.C.E.), whose stories of clever animals and foolish humans are considered Western civilization's first morality tales. He was said to have been a slave who earned his freedom through his storytelling and went on to serve as advisor to a king. Aesop. Little is known about the ancient Greek writer Aesop (c. 620 B.C.E.–c. 560 B.C.E.), whose stories of clever animals and foolish humans are considered Western civilization's first morality tales.