Vasopressin, also known as arginine vasopressin (AVP), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or argipressin, is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. Its two primary functions are to retain water in the body and to constrict blood vessels. It is derived from a preprohormone precursor that is synthesized in the hypothalamus and stored in vesicles at the posterior pituitary. Most of it is stored in the posterior pituitary to be released into the bloodstream. However, some AVP may also be released directly into the brain, and accumulating evidence suggests it plays an important role in social behavior, sexual motivation and pair bonding, and maternal responses to stres
Vasopressin is a peptide hormone that increases water permeability of the kidney's collecting duct and distal convoluted tubule by inducing translocation of aquaporin-CD water channels in the plasma membrane of collecting duct cells. It is derived from a preprohormone precursor that is synthesized in the hypothalamus and stored in vesicles at the posterior pituitary. Most of it is stored in the posterior pituitary to be released into the bloodstream. However, some AVP may also be released directly into the brain, and accumulating evidence suggests it plays an important role in social behavior, sexual motivation and pair bonding, and maternal responses to stres
Once ADH is synthesized it is transported down the axons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus to the posterior pituitary where it is then released into the blood circulation. ADH synthesis is increased during dehydration as it acts on the kidneys to prevent water excretion. ADH is released by the brain's pituitary gland.   ADH is not produced in the pituitary gland.it is made in the hypothalamus and secreted by the posterior pituitary   …  its hypothalmus. 26 people found this useful.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Antidiuretic Hormone (ADH) is synthesized by nuclei in a particular part of the hypothalamus called the paraventricular nucleus. ADH is released by the brain's pituitary gland.   ADH is not produced in the pituitary gland.it is made in the hypothalamus and secreted by the posterior pituitary   …  its hypothalmus. 26 people found this useful.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) (vasopressin). Peptide hormone synthesized in hypothalamus and released from posterior pituitary gland; increases water permeability of kidneys' collecting ducts and causes vasoconstriction. 
Antidiuretic hormone, also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone produced by the hypothalamus in the brain and stored in the posterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. ADH helps regulate water balance in the body. Central diabetes insipidus is a decrease in the production of ADH by the hypothalamus or in the release of ADH from the pituitary while nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is characterized by a decrease in the kidney's response to ADH.
antidiuretic hormone (ADH), a hormone that decreases the production of urine by increasing the reabsorption of water by the renal tubules. It is secreted by cells of the hypothalamus and stored in the neurohypophysis. ADH is released in response to a decrease in blood volume, an increased concentration of sodium or other substances in plasma, pain, stress, or the action of certain drugs.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH): A relatively small (peptide) molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). ADH has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic). 
Definition. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is synthesized in the supraoptic and periventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus and transported to the posterior pituitary by the hypothalamoneurohypophyseal tract. ADH is released by the posterior pituitary and serves to regulate the osmolarity of body fluids. 