Corporate Due Dates. Corporate returns. Corporate income tax returns are due on or before the 15 th day of the 3 rd month following the close of the taxable year based on their filing status with the exception of an extension. If the due date falls on a weekend or holiday, the return is due the next day that is not a weekend or holiday
(Currently, these returns are due on April 15, for calendar-year partnerships.) The act directs the IRS to allow a maximum extension of six months for Forms 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income. For C corporations, the new due date is the 15th day of the fourth month following the close of the corporation’s year. 
Filing and Paying Taxes. Corporations must file a Florida Corporate Income/Franchise Tax Return (Form F-1120) each year. The due date is based on the corporation's tax year. See “When Tax Is Due.” Corporations must file a return even if no tax is due. Taxpayers who paid $20,000 or more in corporate income tax during the state’s prior fiscal year (July 1 — June 30) must file Florida corporate income tax returns and pay tax electronically
Generally, the Florida corporate income tax return is due: 1  On or before the first day of the fourth month following the close of the tax year, or. 2  The 15 th day following the due date, without extension, for the filing of the related federal return, whichever is later. Corporations must file a Florida Corporate Income/Franchise Tax Return (Form F-1120) each year. The due date is based on the corporation's tax year. See “When Tax Is Due.” Corporations must file a return even if no tax is due.
Due Date of a Return Personal income tax returns are due on or before April 15th following the close of each tax year. When the due date for filing tax returns falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the filing may be made on the next succeeding business day. The due date for filing 2014 personal income tax returns is Wednesday, April 15, 2015. Extensions. General Rules: Taxpayers who are unable to meet their income tax filing deadlines may apply for automatic six months extensions of time to file Massachusetts personal income tax returns and to make payments.
The Highway Act also changes the due date for U.S. federal C-corporation income tax returns to the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of the taxable year, from the 15th day of the third month following the end of the taxable year, as is currently the rule. 
Form 1120 Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return For calendar year 2014 or tax year beginning, 2014, ending, 20 ▶ Information about Form 1120 and its separate instructions is at www.irs.gov/form1120. 
C Corporation 1120 Return Due Date. Generally, a corporation must file its income tax return by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of its tax year. A new corporation filing a short-period return must generally file by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the short period ends. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the corporation can file on the next business day. Extension of Time To File. Form 7004 Application for Automatic Extension of Time To File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns, to request a 6-month extension of time to file.
If you're expecting a tax refund, you will not face any late tax return filing penalties from the IRS, but you must file your return within 3 years of the original tax return due date in order to claim your refund. The 2015 Federal and State Tax Deadlines (for Tax Year 2014) are on the table below. October 15, 2015 2014 Federal Tax Return Last day to efile a 2014 Federal Income Tax Return for Tax Extension filers. April 15, 2018 2014 Tax Amendment You can file an Amended Return to pay taxes due anytime, but you generally have a deadline of 3 years from the original due date to claim a tax refund.