Listen as WLRN intern Mark Stein explores what Dwyane Wade means to Miami. Earlier this summer, Miami Heat fans worried shooting guard Dwyane Wade might leave the Magic City. Only a few weeks after he opted out of his contract, though, news broke in July that Wade and the Heat had agreed to a one-year, $20 million deal. Many fans were ecstatic. But it’s reasonable to wonder if Wade is really worth that much at this point in his career. He was drafted in 2003, and at 34 years old, has already played 12 seasons in the NBA. He missed a quarter of last year’s games due to injury, and even more the year before that
LeBron James makes $20 million a year for playing basketball. In addition, he signed a $90-million contract with Nike that will pay over 7 years ($12.8 million per year). Al … so he makes 240,000 thousand dollars a game. Even when injured or out of the game.
LeBron and the Cavaliers were swept by the Spurs in the 2007 NBA Finals, James' first Finals appearance. Timothy A. Clary, AFP/Getty Images. Fullscreen. LeBron James scored Cleveland's final 25 points as the Cavaliers outlasted the Pistons 109-107 in double overtime of Eastern Conference Finals Game 5 on May 31, 2007. The Cavs overcame a 2-0 series deficit and won in six. LeBron James rejoins Cleveland Cavaliers in free agency. Four years after he left for the Miami Heat, the Cleveland Cavaliers bring back the best player in the world, and LeBron James gets a chance to redeem his image in his home state.
James was born on December 30, 1984 in Akron, Ohio, to a 16-year-old mother, Gloria Marie James, who raised him on her own. Growing up, life was often a struggle for the family, as they moved from apartment to apartment in the seedier neighborhoods of Akron while James' mother struggled to find steady work. He has started at the small forward and power forward positions. James has won two NBA championships, four NBA Most Valuable Player Awards, two NBA Finals MVP Awards, two Olympic gold medals, an NBA scoring title, and the NBA Rookie of the Year Award.
LeBron Raymone James (/ləˈbrɒn/ ; born December 30, 1984) is an American professional basketball player who currently plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He has started at the small forward and power forward positions. James has won two NBA championships, four NBA Most Valuable Player Awards, two NBA Finals MVP Awards, two Olympic gold medals, an NBA scoring title, and the NBA Rookie of the Year Award.
For the year, James averaged 31.6 points, 9.6 rebounds, 4.6 assists, and 3.4 steals per game, was named Ohio's Mr. Basketball and USA Today All-USA First Team for an unprecedented third consecutive year, and was named Gatorade National Player of the Year for the second consecutive year. He has started at the small forward and power forward positions. James has won two NBA championships, four NBA Most Valuable Player Awards, two NBA Finals MVP Awards, two Olympic gold medals, an NBA scoring title, and the NBA Rookie of the Year Award.
The LeBron James rookie card is currently valued at $6,679 dollars.  LeBron James made his NBA debut in 2003 with the Cleveland  Cavaliers. In addition, he signed a $90-million contract with Nike that will pay over 7 years ($12.8 million per year). Al … so he makes 240,000 thousand dollars a game. Even when injured or out of the game.
Born in Akron, Ohio, in 1984, James is the only child of Gloria James, who gave birth to him when she was just sixteen years old. Gloria struggled to provide for James during his childhood. When James was about five years old, he and his mother moved seven times in a year. While James's first season with the Cavs did not exactly propel them to a championship, he did help his team win twice the number of games as they had the year before, and at the end of the 2003–04 season, James was named Rookie of the Year.
Wiggins has excellent measurements for an NBA wing, but he lacks the bulk and strength that helped make James tough to contain. When Wiggins gets to the pros, he's not going to dominate the way James did; James was averaging 27 points a game by his second year in the league. Wiggins' body isn't quite there yet in terms of absorbing and dishing out physical contact. James had the strength of a 4, the size and mobility of a 3, the scoring arsenal of a 2 and the vision of a point guard. Although Wiggins is very talented, he lacks this all-around versatility. LeBron James' Measurables and Scouting Report After High School. Height: 6'8''. Weight: 240 lbs