email. Knowledge center. Osteopathy is a form of drug-free non-invasive manual medicine that focuses on total body health by treating and strengthening the musculoskeletal framework, which includes the joints, muscles and spine. Its aim is to positively affect the body's nervous, circulatory and lymphatic systems. This therapy is a unique holistic (whole body) approach to health care. Osteopaths do not simply concentrate on treating the problem area, but use manual techniques to balance all the systems of the body, to provide overall good health and wellbeing.
Holders of the D.O. degree have the ability to become licensed as osteopathic physicians who have equivalent rights, privileges, and responsibilities as physicians with a Doctor of Medicine degree (M.D.). The regulation of non-physician manual medicine osteopaths varies greatly between jurisdictions. In the United States, osteopathic physicians holding the D.O. degree have attained the same rights, privileges, and responsibilities as physicians with a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree.
For the American Medical practice of osteopathic physicians in the United States, see Osteopathic medicine in the United States. For diseases of the bone, see bone disease and osteology. Osteopathy is a type of alternative medicine that emphasizes the physical manipulation of the body's muscle tissue and bones. Its name derives from Ancient Greek bone (ὀστέον) and disease of (-πάθεια), Analysis of peer-reviewed research yields little evidence that osteopathy is effective for non-musculo-skeletal conditions, and limited evidence that osteopathy is an effective treatment for some types of neck pain, shoulder pain, or limb pain.
Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O. or DO) is a professional doctoral degree for physicians and surgeons offered by medical schools in the United States. The regulation of non-physician manual medicine osteopaths varies greatly between jurisdictions. In the United States, osteopathic physicians holding the D.O. degree have attained the same rights, privileges, and responsibilities as physicians with a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree.
Benefits of Osteopathy. Osteopathic treatment in itself is not 'preventative' . Osteopaths respect the body's natural ability as a self-regulating mechanism and only intervene when pain or discomfort is present. The benefits of osteopathy are the general improvement in mobility and structural stability of the body. This therapy is a unique holistic (whole body) approach to health care. Osteopaths do not simply concentrate on treating the problem area, but use manual techniques to balance all the systems of the body, to provide overall good health and wellbeing.
Osteopaths can treat patients with many complaints. Possible complaints include: • Back and neck problems: pain, lumbago, hernia, blockades, muscle stiffness, limited mobility, etc. • Joint problems: pain, frozen shoulder, tennis elbow, etc. 
A Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.), more correctly called a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, is very much like a traditional medical doctor (M.D.), but receives additional training in the body's musculoskeletal system. A doctor of osteopathy typically practices manipulative medicine treatment in addition to more traditional methods of symptom relief and prevention. A doctor of osteopathy studies the body as a whole.
Doctors of osteopathy believe that posture can affect the functionality of systems of the body. A doctor of osteopathy typically practices manipulative medicine treatment in addition to more traditional methods of symptom relief and prevention. A doctor of osteopathy studies the body as a whole. A doctor of osteopathy is less likely to specialize than a medical doctor
The philosophy of Osteopathy is to treat the body as a whole and to acknowledge the relationships between the body’s structure and function and its inert ability to heal itself. Osteopaths treat a broad spectrum of musculosketal and other conditions. Some examples we commonly see include: 1  Low back pain. 2  Neck and shoulder pain. 3  Headaches / Migraines. 4  Postural problems. 5  Sciatica. 6  Disc prolapses and associated pain. 7  Whiplash.