A cone shaped bill is found in many birds such as finches and grosbeaks. It is a strong beak used for cracking seeds. Thin, slender, pointed beaks are found mainly in insect eaters. They are used to pick insects off leaves, twigs, and bark. 
Long billed curlew is the longest shore bird of North America, also called as sickle bird. The 8.6 inch long bills in 26 inch body becomes main attraction on this species of bird. The long bill curved downwards, have long neck and small head. The female bird have longer bill than that of male birds. They have a colorful broad and triangular beak, half nearest tip of beak is orange inc color and half nearest to head is slate grey. Only adult Atlantic puffins have such broad bills, younger on growing stage the upper edge curve of bill develops. Atlantic puffins have penguin like colors, called as clown of sea.
Bird’s beaks are very important. They help the bird gather food and sometimes they rip, tear, or crush food. They can act as an extra hand, such as when parrots use their beak for climbing. They are used for building nests, and in some species of birds they can even tie knots. They are also important for preening, which is making sure all of the bird’s feathers are in their proper place. The top part of the beak is called the Upper Mandible, and the lower part is called the Lower Mandible. To learn more about beaks and how they determine what kinds of food a bird eats, keep reading!
Hemera Technologies/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images. A prominent hooked beak makes the parrot stand out from other bird species. The upper beak is hinged to give it precise dexterity and strength for cracking seeds and manipulating objects in its environment. Here's to Their Health. Like human fingernails, a parrot's beak is a good indicator of general health. If your parrot's beak is deeply imbued with its natural color and is not flaking or splitting, your feeding and care program is meeting his needs adequately.
Based on Genetics. Parrot beak color is predominantly dependent upon a parrot's species. Many breeds of macaws have black beaks, including hyacinth, Hahn's and blue and gold macaws. Other species, such as greenwing and Catalina macaws, have light-colored beaks. Here's to Their Health. Like human fingernails, a parrot's beak is a good indicator of general health. If your parrot's beak is deeply imbued with its natural color and is not flaking or splitting, your feeding and care program is meeting his needs adequately.
Photo: deischi /Flickr. Flashy red and black stripes on its beak is the source of this bird's nicknames: clown of the sea and sea parrot.. But the bold color pattern on the beak of the Atlantic puffin is onely the beginning of what makes this beak so special. 
It is red because of blood mixed into the spit of the swift. As nests are harvested, the swift has to rebuild its nest and this takes a physiological toll on the bird (because … the eggs, which are not yet laid great tax the bird's system). The white bird's name is simply White Bird but he is also known by the alias' Egg Beater, Egg Bomber, Egg Master, Chicken Bird, Bomber Bird or Egg Bird. There is also a female … white bird who has no powers and is a background character. She is only present in Angry Birds Seasons. 6 people found this useful
The chimney swift (Chaetura pelagica) is a bird belonging to the swift family Apodidae. A member of the genus Chaetura, it is closely related to both the Vaux's swift and the Chapman's swift; in the past, the three were sometimes considered to be conspecific. It has no subspecies. The chimney swift is a medium-sized, sooty gray bird with very long, slender wings and very short legs. Like all swifts, it is incapable of perching, and can only cling vertically to surfaces. The chimney swift feeds primarily on flying insects, but also on airborne spiders. The chimney swift's genus name, Chaetura, is a combination of two Greek words: chaite, which means bristle or spine, and oura which means tail. This is an apt description of the bird's tail, as the shafts of all ten tail feathers (rectrices) end in sharp, protruding points.