Grizzly bears are omnivores, and their diet can vary widely. They may eat seeds, berries, roots, grasses, fungi, deer, elk, fish, dead animals and insects. In the late summer and early fall, grizzlies enter hyperphagia, a period of 2-4 months when they intensify their calorie intake to put on weight for winter denning. Reproduction. Grizzly bears are one of the slowest reproducing land mammals. Females do not typically reproduce until they are four or five years old. Grizzly bears mate between May and July, but the female’s body delays implantation of their eggs in the uterus until October or November.
5 to 8 ft (1.5 to 2.5 m). Weight: 800 lbs (363 kg). Protection status: Threatened. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The grizzly bear is a North American subspecies of the brown bear. These awe-inspiring giants tend to be solitary animals—with the exception of females and their cubs—but at times they do congregate. 
The grizzly bear, one of the strongest and most impressive mammals in North America, is a symbol of Canadian wilderness. The grizzly is able to run at speeds of 45 kilometres/hour and can weigh 100-400 kilograms (220-880 pounds). 
Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) have concave faces, a distinctive hump on their shoulders, and long claws about two to four inches long. Both the hump and the claws are traits associated with a grizzly bear’s exceptional digging ability. Reproduction. Grizzly bears are one of the slowest reproducing land mammals. Females do not typically reproduce until they are four or five years old. Grizzly bears mate between May and July, but the female’s body delays implantation of their eggs in the uterus until October or November.
The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos ssp.) is any North American subspecies of brown bear, including the mainland grizzly (Ursus arctos horribilis), Kodiak bear (U. a. middendorffi), peninsular grizzly (U. a. gyas), and the recently extinct California grizzly (U. a. californicus †) and Mexican grizzly bear (U. a. nelsoni †). In other words, the grizzly and the brown bear are one species on two continents. Currently, Rausch and others classify three subspecies of the new North American brown bear: U. a. horribilis, middendorffi, and gyas.
Scientists do not use the name grizzly bear but call it the North American brown bear See brown bear for a discussion of brown bears outside of North America (in Asia, Africa, and Europe). In other words, the grizzly and the brown bear are one species on two continents. Currently, Rausch and others classify three subspecies of the new North American brown bear: U. a. horribilis, middendorffi, and gyas.
Brown bears are considered a species of least concern by the IUCN. However, the grizzly bear subspecies is listed as threatened by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Grizzly bears are threatened by habitat loss due to logging, development, and mining. Human interaction also poses a threat to grizzlies. Pregnant grizzly bears even give birth in their sleep! Midwinter, grizzly bear cubs (usually born in pairs) arrive into the world blind, hairless, and toothless. They use what little strength they have to nestle into their mother and nurse. For a month, the cubs feed on their mother’s milk and gain strength.
The grizzly bear is a powerful species and is master of its natural habitat. Its anatomy includes a notable muscular hump on its back above it's shoulders. It has a big head and its claws are quite long. The grizzly bear is at the top of the food chain. Their diet depends on what is available and the time of year. Since grizzlies are omnivorous they will eat almost any kind of food where they live. Their diet includes mostly plant edibles such as wild berries, grasses, flowers, tubers, wild vegetables, etc.
The grizzly is just one subspecies, or type, of brown bear (Ursus arctos). While grizzlies are confined to northwestern North America, other types of brown bears are found in Europe, northern Asia and Japan. The species as a whole is found in fairly healthy numbers worldwide (200,000 or more). 
Diet: Grizzly bears are omnivores. The most commonly eaten plants are the fleshy roots of some plants, fruits, berries, grasses, and forbs. If grizzly bears are on the hunt, their prey can include fish (especially salmon), rodents like ground squirrels, carrion and hoofed animals like moose, elk, caribou, and deer. They are especially good at catching the young of these hoofed wildlife species. Grizzly bears received their name because their brown fur can be tipped with white. This gives them a “grizzled” look, especially when blacklit by the sun. Size: Grizzly bears weigh upwards of 700 pounds. The males are heavier than the females and can weigh up to 1,