You need to stay hydrated -- that’s clear -- but is the tap water in your home safe? It is considered generally safe if it comes from a public water system in the United States, such as one run and maintained by a municipality.
(This is the same way that many Europeans  prefer bottled water even though tap water is … generally safe in  Europe.)    However, it is not safe to drink directly from groundwater in  Israel (such as its various rivers-Jordan, Yarkon, etc.
The only time it's generally recommended that you drink bottled water instead of tap water is if you're in a group at high-risk for infection such as those who are undergoing chemotherapy or HIV-positive or if you are pregnant.
The tap water in Taipei, Taiwan is safe to drink. The Taipei Water Department conducts regular tests of water from purification plants and from consumers' premises, and has fo … und water from 99.95% of sources to be safe for drinking (Taipei Water Department, 2012).
Only if your tap water is filtered by the Epa. They run the rules for filtering tap water while bottled water is run by the food and rug administration. Only 3% of the water u … find in bottle water has to be spring water the rest is...tap water. Either way your drinking tap water.
Answer:   The tap water in Israel is perfectly safe. By law, each local  jurisdiction (towns, cities) filters, treats and purifies the water  before it enters the local system, just as is done in other  developed countries.
Water that has been boiled for 1 minute is safe to drink after it has cooled. If no other method of water disinfection is available, very hot tap water may be safe to drink if it has been in the tank for a while.
Tap water in iteland is not safe to drink, we are one of 2 countries in the world with a mandatory fluoridation policy. Maximus May 26, 2015 Reply →. You have to protect your precious bodily fluids.
Ensuring safe and healthy drinking water may be as simple as turning on the tap from an EPA-regulated public water system. Other water sources may need a water filter, a check on water fluoridation, or an inspection to ensure a septic tank is not too close to a private well.
Would you please update your info on safe tap drinking water. It has been reported during the past two-three years that the Davao City, Republic of the Philippines tap water has been ranked second to Switzerland as to its potability, drinkability and safe tap water.