About Wuhan. Wuhan is the capital of Hubei Province, China. With more than 10 million people, it is the most populous city in Central China. Known as the “Chicago of China”, Wuhan has long been a political, economic, financial, cultural, educational and transportation hub of the region.
Arising out of the conglomeration of three cities, Wuchang, Hankou, and Hanyang, Wuhan is known as Jiusheng Tongqu (the nine provinces' leading thoroughfare); it is a major transportation hub, with dozens of railways, roads and expressways passing through the city and connecting to major cities in Mainland China. Wuhan is in east-central Hubei, at latitude 29° 58'–31° 22' N and longitude 113° 41'–115° 05' E, east of the Jianghan Plain, and is at the confluence of the Hanshui and Yangtze Rivers along the middle reaches of the latter.
Wuhan Tianhe International Airport (IATA: WUH, ICAO: ZHHH) serves Wuhan, the capital of the Hubei province, People's Republic of China. It was opened on 15 April 1995, substituting the old Hankou Wangjiadun Airport and Nanhu Airport as the major airport of Wuhan. The airport is located in Wuhan's suburban Huangpi District, around 26 kilometres to the north of Wuhan city center. It is the busiest airport of central China as it is geographically located in the centre of China's airline route network. 
Wuhan is the capital of Hubei province, People's Republic of China, and is the most populous city in Central China. It lies in the eastern Jianghan Plain at the intersection of the middle reaches of the Yangtze and Han rivers. Wuhan is in east-central Hubei, at latitude 29° 58'–31° 22' N and longitude 113° 41'–115° 05' E, east of the Jianghan Plain, and is at the confluence of the Hanshui and Yangtze Rivers along the middle reaches of the latter.
w uhan. Wuhan is a generic name, referring to the three linked mid-Yangtze Rivercities of Wuchang, Hankou, and Hanyang. Wuhan, capital of Hubei Province, is the largest city in Central China. It subtropical climate is characterized by humid weather and a monsoon season. Located at the junction of the Beijing-Guangzhou Railway and the Yangtze River waterway, Wuhan has always been known as the Thoroughfare of Nine Provinces.  Covering an area of 8, 410 square kilometres the City of Wuhan has a population of 7.4 million. Wuhan has a long history and rich cultural heritage.
The city of Wuhan, first termed as such in 1927, has a population of 10,220,000 people (as of 2013). In the 1920s, Wuhan was the national capital of a leftist Kuomintang (KMT) government led by Wang Jingwei in opposition to Chiang Kai-shek, as well as wartime capital in 1937. Wuhan is in east-central Hubei, at latitude 29° 58'–31° 22' N and longitude 113° 41'–115° 05' E, east of the Jianghan Plain, and is at the confluence of the Hanshui and Yangtze Rivers along the middle reaches of the latter.
Wuhan is located in the intersection of the China's largest river Yangtze River and its largest tributaroy of Han River. Wuchang, Hankou and Hanyang are three towns of Wuhan divided by the two rivers. Wuhan is known as the 100 Lake City and has China's largest city lake-East Lake. The city water area occupied a quarter of the total urban area. l. (East Lake Senic View). Wuhan is China's historical and cultural city and is one of China Excellent Tourism Cities. Wuhan has 3,500 years history and played an important role in the culture of the Yangtze River-the Chu culture
detailed map of Wuhan and near places. Welcome to the Wuhan google satellite map! This place is situated in Wuhan Shiqu, Hubei, China, its geographical coordinates are 30° 35' 0 North, 114° 16' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Wuhan. See Wuhan photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Wuhan in China. 
Wuhan is also one center of China's high-speed railway network. Wuhan is an important port in Yangtze River and therefore the gateway to the Yangtze River Three Gorges tourism. Wuhan is known as the 100 Lake City and has China's largest city lake-East Lake. The city water area occupied a quarter of the total urban area. l. (East Lake Senic View). Wuhan is China's historical and cultural city and is one of China Excellent Tourism Cities.