Also, most babies need to breastfeed at least 8 times every 24 hours, although in the early weeks it is rarely at regular intervals. Newborns tend to cluster nurse, meaning they tend to bunch their feedings together at certain times of the day (often evenings) and take one longer sleep stretch of about 4 to 5 hours. An average length of a breastfeeding for a newborn is 20 to 40 minutes total, but some babies are faster than average and some are slower. I count at least 10 minutes of active nursing as a feeding.
If you nurse your baby for 4-6 weeks: 1  You will be helping to ease his transition through the most vulnerable part of his infancy. 2  Babies who are breastfed have lower rates of many illnesses, including digestive and respiratory problems, pneumonia and meningitis, and SIDS. If you nurse for a year or more, as recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics: 1  Your baby will receive health benefits that last a lifetime. 2  Long-term nursing protects against ulcerative colitis, diabetes, asthma, Crohn’s disease, obesity, and high cholesterol in adulthood.
If you nurse for 3-6 months: 1  Your baby will be healthier than the baby who is formula fed. 2  Studies have found that babies who were exclusively breastfed for at least four months had half as many ear infections as formula fed babies. 3  Nursing can help you lose the extra weight you put on during pregnancy. If you nurse for a year or more, as recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics: 1  Your baby will receive health benefits that last a lifetime. 2  Long-term nursing protects against ulcerative colitis, diabetes, asthma, Crohn’s disease, obesity, and high cholesterol in adulthood.
Marathon nursing sessions usually precede a growth spurt. Your baby may feed every 20 to 50 minutes over several hours, rest for a while, and then want another feeding. He may nurse for even longer periods of time; after all, he's getting both nutrition and nurturing. Allow him to nurse as long as he wants on one side before switching. That way you'll know that he's getting enough high-calorie hindmilk to help him grow, and that you're maintaining an adequate milk supply. 10 tips for breastfeeding success Watch a lactation consultant help a new mom learn how to breastfeed her baby.
It's perfectly normal for a baby to take as little as five minutes or as much as an hour to complete a feeding, assuming that the baby is growing well (gaining 4 to 8 ounces per week in the first three months and growing in length and head circumference). Allow him to nurse as long as he wants on one side before switching. That way you'll know that he's getting enough high-calorie hindmilk to help him grow, and that you're maintaining an adequate milk supply. 10 tips for breastfeeding success Watch a lactation consultant help a new mom learn how to breastfeed her baby.
From a health perspective, it doesn't really matter whether she breastfeeds for five minutes or an hour, as long as baby is gaining weight well (four to seven ounces each week for the first month, and then one to two pounds each month through month six). Some babies simply take longer than others. 
In all, your newborn should be nursing 8-12 times in 24 hours, he should have at least 6 wet nappys a day, and he should seem satisfied between feedings. By 3 months of age, your baby should be nursing 5-8 times in 24 hours. 1  How long to nurse at each feeding: 1 How long to nurse at each feeding: 2  Most experts recommend feeding newborns for 10-20 minutes at each breast. 3  At the beginning of the feeding it may take up to several minutes for your milk to “let-down.” In the first part of the feeding, the “foremilk” is higher volume, more watery, and higher in protein.
How often to breastfeed. Newborn babies want to feed on demand, usually 8 to 12 times in a 24 hour period for the first two to four weeks. While breastfeeding, be careful of well-meaning family and friends who encourage you to breastfeed less often. 1 Concern about your baby’s output (urine and stools). 2  Your baby is not feeding 8 to 12 times in a 24 hour period. 3  Your baby is sleeping on the breast, not suckling well, and seems hungry each time you take him/her off. 4  Ineffective positioning, latch-on and engorgement.
My nurse told me I should be feeding him 20 minutes on each breast, but my pediatrician said any more than 10 minutes is just dummy time because the baby gets most of the milk in the first 7 minutes of nursing. Is he getting enough to eat in 10 minutes on each breast? 1 How long to nurse at each feeding: 2  Most experts recommend feeding newborns for 10-20 minutes at each breast. 3  At the beginning of the feeding it may take up to several minutes for your milk to “let-down.” In the first part of the feeding, the “foremilk” is higher volume, more watery, and higher in protein.
At age 3 months and again at 6 months, your baby might start nursing more frequently, as these are common times for growth spurts. If you allow your baby frequent and unlimited access to the breast, your milk supply will grow to meet his demand for extra calories. Allow him to nurse as long as he wants on one side before switching. That way you'll know that he's getting enough high-calorie hindmilk to help him grow, and that you're maintaining an adequate milk supply. 10 tips for breastfeeding success Watch a lactation consultant help a new mom learn how to breastfeed her baby.