2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol, (DCPIP) is a blue chemical compound used as a redox dye. Oxidized DCPIP is blue, reduced DCPIP is colorless. The rate of photosynthesis can be measured by the rate at which this dye is broken down (reduced) when exposed to light in a photosynthetic system. This reaction is reversible, as colorless DCPIP can be reoxidized to blue. DPIP. DPIP is a redox dye commonly used as a monitor of the light reactions in photosynthesis because it is an electron acceptor that is blue when oxidized and colourless when reduced. DPIP is commonly used as a substitute for NADP+ . The dye changes color when it is reduced, due to its chemical structur
This procedure uses a dye as an artificial electron acceptor that changes color as it is reduced. DCIP (2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol) is a dye which is blue in its oxidized form and colorless in its reduced form. The change in absorbance (at 600nm) will be used to measure the rate of the Hill reaction. Various dyes can be used as the artificial electron acceptor (A) so that the general equation, known as the Hill Reaction can be written as follows: (blue) (colorless). The Hill reaction is formally defined as the photoreduction of an electron acceptor by the hydrogens of water, with the evolution of oxygen.
2,6-Dichlorophenol Indophenol, (DCPIP, also DPIP) is a chemical compound used as a redox dye. When oxidized, DCPIP is blue with a maximal absorption at 600 nm; when reduced, DCPIP is colorless. DCPIP can be used to measure the rate of photosynthesis. It is part of the Hill reagents family. When exposed to light in a photosynthetic system, the dye is decolorised by chemical reduction. DCPIP can also be used as an indicator for vitamin C. If vitamin C, which is a good reducing agent, is present, the blue dye, which turns pink in acid conditions, is reduced to a colorless compound by ascorbic acid.
The graph indicates that A) green light is strongly absorbed by chlorophyll B) blue light is reflected by the cartenoid C) yellow light is absorbed by caroteinoid D) red light and blue light are absorbed by chlorophyllE) red light is absorbed by the caroteinoid.19. Carbohydrate-synthesizing reactions of photosynthesis directly requireA) lightB) products of the light reactionsC) darknessD) O 2 and H 2 OE) chlorophyll and CO 2 20. Carbon dioxide is passed into a solution of bromothymol blue indicator until the acid solution turns yellow.
The graph indicates that A) green light is strongly absorbed by chlorophyll B) blue light is reflected by the cartenoid C) yellow light is absorbed by caroteinoid D) red light and blue light are absorbed by chlorophyllE) red light is absorbed by the caroteinoid.12. Carbohydrate-synthesizing reactions of photosynthesis directly requireA) lightB) products of the light reactionsC) darknessD) O 2 and H 2 OE) chlorophyll and CO 2 20. Carbon dioxide is passed into a solution of bromothymol blue indicator until the acid solution turns yellow.
VIEW METHOD. Objective. This method is based on the quantitative decolorization of a blue dye (2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol) by ascorbic acid, or vitamin C. The excess (unreacted) dye is extracted with xylene and measured in a spectrophotometer.
Biochem/physiol Actions. 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol sodium salt is a redox dye commonly used as a monitor of the light reactions in photosynthesis because it is an electron acceptor that is blue when oxidized and colorless when reduced. It is part of the Hill reagents family. This reaction is reversible, as colorless DCPIP can be reoxidized to blue. 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol (DCPIP) is used as a substitute for NADP+. The dye changes color when it is reduced, due to its chemical structure.