Figure 1: Chromosomes are composed of DNA tightly-wound around histones. Chromosomal DNA is packaged inside microscopic nuclei with the help of histones. These are positively-charged proteins that strongly adhere to negatively-charged DNA and form complexes called nucleosomes.
The bacterial DNA is packaged in loops back and forth. The bundled DNA is called the nucleoid. It concentrates the DNA in part of the cell, but it is not separated by a nuclear membrane (as in eukaryotes.) The DNA does form loops back and forth to a protein core, attached to the cell wall.
Eukaryotic Chromosomes. 1  Many prokaryotes contain a single circular chromosome. 2  Prokaryotic chromosomes are condensed in the nucleoid via DNA supercoiling and the binding of various architectural proteins. 3  Because prokaryotic DNA can interact with the cytoplasm, transcription and translation occur simultaneously.
Histone-like proteins in bacteria contribute to the control of gene expression, as well as participating in other DNA transactions such as recombination and DNA replication. They have also been described, somewhat vaguely, as contributors to the organization of the bacterial nucleoid.
Histone-like proteins in bacteria contribute to the control of gene expression, as well as participating in other DNA transactions such as recombination and DNA replication. They have also been described, somewhat vaguely, as contributors to the organization of the bacterial nucleoid.
Chromosomes are single strands of DNA. Bacterial DNA is packaged into a single chromosome that is a continuous loop. In both cases, the DNA must be folded or coiled so that it will fit into the cell. In bacteria the compaction involves DNA binding proteins that help to form initial loops followed by coiling of DNA.
Histones Histones are proteins that aid in the organization of DNA into chromosomes. There are four types of histones found in chromatin: H2A, H2B, H3, and H4. Two of each his … tone comprise a protein core, a nucleosome, which DNA wraps around twice.
Abstract. Histone-like proteins in bacteria contribute to the control of gene expression, as well as participating in other DNA transactions such as recombination and DNA replication. They have also been described, somewhat vaguely, as contributors to the organization of the bacterial nucleoid.
Whereas eukaryotes wrap their DNA around proteins called histones to help package the DNA into smaller spaces, most prokaryotes do not have histones (with the exception of those species in the domain Archaea).