While not yet at the level a psychiatrist can expect when licensed, the starting salaries for 2012 were $58,032 a year in San Mateo County, California, and $50,283 a year at UCLA; the University of Pennsylvania's School of Medicine pays $50,087 a year to start. The actual cost a psychiatrist pays for her bachelor's degree will depend on the number of years she takes to complete her bachelor's degree, how much she pays for college each year and how much financial assistance she qualifies for.
The road from high school graduate to licensed psychiatrist is a long one, and it starts with a bachelor's degree. Many people who are interested in psychiatry choose to major in psychology, chemistry, biology, or engineering in order to start learning about the way the mind works. 1 For every one person admitted to medical school, 7 will be rejected. 2  Some universities offer pre-med programs that are designed to fulfill all of the prerequisites for applying to medical school. 3  Going to the best school you can get into is a good idea when your end goal is becoming a psychiatrist.
To be come a psychiatrist you need four years of college, four years of medical school and two to four years of residency and specialization. I would think it would depend on what you wanted to do with your medical degree, Neuro-psychiatrist deal with people who have had severe injuries of the brain and nervous system. Meaning, you will need a bachelors degree (typically 4yrs) and then attend a medical school (another 4yrs) You will also need to complete some form of an internship called a residency(3-10yrs) To become a psychologist however, I've heard that you need a masters degree and I've also heard you need a docterets degree.
Medical Degree. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, the average cost for a first-year medical student at a public school in 2011-2012 was $28,947 a year for residents and $51,278 a year for non-residents. The actual cost a psychiatrist pays for her bachelor's degree will depend on the number of years she takes to complete her bachelor's degree, how much she pays for college each year and how much financial assistance she qualifies for.
Similarly, the cost at a private medical school was $46,456 a year for residents and $48,046 a year for non-residents. Considering that medical school lasts for four years, a medical degree can easily cost $120,000 to more than $200,000 for just tuition, fees and insurance. The actual cost a psychiatrist pays for her bachelor's degree will depend on the number of years she takes to complete her bachelor's degree, how much she pays for college each year and how much financial assistance she qualifies for.
The first step to becoming a psychiatrist is to earn a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. In preparation for medical school, a good choice would be to focus on pre-med, physical sciences or psychology — or a combination of the three by utilizing a double major or minor. Students should take the MCAT the year before they intend to apply to medical school; they are allowed to take it as many times as necessary in order to pass. Those who need to retake the MCAT can sign up for a new testing period two days after their previous examination.
At the end of your junior year in college, you will need to take the MCAT (Medical Admissions Test). As a beginner as a psychiatrist, you will be making $80,000 to $150,000. Then after years of experience in this field, you can be making $125,000 to $200,000. Source(s): http://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=..