Pressure increases the speed of molecules, therefore, increase the rate of diffusion. Solute particles decrease the free energy of a solvent. Essentially solvent molecules, such as water in a biological system, move from a region of greater mole fraction to a region where it has a lower mole fraction.
Some of the factors that affect the rate at which particles diffuse include: the particle's molecular weight, temperature, concentration difference, diffusion distance, permeability and surface area. Pressure is also known to affect the rate of diffusion since it increases the speed of molecules.
Volumes of high concentration gradient have a large difference in the concentration of molecules over a unit length. A large difference in concentration leads to a greater probability of molecular collisions over the region and therefore increases the rate of diffusion.
Diffusing molecules flow from high concentration to low concentration, and the rate of diffusion increases when the difference in concentration is greater. The rate of diffusion decreases, however, when molecules must travel a longer distance in their search for equilibrium.
Best Answer: the rate of diffusion is directly proportional to the concentration gradient. The greater the difference in concentration between two areas, the greater the rate of diffusion.
The rate of diffusion is directly proportional to temperature; and The rate of diffusion is indirectly related to molecular weight (heavier particles move more slowly than lighter, smaller ones). At room temperature, the average velocity of a molecule is fast-about 2 km/sec (=3997 mph!).
Concentration The greater the concentration gradient between the outside and inside of the membrane the greater the rate of diffusion. If the concentration of oxygen outside the cell increases then it will diffuse more quickly into the cell. The opposite is also true.
Of all the factors that influence diffusion rate, temperature is the most important. Temperature has the greatest effect on diffusion rates and is the easiest of the factors to change. Increasing the temperature increases the diffusion rate by adding energy to each particle.