Viral reproduction, on the other hand, can be blocked by antiviral agents. Viruses cause such respiratory infections as the common cold (rhinovirus), the flu (influenza), some pneumonias and bronchiolitis (respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV). It can be difficult to determine whether you have a viral or bacterial infection because the symptoms are often similar. 
Bacterial and viral infections can cause similar symptoms such as coughing and sneezing, fever, inflammation, vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue, and cramping -- all of which are ways the immune system tries to rid the body of infectious organisms. The Differences Between Bacteria and Viruses. Although bacteria and viruses are both too small to be seen without a microscope, they're as different as giraffes and goldfish. Bacteria are relatively complex, single-celled creatures with a rigid wall and a thin, rubbery membrane surrounding the fluid inside the cell.
The flu and the common cold are both respiratory illnesses but they are caused by different viruses. Because these two types of illnesses have similar flu-like symptoms, it can be difficult to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone. In general, the flu is worse than the common cold, and symptoms such as fever, body aches, extreme tiredness, and dry cough are more common and intense. Colds are usually milder than the flu. People with colds are more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose
What is the difference between bacterial and viral infections. It's that time of year again when everyone is coughing, sneezing, have sore throats and on antibiotics. Learn how vitamin c, zinc, vitamin A and selenium can help. 
The common cold and flu are both contagious viral infections of the respiratory tract. Although the symptoms can be similar, flu is much worse. A cold may drag you down a bit, but the flu can make you shudder at the very thought of getting out of bed. Congestion, sore throat, and sneezing are common with colds. Both cold and flu bring coughing, headache, and chest discomfort. With the flu, though, you are likely to run a high fever for several days and have body aches, fatigue, and weakness. Symptoms of the flu also tend to come on abruptly
As you might think, bacterial infections are caused by bacteria, and viral infections are caused by viruses. Perhaps the most important distinction between bacteria and viruses is that antibiotic drugs usually kill bacteria, but they aren't effective against viruses. 
In this article. Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 3  Contact with contaminated surfaces, food, and water. The Differences Between Bacteria and Viruses. Although bacteria and viruses are both too small to be seen without a microscope, they're as different as giraffes and goldfish. Bacteria are relatively complex, single-celled creatures with a rigid wall and a thin, rubbery membrane surrounding the fluid inside the cell.
Article Body. It is often difficult to tell if an illness is just a viral cold or if it is complicated by a bacterial infection of the sinuses. Sinusitis is an inflammation of the lining of the nose and sinuses. It is a very common infection in children. 1  Viral sinusitis usually accompanies a cold. 
The flu is a viral infection caused by the influenza virus, a respiratory virus. The common cold is also a viral infection caused by the adenovirus or coronavirus and there are many, many subsets with a lot of variability. That’s why it's said there's no cure for the common cold [and] there's no real vaccine. 
For children with asthma, colds are the most common trigger of asthma symptoms. Colds are a common precursor of ear infections. However, children's eardrums are usually congested during a cold, and it's possible to have fluid buildup without a true bacterial infection. Best Answer: One of the simplest ways to tell without seeing a doctor is to look at the discharge. Viral infections will usually have a runnier, clear discharge, whereas bacterial infections will have a yellow or green thicker discharge. So, gross as it is, just check out your kleenex.