The urinary tract system is a group of organs of the body, which are responsible for the excretion of urine. In humans, the urinary system includes 2 kidneys, a pair of tube-like structures, called the ureters, which connect the kidneys to the bladder. The bladder is connected to the urethra, which delivers the urine to the outside of the body. The primary function of the urinary tract system is to remove substances from the blood, to form urine and help to regulate various metabolic processes.
Ureter. The ureter is a tube that carries urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. There are two ureters, one attached to each kidney. The upper half of the ureter is located in the abdomen and the lower half is located in the pelvic area. The ureter is about 10 to 12 inches long in the average adult. 
Report Abuse. Ureters is the tube that gives urine to the bladder.Ureters connect the kidney and bladder.The bladder is a place where the urine is place and wait until it is let out.The urethra is a tube that let the urine out of the body to the bathroom. Source(s): My brain and 7 grade science book. Jacky · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Best Answer: Ureters are the connecting tube of the kidney and the urinary bladder. The urine originating from the kidney goes through the ureter to reach the urinary bladder. Urinary Bladder is the temporary storage organ of the urine before it goes through the urethra. Ureters is the tube that gives urine to the bladder.Ureters connect the kidney and bladder.The bladder is a place where the urine is place and wait until it is let out.The urethra is a tube that let the urine out of the body to the bathroom. Source(s): My brain and 7 grade science book. Jacky · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
In human anatomy, the ureters are tubes made of smooth muscle fibers that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. 
Ureter function and definition. Ureter, in a human organism, is a muscular tube, fairly thick and rigid, that leads URINE from the kidney to the urinary BLADDER. Both of the two tubular structures arise from the renal pelvis and collect the urine from the kidney’s collecting tubules. Both ureters with the inner diameter of 3 or 4 millimeters exit the kidney at the hilus.
Function: It is the tube that carries urine from kidney to the bladder. Structure: It orignates from the base of the kidney and terminates in the base of the bladder. Each kidney has one ureter measuriing from 28 to 34 cm long, the right one is slightly shorter than the left. The diameter varies from 1mm to 1 cm.
Ureter is a tube that carries the urine from the kidney to the bladder. The muscular walls of ureter are thick and allow continuous or uninterrupted flow of urine under the influence of gravity. 
Ureters. Each ureter is a small tube, about 25 cm long, that carries urine from the renal pelvis to the urinary bladder. It descends from the renal pelvis, along the posterior abdominal wall, which is behind the parietal peritoneum, and enters the urinary bladder on the posterior inferior surface