Wind is a feature of the climate, with gales (and impressive storms) quite common outside the summer months. From day to day, Shetland's weather is no more predictable than anywhere else in the UK, but the very long hours available for filming in the summer really do set the islands apart. Some would say that it's a very special kind of light, much appreciated by artists who work in the islands. Shetland has always attracted film-makers. For example, Michael Powell chose Shetland to make one of the early classics of British cinema, The Edge of the World (1937).
Shetland is a BBC Scotland crime drama television series starring Douglas Henshall as Detective Inspector Jimmy Perez. The story takes place on the Scottish archipelago of Shetland, though much of the filming was done on the Scottish mainland, with some on location in Shetland.
Steven Robertson, Actor. In March 2014 the BBC is screening a new series of drama Shetland, named for the remote archipelago north of the Scottish mainland where it’s filmed and set. Douglas Henshall stars as a detective working in the small island communities. Shetland is also occasionally used for commercial productions and last year hosted a shoot for mobile network Three that starred a dancing Shetland pony. The spot was a viral hit, racking up more than eight million hits on YouTube. To find out more about Shetland as a filming location click here.
FILMING IN SHETLAND. Shetland Islands Council works in conjunction with the regional film offices as part of the Scottish Locations Network. The Council can provide a fast, free, confidential and informative service to help realise a project, whether it’s a feature film, advertisment, music video or a stills shoot. The Council can offer:
If you are interested in filming in Shetland or are aware of crews filming in Shetland, please contact Neil Henderson, the Film Liaison officer at Shetland Islands Council, who will be happy to help with any enquiries-tel: +44 (0)1595 744 960. Neil Henderson. Shetland Islands Council works in conjunction with the regional film offices as part of the Scottish Locations Network. The Council can provide a fast, free, confidential and informative service to help realise a project, whether it’s a feature film, advertisment, music video or a stills shoot. The Council can offer:
Shetland (/ˈʃɛtlənd/ ; Scottish Gaelic: Sealtainn [ˈʃal̪ˠt̪ʰɪɲ]), also called the Shetland Islands, is a subarctic archipelago of Scotland that lies north-east of the island of Great Britain and forms part of the United Kingdom. Shetland also a a breed of pig called the Shetland pig. The islands' motto, which appears on the Council's coat of arms, is Með loegum lögum skal land. Byggja This icelandic phrase is taken from The danish 1241 Basic: Law Jyske, lov and is also mentioned In njals njáls saga And means by law shall land. be built
Shetland is a really distinctive crime series that has proved hugely popular with audiences both here in Scotland and across the rest of the UK. Christopher Aird, BBC Head of Drama Production Scotland. The BBC has announced that a new series of popular crime drama Shetland will film in 2015. Set and shot on the remote archipelago of Shetland off the north-east coast of the Scottish mainland, the drama series is adapted from crime novels written by Ann Cleeves.
And, if you'd like to film a story that's actually set in Shetland, there are some great themes to be explored. On other parts of this site, you’ll find lots more information about the islands. What’s more, the advice you need is only a phone call or email away. Shetland has always attracted film-makers. For example, Michael Powell chose Shetland to make one of the early classics of British cinema, The Edge of the World (1937).
In 2010, Simon King made a much-praised documentary series about our wildlife, Simon King's Shetland Diaries (2010). More recently, two seasons of the BBC's commissioned crime drama, Shetland, have already been transmitted and a third was filmed in Shetland in 2015. Shetland has always attracted film-makers. For example, Michael Powell chose Shetland to make one of the early classics of British cinema, The Edge of the World (1937).
The total area is 1,466 km 2 (566 sq mi) and the population totalled 23,210 in 2012. Comprising the Shetland constituency of the Scottish Parliament, Shetland is also one of the 32 council areas of Scotland; the islands' administrative centre and only burgh is Lerwick. Also the capital of Shetland since 1708 taking over from Scalloway. Shetland also a a breed of pig called the Shetland pig. The islands' motto, which appears on the Council's coat of arms, is Með loegum lögum skal land. Byggja This icelandic phrase is taken from The danish 1241 Basic: Law Jyske, lov and is also mentioned In njals njáls saga And means by law shall land. be built