To perform object-oriented programming, one needs an object-oriented programming language (OOPL) . Java, C++ and Smalltalk are three of the more popular languages, and there are also object-oriented versions of Pascal. One of the principal advantages of object-oriented programming techniques over procedural programming techniques is that they enable programmers to create modules that do not need to be changed when a new type of object is added.
Cordys Business Operations Platform. Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming language model organized around objects rather than actions and data rather than logic. Historically, a program has been viewed as a logical procedure that takes input data, processes it, and produces output data. The programming challenge was seen as how to write the logic, not how to define the data. Object-oriented programming takes the view that what we really care about are the objects we want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them.
An important distinction in programming languages is the difference between an object-oriented language and an object-based language. A language is usually considered object-based if it includes the basic capabilities for an object: identity, properties, and attributes. Object-oriented programming is an approach to designing modular reusable software systems. The object-oriented approach is fundamentally a modelling approach. The object-oriented approach is an evolution of good design practices that go back to the very beginning of computer programming.
Many of the most widely used programming languages are multi-paradigm programming languages that support object-oriented programming to a greater or lesser degree, typically in combination with imperative, procedural programming. Object-oriented programming by definition uses objects, but not all of the associated techniques and structures are supported directly in languages which claim to support OOP.
Simula was the first object-oriented programming language. Java, Python, C++ , Visual Basic .NET and Ruby are the most popular OOP languages today. The Java programming language is designed especially for use in distributed applications on corporate networks and the Internet. Ruby is used in many Web applications. The programming challenge was seen as how to write the logic, not how to define the data. Object-oriented programming takes the view that what we really care about are the objects we want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them.
The concepts of Object Oriented Programming are the basis for many of today's programming languages. The core concept within Object Oriented Programming is the concept of an Object. An Object is a collection of data and the methods(functions) that operate on it. The basic idea behind an Object Oriented Programming language is to combine into a single unit both data and the methods (functions) that operate on the data. An Object's method (function) provides the only way to access data. Thus data is hidden and safe from accidental alteration
The object-oriented approach is not just a programming model. It can be used equally well as an interface definition language for distributed systems. The objects in a distributed computing model tend to be larger grained, longer lasting, and more service-oriented than programming objects. Object-oriented programming is an approach to designing modular reusable software systems. The object-oriented approach is fundamentally a modelling approach. The object-oriented approach is an evolution of good design practices that go back to the very beginning of computer programming.
Object-oriented programming that uses classes is sometimes called class-based programming, while prototype-based programming does not typically use classes. As a result, a significantly different yet analogous terminology is used to define the concepts of object and instance. Object-oriented programming by definition uses objects, but not all of the associated techniques and structures are supported directly in languages which claim to support OOP.
A type of programming in which programmers define not only the data type of a data structure, but also the types of operations (functions) that can be applied to the data structure. In this way, the data structure becomes an object that includes both data and functions. One of the principal advantages of object-oriented programming techniques over procedural programming techniques is that they enable programmers to create modules that do not need to be changed when a new type of object is added.
Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming language model organized around objects rather than actions and data rather than logic. The programming challenge was seen as how to write the logic, not how to define the data. Object-oriented programming takes the view that what we really care about are the objects we want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them.