Dorian was born to a prestigious family of the Tevinter Imperium, demonstrating from an early age a flair for magic which made him the envy of his peers. He served as a student under magister Alexius, though eventually became disillusioned with Tevinter culture. Recruiting. You can recruit Dorian to your party in two ways, depending on what decisions you make. If side with the Templars in Champions of the Just, Dorian will arrive at Haven where you can recruit him. If you side with the Mages during In Hushed Whispers, he will instead be found in Redcliffe Village's Chantry.
There are nine companions in Dragon Age: Inquisition, and EA is about to showcase each of them. Today focuses on Dorian, a cocky Tevinter with a flair for magic. Dragon Age: Inquisition: Meet Sera, The Elven Archer Rogue. Like Us on Facebook. It's already apparent that this is the guy you're going to love to hate.
It was here I discovered that Dorian’s father intended to use a blood magic ritual to “cure” his gay son so he could continue Tevinter’s tradition of entering arranged marriages in order to preserve certain bloodlines and traits. Anything for that.” – Dorian, responding to his father’s claims that he only wanted the best for his son. Dorian’s personal quest, and the romantic relationship you can have with him after show both the best and the ugliest parts of being gay in the real world.
So I moved on, reluctantly, and that’s when I met him. Dorian The Mage is the first fully gay character in the series, and is rich with personality. Sarcastic, sly, and smart, he looks like a combination of Adam Lambert, Freddie Mercury, Duncan Regehr, and the Movember Man Of The Month. 
Edit Page Last Edit: 10 months 25 days ago. Dorian is an expert mage with a flair for the dramatic, and can join you as one of your Companions. Recruiting. You can recruit Dorian to your party in two ways, depending on what decisions you make. If side with the Templars in Champions of the Just, Dorian will arrive at Haven where you can recruit him. If you side with the Mages during In Hushed Whispers, he will instead be found in Redcliffe Village's Chantry.
Dorian returned to Tevinter to take his father's place in the Magisterium. As rumors flew about the Imperium's infighting, Dorian was spoken of often as a voice of resistance against corruption. Along with Magister Maevaris Tilani, he formed a group called the Lucerni to restore and redeem Tevinter. Dorian will also be attacked by the Venetori, but will be rescued by Iron Bull. In the two-year timeskip, Dorian has since become the official Tevinter ambassador to the Inquisition. The Inquisitor re-encounters him at the Winter Palace while he is in the middle of a conversation with Duke Cyril de Montfort.
Dorian Pavus (born 9:11 Dragon) is a human Altus mage of the Tevinter Imperium, and a companion in Dragon Age: Inquisition. He is a potential romance option for a male Inquisitor. Dorian will also be attacked by the Venetori, but will be rescued by Iron Bull. In the two-year timeskip, Dorian has since become the official Tevinter ambassador to the Inquisition. The Inquisitor re-encounters him at the Winter Palace while he is in the middle of a conversation with Duke Cyril de Montfort.
The only healing I know of is in the necromancer skill tree. That heals your health and magic whenever you get a kill. As for Dorian support I max out the middle and left side of the barrier skill tree, give him the second ice ability that give him faster mp regen, ans then I distribute the rest between lightning skill tree and necromancy. ---. PSN: iG_Hydra. I'm a PS4 elitist
109 pages on this wiki. Dorian first discovers his raw, undiluted magic in the second book of the series. As Chaol and Aelin distance themselves from him, he is left for most of the book to investigate more into his newfound abilities. Dorian didn't just have magic-he had raw magic. The rarest, and deadliest kind. Sheer, undiluted power, capable of being shaped into whatever form the wielder desired. . Being a descendant of a Fae, Dorian possesses magical powers, very much powerful, however he still needs to learn how to properly wield it.
Dorian was born to the prestigious House Pavus of Qarinus in the Tevinter Imperium, demonstrating from an early age a flair for magic which made him the envy of his peers. Dorian studied at the Circle at Carastes, but was expelled at the age of nine after a duel with another magister's son left the other boy injured. Dorian will also be attacked by the Venetori, but will be rescued by Iron Bull. In the two-year timeskip, Dorian has since become the official Tevinter ambassador to the Inquisition. The Inquisitor re-encounters him at the Winter Palace while he is in the middle of a conversation with Duke Cyril de Montfort.