Pregabalin is also used for postherpetic neuralgia (pain that occurs after shingles) and pain caused by nerve damage from diabetes or a spinal cord injury. It is used to treat a condition called fibromyalgia (muscle pain and stiffness). Pregabalin works in the central nervous system (CNS) to control seizures and pain. It is an anticonvulsant and neuropathic pain agent. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. Uses of This Medicine. Pregabalin is used with other medicines to help control partial seizures (convulsions) in the treatment of epilepsy. This medicine will not cure epilepsy and will only work to control seizures for as long as you continue to take it.
Fibromyalgia is a perplexing and often debilitating disorder, but treatment can help. Lyrica, a medicine used to treat patients with seizures, pain from shingles, and nerve pain from diabetes and spinal cord injuries, is offering new hope to those living with the pain of fibromyalgia. Lyrica (pregabalin) is an FDA-approved drug treatment for fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia is a chronic disorder that causes long-term, widespread muscle pain and tenderness, trouble sleeping, and overwhelming tiredness. Lyrica is not an antidepressant. Rather, it is a drug that targets nerve signals
Pregabalin is an anti-epileptic drug, also called an anticonvulsant. It works by slowing down impulses in the brain that cause seizures. Pregabalin also affects chemicals in the brain that send pain signals across the nervous system. Pregabalin is used to control seizures and to treat fibromyalgia. It is also used to treat pain caused by nerve damage in people with diabetes (diabetic neuropathy), herpes zoster (post-herpetic neuralgia), or spinal cord injury. Pregabalin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
A: Lyrica (pregabalin) is a medication used to treat nerve pain, seizures, and fibromyalgia. It works by slowing down impulses in the brain that cause seizures and also affects chemicals in the brain that send pain signals across the nervous system. A: Lyrica (pregabalin) is a drug used to treat nerve pain. One of the primary complaints is dizziness. According to product information provided by the manufacturer, the incidence of dizziness can be as high as 42.7 percent.
Pregabalin is a neurotransmitter modulator that has analgesic, anticonvulsant, and anxiolytic activity. Pregabalin is a potent gabapentinoid and a close structural analogue of GABA, as well as of GABOB (β-hydroxy-GABA), baclofen (β-(4-chlorophenyl)-GABA), and phenibut (β-phenyl-GABA). Pregabalin is marketed by Pfizer under the trade name Lyrica. Pfizer described in an SEC filing that the drug could be used to treat epilepsy, postherpetic neuralgia, diabetic peripheral neuropathy and fibromyalgia.
Lyrica (pregabalin) is an oral medication chemically related to gabapentin (Neurontin, Gabarone) used for neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy or postherpetic neuralgia, and for treating partial onset seizures in adults, and fibromyalgia. 
Pregabalin, also known as β-isobutyl-γ-aminobutyric acid (β-isobutyl-GABA), is a central nervous system depressant and derivative of the naturally occurring inhibitory neurotransmitter γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Pregabalin is marketed by Pfizer under the trade name Lyrica. Pfizer described in an SEC filing that the drug could be used to treat epilepsy, postherpetic neuralgia, diabetic peripheral neuropathy and fibromyalgia.
Knowledge center. Lyrica is Pfizer's trade name for a drug called pregabalin. Pregabalin is an anticonvulsant (anti-seizure) drug that is often used to treat neuropathic pain as well as partial seizures that are common in temporal lobe epilepsy. In Europe, pregabalin is also approved to treat generalized anxiety disorder. Lyrica or pregabalin has been approved in the U.S. to treat epilepsy, diabetic neuropathy pain, and post-herpetic neuralgia (pain after shingles).
A: Lyrica (pregabalin) is an anti-epileptic drug, also called an anticonvulsant. It works by slowing down impulses in the brain that cause seizures. Lyrica also affects chemicals in the brain that send pain signals across the nervous system. It's used to control seizures and to treat fibromyalgia. A: Lyrica (pregabalin) is a drug used to treat nerve pain. One of the primary complaints is dizziness. According to product information provided by the manufacturer, the incidence of dizziness can be as high as 42.7 percent.