The gray wolf is one of the few animal's that has been hunted near extinction, by the 1930's few wolves remained. They have been hunted for a variety of reasons, from protecting live stock, to clearing the forests of a competitive predator for prey animals.
FWS announces plans to remove gray wolves in the Northern Rockies (Idaho, Wyoming, Montana) from the Endangered Species List, but only if Wyoming adopts a state management plan that FWS deems appropriate. Wyoming's original plan, rejected by FWS, remains under review by the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals.
In the 1970s the gray wolf was placed on the endangered species list. The main threat to the survival of the gray wolf was mainly due the hunting and trapping of the wolf because it was thought of as a nuisance and habitat loss due to human encroachment into wolf territories.
Later on, the grey wolf was put on the Endangered Species List, and were protected. But now, people in states such as Alaska, Utah, Idaho, and Montana shoot wolves, gas pups in dens, sterilize alphas, poison wolves, and skin them. I hope that any one reading this will help stop the slaughter!
Grizzled gray is the most common color. Habitat Requirements The major prey of wolves are large hoofed mammals, such as deer, moose, elk, caribou, bison, musk-oxen, and mountain sheep. If these larger animals are not available, wolves will also eat smaller mammals such as beaver, rabbits, and small rodents.
1 202 wolves are killed in response. 2  May 2011: The gray wolf in the Rocky Mountain region is exempted by congress (Federal law) from the Federal Endangered Species List and is to be managed by the states of Montana, Wyoming and Idaho.
Why feds want gray wolf off the endangered species list. More than 5,000 gray wolves roam Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming.
Mexican wolf facts. The Mexican wolf, also known as “El Lobo,” is the smallest subspecies of the gray wolf and the most endangered wolf in the world. Found only in North America, its historical range was the Southwest, including Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and northern Mexico.