In summary, Microsoft Dynamics GP will cost you $3,000 to $5,000 per user, multiplied by the number of users and third party products and annual maintenance combined for an On Premise solution. Or $230 to $530 per user, per month for a cloud hosted solution.
All Microsoft Dynamics GP users receive access to functionality in the Starter Pack. You can purchase additional functionality in the Extended Pack or Additional Packs for a one time fee. Step 3: Calculate software license cost. Calculate the cost of the Starter Pack, any additional packs and the cost per user.
A. Number of User Licenses. This has the biggest impact on your software costs, whether you purchase it up front (on premise), or you pay on a per user/per month basis (cloud). 1  Dynamics GP Starter Pack comes with 3 Users and List Price is $5,000. 2  Each additional Full User is $3,000.
Often, Microsoft Dynamics GP users, will have one or more third party products to enhance their solution. The cost of these solutions vary because they range from simple utilities, on average $500 per user, to very robust industry specific user licenses, which can average $5,000 per user.
A Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015 license key is required to activate Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015 software and a Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015 license key will not activate any other versions of the software.
Software investments shouldn’t be taken lightly and a big part of any evaluation is to review and understand the costs. That’s why we provide as much detail as possible on pricing of Microsoft Dynamics NAV. There are many variables that all factor into your total project price.
Microsoft is streamlining the pricing of its four Dynamics ERP applications families from a per-module basis to a per-user basis as a way to make it easier for its partners to sell the software, the company announced Monday.
Beyond the base software costs there are typically third-party software products that extend or enhance the manufacturer's software and typically represent anywhere from 10 to 35 percent of the overall software cost.