As similar cells work together to perform a specific function, they form tissues. A tissue system consists of one or more tissues organized into a functional unit connecting the organs of a plant. Each plant organ (roots, stems and leaves) has dermal, vascular and ground tissues. Plant tissues classified as simple tissues are composed of only one cell type and complex tissues are composed of two or more cell types. As a complex tissue, it is composed of four cell types: vessel elements, tracheids, parenchyma cells and fibers. Vessel elements, non-living, barrel-like cells, and tracheids, non-living, tapered cells, are the actual water-conducting cells of xylem tissue.
They are present on essentially all vascular plants, although roots are never formed on the primitive-looking whisk fern (Psilotum) and its closest relatives (Order Psilotales), on Wolfiella (the tiniest duckweed), and on the plant body of certain atmospheric epiphytes, such as Spanish moss (Tillandsia). Much thinner, threadlike rhizoids (means root-like) are present on the nonvascular plants, such as mosses and liverworts, and on gametophytes of vascular plants without seeds, such as ferns, horsetails, and club mosses. Rhizoids also absorb water but totally lack vascular tissues
A tissue is a mass of similar or dissimilar cells performing a common function. The body of a vascular plant is composed of dermal tissue, Ground tissue and Vascular tissue. Dermal Tissue (Skin). Dermal Tissue is protective in function. Basing on its origin, it is classified into two types Epidermis and Periderm. Epidermis: This is the primary surface tissue of the entire plant. Parenchyma is the fundamental tissue of the plant body. It is found in every part of the plant body like pith and cortex of stem and root, mesophyll of leaves, flesh of fruits, floral parts and even in xylem and Phloem. Cells have thin primary walls and polyhedral shapes
Meristematic tissue consists of actively dividing cells, and leads to increase in length and thickness of the plant. The primary growth of a plant occurs only in certain, specific regions, such as in the tips of stems or roots. It is in these regions that meristematic tissue is present. Grouped in to four basic types: connective, muscle, nervous, and epithelial. Multiple tissue types compose organs and body structures. While all animals can generally be considered to contain the four tissue types, the manifestation of these tissues can differ depending on the type of organism.
V ascular plants contain two main types of conduction tissue, the xylem and phloem. These two tissues extend from the leaves to the roots, and are vital conduits for water and nutrient transport. In a sense, they are to plants what veins and arteries are to animals. 
• Recognize that the plant body has a hierarchical organizational structure, like animals. • Identify different organ, tissue system, and cell types macroscopically and microscopically. • Describe the distribution of vascular tissue in Eudicot roots and stems. Cell Types Parenchyma cells are found throughout the plant and are usually less specialized than the other two cells types. The one exception are the sieve tube members (Figure 2) - specialized cells of the vascular tissue that conduct the plant’s sap (phloem).
1 Tissues – Groups of cells that are similar in appearance and function, for example: 2  Epidermis is the single exterior layer that protects the stems, leaves, flowers, and roots. 3  The outside surface of the epidermis tissue is usually covered with a waxy substance called cutin, which reduces water loss. 1 In woody plants, the xylem tissue becomes the wood. 2  Phloem tissue conducts food and metabolites from photosynthesis throughout the plant, including down to the roots. 3  Structures (organs) – Groups of tissues working together with a common function, (e.g., roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits, and seeds) .
Sclerenchyma cells support and strengthen nonexpanding tissues of the plant such as mature roots, stems, and leaves. There are two types of sclerenchyma cells, sclereids and fibers, which are distinguished by their shape and grouping. Sclereids are variable in shape, are short, and exist singularly or in small groups. 