The AM detector or demodulator includes a capacitor at the output. Its purpose is to remove any radio frequency components of the signal at the output. The value is chosen so that it does not affect the audio base-band signal. 
Demodulation is the act of extracting the original information-bearing signal from a modulated carrier wave. A demodulator is an electronic circuit (or computer program in a software-defined radio) that is used to recover the information content from the modulated carrier wave. There are several ways of demodulation depending on how parameters of the base-band signal such as amplitude, frequency or phase are transmitted in the carrier signal. For example, for a signal modulated with a linear modulation like AM (amplitude modulation), we can use a synchronous detector.
The signal output from a demodulator may represent sound (an analog audio signal), images (an analog video signal) or binary data (a digital signal). These terms are traditionally used in connection with radio receivers, but many other systems use many kinds of demodulators. There are several ways of demodulation depending on how parameters of the base-band signal such as amplitude, frequency or phase are transmitted in the carrier signal. For example, for a signal modulated with a linear modulation like AM (amplitude modulation), we can use a synchronous detector.
A demodulator is commonly known as a radio tuner. It takes AM, FM and QAM signals and decodes them into an audio/video output. Demodulators have been used since the very first wireless transmissions and continue to be used today with internet modem technology. A demodulator may be used with a walkie talkie. A demodulator is typically known as a radio tuner. AM radio stations on a car radio might come in and out of tune as the car passes telephone poles. CB radios often use a demodulator.
A demodulator is an electronic circuit used to recover the information content from the carrier wave of a signal.[1] The term is traditionally used in connection with radio receivers, but many other systems use many kinds of demodulators. A modulator modulates the carrier frequency, while a demodulator detects the modulation on the carrier wave and recovers the original lower frequency waveform at the destination.   For many years the modulated carrier wave was converted to a radio signal.
A demodulator is a circuit used in AM (amplitude modulation) and FM (frequency modulation) receivers to separate the information that was modulated onto the carrier from the carrier itself. It could be audio and/or video information, or other data. A demodulator is the analog of the modulator. A modulator modulates the carrier frequency, while a demodulator detects the modulation on the carrier wave and recovers the original lower frequency waveform at the destination.   For many years the modulated carrier wave was converted to a radio signal.
An AM signal encodes the information onto the carrier wave by varying its amplitude in direct sympathy with the analogue signal to be sent. There are two methods used to demodulate AM signals 1  : The envelope detector is a very simple method of demodulation that does not require a coherent demodulator. There are several ways of demodulation depending on how parameters of the base-band signal such as amplitude, frequency or phase are transmitted in the carrier signal. For example, for a signal modulated with a linear modulation like AM (amplitude modulation), we can use a synchronous detector.
A demodulator is a circuit that separates the Amplitude Modulation (AM), Frequency Modulation (FM) and Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) signals from the countless radio waves in our atmosphere and decodes the information from the carrier. A demodulator may be used with a walkie talkie. A demodulator is typically known as a radio tuner. AM radio stations on a car radio might come in and out of tune as the car passes telephone poles. CB radios often use a demodulator.
For example, in a modem, which is a contraction of the terms modulator /demodulator, a demodulator is used to extract a serial digital data stream from a carrier signal which is used to carry it through a telephone line, coaxial cable, or optical fiber. Contents. There are several ways of demodulation depending on how parameters of the base-band signal such as amplitude, frequency or phase are transmitted in the carrier signal. For example, for a signal modulated with a linear modulation like AM (amplitude modulation), we can use a synchronous detector.