I need approximate cost to install Sirius XM in my 2010 Rav4 Limited. 2 years, 1 month ago. on Geek Squad® - Advanced Satellite Radio Installation (Hardware Not Included). Posted by: by. Anonymous. 0points. 0out of 0found this question helpful. Standard installation does not include any vehicle-specific parts or accessories (for example, mounting kits, FM modulators, wiring, etc.). For a satellite radio installation, these parts typically cost $20–$135 but will vary based upon the satellite radio you are having installed and your specific vehicle. Additional charges for vehicle-specific parts and any non-standard installation will be assessed upon completion of the installation
1 Click here for Installation Help. 2  Click here if you are new to SiriusXM or have not yet created an online account. 3  If you are already a subscriber, log into the Online Account Center, click the blue Add Subscription button, then click I have a radio I want to add to my account. 1 Click here if you are new to SiriusXM or have not yet created an online account. 2
Get Internet Radio Learn More. OFFER DETAILS: The subscription plan you choose will automatically renew thereafter and you will be charged according to your chosen payment method at then-current rates. Fees and taxes apply. To cancel you must call us at 1-866-635-2349. See our Customer Agreement for complete terms. 
Subscription Cost: The cost of subscribing to a satellite radio service includes an activation fee and a monthly fee. The activation fees are around $15/radio by phone and $10/radio if done online. The monthly fees currently cost $12.95/month for Sirius Satellite radio as well as for XM Radio.
1 If you find a qualifying lower price online, call 1-888-BEST BUY and direct a customer service agent to the web site with the lower price, or when visiting a Best Buy store, one of our employees will assist you. 2  On qualifying products, Best Buy will then verify the current price to complete the price match. Receives SiriusXM Satellite Radio; plug-and-play installation; sleek, compact design. 4.6(176 Reviews). Check Shipping & Availability. Here's how: Price Match Guarantee. Best Buy is dedicated to always offering the best value to our customers. We will match the price, at the time of purchase, on a Price Match Guarantee product if you find the same item at a lower price at a Designated Major Online Retailer or at a local retail competitor's store
You will plug your receiver into either docking station to listen to the radio. A 'plug and play' receiver costs from $100 - $150 and is available from multiple manufacturers. The installation kits for your home or car cost around $40 - $75. Professional installation for your car-which is recommended-can run another $85 - $100. The activation fees are around $15/radio by phone and $10/radio if done online. The monthly fees currently cost $12.95/month for Sirius Satellite radio as well as for XM Radio.
SC-C1 SiriusConnect TM Vehicle Tuner Installation Guide. Congratulations on the Purchase of your new SIRIUS SC-C1 SiriusConnect Vehicle Tuner. The SC-C1 SiriusConnect Vehicle Tuner is designed to work with any Sirius-Ready or SAT Radio Ready headunit. 
ACTIVATING YOUR SIRIUS SUBSCRIPTION You can activate your Sirius subscription by going to Sirius website (www.sirius.com) and click on the Activation link to activate online, or call 1-888-539-SIRIUS (7474) to activate by phone. If you activate online, the activation cost is $5. If you do it by phone, the cost is $15. As a result, this guide will not cover the installation of the BMW Sirius Satellite Antenna and you should follow the instructions supplied with the BMW Sirius Satellite Antenna Kit if you decide to go that route.