New Employees Base salaries for newly hired employees may be set anywhere within the assigned pay band. A base salary that is in the upper two-thirds of the pay range requires additional levels of approval. Promotion A promotion is a move from one pay band to a higher pay band. Base pay increases are flexible and may range from 0 to 15 percent. Reassignment A reassignment is a move from a position in one pay band to a different position in the same pay band. The base pay rate of an employee upon reassignment usually does not change.
The salary ranges shown do not include locality pay. Federal locality pay is computed separately as a percent of salary and is added to your base salary. Base salary plus locality pay can't exceed the current legislative cap of $179,700. 1  Annual Adjustments – You may receive an annual base salary increase if you meet all the expectations of your position for the year. Other Plan Provisions. Also part of the Executive Compensation Plan: 1  The Performance Management and Recognition System (PMRS) allows for cash awards of up to $10,000 per year for executives and senior professionals to recognize unplanned but highly significant, major contributions.
ATCs are paid according to the FAA’s Core Compensation Plan, or banding program. They begin their careers as AGs, or academy graduates, in Band 4 and may spend one to four years at this level with no pay increase from the initial salary of $41,309. Pay increases as employees move up the band scale. Pay Band G, for example, pays a minimum salary of $41,309 and a maximum salary of $64,034. The top band, M, has a range of $125,139 to $168.973, Employees, including air traffic controllers, also receive location or locality pay based on where they’re stationed.
FAA is not governed by the General Schedule (GS) pay system. Instead, salaries for FAA employees are categorized into six different pay plans determined by your job category and experience level. Pay plans are as follows: Federal Benefits. As a Federal employee, depending on the type of appointment, you'll receive a benefits package that rivals, if not surpasses, those offered in the private sector. It includes a variety of insurance, retirement, leave and flexible spending options for employees and their families.
Review Government Pay Scales. A good place to start your research is the US Office of Personnel Management, where you’ll find the federal government’s General Schedule Pay Scale. Consider this example: If you are offered a job as a GS 9, the first “step” in Grade 9, according to the GS Pay Scale, is $38,175. The highest level in GS 9 – Step 10 – pays $49,632. You should also be aware of the Locality Pay Scales, which show how pay rates vary depending on the job’s location
FAA Pay Bands. Non-air traffic controllers are paid using a pay-band structure that begins at Pay Band C, with a 2012 range of $22,826 to $34,239. Pay increases as employees move up the band scale. Pay Band G, for example, pays a minimum salary of $41,309 and a maximum salary of $64,034. The top band, M, has a range of $125,139 to $168.973, Employees, including air traffic controllers, also receive location or locality pay based on where they’re stationed.
Avjobs Aviation Career Salary, Wages & Pay provides this look at salaries, wages and pay in the aviation industry for you as you plan for your future. Thousands of positions like these are available in full detail in our Applicant System. 
A career at FAA offers employees exceptional benefits and competitive salaries while playing a critical role in the safety and efficiency of air travel. From a robust Federal benefits package to locality pay and more, the perks of an FAA career rival, and often exceed, those offered in the private sector. Federal Benefits. As a Federal employee, depending on the type of appointment, you'll receive a benefits package that rivals, if not surpasses, those offered in the private sector. It includes a variety of insurance, retirement, leave and flexible spending options for employees and their families.
As aviation remains an integral part of our society, there is still a growing need for qualified personnel. Avjobs Aviation Career Salary, Wages & Pay provides this look at salaries, wages and pay in the aviation industry for you as you plan for your future. Thousands of positions like these are available in full detail in our Applicant System. 
The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is the national aviation authority of the United States. An agency of the United States Department of Transportation, it has authority to regulate and oversee all aspects of civil aviation in the U.S. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 created the organization under the name…. 