Nausea and vomiting are not diseases, but rather are symptoms of many different conditions, such as infection (stomach flu), food poisoning, motion sickness, overeating, blocked intestine, illness, concussion or brain injury, appendicitis, and migraines. Usually vomiting is harmless, but it can be a sign of a more serious illness. Some examples of serious conditions that may bring on nausea or vomiting include concussions, encephalitis, meningitis, intestinal blockage, appendicitis, migraine headaches, and brain tumors. Another concern with vomiting is dehydration.
Some people may have vomiting and diarrhea. People may be infected with the flu and have respiratory symptoms without a fever. Flu viruses usually cause the most illness during the colder months of the year. However, influenza can also occur outside of the typical flu season. In addition, other viruses can also cause respiratory illness similar to the flu
If you have flu-like symptoms, but no fever, you might suspect that you have a cold. It is not always easy to tell the difference, and a cold can even cause you to have a mild fever. In general, all symptoms are worse when you have the flu. You are also more likely to have congestion, a runny nose, a cough, a sore throat, or sneezing with the flu. Exhaustion is also characteristic of the flu, and is not nearly as extreme when you have a cold. There are many other causes of a fever besides the flu virus. Any type of infection, whether bacterial or viral, can cause you to run a fever. Even being sunburned or experiencing heat exhaustion can run your temperature up.
Influenza, or “flu” for short, is an illness caused by the influenza virus. If you have ever had the flu, you know how miserable it can make you feel. The virus attacks your respiratory system and produces a whole host of uncomfortable symptoms that last for between one and several days. There are many other causes of a fever besides the flu virus. Any type of infection, whether bacterial or viral, can cause you to run a fever. Even being sunburned or experiencing heat exhaustion can run your temperature up.
Children with this type of infection often develop flu symptoms that affect the stomach; however, people can have the flu even without experiencing nausea or vomiting. 
But the stomach flu is not the flu. It is a gastrointestinal illness that can be caused by a number of factors including bacteria, viruses and parasites. The flu, which causes fever, congestion, muscle aches, and fatigue, is caused by viruses only. You may also have fever, headache, and swollen lymph glands, depending on the type of bug that causes it. In severe cases of gastroenteritis, loss of bodily fluid can result in dehydration, a life-threatening condition that needs medical attention. Signs of dehydration include: 1  Sunken eyes. 2  Light-headedness.
Nausea is the most symptom of the flu, and less likely to occur with a cold. However, if you're vomiting continuously, this can indicate a more severe strain of the flu, and you should seek medical help. A sore throat is usually the first indicator of the beginning of illness, whether it's a cold, the flu or worse. Coughing occurs when one has a cold or the flu, though if it worsens, that can indicate a more severe strain, like H1N1. Fatigue. An intense feeling of exhaustion, like not being able to get out of bed, is a sign that you have the flu or H1N1. This does not usually
4. Get help from a doctor now ›. Hello. : Hello. Norovirus impacts the stomach and /or intestinal tract. Hall mark symptoms include: abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. There are may types of viral illnesses that you can be infected with. I don't know if you had a mild case of norovirus or a different cause. 
39. Many viruses can cause a flu-like illness. There is usually a seasonal outbreak of flu (influenza) in the UK each winter. Flu-like illnesses typically cause a high temperature (fever), aches and pains in muscles and joints, a cough and various other symptoms.
Influenza (flu), on the other hand, is a viral infection that mimics a cold except that it starts forcefully with symptoms of fatigue, fever, and respiratory congestion. While more than 100 different virus types can cause a common cold, only influenza virus types A, B, and C cause flu. You may also have fever, headache, and swollen lymph glands, depending on the type of bug that causes it. In severe cases of gastroenteritis, loss of bodily fluid can result in dehydration, a life-threatening condition that needs medical attention. Signs of dehydration include: 1  Sunken eyes. 2  Light-headedness.