Respiration is a set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place with in the cells of organisms. It stores biochemical energy within adenosine triphosphate (ATP) molecules. There are two types of respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Respiration is also the process of making ATP rather that breaking it down. 
What respiration actually is... Respiration is the chemical process of releasing energy from organic compounds.. It is important that you understand the correct terms for some of the processes: 1  Gas exchange-The movement of oxygen into an organism and carbon dioxide out of an organism. 1 Respiration-The process by which complex organic molecules are broken down to release energy. 2  Aerobic respiration-Requires oxygen to fully oxidise the organic molecule. 3  This releases lots of energy. 4  Anaerobic respiration-The breakdown of the molecule without oxygen
Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that takes place in the cytosol of cells in all living organisms. This pathway can function with or without the presence of oxygen. In humans, aerobic conditions produce pyruvate and anaerobic conditions produce lactate.
Respiration is the biochemical process in which the cells of an organism obtain energy by combining oxygen and glucose, resulting in the release of carbon dioxide, water, and ATP, the currency of energy in cells. When we examine the equation for cellular respiration, we see that the reactants are glucose and oxygen (for aerobic respiration), and the products are carbon dioxide, water, and ATP. Note the number of oxygen, carbon dioxide, and water molecules involved in each 'turn' of the process.
Cellular Respiration: is the process of breathing on a cellular level. All living cells of animals go through this process. The cells take glucose (a simple sugar) and oxygen and make energy. This oxygen is used by animals in cellular respiration. These processes form a cycle and show the dependency animal, fungi, plants and bacteria have each other. The four types of consumers. *An organism trophic level describes its place in the food chain.
The energy released due to the oxidation of glucose [glucose: a simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration] is used to synthesize ATP from adenosine diphosphate or ADP and inorganic phosphate or Pi. Fats and proteins can also be used as respiratory substrates. 
Cellular Respiration. The term cellular respiration refers to the biochemical pathway by which cells release energy from the chemical bonds of food molecules and provide that energy for the essential processes of life. All living cells must carry out cellular respiration. 
Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration, as opposed to anaerobic respiration, occurs in the presence of oxygen, accounts for most respiration that takes place, and produced up to 15 times more ATP molecules. Its overall reaction is: You can notice that it is essentially the reverse of photosynthesis. 