Same Day Service Available. 1-800-881-2464. Per your contract with us, you only have 24 hours (1 Business Day) from the time of purchase to cancel a reservation. All reservations not cancelled within the 24 business hour time frame will be made permanent and fully non-refundable. 
Cancellation fee in cases where foreign nationality was acquired prior to 01/01/2005 and the Indian passport expired after 01/01/2005 (Includes penalty for retaining/not surrendering the Indian passport for more than 3 years after acquisition of foreign nationality). Parents of minor children of Indian origin holding New Zealand nationality are henceforth required to submit a copy of their cancelled Indian Passport with the visa application of the minor children as a proof of compliance of the Indian Passport Act to enable processing of the visa application.
Expedited Service. Fee: $60 (Applicants in the U.S. only). See important information about Application Processing Times and follow the instructions on How to Get Your Passport Fast. When requesting this service, pay the $60.00 Expedited Service Fee for each application, in addition to the required fees noted above. Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below.
Fastport Passport-Expedited Passport and Visa Services. Fastportpassport.com is a private company and is registered with U.S. Passport Agencies in New York, Boston, Houston and Philadelphia. We specialize in expediting your emergency passport and visa applications as quickly as 24 hours Nationwide. We are not a government agency or the passport office. 
Originally Posted by rndman This very very recent (may be a day or two old). But, when you acquire US citizen ship and surrender the Indian passport (with PIO/OCI Visa application or otherwise), Indian embassy is charging $175 fee. This is sheer nonsense and nothing but money making. New Rule : $175 fee when you surrender Indian Passport. This very very recent (may be a day or two old). But, when you acquire US citizen ship and surrender the Indian passport (with PIO/OCI Visa application or otherwise), Indian embassy is charging $175 fee. This is sheer nonsense and nothing but money making.
(For Same Day Service, 24 Hour Service and Next Day Service Only!) If you cancel within 24 hours (1 Business Day) of placing your order, you may request a full refund of your service and shipping fee. Please note your $100.00 processing fee still remains non-refundable. US Passport Now can not collect the government fee from you as you will be sending in a check or money order payable to the U.S. Department of State for these fees with your application to us.
There is a fee of $175 for getting Indian Passport cancelled. Indian Passport of US national, expiring on or after 1st January 2005, and if the Indian Passport is not cancelled even after 3 years of acquiring US citizenship, such Indian passport holder needs to pay a fine of $250 in addition to $175 renunciation fee. New Rule : $175 fee when you surrender Indian Passport. This very very recent (may be a day or two old). But, when you acquire US citizen ship and surrender the Indian passport (with PIO/OCI Visa application or otherwise), Indian embassy is charging $175 fee. This is sheer nonsense and nothing but money making.