Buck, pitcher, charged and battery are just a few examples of equivocal terms. These are words that sound the same (and are spelled the same) yet have completely different mea … nings. In formal logic, one must avoid using these terms in inconsistent ways. For example: A buck is worth one hundred cents. Logicians would say that we have equivocated on the word buck, which means one thing in the first sentence, but another in the second.   Equivocal terms show up in popular usage when people make puns. Ty Cobb is a great pitcher, so tip him over and pour me a glass of lemonade.
Confidence votes 128. Buck, pitcher, charged and battery are just a few examples of equivocal terms. These are words that sound the same (and are spelled the same) yet have completely different meanings. In formal logic, one must avoid using these terms in inconsistent ways. For example: A buck is worth one hundred cents. 
Univocal, equivocal and analogous terms. A term is said to be univocal when it retains the same meaning regardless of the subject to which it is applied. A univocal term correctly and suitably designates a subject. Example :
Equivocation (to call by the same name) is an informal logical fallacy. It is the misleading use of a term with more than one meaning or sense (by glossing over which meaning is intended at a particular time). It generally occurs with polysemic words (words with multiple meanings). 
1 Equivocal Term: A term that has more than one meaning. 2  That is, it signifies more than one concept, and thus corresponds to more than one definition. 3  An equivocal term has different intensions when it is used. 4  E.g. the term chihuahua can signify (a) a breed of dog; (b) a state of Mexico. 1 E.g. the term entomology signifies the study of insects. 2  Equivocal Term: A term that has more than one meaning. 3  That is, it signifies more than one concept, and thus corresponds to more than one definition. 4
Ambiguity or fallacy of ambiguity is a word, phrase, or statement which contains more than one meaning. Ambiguous words or statements lead to vagueness and confusion, and shape the basis for instances of unintentional humor. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Buck, pitcher, charged and battery are just a few examples of equivocal terms. These are words that sound the same (and are spelled the same) yet have completely different meanings. In formal logic, one must avoid using these terms in inconsistent ways. For example: A buck is worth one hundred cents. Logicians would say that we have equivocated on the word buck, which means one thing in the first sentence, but another in the second. Equivocal terms show up in popular usage when people make puns. Ty Cobb is a great pitcher, so tip him over and pour me a glass of lemonade.
First, a term is a word (verbal expression) that represents a mental concept. Logicians say that all terms are either univocal, expressing one clear concept, equivocal, expressing different concepts although they look the same, or analogous, expressing different but related meanings. Logicians would say that we have equivocated on the word buck, which means one thing in the first sentence, but another in the second.   Equivocal terms show up in popular usage when people make puns. Ty Cobb is a great pitcher, so tip him over and pour me a glass of lemonade.
1 Univocal Term: A terms that has only one meaning. 2  That is, it signifies only one concept, and thus corresponds to only one definition. 3  Such a term always has the same intension wherever it is used. 4  E.g. the term entomology signifies the study of insects. 5  Equivocal Term: A term that has more than one meaning. 1 E.g. the term entomology signifies the study of insects. 2  Equivocal Term: A term that has more than one meaning. 3  That is, it signifies more than one concept, and thus corresponds to more than one definition. 4  An equivocal term has different intensions when