The German currency is the Euro. Actually, the Euro is not German money, but it is the currency we use in this country. The Euro replaced the German Mark and it is the official currency of the European Union. Nineteen states in Europe currently use the Euro. These states are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. 
Here is some general inf ormation on Germany and the national currency (Euro) that I hope will be useful for anyone planning a trip here. One of the first things you will need to do when planning your trip to Germany is convert your national currency to the Euro. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Germany is administered to the European Union(EU), and like all members are pressured to use the united economic currency of European nations called the Euro. The German Euro is fancy in design and has a German Eagle on it. The Euro is worth more then any other currency. 1) EU membership doesn't necessarily equate use of the Euro. England, Denmark, and Sweden are all EU members, but refuse to join the Eurozone. Furthermore, many non-EU countries have adopted the Euro despite the fact tey are not members states (such as the Vatican City, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino, etc ...).
1 Understanding Germany's Currency Germany, like every other country, has a certain currency. 2  This currency governs the types and denominations of the money that is used within that country. 3  If you are plannin…. 
Money. Money & Costs -- The euro (€) is the single European currency of Germany and other participating countries. Exchange rates of participating countries are locked into a common currency fluctuating against the dollar. The major cities of Germany are some of the world's most expensive
Currency in Germany: The Euro. Germany's currency is the Euro (currency symbol: €), which replaced the traditional Deutsche Mark (also known as Deutschmark or DM) in 2002. The Euro is the only generally accepted currency in Germany. Knut pictures
Germany uses the euro as real cash. Plastic money is not very much appreciated, not even at supermarkets, and if so, they prefer the European ec/maestro card to any other credit card, as it's linked online to your German bank account. Years ago each had their own currency and Germany used the DM (Deutsch Mark) and before the country became united again they had two forms of German currency, Western DM and Easter DDR coins. TO YOU IDIOTS http://www.ibiblio.org/theeuro/Informati... THAT TELLS IT ALL!!! Now all are Euro pretty much except those few
Germans are a member of the EMU (not the same as the EU although ofc theyre in that too) and as a member of the EMU germany uses the Euro (€) which is 1.99 Deutsche Mark in germanies old currency. heres a pic of the german euro: http://www.fitzmuseum.cam.ac.uk/gallery/... 1) EU membership doesn't necessarily equate use of the Euro. England, Denmark, and Sweden are all EU members, but refuse to join the Eurozone. Furthermore, many non-EU countries have adopted the Euro despite the fact tey are not members states (such as the Vatican City, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino, etc ...).