creating a vortex to charge an item the above spell creates an artificial energy vortex with a deosil circle of crystals. now we will examine other methods of creating artificial vortices with crystals. our first method is charging an item for use. most commonly though this sort of vortex is used to help charge a ritual item or amulet, or set up around a candle to amplify a candle burning. place the item to be amplified upon the altar. set up your crystals in a circle around it, with their points all facing deosil-as if they were chasing one another.
How to make smoke rings with a simple DIY vortex cannon. If you're looking to make a simple vortex canon for shooting smoke rings across the room, you'll like this DIY video by Dave Hax. All you'll need is an empty plastic bottle, a balloon, and an incense stick, preferably...
By themselves, crystals and stones do not make you a better person or a different person from what you are. But they do resonate with the subtle energy of your inner self, your attitudes or human qualities, to make them stronger and more intense, so it becomes more obvious to you what is going on inside. The magical qualities of crystals and stones lies in the effect they have on people. Because of how they work, crystals and stones have the ability to make someone feel more positive, feel better about life.
creating your vortex once you have charged your stones, you are ready to create your vortex. the vortex can be set up around any object or person-you could even do a whole magic circle if you wished, placing one crystal at each quarter. most commonly though this sort of vortex is used to help charge a ritual item or amulet, or set up around a candle to amplify a candle burning. place the item to be amplified upon the altar. set up your crystals in a circle around it, with their points all facing deosil-as if they were chasing one another.
It is possible to create a vortex of energy using crystals. Everything in the center of the vortex will increase vibration. We can be in the middle of the vortex to increase our vibration and better listen to our guides. This is the official blog of www.mycrystalangel.com. Livia Maris Jepsen is Angel Therapy Practitioner® certified by Doreen Virtue PhD, also trained by Joylina Goodings.
Use the liquid from the top when you add it to your water. How to Structure Your Water 136 How to make dilute QMP Quinton Marine Plasma (QMP) is available as either a hypertonic solution (3.3% salinity) or as an isotonic solution (0.9% salinity). Either one can be used to make dilute QMP. How to Structure Your Water 134 What water to use From an artistic perspective, a clean canvas is required on which to paint the patterns and the colors of a work of art. Water requires a clean canvas too—freedom from the debris that would distort the expression of her full potential.
For example, a corner of a private garden or an area in a wood or field are much better than in a path or in an area where people might walk through. This is because people should have the conscious choice to be in the presence of the Vortex or not. This is discussed further in How to Use a Vortex. 2. Take time to center yourself and to check how you are feeling before starting to create the Vortex. If you are feeling scattered or have negative emotions, wait for a better time. 3. It can be valuable to establish a focal point for the center of the Vortex. Use a crystal, rock, or other object. This is a form of communication both with the seen and the unseen. When you are ready and have found the right location, place the object were you want the center to be. You may chose to use a special or valuable object (like a gem stone).
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Uploaded on Sep 24, 2011. ADDING SIX QUARTS CRYSTALS TO THE COIL BOOSTED UP THE INTENSITY OF THE MAGNETIC VORTEX IN A BIG WAY, THE LEVITATING SPHERE DOSENT WANT TO SHAKE LOOSE AND THE COIL SEEMED TO SUCK THE MAGNET OUT FROM MY FINGERS. BIG IMPROVEMENT WITH THE CRYSTALS, I'LL ADD A BUNCH MORE! 
during this time it will continue to charge the item at a steady pace until the item is full or until you take the vortex down. to take the vortex down remove the charged item first. thankt he stones and the divine energy for their help. visualize the vortex of energy still in place. most commonly though this sort of vortex is used to help charge a ritual item or amulet, or set up around a candle to amplify a candle burning. place the item to be amplified upon the altar. set up your crystals in a circle around it, with their points all facing deosil-as if they were chasing one another.
creating an artificial vortex a vortex is an energy center. a vortex differs from a chakra only in that chakras are the internal energy centers of our body, while vortices are external energy centers of the world around us. most commonly though this sort of vortex is used to help charge a ritual item or amulet, or set up around a candle to amplify a candle burning. place the item to be amplified upon the altar. set up your crystals in a circle around it, with their points all facing deosil-as if they were chasing one another.