The panda's thick, wooly coat keeps it warm in the cool forests of its habitat. Giant pandas have large molar teeth and strong jaw muscles for crushing tough bamboo. Many people find these chunky, lumbering animals to be cute, but giant pandas can be as dangerous as any other bear. The giant panda is listed as endangered in the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. There are about 1,600 left in the wild. More than 300 pandas live in zoos and breeding centers around the world, mostly in China.
(Photo: Michigan State University). The rarest member of the bear family, the panda's habitat is at the geographic and economic heart of China. The Pandas, already facing a decreasing forest cover, are now threatened by climate change which is affecting their staple food, bamboo. Like Us on Facebook. 
Minshan Mountains. Although the giant panda habitats in the Minshan Mountains area (Sichuan and Gansu Provinces) are larger, viewed collectively, fewer giant pandas live in these habitats – only about 45% of the total population of giant pandas living in the wild, in fact, live in the Minshan Mountains area. Unfortunately, neither of these two mountainous areas forms a single, contiguous panda habitat. Instead it is broken up into small patches, with human-related patches in between them. A phenomenon referred to by panda experts as habitat fragmentation.
And climate change is not the only challenge facing giant pandas, one of the most endangered species in the world, researchers say. Human activities have already severely limited the animals' habitats, and their dependence on a single source of food, one that's not that nutrient-or energy-rich, doesn't help. If we wait, then we could be too late.. The researchers used various climate-change models to project the future for three bamboo species relied on by pandas in the Qinling Mountain region of China, which represents about a quarter of the total remaining panda habitat.
A wild giant pandas diet is almost exclusively (99 percent) bamboo. The balance consists of other grasses and occasional small rodents or musk deer fawns. In zoos, giant pandas eat bamboo, sugar cane, rice gruel, a special high-fiber biscuit, carrots, apples, and sweet potatoes. The giant panda is listed as endangered in the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. There are about 1,600 left in the wild. More than 300 pandas live in zoos and breeding centers around the world, mostly in China.
Bamboo grows best as undergrowth in mixed, broadleaf and coniferous forests at an elevation of 1525 metres (1, 666 yards) to 3050 metres (3, 335 yards), though the giant panda has been known to live on mountain slopes as high as 3960 metres (4, 330 yards). Unfortunately, neither of these two mountainous areas forms a single, contiguous panda habitat. Instead it is broken up into small patches, with human-related patches in between them. A phenomenon referred to by panda experts as habitat fragmentation.
The giant panda lives today on the eastern rim of the mountainous Qinghai-Tibet Plateau in Southwestern China, specifically in the areas of the Minshan and Qinling Mountains (the provinces of Gansu-Sichuan and Shaanxi, respectively). Unfortunately, neither of these two mountainous areas forms a single, contiguous panda habitat. Instead it is broken up into small patches, with human-related patches in between them. A phenomenon referred to by panda experts as habitat fragmentation.
Giant pandas live in broadleaf and coniferous forests with a dense understory of bamboo, at elevations between 5,000 and 10,000 feet. Torrential rains or dense mist throughout the year characterizes these forests, often shrouded in heavy clouds. The giant panda is listed as endangered in the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. There are about 1,600 left in the wild. More than 300 pandas live in zoos and breeding centers around the world, mostly in China.
They live in the hilly/mountainous regions of China. They live in bamboo forests because 99% of their diet c … onsist of bamboo(they eat 27 pounds a day)! This region is perfect for a panda because it includes food, lakes to swim, and trees to climb. Some pandas also live in zoos and captivity. Pandas are endangered so please, spread the word about saving them.