Cost of Restylane. Restylane injections average approximately $350 to $500 per cubic centimeter (cc), a measure of the volume of Restylane gel injected. The volume of gel required for your treatment session depends on the desired results, as well as the deepness of the wrinkles. 
1 According to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, the average surgeon's fee for an autologous fat injection is $1,395. 2  For calcium hydroxylapatite (Radiesse/Radiance), it is $911; for hyaluronic acid (Restylane, Juvederm, Hylaform), it is $527; and for a collagen injection costs ranges from $398 to $488. 1 The results of injections with soft tissue fillers do not last forever. 2  Depending on which type of filler is used, the results will last anywhere from four months to a year for Restylane and Juvederm to one or two years for Radiesse. 3  To maintain results, more injections would be needed.
In general, however, the cost of Restylane® injections falls within most budgets, ranging from about $275 to $700. Restylane® is usually sold by the syringe, so the cost of Restylane® depends on the amount of gel that will be needed to achieve the desired results. Restylane® operates on the same principle as other injectable fillers, but has a tendency to last longer because it attracts moisture and works with the body. Since Restylane® injections are considered a cosmetic enhancement, the cost of Restylane® is not covered by traditional healthcare insurance. However, there are several financing options available to those who are interested in Restylane® treatments.
1 For calcium hydroxylapatite (Radiesse/Radiance), it is $911; for hyaluronic acid (Restylane, Juvederm, Hylaform), it is $527; and for a collagen injection costs ranges from $398 to $488. 1 The results of injections with soft tissue fillers do not last forever. 2  Depending on which type of filler is used, the results will last anywhere from four months to a year for Restylane and Juvederm to one or two years for Radiesse. 3  To maintain results, more injections would be needed.
Cost varies since the number of targeted areas and their severity differ among patients. The average cost for Restylane injections ranges from $350 to $800 per syringe. Some of the cost can be covered by insurance if the procedure is related to a medical necessity. You can ask your surgeon about filing for insurance. Purely cosmetic procedures are not covered by insurance. 
Please note also, if you have already done Botox or Collagen treatments, Restylane prices per treatment will actually be more than the cost of those treatments. In the U.S., doctors are said to be charging anywhere from $100 to $400 more (per syringe) than they would for Botox or Collagen. Prices will vary but RestyLane.Info has done a bit of a survey to arrive at a general idea of prices in a variety of places.
Cost of Restylane Silk. Restylane Silk cost varies by the amount used and the number of areas treated. Cost is expected to be similar to other fillers on the market. A similar filler, Juvederm, costs $350 to $500 dollars per syringe, depending on the location of the practice. Learn more about Restylane injections. In the study that led to the FDA's approval of Restylane Silk, fully 98 percent of participants reported an improvement in lip fullness two weeks after treatments, with 76 percent still showing such fullness six months after their injection.
Prices for dermal fillers can vary depending on the substance being used and by the surgeon performing the service. For example, a surgeon’s fees may vary greatly depending on his/her experience with the procedure. You should check with your surgeon prior to the procedure to obtain accurate pricing. 
Depending on how large an area of your skin you’re having treated, Restylane injections can take from a few minutes to an hour. You can have the procedure during your lunch break and return to work or other routine activities immediately afterward. Pain and discomfort is generally minimal and well tolerated. Restylane is very effective at improving the appearance of wrinkles and creases around the mouth and lips, as well as those under and around the eyes. It’s also used to gives lips more volume. The loss of lip volume that occurs with aging is a major concern for many people, particularly women.
Restylane Cost (in the United States): A ballpark figure for a full Restylane syringe (for e.g., enough to do the lines around the lips) is $500. If however you're located in a major metropolitan area such as New York City or Miami, it will definitely cost you a bit more, so you might want to budget as much as $1,000. Prices will vary but RestyLane.Info has done a bit of a survey to arrive at a general idea of prices in a variety of places.