This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. A slotting allowance, is a fee paid by a manufacturer to a supermarket chain, for shelf space for a new product; also referred to as the Stocking Allowance, Introductory allowance or Shelf Fee. - created at http://www.b2bwhiteboard.com. 
A slotting fee, slotting allowance, pay-to-stay, or fixed trade spending is a fee charged to produce companies or manufacturers by supermarket distributors (retailers) in order to have their product placed on their shelves. The use of slotting fees can, in some instances, lead to abuse by retailers such as in the case where a bakery firm was asked for a six figure fee to carry its items for a specific period with no guarantee their products would be carried in future periods.
In other instances, suppliers may offer to pay slotting allowances to motivate a store to invest in a new product, to place a product in a prime location on the shelves, or to motivate a distributor not to drop a product from its stock. The amount paid for slotting allowances also varies. Instead of decisions being made on an industry-wide basis, fees are often negotiated on a case-by-case basis. Different suppliers may be charged different fees, and it is even possible that one supplier may be subject to different fees for different items. Ad. There are debates about the fairness of slotting allowances. It is commonly argued that this practice is anti-competitive because large suppliers have an obvious advantage. Some small suppliers cannot afford to pay these fees at all.
Definition. Sum paid by a vendor or manufacturer to a retail chain or establishment for (1) making room for a product on its store shelves, (2) making room for the product in its warehouse, (3) entering the product data in its inventory system, and (4) programming its computers to recognize the product's bar code. Nearby Terms. 1  slick. 2  slide error. 3  sliding commiss... 4  sliding scale c... 5  slippage. 6  slogan. 7  slot. 8  slotting allowa... 9  slotting fee. 10  slow loan. 11  slowdown strike. 12  sludge. 13  slump. 14  slush fund. 15  small and mediu... 16  small business. 17  Small Business ...
462 the journal of law and economics turers. In exchange for the slotting allowances, the retailer makes an im-plicit agreement to stock the new product for a trial period, usually 6months. Occasionally retailers require a fee for shelf space renewal, butonly for poorly performing products. From Result 1, the appearance of slotting allowances should havebeen accompanied by an increase in the supply of new products, x*, fol-lowed by an increase in the number of new products demanded by retailers,X*, and the total number of products stocked per retailer, X T* .
In its first version, the bill prohibited any retailer from imposing a slotting allowance or a pay-to-stay fee on a supplier without disclosing, clearly and unequivocally, the amount of the charge the retailer imposes on other suppliers for the placement of similar products (SB 582). The term is associated with fees paid to grocery stores, but slotting fees may charged by other types of retailers as well. We identified a bill considered by California in 2005 and another currently pending in Massachusetts.
There are a number of benefits that suppliers can receive from paying a slotting allowance, such as eye-level shelf placement of their products or the opportunity to introduce new ones. This practice is widely used in the grocery store industry. There are debates about the fairness of slotting allowances. It is commonly argued that this practice is anti-competitive because large suppliers have an obvious advantage. Some small suppliers cannot afford to pay these fees at all.
The fee varies greatly depending on the product, manufacturer, and market conditions. For a new product, the initial slotting fee may be approximately $ 25,000 per item in a regional cluster of stores, but may be as high as $ 250,000 in high-demand markets. In addition to slotting fees, retailers may also charge promotional, advertising and stocking fees. The use of slotting fees can, in some instances, lead to abuse by retailers such as in the case where a bakery firm was asked for a six figure fee to carry its items for a specific period with no guarantee their products would be carried in future periods.