Introduction Lesson 8 takes us to the southeast sector of the Truth compass for a tour of the social sphere that Dr. Tackett characterizes as the heart and soul of Christianity: the Mystical Union (Latin, Unio Mystica) between God and man.
See Numbers 15:38-39. Unio Mystica: The mystical union that exists between God and man. Through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, God has invited us into an intimate, personal relationship with Him. In a larger sense, this mystery extends to the intimate union found within marriage and the church.
I. Introduction – What is a mystery? A. Sphere design-review of the family and church B. Scriptural themes of intimacy, union, & oneness II. The Mystical Union A. Between a husband and wife B. Between Christ and His church C. Between God and man – the Unio Mystica 1. Colossians 1:27 Christ in you 2.
Unio Mystica is a term meaning ‘Mystical Union’ describing the concept common to all mystical traditions – Kabbalah, Sufism, Vedanta, Esoteric Christianity etc – that of the union of the individual human soul with the Godhead.
Because the term unio mystica, as far as I can tell, is born out of mysticism, not Christianity or Judaism, although it is terminology used in Christian and Jewish mysticism, as well as all other forms of mysticism, I am having a problem with this term being used in the Truth Project.
mystical union; in Christianity, the final stage of the spiritual path.
Another subject I would like to ask you about is the term unio mystica. I was asked to participate in the new Focus on the Family curriculum, ”The Truth Project”. I read your article on Focus on The Family, and in my own research of Focus on The Family I have found much to concern me.
This definition limns mysticism as an essential structure of religious life in which the unio mystica is attained, the unification of the human self with divine reality; that is, mysticism is a particular variety of religion having as its most prominent characteristic the unio mystica.
Noun. 1. Unio-type genus of the family Unionidae. genus Unio. mollusk genus-a genus of mollusks.