Ash column generated by the eruption of Mount Pinatubo, a volcano in the Philippines Luzon volcanic arc, on June 12, 1991. The climactic eruption of Mount Pinatubo occurred three days later on June 15, 1991, and was one of the largest eruptions of this century. Usually, the hazards from volcanic gases are most severe in the areas immediately surrounding volcanoes, especially on volcano flanks downwind of active vents and fumaroles. But these hazards can persist for long distances downwind following large eruptions, or from volcanoes erupting gas-rich magma.
Once a volcano erupts, gases are emitted and released into the atmosphere. During large eruptions, gases have actually caused global climate change. In other systems, gases are emitted continuously into the atmosphere from soils, volcanic vents, fumaroles and hydrothermal deposits. However, volcanic gases reach the stratosphere, a layer in the atmosphere from about 10 km to about 50 km in altitude, during large eruptions. This relationship is complicated by the fact that the elevation between the volcano summit and the distance to the troposphere/stratosphere decreases with latitude.
A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. 
The principal components of volcanic gases are water vapor (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2), sulfur either as sulfur dioxide (SO 2) (high-temperature volcanic gases) or hydrogen sulfide (H 2 S) (low-temperature volcanic gases), nitrogen, argon, helium, neon, methane, carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Volcanic gases entering the atmosphere with dust and tephra during eruption of volcano Augustine, 2006. Eruption of Mount St. Helens. Image of the rhyolitic lava dome of Chaiten Chaitén volcano during its-2008 2010. Eruption volcanic gases include a variety of substances given off by (active, or at, times by) dormant. volcanoes
Introduction. Understanding gases dissolved in magma is critical in understanding why volcanoes erupt. Bodies of magma rise in the crust until they reach a point of neutral buoyancy. The expansion of gases brings the magma closer to the surface and drives eruptions
Gases from volcanoes give rise to numerous impacts on climate, the environment, and people. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) scientists are inventorying gas emissions at many of the almost 70 active volcanoes in the United States. Usually, the hazards from volcanic gases are most severe in the areas immediately surrounding volcanoes, especially on volcano flanks downwind of active vents and fumaroles. But these hazards can persist for long distances downwind following large eruptions, or from volcanoes erupting gas-rich magma.
The gases associated with a volcanic eruption are initially dissolved in magma, which is hot molten rock found in the deeper layers of earth. During a volcanic eruption these gases are released into the atmosphere. The most abundant gas expelled during a volcanic eruption is water vapor. Other Volcanic Gases. There are other gases released during volcanic eruptions, but these gases are often emitted in trace amounts. They may include hydrogen sulfide and hydrochloric acid. If you ever found yourself inside a chemistry lab, you're familiar with these two chemical compounds.