Bulgogi is one of Korea's most popular beef dishes that is made from thinly sliced sirloin or another prime cut of beef (rib eye). It is usually marinated in a mixture of soy sauce, sesame oil, black pepper, garlic, onions, ginger, and sugar for two to four hours to enhance the flavor and its tenderization. Bulgogi is traditionally grilled but broiling or pan-cooking is common as well. Whole cloves of garlic, sliced onions, and chopped green peppers are often grilled or cooked at the same time. It is often served to non-Koreans as a first taste of Korean cuisine.
Bulgogi, a Korean classic of marinated grilled beef, is easy to make and fun to eat; it’s no wonder it is one of the country’s most successful culinary exports. 
Whether you spell if Bulgogi or Bool Kogi this grilled steak dish is as delicious as it is versatile. Start with marinated tender strips of beef, grill and serve however you like. Traditionally, this dish is served wrapped in sesame or lettuce leaves. You can also pile it up on rice. 
Before cooking, the meat is marinated to enhance its flavour and tenderness with a mixture of soy sauce, sugar, sesame oil, garlic, pepper, and other ingredients such as scallions, ginger, onions or mushrooms, especially white button mushrooms or matsutake. Pureed pears and onions are often used as tenderizers. 
1 Place the beef in a shallow dish. 2  Combine soy sauce, sugar, green onion, garlic, sesame seeds, sesame oil, and ground black pepper in a small bowl. 3  Pour over beef. 4  Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or overnight. 5  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1 
Other recipes for bulgogi sauce may use ingredients like Asian pears, rice wine, Kiwi’s, honey and soy bean paste. What makes bulgogi sauce and the meal itself so popular is that it's extremely versatile and can be made in a lot different ways. The purpose of the sauce is to be made as a marinade. This marinade adds excellent flavour and tenderness to the Korean beef. To make the dish simply marinate the beef in Bulgogi sauce for about 12 hours. After the meat is done marinating, just cook over medium high heat and your done. You'll have a delicious and yet extremely healthy meal in no time. Click here for a very easy make at home Bulgogi recipe.
Bulgogi is a marinated meat dish made with thin slices of beef, usually rib eye. It is no doubt one of the most well-known Korean dishes to non-Koreans. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Bulgogi is a marinated and grilled beef dish commonly prepared in Korea. This dish is one of the most famous elements of Korean cuisine, along with kimchi, and it can be found in many Korean restaurants and communities outside of Korea. While classically made with beef, variations on bulgogi can be made with chicken and pork as well. Like many traditional dishes, there is no one right way to make bulgogi, and individual Korean cooks may differ in their precise definition of the dish, and in the recipes they use.
1 Combine soy sauce, sugar, green onion, garlic, sesame seeds, sesame oil, and ground black pepper in a small bowl. 2  Pour over beef. 3  Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or overnight. 4  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Place the beef in a shallow dish. 2  Combine soy sauce, sugar, green onion, garlic, sesame seeds, sesame oil, and ground black pepper in a small bowl. 3  Pour over beef. 4  Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or overnight. 5
The marinade for bulgogi can include a number of ingredients, depending on the taste of the cook. Sugar, soy sauce, and sesame oil are common base ingredients, and things like sliced scallions, sesame seeds, vinegar, mushrooms, ginger, garlic, and black pepper may be added. While classically made with beef, variations on bulgogi can be made with chicken and pork as well. Like many traditional dishes, there is no one right way to make bulgogi, and individual Korean cooks may differ in their precise definition of the dish, and in the recipes they use.