Report Abuse. Rayon is a great fabric for clothing...not upholstery. IT is a natural fiber from the Kapok tree, feels very much like silk, and takes dyes very well...but it wrinkles, does NOT like abrasion..I would not use them for what you want to do. Most of the fabrics I like have a lot of Rayon in them. My mother says she doesn't think Rayon wears well. I really love these fabrics but, I don't want something that won't wear well. I have 2 children.
1 Hand wash or dry clean. 2  Seersucker does not refer to the fabric, but to a certain structure of fabric. 3  It is usually made of cotton, but can be made from rayon or other synthetics. 4  It has a puckered style so that it lifts off your skin and lets air circulate. 1 Some rayon is washable and some must be dry cleaned. 2  Most of the washable rayon garments today are labeled hand wash, cool water, drip dry or dry flat. 3  This is important to follow because when rayon is wet, it loses 30% to 50% of its strength. 4  Hand washing is best for washable rayon garments.
The answer is yes, but... Rayon is not as sturdy a fabric as cotton and will not stand up to the same level of abuse that we put cotton T-shirts and jeans through. If you put a rayon dress through a washer/dryer in a load with say, jeans, then in the tumbling, the jeans will rub and pull on the dress's seams. Always (ALWAYS!) read the garment's care label. If you wash a rayon garment that isn't washable it will shrink, stretch, and possibly bleed dyes all over. You may not be able to wear it again so be sure to double-check the label's instructions. 2. Washing all rayon by hand is, of course, preferable.
There´s also something important to remember when caring for the washable rayons. Most of the washable rayon garments today are labeled hand wash, cool water, drip dry or dry flat.. And, it's important that these directions are followed, because when rayon is wet, it actually loses 30% to 50% of its strength. So, hand washing, like the label says, is the best. The constant agitation of the washer, and tumbling of the dryer will beat the garment against the side of the washer and dryer. Anytime a rayon garment, labeled dry clean only, is washed, a risk is taken, and one of three things may happen. First the garment can shrink tremendously, sometimes as much as two or three sizes. Second, the garment may fade, or a printed pattern may bleed. And third, the fabric may lose its soft hand.
Fiber Characteristics-Rayon. Manufactured Fiber-cellulosic-based from wood pulp. CHARACTERISTICS: 1  Soft and comfortable. 2  Drapes well. 3  Highly absorbent. 4  Dyes and prints well. 5  No static, no pilling problems. 6  Fabric can shrink appreciably if washing dry-clean-only rayon. 7  Washable or dry cleanable. Anytime a rayon garment, labeled dry clean only, is washed, a risk is taken, and one of three things may happen. First the garment can shrink tremendously, sometimes as much as two or three sizes. Second, the garment may fade, or a printed pattern may bleed. And third, the fabric may lose its soft hand.
Sorting by weight before washing is very important. I always machine-wash my rayon clothing, in cold water, and tumble-dry it (at low temperature) as well, which minimizes wrinkles. This is a little risky, since some rayon is too weak to survive machine washing. I've had only one or two failures, in which the rayon showed damage. 
ok...well I have been a designer in the fashion industry for 15 years. rayon is a cellulosic fiber made from tree type pulp. it has high shrinkage when washed/handled incorrectly. some rayon is only dry clean, the general use rayon you see in most top and dresses is washable in cold water only and preferably by hand. do not use a dryer. air dry the gmt flat and if it is as sweater you can also reshape while wet. Rayon is NOT a synthetic like polyester. Some of it is not wahable at all...dry clean only. Refer to the label for proper care. Rayon velvet is not washable as a rule. Some of the synthetic silk type are washable with care.
How to Care for Rayon. Rayon fabrics are a human created (synthetic) fabric. Clothes made from rayon weaken when they're wet and have a tendency to shrink. They can also bleed colour easily and will wrinkle a great deal following washing. 