Our gastroenterologists can provide a range of tests and therapies to diagnose, stage and treat cancers of the digestive system. A colonoscopy is probably the most widely recognized procedure that a gastroenterologist performs. Experienced care team. If you are diagnosed with cancer of the digestive system, a gastroenterologist will be an important part of your care team. Gastroenterologists work hand in hand with surgical oncologists to come up with a surgical plan and follow-up care best suited to each individual patient.
Gastroenterologists specialize in the evaluation, diagnosis, management, and treatment of the following symptoms and conditions: 1  Abdominal pain and discomfort. 2  Bleeding in the digestive tract. 3  Cancer (e.g., colorectal cancer, stomach [gastric] cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer). 4  Constipation and diarrhea. A gastroenterology fellowship is an intense 2- or 3-year program, during which the physician receives extensive training in diseases and conditions of the digestive tract.
IBS specialists do not do what gastroenterologist do, and gastroenterologists do not do what IBS specialists do. These are completely different specialties. There is only a very tiny amount of overlap with regard to stool testing. There are IBS Specialists and there are Gastroenterologists. IBS specialists are experts in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). A gastroenterologist may diagnose IBS, but that will only tell you what you already know, that your bowel irritates you.
Gastroenterologists are trained to diagnose and treat a number of diseases, including cancers of the pancreas, liver, esophagus, stomach, colon, rectum and anus. Gastroenterologists do not perform surgery but do procedures such as biopsies and endoscopic exams. Experienced care team. If you are diagnosed with cancer of the digestive system, a gastroenterologist will be an important part of your care team. Gastroenterologists work hand in hand with surgical oncologists to come up with a surgical plan and follow-up care best suited to each individual patient.
Gastroenterologist. A gastroenterologist is a medical professional who specialises in the treatment of patient conditions affecting the liver, intestine and pancreas. This work would be conducted in both the outpatient and inpatient wards. Work activities. Typical work activities a gastroenterologist would need to carry out include the following: 1  Use the endoscopy technique to find whether patients have an ulcer, cancer or inflammation. 2  Diagnose and treat conditions including irritable bowel syndrome, cancers and liver disease.
Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms such as heartburn, indigestion/dyspepsia, bloating and constipation are common in the community. However, these symptoms may be misinterpreted and their impact and significance misunderstood both by health care providers and patients. IBS is the most common disease diagnosed by gastroenterologists and one of the most common disorders seen by primary care physicians. 1  Visit the IBS Health Center. 2  Take the IBS Test.
Gastroenterologists have extensive training in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions that affect the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine (colon), and biliary system (e.g., liver, pancreas, gallbladder, bile ducts). Gastroenterology is a subspecialty of internal medicine. A gastroenterology fellowship is an intense 2- or 3-year program, during which the physician receives extensive training in diseases and conditions of the digestive tract.
A gastroenterologist is a physician who specializes in diseases of the digestive system, also called the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. A gastroenterology fellowship is an intense 2- or 3-year program, during which the physician receives extensive training in diseases and conditions of the digestive tract.