Lo mein is a Chinese noodle dish made from boiled wheat noodles which are tossed with stir fried vegetables, meats, and a sauce. By contrast, chow mein is made with noodles which are fried first so that they are crunchy and crispy. Ad. To make lo mein, all you need is noodles, vegetables and meats of choice, and a sauce. Traditionally, the Chinese use egg noodles made from wheat for this dish, although the noodles can be any shape or size.
While chow mein with thin crisp noodles is a staple of many Chinese take-out restaurants, more authentic versions of chao mian have soft noodles. The main difference between the two comes down to frying time: for dryer, crisper noodles, add more oil and increase the frying time. Chow Mein and Lo Mein Recipes. With lo mein, the parboiled noodles are frequently added near the end of cooking to heat through and toss with the other ingredients and sauce.
The main difference between lo mein and chow mein lies in what happens to the noodles before they are combined with the other ingredients. In chow mein, the noodles are fried separately. Usually, the fried noodles are combined with the meat, vegetables and other ingredients in the wok at the end of cooking. Whether the restaunts do this or not, but chow mein is stir fried noodles cooked with stuff (meat, bean sprouts, celery etc). Chow means to stir-fry Mein is noodle. Lo Mein is typically plain pan fried noodles with the other ingredients poured over the top of it. The topping is a little more saucier than chow mein.
Lo mein (Chinese: 撈麵) is a Chinese dish with wheat flour noodles. It often contains vegetables and some type of meat or seafood, usually beef, chicken, pork, shrimp or wontons. It can also be eaten with just vegetables. Traditionally this is a variation of wonton noodle soup. In this setting, lo mein noodles are usually stirred with a sauce made from soy sauce and other seasonings. Vegetables such as bok choy and cabbage can be mixed in and meats like roast pork, beef or chicken are often added.
The chow mein noodles can also be stir-fried with the meat/poultry and vegetables. With lo mein, the parboiled noodles are frequently added near the end of cooking to heat through and toss with the other ingredients and sauce.
1 In a large pot of boiling water, cook lo mein egg noodles according to package instructions; drain well. 2  Heat olive oil in a large skillet or wok over medium high heat. 3  Add garlic, mushrooms, bell pepper and carrot. 4  Cook, stirring frequently, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. 1 Heat olive oil in a large skillet or wok over medium high heat. 2  Add garlic, mushrooms, bell pepper and carrot. 3  Cook, stirring frequently, until tender, about 3-4 minutes. 4  Stir in snow peas and spinach until the spinach has wilted, about 2-3 minutes.
Similar because they both contain noodles, chow mein and lo mein are actually different dishes. Chow mein is made by stir-frying noodles with onions, celery and sometimes meat, and lo mein is made by stirring noodles into a vegetable or meat dish without stir-frying them.
Both chow mein and lo mein use wheat-flour egg noodles. More authentic chow mein noodles are fried to crispness, while lo mein noodles are boiled to softness. The noodles themselves have similar nutritional value, but whether a chow mein or lo mein dish is healthy depends on the ingredients used with them in a stir fry. Lobster chow mein (left) and crispy chow mein in a cup (right). Lo mein dishes also come in several varieties. They, too, include a stir fry of meat such as beef, chicken, or shrimp with vegetables.