X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?X
average electrical power distribution salaries for job postings in sheboygan wi are the same as average electrical power distribution salaries for job postings nationwide 
Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers held about 60,700 jobs in 2012. About 69 percent were power plant operators, 19 percent were power distributors and dispatchers, and 12 percent were nuclear power reactor operators. Electricity is one of our nation’s most vital resources. Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers control power plants and the flow of electricity from plants to substations, which distribute electricity to businesses, homes, and factories.
Power Distributor / Dispatcher Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Power Distributor / Dispatcher is $76,691 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicabl
About 70 percent of power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers worked in the electric power generation, transmission, and distribution industry in 2012. State and local governments employed 13 percent of power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers. Electricity is one of our nation’s most vital resources. Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers control power plants and the flow of electricity from plants to substations, which distribute electricity to businesses, homes, and factories.
Power Distribution, Engineer Salary. Power Distribution, Engineer average salary is $62,505, median salary is $65,500 with a salary range from $43,940 to $80,000. Power Distribution, Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Power Distribution, Engineer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly
$34,750. The median annual wage for power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers was $68,230 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. Electricity is one of our nation’s most vital resources. Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers control power plants and the flow of electricity from plants to substations, which distribute electricity to businesses, homes, and factories.
The median annual wage for power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers was $68,230 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. Work Environment [About this section] [To Top]. Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers held about 60,700 jobs in 2012. About 69 percent were power plant operators, 19 percent were power distributors and dispatchers, and 12 percent were nuclear power reactor operators.
About 70 percent of power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers worked in the electric power generation, transmission, and distribution industry in 2012. State and local governments employed 13 percent of power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers. Work Environment [About this section] [To Top]. Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers held about 60,700 jobs in 2012. About 69 percent were power plant operators, 19 percent were power distributors and dispatchers, and 12 percent were nuclear power reactor operators.
Power Distribution, Engineer salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors. Power Distribution, Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Power Distribution, Engineer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only.