Eucalyptus tea is good for you in moderation. Eucalyptus tea is made from the smooth grey-green leaves of eucalyptus trees and shrubs, which are indigenous to Australia, Tasmania, Indonesia and the Philippines, but now commonly grown in many other subtropical countries.
Eucalyptus oil uses (Eucalyptus radiata) have long been known to include anything regarding the respiratory system, deodorize and more. The oil is created through the steam distillation of the leaves from the shrubs and trees, leaving an aroma that is camphorous, sweet, and slightly fruity.
Diluted eucalyptus oil is applied directly to the skin for pain and swelling of respiratory tract mucous membranes, joint pain, genital herpes, and nasal stuffiness. It is also used as an insect repellent. In dentistry, eucalyptus oil is included in products used as sealers and solvents for root canal fillings.
Lemon eucalyptus is a tree. Oil from the leaves is applied to the skin as a medicine and insect repellent. Lemon eucalyptus oil is used for preventing mosquito and deer tick bites; for treating muscle spasms, toenail fungus (onychomycosis), and osteoarthritis and other joint pain.
Eucalyptus oil can be used to treat shingles. As eucalyptus essential oil is an antiviral and anti-inflammatory agent, it can help ease the pain caused by the rash due to its strong analgesic properties. You can either add it to a warm bath or use it in a hot compress on the rash.
Eucalyptus is a tree. The dried leaves and oil are used to make medicine. Though eucalyptus is used medicinally for many purposes, there isn’t enough scientific evidence so far to rate it as effective for any of them. Eucalyptus leaf is used for infections, fever, upset stomach, and to help loosen coughs.
Eucalyptol, a chemical that is removed from eucalyptus oil and used as medicine, is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth for up to 12 weeks. Eucalyptus oil is POSSIBLY UNSAFE when applied directly to the skin without first being diluted.
Eucalyptus Globulus (also known as Blue Gum) is the main source of global eucalyptus oil production. Eucalyptus oil comes from the dried leaves of the eucalyptus tree. The oil is a colorless liquid with a strong woody and sweet scent. Eucalyptus leaves are steam-distilled to extract the oil. Eucalyptus oil contains 70-85% 1,8-cineole (eucalyptol) - an ingredient in some mouthwash and dental preparations.