Welcome! Yes, the air pressure in the ball does impact how far it will go. Here's the main reason why: When a ball is underinflated, as it gets impacted by the foot during the kick, some of the energy will go into bending the skin of the ball, and the rest will go into making the ball itself move. I specifically need to find reference to a kicked ball, the air pressure inside the ball and how this effects the distance it travels.
Ball Air Pressure vs. Distance traveled when Struck Micah Bowey Math-Science Project 2013 Does the amount of air in a ball affect how far it can go when kicked or hit? If so, how? Materials Pressure gauge Standard size 5 ball The pendulum/foot, used to hit the ball. Friction The greater the air pressure of the ball, the greater the distance travelled when hit by a constant force, due to the rapid movement and higher air pressure of molecules inside the ball itself.
Does air pressure effect the distance a soccer ball travels: How does the air pressure of a soccer ball effect how far it travels when kicked? Will the pressure in a soccer ball affect the distance it travels when kicked? . : The more the pressure in the ball the better and more comfortable it will be to kick. A soccer ball with less air pressure makes it bulky when it is being kicked. The amount of air pressure in a soccer ball does affect how far it will travel wh.
How Does the Air Pressure of a Soccer Ball Affect the Distance it: The higher the air pressure inside the soccer ball, the farther it will go when Atmospheric air pressure also affects the distance the ball travels. : The more the pressure in the ball the better and more comfortable it will be to kick. A soccer ball with less air pressure makes it bulky when it is being kicked. The amount of air pressure in a soccer ball does affect how far it will travel wh.
Does the temperature of a football (or baseball soccer ball etc: Does the temperature of a football (or baseball, soccer ball, etc) affect how far it will of different variables in a ball to alter the distance it will travel from an impact. For inflated balls, the temperature can change the air pressure inside the ball. : The more the pressure in the ball the better and more comfortable it will be to kick. A soccer ball with less air pressure makes it bulky when it is being kicked. The amount of air pressure in a soccer ball does affect how far it will travel wh.
Physics FAQ: How does the amount of air in a soccer ball affect how far it The amount of air or air pressure in a soccer ball effects how far the ball will travel amount of pressure in a ball after inflating and before use. : The more the pressure in the ball the better and more comfortable it will be to kick. A soccer ball with less air pressure makes it bulky when it is being kicked. The amount of air pressure in a soccer ball does affect how far it will travel wh.
Introduction. This soccer science fair project serves to acquaint students with basic information on how the amount of air in a soccer ball can affect the distance it travels when kicked with a consistent force. The greater the air pressure in the ball, the farther it will travel when a force is applied. In the process of conducting the research, the student will learn that atmospheric pressure may also affect how far the ball will travel.
Asked by: Drew Klipp. Temperature can affect a couple of different variables in a ball to alter the distance it will travel from an impact. For inflated balls, the temperature can change the air pressure inside the ball giving an over inflated effect if it was warmed, or and under inflated effect if it was cold. 
The amount of air pressure does affect the ball's height and distance on the field. Air pressure determines the ball's level of stiffness. Higher air pressure creates more energy, which allows the ball to retain its spherical shape when it is kicked. Having less deformation of the soccer ball means it will have good height and distance when kicked. A flat ball does not go very far, but a solid ball will go the distance.