Simple as that. Ladies, you can wear shoes with a heel if you wish (although a very thin stiletto type heel is NOT recommended for beginners) and in fact wearing a heel will probably help you to swing your hips a little which adds to the feel of the dance-very important in Salsa. The smooth soles advice is the only rule of what to wear to learn Salsa. The rest is just common sense. For example, you'll get very hot and sweaty in a club so leave your winter gear at the door. And if the class is being held in a club, it might be worthwhile checking if the club has a dress code before you go.
How to dress for salsa classes: As a female I recommend that you wear something that's comfortable like some type of like yoga pants, stretchies, tights, something a little form fitting so you can see your body movements. And absolutely you should definitely definitely wear shoes-at least 2-3 inches. Learn how to dress for salsa lessons from dance instructor Jorday Rivera in this Howcast dance video.
There are very few rules and regulations about what Salsa clothes you should wear to learn in. It's a great dance in that respect because you really won't have to buy any special clothes or shoes for this, like you sometimes have to when learning other dances. The smooth soles advice is the only rule of what to wear to learn Salsa. The rest is just common sense. For example, you'll get very hot and sweaty in a club so leave your winter gear at the door. And if the class is being held in a club, it might be worthwhile checking if the club has a dress code before you go.
Beginners of ballroom dance lessons always find themselves worried that they might wear the wrong thing and look out of place once they go dancing for the first time. 
How to dress for salsa classes: As a female I recommend that you wear something that’s comfortable like some type of like yoga pants, stretchies, tights, something a little form fitting so you can see your body movements. And absolutely you should definitely definitely wear shoes – at least 2-3 inches. Learn how to dress for salsa lessons from dance instructor Jorday Rivera in this Howcast dance video. Hello, my name is Jorday Rivera, and I am an expert in salsa. I own two dance studios in Queens, New York.
Salsa Shoes = Smooth Shoes! You must wear the right shoes to learn this dance. A flat sole is vital so you can turn properly. That's not to say you can't wear shoes with a heel-you absolutely can. The smooth soles advice is the only rule of what to wear to learn Salsa. The rest is just common sense. For example, you'll get very hot and sweaty in a club so leave your winter gear at the door. And if the class is being held in a club, it might be worthwhile checking if the club has a dress code before you go.
Learn to salsa dance for beginners. This walkthrough video will help you learn how to salsa dance and provide you a series of salsa dance lessons that will teach you the basics steps to salsa dancing, right turns, cross body leads and the cross body lead 180. After practicing this salsa lesson a few times you will be able to do all the salsa moves that we show you at the beginning of the salsa video. For more free salsa dance lessons, check out our page at: http://www.addicted2salsa.com. Salsa Lessons Shortcuts:
How to Dress for a Salsa Lesson. Learn how to dress for salsa lessons from dance instructor Jorday Rivera in this Howcast dance video. Hello, my name is Jorday Rivera, and I am an expert in salsa. I own two dance studios in Queens, New York.
Found This Helpful. Whether a beginning salsa dance class is your first dance class ever, or just your first salsa dance class, you want to be prepared and comfortable so that you can concentrate on the steps and the music. The most important element of your wardrobe will be your shoes. Club Salsa. If the beginning salsa class is offered in a night club, which they often are, your attire should be whatever you are comfortable wearing on a night out. Start with the shoe and match your outfit accordingly. Slacks and a nice shirt are good for the men, and the women can either wear nice pants or a skirt.