Even if you’re not an athlete, knowledge about your heart rate can help you monitor your fitness level — and it might even help you spot developing health problems. Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. Your resting heart rate is the heart pumping the lowest amount of blood you need because you’re not exercising. If you’re sitting or lying and you’re calm, relaxed and aren’t ill, your heart rate is normally between 60 (beats per minute) and 100 (beats per minute), Stein said.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe.
Pulse indicates the rate at which your heart is beating; so normal pulse rate implies that your heart is functioning properly, which is a sign of good health. Advertisement. In the field of medicine, 'pulse' is defined as the rhythmic expansion and contraction of the arteries corresponding to each beat of heart. Normal Pulse Rate for Adults and Children. A pulse rate of 60-100 BPM is usually considered normal, but then, there exist a few exceptions to this rule. While a well-conditioned athlete can have a heart rate of 40 BPM, in a newborn the same can be as high as 180-190 BPM.
Normal Pulse Rates for Women. A pulse is the measurement of how many times your heart beats per minute. The normal pulse for a healthy adult is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. A number of factors determine where your pulse should range. First, women over 13 generally have a higher pulse than do men. 
View full size image. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA.
Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise). 1 A normal adult resting heart beat is between 60-100 heartbeats per minute. 2  Some experienced athletes may see their resting heartrate fall below 60 beats per minute. 3  Tachycardia refers to the heart beating too fast at rest-over 10
Strength of the pulse. The normal pulse for healthy adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats per minute. The pulse rate may fluctuate and increase with exercise, illness, injury, and emotions. Females ages 12 and older, in general, tend to have faster heart rates than do males. The pulse rate is a measurement of the heart rate, or the number of times the heart beats per minute. As the heart pushes blood through the arteries, the arteries expand and contract with the flow of the blood.
The rate at which your heart beats when you are resting is considered your normal pulse rate, and is measured in beats per minute (BPM). Normal Pulse Rate for Adults and Children. A pulse rate of 60-100 BPM is usually considered normal, but then, there exist a few exceptions to this rule. While a well-conditioned athlete can have a heart rate of 40 BPM, in a newborn the same can be as high as 180-190 BPM.
1 Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised. 3  Taking a person's pulse is a direct measure of heart rate. 1 A normal adult resting heart beat is between 60-100 heartbeats per minute. 2  Some experienced athletes may see their resting heartrate fall below 60 beats per minute. 3  Tachycardia refers to the heart beating too fast at rest-over 10