Rename a File in C#. If you want to rename a file in C#, you’d expect there to be a File.Rename method, but instead you must use the System.IO.File.Move method. You must also handle a special case when the new file name has the same letters but with difference case. For example, if you want to rename “test.doc” to “Test.doc”, the File.Move method will throw an exception. So you must rename it to a temp file, then rename it again with the desired case.
Follow one of the move solutions but replace it with Copy instead. Then use File.Delete to delete the original file. You can create a Rename method to simplify it. 2) Ease of use. Use the VB assembly in C# Add reference to Microsoft.VisualBasic. then to rename a file.
I think, No rename method in for renaming file or Folder.and then how to do this ?I explain this article. use Move Method do this work.Here I give a Code for rename file and Folder in c#.Net.
im trying to rename a file in c# but there is no such method to rename a file, i dont want to move the actual file i just want to rename the existing file i can do the same thing in vb.net by writing the code below.
NB: C# does not have a rename option for files. However, moving the file to the same location replaces the existing file with the same one with the new name. One thing with this code is that if the new file name already exists the move will fail causing an error.
You can use Directory.Move method to move or rename a directory or folder. This method takes two parameters-the existing folder and new folder. Here is the code snippet. Directory.Move(fromDir, toDir);
If you want to rename a file in C#, you’d expect there to be a File.Rename method, but instead you must use the System.IO.File.Move method. You must also handle a special case when the new file name has the same letters but with difference case. For example, if you want to rename “test.doc” to “Test.doc”, the File.Move method will throw an exception. So you must rename it to a temp file, then rename it again with the desired case.
There is no separate Rename method for renaming a file and a folder. It can be achieved by Move method packed with File and Directory class. The below code snippets will help us doing this.