According to the Physician Assistant Education Association’s 26th Annual Report on Physician Assistant Educational Programs (October, 2010), the average in-state tuition for a public university’s PA program is $31,210; the average tuition at a private institution is more than double that at $65,573.
Second, many PA programs require that students have hands-on patient experience before applying. Amount of experience varies from 500 to 2,000 hours. Factor the time it will take you to complete this extensive experience into how long it will take you to become a physician assistant.
Then, you will have to attend a physician assistant program. This will require an additional two years. So, if you are currently in high school and choose not to attend an accelerated program you can expect it will take you at least six years to become a physician assistant.
PA programs typically take between 24 and 27 months to complete. So, it will take you about two years to become a physician assistant. If you want to work during your PA program, some schools offer a three year part-time option. Planning ahead for your PA education is imperative.
Physician assistants must maintain the PA-C designation by earning 100 continuing education credits every two years. They are also required to pass the Physician Assistant National Recertifying Exam every six years. PA-Cs are subject to recertification and testing fees.
Certified physician assistants need to take the Physician Assistant National Recertifying Exam (PANRE) during the last two years of the six-year certification maintenance or the 10-year certification maintenance cycle.
According to the American Academy of Physician Assistants, the average cost for a physician assistant program was $50,567 for an in-state resident and $61,088 for an out-of-state student. Fortunately, some types of programs are much less expensive than others and can offer students significant savings.
Most applicants to physician assistant education programs already have a bachelor’s degree and some healthcare-related work experience. While admissions requirements vary from program to program, most programs require two to four years of undergraduate coursework with a focus in science.
Application to PA school is highly competitive. Look into PA programs you want to apply to as early as your freshman year in college. You’ll typically need to complete at least two years of college coursework in basic and behavioral sciences before applying to a PA program, which is very similar to premedical studies.