Beginning with 1993's Leprechaun (filmed in 1991) the series centers on a malevolent and murderous leprechaun named Lubdan (although he never reveals his name), who, when his gold is taken from him, resorts to any means necessary to reclaim it. Unfortunately, none of the series are in chronological order. English actor Warwick Davis plays the title role in every film with, currently, the only exception being the reboot, Leprechaun: Origins, (in which Dylan Hornswoggle Postl in the WWE) replaces Warwick Davis as Lubdan.
Leprechauns are the bankers and cobblers of the fairy world. Leprechauns are known for their money, and there’s apparently a lot of it in the cobbling business. Since they spend most of their time alone, the little green men pour all their energy into crafting shoes. There aren’t any female leprechauns. As a way of explaining why there is no record of female leprechauns (and therefore no way to procreate in the traditional sense), some sources claim that leprechauns are the unwanted fairies that have been tossed aside by the rest of the community.
Catch a Leprechaun In Your Garden. Check out our complete guide to the wiley creatures, including where you're likely to find him, what he looks like, and complete instructions for building your own leprechaun trap... How To I.D. Your Leprechaun. A leprechaun dresses in old-fashioned clothes of green, with a red cap, multi-pocketed leather apron, and buckled shoes. He is quite fond of a smoke from his foul smelling clay pipe which is always close by, and he is frequently in an intoxicated state from home-brew poteen.
This quiz is all about your inner Leprechaun. . . Are you ready for March 17th? Let's hope so!Awesome vampire site. 
1. Leprechauns are fairies. Although they might not match your initial idea of what a fairy is, leprechauns are considered a part of the family. Like other fairies, they are small in size and prone to mischief. There aren’t any female leprechauns. As a way of explaining why there is no record of female leprechauns (and therefore no way to procreate in the traditional sense), some sources claim that leprechauns are the unwanted fairies that have been tossed aside by the rest of the community.
10 Questions-by: Hiba-Developed on: - completed 12,854 times. This quiz is all about finding who you are in your group of friends. You can be the shy, polite and understanding one, or you could be the loud party animal in the group. 
They’re sneaky. Wherever there are leprechauns, there are stories of people trying to steal their gold. The rule is, if you’re lucky enough to catch a leprechaun, you can never take your eyes off the little men, or they’ll disappear. There aren’t any female leprechauns. As a way of explaining why there is no record of female leprechauns (and therefore no way to procreate in the traditional sense), some sources claim that leprechauns are the unwanted fairies that have been tossed aside by the rest of the community.
In one there is a silver shilling, a magical coin that returns to the purse each time it's spent. In the other there is a gold coin for bribing his way out of difficult situations. (Don't accept this coin-it turns into a rock). But he can be generous if you do him a good turn. Your kind deed wil be repaid with a wish. How To I.D. Your Leprechaun. A leprechaun dresses in old-fashioned clothes of green, with a red cap, multi-pocketed leather apron, and buckled shoes. He is quite fond of a smoke from his foul smelling clay pipe which is always close by, and he is frequently in an intoxicated state from home-brew poteen.
Tips. 1  Be quiet! 2  You won't find any leprechauns if you're loud! 3  In fact, this is the principal reason why leprechauns are never found and being in a hunting party is very, very, likely to decrease your chances. 4  Extreme enthusiasts may hide in bushes and watch their traps. 5  It helps to decide what to do if you find one. Leprechauns may think it's a real gnome and try to entertain the gnome with conversation or a riddle or two. Other times, a leprechaun may be offended by the work of making one of his friends into a plastic mold. 10. Go indoors. Once you've looked everywhere in your yard, start in your hous