Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Drizzle squash flesh with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place cut side down on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet. Roast until squash is tender when pierced with a knife, about 1 hour. When cool enough to handle, gently scrape squash with a fork to remove flesh in long strands and transfer to a medium bowl. Toss with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, lemon juice, and parsley. Season with salt and red-pepper flakes and serve sprinkled with cheese, if desired.
1 Pierce the whole shell several times with a large fork or skewer and place in baking dish. 2  Cook squash in preheated 375°F oven approximately 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until flesh is tender, It took about 1 1/2 hours for mine to tender up. *****. ( 3 BOIL IT). 1 (BAKE IT). 2  Pierce the whole shell several times with a large fork or skewer and place in baking dish. 3  Cook squash in preheated 375°F oven approximately 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until flesh is tender, It took about 1 1/2 hours for mine to tender up. *****. ( 4 BOIL IT).
Directions. ( 1 BAKE IT). 2  Pierce the whole shell several times with a large fork or skewer and place in baking dish. 3  Cook squash in preheated 375°F oven approximately 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until flesh is tender, It took about 1 1/2 hours for mine to tender up. 1 (BAKE IT). 2  Pierce the whole shell several times with a large fork or skewer and place in baking dish. 3  Cook squash in preheated 375°F oven approximately 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until flesh is tender, It took about 1 1/2 hours for mine to tender up. *****. ( 4 BOIL IT).
Directions. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. With a small sharp knife, prick squash all over. Place on a rimmed baking sheet and roast until tender when pierced with knife, about 1 hour 20 minutes, flipping halfway through. When cool enough to handle, halve lengthwise and scoop out seeds. Scrape squash with a fork to remove flesh in long strands.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Split the squashes in half and scrape out seeds. Line an oven tray with aluminum foil. Season the spaghetti squash with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Place flesh side down and roast for 30 to 40 minutes until fully cooked. Remove from the oven and let rest until cool enough to handle.
Directions. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Slice squash in half and place fleshside down in a baking dish. Add 1/4-inch of water. Bake for 40 minutes, or until tender and remove. Rake squash with a fork, creating spaghetti strands. Spoon on sauce, mozzarella, and basil. Place back in oven and bake until cheese begins to bubble.
1 Place spaghetti squash with cut sides down on the prepared baking sheet, and bake 30 minutes in the preheated oven, or until a sharp knife can be inserted with only a little resistance. 
And now, to bake your spaghetti squash in the oven … (scroll down for microwave directions). Heat oven to 375 degrees. Brush the inside of each half with olive oil and sprinkle with coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper. Place cut-sides down on a baking sheet. Bake for about 40 minutes until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle. With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired. Place squash cut-sides-down in a microwave-safe baking dish. Fill the dish with about 1 inch of water. Microwave on high for about 12 minutes, or until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork.