Low Blood Pressure. A side effect of any minoxidil for women is slightly lowered blood pressure, and using the 5 percent solution prescribed to men can intensify that affect. Low blood pressure can cause dizziness, fatigue or even fainting upon standing.
Minoxidil, the active ingredient in Rogaine for men, was approved for women's use at the 2 percent concentration in 1991. The more potent 5 percent dose approved for men in 1997 has yet to gain FDA approval for use in women.
Re: Can women use minoxidil for men. I think Rogaine says women cant use it, is because they didn't get FDA approval. Its kind of like, Rogaine saying dont use Rogaine on the front part of your hair. The reason they say that, they didn't get FDA approval for that. But Rogaine works good on the front hair.
Any women out there ever tried rogaine foam for men and had any bad and or good experiences. and since it's a stronger version, would women only have to use it once a day instead of twice... show more I heard it make you grow hair in places you wouldn't want if you'r a woman, but the liquid form is just too oily.
Many women using the five percent Rogain for men experience unwanted hair growth, usually on the face. Some of this is due to the product dripping down to the face after application, but even careful use cannot prevent the effect entirely as the minoxidil enters the blood stream through contact with the scalp.
Unlike the Men's formulas, Women's Rogaine only needs to be applied once a day to be effective. This was specifically proven in clinical studies of the treatment on women experiencing female pattern hair loss. Also, it is only available in Canada in a 5 percent minoxidil foam for ease of application.
Uses. Minoxidil solution and foam are used to help hair growth in the treatment of male pattern baldness. It is not used for baldness at the front of the scalp or receding hairline in men. The foam and 2 percent minoxidil solution is also used to help hair growth in women with thinning hair.
A side effect of any minoxidil for women is slightly lowered blood pressure, and using the 5 percent solution prescribed to men can intensify that affect. Low blood pressure can cause dizziness, fatigue or even fainting upon standing.