migrant. n. 1. a person or animal that moves from one region, place, or country to another. 2. (Agriculture) an itinerant agricultural worker who travels from one district to another. Adj. 1. migrant-habitually moving from place to place especially in search of seasonal work; appalled by the social conditions of migrant life; migratory workers. migratory. unsettled-not settled or established; an unsettled lifestyle.
Noun. 1. migrant-traveler who moves from one region or country to another. migrator. traveler, traveller-a person who changes location. departer, goer, leaver-someone who leaves. emigrant, emigre, emigree, outgoer-someone who leaves one country to settle in another. evacuee-a person who has been evacuated from a dangerous place. Adj. 1. migrant-habitually moving from place to place especially in search of seasonal work; appalled by the social conditions of migrant life; migratory workers. migratory. unsettled-not settled or established; an unsettled lifestyle.
: one that migrates: as a: a person who moves regularly in order to find work especially in harvesting crops b: an animal that shifts from one habitat to another. — migrant adjective. See migrant defined for English-language learners. See migrant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : a person who goes from one place to another especially to find work. : a bird or animal that moves from one area to another at different times of the year.
Definitions and Overview. A migrant farmworker is defined as an individual who is required to be absent from a permanent place of residence for the purpose of seeking employment in agricultural work. Migrant farmworkers are also called migratory agricultural workers. The following slideshows illuminate the daily lives of migrant farmworkers associated with the Maine Migrant Health Program, a 501(c)3 nonprofit that provides primary care to farmworkers in Maine through mobile medical units and outreach.
1 A person who moves from one place to another in order to find work or better living conditions. Example sentences. Synonyms. 1  To prevent this happening 12 member countries have put a block on migrants moving there until up to 2011. 2  The migrants moved to one side of their 33 ft boat and the vessel tipped over. 
Immigration is the movement of people into a destination country to which they are not native or do not possess its citizenship in order to settle or reside there, especially as permanent residents or naturalized citizens, or to take-up employment as a migrant worker or temporarily as a foreign worker. Many countries have immigration and visa restrictions that prohibit a person entering the country for the purposes of gaining work without a valid work visa. As a violation of a State's immigration laws a person who is declared to be an economic migrant can be refused entry into a country.
The term  migrant worker  has different official meanings and connotations in different parts of the world. The United Nations ' definition is broad, including any people working outside of their home country. Some of these are called expatriates. Several countries have millions of foreign workers. Some have millions of illegal immigrants, most of them being workers also. The most startling statistic that Rosales had is when she discussed how these working conditions affect the lives of immigrants. Rosales states that “The average life expectancy of migrant and seasonal farm workers is 49 years of age, in comparison to the U.S. average of 75 years of age” (Rosales 4).
The term economic migrant refers to someone who has travelled from one region to another region for the purposes of seeking employment and an improvement in quality of life and access to resources. An economic migrant is distinct from someone who is a refugee fleeing persecution. Many countries have immigration and visa restrictions that prohibit a person entering the country for the purposes of gaining work without a valid work visa. As a violation of a State's immigration laws a person who is declared to be an economic migrant can be refused entry into a country.
migrant. A person who (1) belongs to a normally migratory culture who may cross national boundaries, or (2) has fled his or her native country for economic reasons rather than fear of political or ethnic persecution. Adj. 1. migrant-habitually moving from place to place especially in search of seasonal work; appalled by the social conditions of migrant life; migratory workers. migratory. unsettled-not settled or established; an unsettled lifestyle.