active oldest votes. up vote 1 down vote. You can replace just the threshold. Sometimes it is difficult because the original threshold is screwed to the jambs as part of a complete assembly, or it lies under the door stop part of the jambs, but it sounds like you already figured that part out. Soooo I took the threshold out of the door. I bought a new one at Home Depot and wanted to squeeze it into place under the existing jamb. I haven’t found a lot of guidance on this. At work, when I asked the maintenance guy at work he said replace the whole door.
I have not installed my doors yet. I will not be using Hanson's because it cost too much. I have to replace the front door (storm door and doorjamb/threshold are also included), the back garage door (entry door, leads out to backyard), and replace a plain, thin door between attached garage and house with a fire door. 
A carpenter charges $65 to remove an old threshold and replace it with a new one, but you can buy the threshold and install it for $45, and save 31 percent. One way to thoroughly clean the area around a door threshold before installing a new one is with a shop vacuum. Use the crevice tool and remove all the dirt and dust so the new installation will fit perfectly. The bottom line: compare the price of a contractor’s bid to replace a door threshold with what it costs to do it yourself and make your decision. You adjust the cost to where you live by adding your ZIP Code.
4. Measure the width of the door opening between the inside faces of the door jambs. Deduct 1/8 inch for clearance to make it easier to slide the new threshold in place. Measure and mark the new threshold. Square the mark with a builder's square. Cut the threshold with a circular saw or handsaw. Thresholds installed on concrete are relatively easy to replace because concrete doesn’t rot like typical subfloors. This means the job is confined to the threshold unit. Hardwood and aluminum thresholds are available at door suppliers and many home centers.
Replacing a Sill and Threshold. This story shows how to replace a door sill and threshold. Intro. An exterior threshold takes a lot of abuse from foot traffic and weather, and it must be in good shape to keep the weather out. It can be replaced with a wood or metal threshold, either of which is available with a rubber gasket for sealing out the cold. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Threshold Installation project. For a basic 6 transitions project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Threshold Transition Strip ranges between $69.30 - $90.05 per transition. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Door Transition Job Materials and Supplies. Cost of supplies that may be required to install threshold transition strip including: manufacturer recommended underlayment, fasteners, adhesives and surface sealants.
1 Ceilings/Floors.  Cost to Replace a Door Threshold. Compare the cost to replace a door threshold yourself with the labor and material cost to hire a carpenter for the job. Enter your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live. Use the crevice tool and remove all the dirt and dust so the new installation will fit perfectly. The bottom line: compare the price of a contractor’s bid to replace a door threshold with what it costs to do it yourself and make your decision. You adjust the cost to where you live by adding your ZIP Code.
The door sill, or threshold, is the bottom portion of your exterior door frame. It helps to keep the elements out and provides a seal, as well as a place to step as you enter the home. These thresholds wear out over time, because of foot traffic and exposure to the weather. Method 2 of 2: Replacing a Wooden Threshold. Other than metal thresholds, the most commonly used material for a door sill is a hardwood like oak. Wooden thresholds often come in standard lengths that can be trimmed to size on site.
The door repair cost for a drafty door depends on whether you decide to install weatherstripping or if you also add a storm door. Storm doors can also be fitted with a screen for the summer. Both of these will do a great job at cutting down on drafts and the door repair cost would be less than replacing the whole door. 
DIFFICULTY RATING: (4 out of 5 - Challenging) Replace the threshold of an exterior door when it shows signs of rot or deterioration. Rotten wooden casings and the riser may need to be replaced as well. Caulk (Buy). 