Cincinnatus was born Lucius Quinctius and had the nickname, Cincinnatus, was bestowed upon him due to his curly hair. He was considered an early hero of the Roman Republic and highly regarded for his willingness to give up power and live in virtuous simplicity. 
Confidence votes 4.0K. Cincinnatus was a Roman politician. He was elected Consul in 460 BC and twice dictator in 458 and 439 BC. He was and is famous for having placed the interests of Rome before his private ones and for having been a model of Roman virtue. George Washington liked Cincinnatus because he loved how powerful he was, and looked up to him as a role model, because of all the amazing stuff that Cincinnatus did when he w … as the Roman dictator and served as Consul. George Washington dreamed of being compared to Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus.
The Romans decided to appoint a dictator, Cincinnatus. Cincinnatus was in power for 16 days an … d left after the Aequi tribe was defeated. The Roman values he shows are pietas, loyalty, humility, self-sacrifice to state.Cincinnati, Ohio is named after him.George Washington is considered the modern day. Cincinnatus. George Washington liked Cincinnatus because he loved how powerful he was, and looked up to him as a role model, because of all the amazing stuff that Cincinnatus did when he w … as the Roman dictator and served as Consul. George Washington dreamed of being compared to Lucius Quinctius
Lucius (Titus) Quinctius Cincinnatus. (b. c.519 BC). In 458 BCE (according to tradition), Cincinnatus, who had been consul in 460 BCE, was plowing his fields when messengers arrived to tell him he had been named dictator to defend the city against the Aequi and the Volscians.
THE STORY OF CINCINNATUS. T HERE was a man named Cincinnatus who lived on a little farm not far from the city of Rome. He had once been rich, and had held the highest office [77] in the land; but in one way or another he had lost all his wealth. He was now so poor that he had to do all the work on his farm with his own hands. 
About Cincinnatus: Cincinnatus was plowing his field, when he learned he had been appointed dictator. The Romans had appointed Cincinnatus dictator for 6 months so he could defend the Romans against the neighboring Aequi, who had surrounded the Roman army and the consul Minucius, in the Alban Hills. Dates of Cincinnatus: As is true of many figures from the ancient world, we don't have dates for Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus, but he was consul in 460 and 438 B.C. Background: About 458 B.C., the Romans were at war with the Aequi.
Cincinnatus redirects here. For other uses, see Cincinnatus (disambiguation) . Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus (519–430 BC) was a Roman aristocrat and statesman whose service as consul in 460 BC and dictator in 458 BC and 439 BC made him a model of civic virtue. Cincinnatus was regarded by the Romans, especially the aristocratic patrician class, as one of the heroes of early Rome and as a model of Roman virtue and simplicity.
Occupation Index: Ruler. Dates of Cincinnatus: As is true of many figures from the ancient world, we don't have dates for Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus, but he was consul in 460 and 438 B.C. Background: About 458 B.C., the Romans were at war with the Aequi. After losing a few battles, the Aequi tricked and trapped the Romans
Cincinnatus is a town in Cortland County, New York, United States. The population was 1,056 at the 2010 census. The town is named after the Roman general Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus. It is in the eastern part of the county and is east of the city of Cortland. 
‘Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus was at the plough when he was notified of his election to that dictatorship’. In his treatise on Old Age, the Roman politician and orator Marcus Tullius Cicero cites the potent semi-legendary figure of Cincinnatus as an example of the joys of agriculture. 