The Guinness Book of Records is the world's most sold copyrighted book, earning it an entry within its own pages. A number of spin-off books and television series have also been produced. Guinness World Records bestowed the record of Person with the most records on Ashrita Furman of Queens, NY in April 2009. The ousting of Norris McWhirter from his consulting role in 1995 and the subsequent decision by Diageo Plc to sell the Guinness World Records brand have shifted it from a text-oriented to an illustrated reference book.
The book has gone on to become a record breaker in its own right, with sales of more than 100 million copies in 100 different countries and 37 languages, Guinness World Records is the world's best selling copyright book ever. The ousting of Norris McWhirter from his consulting role in 1995 and the subsequent decision by Diageo Plc to sell the Guinness World Records brand have shifted it from a text-oriented to an illustrated reference book.
Guinness Superlatives (later Guinness World Records) Limited was formed in 1954 to publish the first book. Sterling Publishing owned the rights to the Guinness book in the US for decades, and, under their management, the book became a household name. The ousting of Norris McWhirter from his consulting role in 1995 and the subsequent decision by Diageo Plc to sell the Guinness World Records brand have shifted it from a text-oriented to an illustrated reference book.
After the founding of The Guinness Book of Records at 107 Fleet Street, the first 198-page edition was bound on 27 August 1955 and went to the top of the British best seller lists by Christmas. The ousting of Norris McWhirter from his consulting role in 1995 and the subsequent decision by Diageo Plc to sell the Guinness World Records brand have shifted it from a text-oriented to an illustrated reference book.
Confidence votes 45. The first official Guinness world record was not in the caveman time or anything. Guinness World Records was made in the late 1800's. There is no real way of knowing which one was first, but my dad's uncle, Andrew Guinness, was one of the founders of the company. The first record was Most Piercings on a Person at One Time.. ~LD. The idea came from Sir Hugh Beaver, the managing director of the  Guinness Brewery in 1951. He could not find the facts he needed to  settle an argument, so the idea of a co … mpilation of records was  born. The first book came out in 1954 and was given free to promote  the Guinness stouts.
Hey guys, So I was watching reruns of past NBA dunk contests with guys who have the highest vertical jump I’ve ever seen when I got a little curious. I wanted to find out who has the highest vertical jump ever recorded. The first place I looked was Guinness Book of World Records. 
The world's tallest and shortest men met for the first time this morning to commemorate Guinness World Record Day. Sultan Koesen, kösen who is 8ft. 1in, tall And Chandra, dangi who measures just.21., 5ins posed for photos outside The houses Of parliament to mark the'book s 60th. anniversary The VERY odd couple: Shortest man ever (21.5ins) meets tallest living person (8ft 1in) outside the Houses of Parliament for Guinness World Record Day. 1  Part-time farmer Sultan Koesen, kösen From, Ankara, turkey measures 8ft. 2  1in Chandra, dangi who is just.21 5ins, tall lives in Remote nepalese.  village
As we look to the imminent launch of the latest Guinness World Records book, it's worth giving a nod to the book that got it all started in which Wadlow was first featured. The very first edition of The Guinness Book of Records (as it was called then) was published on August 27th, 1955. It was 7 inches wide, 10 inches long, had a lime green cover and stretched to 198 pages
Welcome to the official Guinness World Records YouTube channel! If you're looking for videos featuring the world's tallest, shortest, fastest, longest, oldest and most incredible things on the planet, you're in the right place. LIKE us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/Gui... 