(c) A wilderness, in contrast with those areas where man and his own works dominate the landscape, is hereby recognized as an area where the earth and its community of life are untrammeled by man, where man himself is a visitor who does not remain. Wilderness is that rare, wild place where one can retreat from civilization, reconnect with the Earth, and find healing, meaning and significance. Wilderness shaped the growth of our nation and the character of our people.
The term 'wilderness' is used to describe large, natural areas of land that, together with their native plant and animal communities, remain essentially unchanged by modern human activity. Wilderness areas represent the largest, most pristine areas in the state's reserve system. 
Search. Wilderness is the land that was-wild land beyond the frontier...land that shaped the growth of our nation and the character of its people. Wilderness is the land that is-rare, wild places where one can retreat from civilization, reconnect with the Earth, and find healing, meaning and significance. Wilderness is an indispensable part of American history, however, people have held various perspectives of wilderness throughout tim
Activities on the margins of specific wilderness areas, such as fire suppression and the interruption of animal migration also affect the interior of wildernesses. Especially in wealthier, industrialized nations, it has a specific legal meaning as well: as land where development is prohibited by law. The word wilderness derives from the notion of wildness—in other words, that which is not controlled by humans. The mere presence or activity of people does not disqualify an area from being wilderness..
Full Definition of WILDERNESS AREA. : an often large tract of public land maintained essentially in its natural state and protected against introduction of intrusive artifacts (as roads and buildings). See wilderness area defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
And about 100 million acres of pristine wildlands are still at risk. Wilderness is also the term used for the government’s highest form of land protection — federally designated wilderness. There are many ways to protect America’s wilderness. In protecting wilderness, we are safeguarding for current and future generations the outdoor spaces enjoyed by every American. 
A wilderness area is designated land set aside by Congress to preserve its wild state and all of the values associated with that wilderness  scenic beauty, solitude, wildlife, geological features, archaeological sites, and other features of scientific, educational, or historical value. 
A wilderness area is a region where the land is in a natural state; where impacts from human activities are minimal—that is, as a wilderness. There are seven wilderness areas in New Zealand as defined by the National Parks Act 1980 and the Conservation Act 1987 that fall well within the IUCN definition.
It might also be called a wild or natural area. Especially in wealthier, industrialized nations, it has a specific legal meaning as well: as land where development is prohibited by law. Many nations have designated Wilderness Areas, including Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. There are seven wilderness areas in New Zealand as defined by the National Parks Act 1980 and the Conservation Act 1987 that fall well within the IUCN definition.