You’ll realize you know nothing. Law school does not prepare you to practice law. Sure, it teaches you how to “think like a lawyer,” but when you get your first job as an attorney, you will find that you’re completely in the dark about a lot of things. Much of it is very specific to your practice area, and a lot of it is boring administrative stuff, like how to bill your hours. Perception vs. reality in many cases, but lots of companies like having a lawyer around and many others will meet a lawyer who is handling their legal work and bring them in at a later time in some other capacity. But if you want to get out of law, do it before it’s too late.
You should plan on hiring a bankruptcy lawyer to advise you through the process because it can get highly technical. Bankruptcy lawyer fees will depend on what type of bankruptcy you are filing for and how much debt you have. For an individual filing bankruptcy, total lawyer fees will typically be around $2000-$5000. For businesses, it is usually more expensive and will depend on how large the company is and how much debt it owes. This work may add to the total cost of filing a patent. Patent lawyer fees can range from as low as $500-$1000 for just a simple provisional patent filing, to as much as $10,000-$25,000 for more complicated patents. On average, patent lawyer fees, plus filing fees, will probably amount to somewhere around $10,000.
If you do decide to hire a lawyer, make sure that you understand what you will be paying for, how much it costs and when you will be expected to pay your bill. For more information, see the State Bar pamphlet Finding the Right Lawyer at www.calbar.ca.gov/Public/Pamphlets.aspx. However, there are lawyers with experience in estate planning who do not seek such certification. For a list of specialists, go to californiaspecialist.org or call the State Bar at 415-538-2120.
Another reason lawyers, or at least this lawyer, do not like to post fees is that it makes the practice of law a commodity. John charges $175 for a power of attorney but this other lawyer charges $50. And I can get a power of attorney in a super store for $10. 
Most lawyers will require a retainer payment because they want to ensure that they are getting paid for their time. If you are billed hourly, the retainer payment will cover a certain number of hours. That number is a good estimate for how much the lawyer fees will be in total, but it could be more or even less. If the amount of hours exceeds the retainer payment, the lawyer will send you a bill for the additional time at the end of the month. This work may add to the total cost of filing a patent. Patent lawyer fees can range from as low as $500-$1000 for just a simple provisional patent filing, to as much as $10,000-$25,000 for more complicated patents. On average, patent lawyer fees, plus filing fees, will probably amount to somewhere around $10,000.
Attorney / Lawyer Salary. (United States). The average pay for an Attorney / Lawyer is $77,252 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on salary for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience
A few people reported that they paid their attorney as little as $50 per hour, and a few reported paying as much as $400 to $650 per hour. But the vast majority paid between $150 and $350 per hour, with $250 being the most commonly reported fee. 
In rural areas and small towns, lawyers tend to charge less, and fees in the range of $100 to $200 an hour for an experienced attorney are probably the norm. In major metropolitan areas, the norm is probably closer to $200 to $400 an hour. Lawyers with expertise in specialized areas may charge much more. In addition, you can expect to be charged at an hourly rate for paralegals and other support staff. A good paralegal's time, for example, may be billed out at $50 to a $100 an hour or perhaps more.
You might want to arrange for a ceiling or limit on fees. You might also require your lawyer to get your approval before proceeding beyond a certain amount in legal costs. If you've hired an attorney to recover a $10,000 debt, you probably don't want to pay $8,000 in legal fees to resolve the matter. In addition, you can expect to be charged at an hourly rate for paralegals and other support staff. A good paralegal's time, for example, may be billed out at $50 to a $100 an hour or perhaps more.