Fruits are loaded with vitamins, minerals and fiber just like vegetables. Fruit contains carbohydrate so you need to count it as part of your meal plan. Having a piece of fresh fruit or fruit salad for dessert is a great way to satisfy your sweet tooth and get the extra nutrition you're looking for. The best choices of fruit are any that are fresh, frozen or canned without added sugars. 1  Choose canned fruits in juice or light syrup. 2  Dried fruit and 100% fruit juice are also nutritious choices, but the portion sizes are small so they may not be as filling as other choices.
[1] 2 3 - Next All. Bella Viva Orchards provides customers nationwide with access to gourmet dried fruits including 5 different types of dried cherries and 10 different types of dried apricots. Grown in our sustainable California orchards, each fruit is nurtured from orchard growth to packaging. 
Many types of dried and dehydrated vegetables exist, such as potatoes, beans, snap beans, lima beans, leafy vegetables, carrot, corn and onion. 1 In most parts of China it is called huamei. 2  It was made popular in Hawaii by Yee Sheong, who, in early 1900, had begun importing Li hing mui and various other preserved fruits i.e. crack seed snacks from China to Hawaii.
Dry vegetables — a garden of nutritious, natural, fresh-tasting, and ready-to-use foods. 1  Freeze dried vegetables hydrate quickly and easily — soak in water, most for about 5 minutes, others for 10. 2  Air dried vegetables also hydrate quickly and easily — simmer in water, most for 10 minutes, up to 20 for a few others. Ideas for cooking and serving. 1  Snack as is on soy nuts, the Hot Vegetable Blend, all of our freeze dried vegetables, and the air dried carrots and green beans. 2  Use the Hot Vegetable Blend as a veggie trail mix.
1 Traditional dried fruit – types of dried fruits that are either sun-dried, such as raisins and dried figs, or dehydrated in wind tunnels and other dryers, such as dried plums (prunes), apricots and peaches. 2  It also includes dates, which are considered to be dried fruit because they have naturally low moisture contents. 1 In most parts of China it is called huamei. 2  It was made popular in Hawaii by Yee Sheong, who, in early 1900, had begun importing Li hing mui and various other preserved fruits i.e. crack seed snacks from China to Hawaii.
12 Healthiest Dried Fruits. Dried fruits are very popular for a multitude of reasons! Eating fruit is associated with improved health and provides many of the essential minerals, vitamins, phytonutrients and fiber that you need every day. Dried fruit doesn't spoil as quickly and is an easy snack to pack, especially for activities like hiking! Peaches may not be as common as other dried fruits like apricots but are also a nutritioius choice. They contain 34% of your daily vitamin A needs and 18% of iron recommendations, as well as being a good source of potassium, niacin and copper.
Dried Vegetables are nutritious and easy to store, use, and take along. We have over 50 different types of air dried vegetables and 27 types of freeze dried vegetables, packaged in high quality zipper pouches. 1  Many make excellent dry snacks as they are, right out of the bag. 2  Each type of dried vegetable hydrates quickly. Ideas for cooking and serving. 1  Snack as is on soy nuts, the Hot Vegetable Blend, all of our freeze dried vegetables, and the air dried carrots and green beans. 2  Use the Hot Vegetable Blend as a veggie trail mix.
Examples of dried fruits are Raisins, Plums or Prune s and Dates. Apples, Apricots, Bananas, Cranberries, Figs, Mangoes, PawPaw, Peaches, Pineapples, Pears and Tomatoes are the other dried fruits. 
Today, dried fruit consumption is widespread. Nearly half of the dried fruits sold are raisins, followed by dates, prunes, figs, apricots, peaches, apples and pears. These are referred to as conventional or traditional dried fruits: fruits that have been dried in the sun or in heated wind tunnel dryers. Many fruits such as cranberries, blueberries, cherries, strawberries and mango are infused with a sweetener (e.g. sucrose syrup) prior to drying. Some products sold as dried fruit, like papaya, kiwi fruit and pineapple are most often candied fruit. Dried fruits retain most of the nutritional value of fresh fruits.