1 Botulinum toxin is used to reduce fine lines and wrinkles by paralysing the underlying muscles. 2  People also use Botox to treat excessive sweating, migraines, muscular disorders, and some bladder and bowel disorders. 3  Botulism, an infection with botulinum toxin, can cause respiratory failure and prove deadly. 1 Botox is the most popular cosmetic surgery treatment, with more than 6 million Botox treatments administered each year. 2  Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic.
Also a form of botulinum toxin type A, when Botox® Cosmetic is injected into the muscles surrounding the brow area for instance, those muscles can not scrunch up for a period of time. They are paralyzed. So the wrinkles in that area, often referred to as furrows or frown lines, temporarily go away. There is always a risk of adverse reactions or side effects after a Botox® injection, so patients need to be in a medical setting that is equipped to handle an emergency situation. And, the ingestion of alcohol at or around the time of injection could worsen any bruising at the injection site.
By injecting the toxin directly into a certain muscle or muscle group, the risk of it spreading to other areas of the body is greatly diminished. Botox® Cosmetic has been successfully used to treat severe glabellar (frown) lines and is approved for use in adult patients up to 65 years of age. There is always a risk of adverse reactions or side effects after a Botox® injection, so patients need to be in a medical setting that is equipped to handle an emergency situation. And, the ingestion of alcohol at or around the time of injection could worsen any bruising at the injection site.
Knowledge center. Botox is a drug made from a neurotoxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum called botulinum toxin. It is used medically to treat certain muscular conditions and cosmetically remove wrinkles by temporarily paralyzing muscles. 1 Botox is the most popular cosmetic surgery treatment, with more than 6 million Botox treatments administered each year. 2  Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic.
Botox blocks signals from the nerves to the muscles. The injected muscle can't contract. That makes the wrinkles relax and soften. Botox is most often used on forehead lines, crow's feet (lines around the eye), and frown lines. Wrinkles caused by sun damage and gravity will not respond to Botox. It can also be used for lip lines and for the chin and corner of the mouth and neck. Cosmetic Uses of Botox. Doctors have been using Botox for years to successfully treat wrinkles and facial creases. Botox is a brand name of a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. There are also other brand names, such as Dysport and Xeomin.
Botox blocks signals from the nerves to the muscles. The injected muscle can't contract. That makes the wrinkles relax and soften. Botox is most often used on forehead lines, crow's feet (lines around the eye), and frown lines. Wrinkles caused by sun damage and gravity will not respond to Botox. Cosmetic Uses of Botox. Doctors have been using Botox for years to successfully treat wrinkles and facial creases. Botox is a brand name of a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum.
Whether used to treat medical conditions such as blepharospasm or strabismus or cosmetic concerns such as furrow lines, a Botox® injection is a medical procedure that should be performed in a controlled medical environment. There is always a risk of adverse reactions or side effects after a Botox® injection, so patients need to be in a medical setting that is equipped to handle an emergency situation. And, the ingestion of alcohol at or around the time of injection could worsen any bruising at the injection site.