A capitalized cost is recognized as part of a fixed asset on a company's balance sheet, rather than being charged to expense in the period incurred. Capitalization is used when an item is expected to be consumed over a long period of time. If a cost is capitalized, it is charged to expense over time through the use of amortization (for intangible assets) or depreciation (for tangible assets). A short-term variation on the capitalization concept is to record an expenditure in the prepaid expenses account, which converts the expenditure into an asset
Tax rules cover not only what expenses can be deducted but also when -- in what year -- they can be deducted. Some types of expenditures are deductible in the year they are incurred but others must be taken over a number of future years. The first category is called current expenses, and the second capitalized expenditures. You need to know the difference between the two, and the tax rules for each type of expenditure
An expense that is added to the cost basis of a fixed asset on a company's balance s​ hee t. Capitalized costs are incurred when building or financing fixed assets. Capitalized costs are not expensed in the period they were incurred, but recognized over a period of time via depreciation or amortizatio n. Lunches would be included as a capitalized cost because they were a part of the project cost. The same logic is applied to the inclusion of the price of shipping and installation of equipment as costs on the company’s books.
Cost vs. Expense. When trying to discern what is a capitalized cost, it’s first important to make the distinction between what is defined as a cost and expense in the world of accounting. A cost on any transaction is the amount of money used in exchange for an asset. Lunches would be included as a capitalized cost because they were a part of the project cost. The same logic is applied to the inclusion of the price of shipping and installation of equipment as costs on the company’s books.
Capitalized expenses. Other business expenditures, such as the cost of equipment, land, and vehicles to name a few, cannot be deducted in the same way as current expenses. Asset purchases, since they are expected to generate revenue in future years, are treated as investments in your business. Some types of expenditures are deductible in the year they are incurred but others must be taken over a number of future years. The first category is called current expenses, and the second capital or capitalized expenditures.
Capitalization Effects. Whether R&D costs should be capitalized or treated as expenses isn't just a technical question about accounting procedures. It has a direct impact on the most basic calculations of a company's value and profitability. 
DEFINITION of 'Capitalize'. An accounting method used to delay the recognition of expenses by recording the expense as long-term assets. In general, capitalizing expenses is beneficial as companies acquiring new assets with a long-term lifespan can spread out the cost over a specified period of time. Companies take expenses that they incur today and deduct them over the long term without an immediate negative affect against revenue
He goes for the rebuilding. The $80,000 expense must be capitalized -- that is, it can't be deducted using Section 179 because it is an improvement -- not a normal repair. Under the tax code, metal-fabricating machinery must be deducted over five years. Some types of expenditures are deductible in the year they are incurred but others must be taken over a number of future years. The first category is called current expenses, and the second capital or capitalized expenditures.
They must be deducted over a number of years, or capitalized, as specified in the tax code (with one important exception -- Section 179 -- discussed below). This, theoretically, allows the business to more clearly account for its profitability from year to year. Some types of expenditures are deductible in the year they are incurred but others must be taken over a number of future years. The first category is called current expenses, and the second capital or capitalized expenditures.
In general, for capital projects over $50,000, expenditures which improve or add to the value of the asset, or extend the useful life of the asset are capitalizable as part of the project's cost. All other costs must be expensed. 