Measurements are made with a fluorometer in the field. The water sample is exposed to light of a single wavelength. Some substances in the water sample, including chlorophyll a, will give off light, fluoresce, in response to the light. The amount of light emitted by the chlorophyll a is measured and used to calculate the chlorophyll a concentration.
The emission filter further screens the light, the emitted light is measured by the detector, and the fluorescence value is displayed on the instrument. Figure 2 illustrates the key components of a filter fluorometer: light source/lamp; excitation and emission filters; sample cell/cuvette; and light detector. For example, if the substance is linear to 250 ppm and measurable with a calibration curve to 1000 ppm, you might calibrate with a 200 ppm standard and take readings at 500, 750, and 1000 ppm for a calibration curve. In some cases, calibration with a standard of known concentration is not necessary.
There are two basic types of fluorometers, the filter fluorometer and the spectrofluorometer. The difference between them is the way they select the wavelengths of incident light. A filter fluorometer will use filters while a spectrofluorometer will use grating monochromators. The machine is constructed like this to decrease the stray light from the upper beam that may strike the detector. The optimal angle is 90 degrees. There are two different approaches to handling the selection of incident light that gives way to different types fluorometers.
Fluorometers / Fluorescence Spectrophotometers. A fluorescence spectrophotometer (or fluorometer, fluorospectrometer, or fluorescence spectrometer) measures the fluorescent light emitted from a sample at different wavelengths, after illumination with a xenon flash lamp. 
A fluorometer or fluorimeter is a device used to measure parameters of fluorescence: its intensity and wavelength distribution of emission spectrum after excitation by a certain spectrum of light. These parameters are used to identify the presence and the amount of specific molecules in a medium. The machine is constructed like this to decrease the stray light from the upper beam that may strike the detector. The optimal angle is 90 degrees. There are two different approaches to handling the selection of incident light that gives way to different types fluorometers.
A side-by-side comparison between a fluorometer and a spectrophotometer is easily done but would require dilution of the chlorophyll sample to put it within the linear range of the fluorometer. A sample that is in range on a spectrophotometer will be over-range on a fluorometer. Fluorometers detect chlorophyll a by transmitting an excitation beam of light in the blue range (440nm for extracted analysis and 460nm for in vivo analysis) and by detecting the light fluoresced by cells or chlorophyll in a sample at 685nm (red).
Fluorometer. A fluorometer or fluorimeter is a device used to measure parameters of fluorescence: its intensity and wavelength distribution of emission spectrum after excitation by a certain spectrum of light. These parameters are used to identify the presence and the amount of specific molecules in a medium
Ad. Though fluorometer detection is based on fundamental universal principles for fluorescence, there are several unique applications and adaptations for the devices. One of the main uses is as a chlorophyll fluorometer, which is calibrated to measure the ambient fluorescent quality of plants. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A fluorometer is a special type of optical device usually used in laboratory settings, which is capable of measuring the fluorescent quality of biological or mineral samples.
A spectrophotometer is one of the scientific instruments commonly found in many research and industrial laboratories. Spectrophotometers are used for research in physics, molecular biology, chemistry, and biochemistry labs. They measure the absorbance, which is known as the optical density (OD), on a spectrophotometer. One can tell from the OD whether the bacteria are actively dividing or whether they are starting to die.