Cranberry pills might help to alleviate jock itch discreetly. Cranberry pills contain vitamins and nutrients -- for example, vitamin E, an anti-inflammatory agent -- that can help to restore the pH balance and reduce the inflammation that causes jock itch. Added a more authoritative reference.
Nature Made Super Strength Cranberry + Vitamin C helps supports a healthy urinary tract and the immune system. † Cranberry comes from small evergreen shrubs that produce the tart berries. Vitamin C is an antioxidant that helps neutralize free radicals in the body and helps supports
1. Vitamin C – Cranberry juice is very high in Vitamin C, or ascorbic acid. Vitamin C thins and decongests bile, allowing the liver to metabolize fats more efficiently. This function is especially valuable for those who have excessive fat in their liver.
Vitamin C. Cranberries are an excellent source of vitamin C. They make a good choice of fruit if you want to improve your dental health. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant which helps to hinder bacteria from attaching to the gums and teeth. This includes bacteria that help to form cavities.
Pure cranberry juice is very sour, so most juices contain a mixture of cranberries, vitamin C, and sweeteners, which may make the juice less healthy. Look for a brand of cranberry juice that has the lowest amount of added sugar or is sugar-free.
Cranberry supplements can help prevent urinary tract infections. Cranberries can prevent urinary tract infections and boost overall health. Chock-full of antioxidants, the fruit has been used for its medicinal properties for hundreds of years and is a common natural remedy to this day.
Cranberry is also a good source of vitamin C. Other dietary sources of vitamin C are fruits, particularly citrus fruits, and vegetables, including green and red peppers, tomatoes, potatoes, and green, leafy varieties like spinach and collard greens.
Cranberry juice is a good source of vitamin C and antioxidants. Those vitamins and minerals are thought to have detoxifying and purifying properties. Cranberry juice may increase plasma antioxidant levels reducing the risk of heart disease.