The culture of Trinidad is defined by the ethnic and religious diversity of the country. After the discovery of Trinidad by Christopher Columbus in 1498, the first Spanish settlement amongst the indigenous Carib and Arawak indians did not take place until 1592. 
The culture of Trinidad and Tobago reflects the influence of African, French, Amerindian, Chinese, British, Indian and to a lesser extent Spanish and Portuguese cultures. The histories of Trinidad and Tobago are different, and there are contrasts in the cultural influences which have shaped each island. Trinidad and Tobago is an English-speaking country with strong links to the United Kingdom. Historical membership in the British Empire left a major influence on the country, including the dominance of the English language and the popularity of the two top sports in the country, football and cricket
Location and Geography. Trinidad and Tobago are the southernmost islands in the Caribbean Sea. Trinidad is 1,864 square miles in area (4,828 square kilometers), and Tobago is 116 square miles (300 square kilometers). At its closest point, Trinidad is some seven miles from the coast of Venezuela on the South American mainland. Identification. Trinidad was named by Christopher Columbus on his third voyage to the New World. On the morning of 31 July 1498, he saw what appeared to him as a trinity of hills along the southeastern coast. The island was called Iere, meaning the land of the hummingbird, by its native Amerindian inhabitants.
The culture of Trinidad and Tobago is focused on music and carnival. Photo credit: © Andrei Tselichtchev | Dreamstime.com. The islands of Trinidad and Tobago have two very different tones. Trinidad is the upbeat, fun island, while Tobago is more laid back. However, both have similar cultural backgrounds, and their rich cultures create a wonderful country to explore
The country gained independence from Britain in 1962. The culture of Trinidad and Tobago is an expression of the diverse ethnic and political influences which have held sway in the islands for the last few centuries. This diverse mixture of cultures is best expressed in the music of the islands which are famous as the birthplace of calypso and of the steel pan
Culture. The islands of Trinidad and Tobago are famous for their steel band music. This music is an important part of Carnival,the biggest celebration of the year on the islands. Carnival is a giant celebration that happens before Lent every year
Geography. Trinidad and Tobago lie in the Caribbean Sea off the northeast coast of Venezuela. Trinidad, the larger at 1,864 sq mi (4,828 sq km), is mainly flat and rolling, with mountains in the north that reach a height of 3,085 ft (940 m) at Mount Aripo. Tobago, at just 116 sq mi (300 sq km), is heavily forested with hardwood trees.
The most influential single cultural factor in Trinidad and Tobago is Carnival, brought to Trinidad by French settlers from Martinique in the later part of the 18th century. Trinidad and Tobago is an English-speaking country with strong links to the United Kingdom. Historical membership in the British Empire left a major influence on the country, including the dominance of the English language and the popularity of the two top sports in the country, football and cricket
Trinidad and Tobago: Culture. A number of excellent resources focused on international cultures are available online. Below are links to country-specific cultural information for Trinidad and Tobago. For a complete list of culture resources, please visit globalEDGE's Global Resource Directory.