There are many pressure points which have been known for relieving pain and ache associated with an infected tooth. Thus, one can try pressure points to relieve toothache. Pressure points for treating different conditions have been in use for centuries before the invention of the modern pain-relieving medications. The pressure points need to be pressed gradually and gently.
One acupressure point for relieving toothache pain may be found at the tip of the individual's chin. Find out how to use acupressure points to treat toothaches with help from a teacher, author and alchemist in this free video on acupressure treatments.
Here are some of the pressure points that you can press yourself to relieve toothache. Pressure Points to Relieve Toothache: 1  Take the tip of your index finger and place in front of your ear hole. 2  Now open your jaw and look for a gap that form and gently press the tip of your finger into that gap. 3  You will get a tingling sensation in your jaw.
1 This pressure point numbs the nerve on that side of the jaw which is responsible for causing the toothache. 2  Place your finger under your ear where the ear meets the head. 3  This place is the gap behind the ear lobe. 4  Now open your jaw and you will find the gap getting bigger.
How to Use Pressure Points for Toothaches. Your teeth are filled with nerve endings that are sensitive to several irritants. Photo Credit tooth image by yordan zahariev from Fotolia.com. A toothache is caused by nerve endings in the mouth just below the tooth, which create a painful throb.
Step 2. Squeeze your thumb and forefinger together with the hand that corresponds the toothache location. A ridge will form once you have squeezed the thumb and forefinger together. With your opposite hand, apply light pressure with the tip of your finger to the middle of the ridge.
Long before the invention of modern pain medication, people used pressure points to relieve toothache pain. Unlike acupuncture–which involves inserting thin needles into meridians and requires more training–a novice can generally perform acupressure anytime pain rears its head.