Later in the report, it’s phrased this way: The vast majority of UAW workers in Detroit today still earn $75 an hour.. That figure has caught hold with some conservatives, and it seeps into media coverage from time to time as well. How much does a UAW member make at a domestic auto plant? Various sites have cited the figure at an average of seventy-three dollars an hour (The Heritage Foundation). Keith Olbermann says that the figure is actually at twenty-eight before benefits, which only add ten dollars to the amount.
According to the UAW's own website, the base pay for a worker in a UAW plant is $27 an hour. So. News media tells the world, and most Americans: UAW workers make $70 an hour. Reality: They make $27 an hour. So in almost every news article and commentary about whether or not there should be a bailout for Big Auto, the current figure thrown around as to how much United Auto Workers make is $70 an hour. Yup.
1 SHARES. Here’s a little known fact about the Big Three automakers: The average unionized worker costs his or her employer about $75 an hour in wages and benefits. That’s more than $130,000 a year — three times as much as the typical American worker. With executives for General Motors, Ford and Chrysler pleading their case for a government bailout, it’s worth remembering the UAW’s role in the problem. These high salaries are chocking the Big Three.
A report from the conservative Heritage Foundation, opposing the auto industry bailout, said that members of the United Auto Workers union earn $75 an hour in wages and benefits – almost triple the earnings of the average private sector worker.. How much does a UAW member make at a domestic auto plant? Various sites have cited the figure at an average of seventy-three dollars an hour (The Heritage Foundation). Keith Olbermann says that the figure is actually at twenty-eight before benefits, which only add ten dollars to the amount.
A UAW assembly worker's hourly rate is approx. $28.50 Newly hired non-core assembly workers earn approx. $14.25 per hour GET THE FACTS! ... www.JoeTheAutoworker.com The corporate media are perpetuating the false perception that the average GM worker costs more than $70 an hour, once you include health and pension costs.
Unionized workers at the Big Three cost employers between $71 and $76 an hour for a total of $130,000 in 2006. By contrast, employees at Japanese plants cost their companies between $42 and $48 an hour for about $80,000. The average American private sector worker earned about $25 an hour in 2006. That’s more than $130,000 a year — three times as much as the typical American worker. With executives for General Motors, Ford and Chrysler pleading their case for a government bailout, it’s worth remembering the UAW’s role in the problem. These high salaries are chocking the Big Three.
Roughly speaking, the average hourly pay for a member of the United Auto Workers currently ranges from $28 to $38 or so for those hired before September 2007, and between $16 and $20 for workers hired afterward. Much of the opposition to the bailout labored under the erroneous impression that auto workers were earning in the neighborhood of $70 or more an hour -- or as much as $150,000 annually for a 40-hour week.
The current veteran UAW member at GM today has an average base wage of $28.12 an hour, but the cost of benefits, including pension and future retiree health care costs, nearly triples the cost to GM to $78.21, according to the Center for Automotive Research. @ Lynn: Do you realize that the only way UAW workers will continue getting $28+/hr plus benefits and a pension is if the taxpayer comes to the rescue with a $15 billion bailout? Most of those taxpayers don’t make anything close to $28+ hour.
A general city employee who retired in 2011 with an average ending salary of $60,000 and 40 years of service could receive around $45,000 a year. Such benefits are more or less on par with the Detroit-area union auto workers. Retirees of the three big automakers receive average annual benefits of about $18,000 per year, in addition to another roughly $15,000 to $18,000 in Social Security payments, according to the United Automobile Workers, or UAW. 
The typical UAW worker at the Big Three earned between $71 and $76 an hour in 2006. This amount is triple the earnings of the typical worker in the private sector and $25 to $30 an hour more than American workers at Japanese auto plants. Only 38 percent of the $75.81 an hour that Chrysler's UAW workers earned came as base wages. The rest came as benefits (though some of those benefits, such as overtime premiums and paid vacation days, are paid in cash).