Food additives are chemical substances added to foods to improve flavour, texture, colour, appearance and consistency, or as preservatives during manufacturing or processing. Herbs, spices, hops, salt, yeast, water, air and protein hydrolysates are excluded from this definition. 
Acids. Food acids are added to make flavors sharper, and also act as preservatives and antioxidants. Common food acids include vinegar, citric acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, and lactic acid. Acidity regulators. Acidity regulators are used to change or otherwise control the acidity and alkalinity of foods. Anticaking agents. Anticaking agents keep powders such as milk powder from caking or sticking. Bulking agents. Bulking agents such as starch are additives that increase the bulk of a food without affecting its nutritional value. Food coloring. Colorings are added to food to replace colors lost during preparation, or to make food look more attractive.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Food additives are substances added to food to preserve flavor or enhance its taste and appearance. Some additives have been used for centuries; for example, preserving food by pickling (with vinegar), salting, as with bacon, preserving sweets or using sulfur dioxide as with wines.
Some food additives have more than one use. Food additives are listed according to their functional or class names. Examples of the most common functions are: 1  Acids / Acidity regulators / Alkalis help to maintain a constant acid level in food. 2  This is important for taste, as well as to influence how other substances in the food function. 
Direct food additives are those that are added to a food for a specific purpose in that food. For example, xanthan gum -- used in salad dressings, chocolate milk, bakery fillings, puddings and other foods to add texture -- is a direct additive. Most direct additives are identified on the ingredient label of foods. Indirect food additives are those that become part of the food in trace amounts due to its packaging, storage or other handling. For instance, minute amounts of packaging substances may find their way into foods during storage. Under the Food Additives Amendment, two groups of ingredients were exempted from the regulation process. GROUP I-Prior-sanctioned substances-are substances that FDA or USDA had determined safe for use in food prior to the 1958 amendment. Examples are sodium nitrite and potassium nitrite used to preserve luncheon meats.
Indirect Food Additives include packaging materials such as paper, plastic, cardboard and glue that come into contact with food. Direct Food Additives include preservatives, nutritional supplements, flavors and texturizers that are added to food. Color Additives are used to alter color. Additives include flavorings that change a food’s taste, preservatives that extend its shelf life, colorings that change the way it looks, and dietary additives, such as vitamins, minerals, fatty acids and other supplements.
Additives that are added to a food for a specific purpose are known as direct additives. For example, the low calorie sweetener, aspartame, is a direct additive that is added to puddings, soft drinks, yogurt, and many other foods. Direct additives are identified on a food’s ingredient label. 1 Artificial or synthetic colors and flavors are examples of this type of additive. 2  These additives are added in minute amounts that can have a large impact. 3  By FDA regulations, colorings can only be used to enhance visual appeal, not to misrepresent the food (Jones 1992).
Food additives are substances added to food to preserve flavor or enhance its taste and appearance. Some additives have been used for centuries; for example, preserving food by pickling (with vinegar), salting, as with bacon, preserving sweets or using sulfur dioxide as with wines.
Food Additives. Food additives are substances that become part of a food product when they are added during the processing or making of that food. Direct food additives are often added during processing to: 1  Add nutrients. 2  Help process or prepare the food. 3  Keep the product fresh. 4  Make the food more appealing.