Internal Medicine encompasses the care of all adults, healthy and sick. Internists (as all doctors who complete an internal medicine residency are called) can be generalists or subspecialists, like cardiologists or rheumatologists. If you choose not to subspecialize, you are known as a General Internist.
Invasive or Interventional Internists. Internal medicine specialties break down into two basic groups: those who perform invasive procedures similar to surgery and those who treat patients medically. In the first group are specialists such as gastroenterologists, pulmonologists and interventional cardiologists.
Internists also treat chronic illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, high cholesterol and asthma. Your doctor can work with you to decide on the best treatment to manage your condition, which sometimes means consulting a specialist.
Internal medicine is a medical specialty which focuses on the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of nonsurgical conditions in adults. This specialty has a number of subspecialties ranging from nephrology, the study of the kidneys, to immunology, the study of allergies and immune system disorders.
Internists are similar to family practice doctors in some ways. The internist treats a very broad range of diseases and medical conditions, but the focus is on adult medicine.
Doctors of internal medicine, called internists focus on comprehensive adult medicine. While the name internal medicine may lead one to believe that internists only treat internal problems, this is not the case. Doctors of internal medicine treat the whole person, not just internal organs.
Some specialties in internal medicine are less common. For example, an internist might specialize in congenital heart disease -- a subspecialty of cardiology. Another subspecialty in this field is advanced heart failure and transplant
General Internists serve as primary care physicians, along with family medicine doctors and pediatricians. The biggest difference between Family Medicine and Internal Medicine is that IM training focuses on adults, with residents spending time between various adult medicine subspecialties.