Alternative Approaches for Creating Symbolic Functions. Use the assignment operation to simultaneously create a symbolic function and define its body. The arguments x and y must be symbolic variables in the MATLAB ® workspace, and the body of the function must be a symbolic number, variable, or expression. Assigning a number, such as f(x,y) = 1, causes an error. Use syms to create symbolic variables. Then use symfun to create a symbolic function with these variables as its input arguments. Call the function for x = 1 and y = 2.
Symbolic racism (modern-symbolic racism, modern racism, symbolic prejudice) is a coherent belief system that reflects an underlying unidimensional prejudice towards Black people in the United States. 
The process primarily described in relation to young children, from age 2 to 4, in which children can create mental images of objects and store them in their minds for later use. SYMBOLIC FUNCTION: Example of symbolic function is when a child plays to a teddy to put him asleep.. No related posts. 
In Piaget's theory of cognitive development, the second stage is called preoperational thought and it has two substages: Symbolic Function substage and Intuitive Thought substage. 
All forms of language are innately symbolic, and any system of symbols can form a language; at the minimum using only two arbitrary symbols in a binary system. Human language is based in the use of phonemes as representative symbols, and the analogous written forms are typically deferential to the phoneme. The term symbolism is often limited to use in contrast to  representationalism ; defining the general directions of a linear spectrum wherin all symbolic concepts can be viewed in relation, and where changes in context may imply systemic changes to individual and collective definitions of symbols.
Full Definition of SYMBOLIC. 1. a: using, employing, or exhibiting a symbol b: consisting of or proceeding by means of symbols. 2. : of, relating to, or constituting a symbol. 3. 4. — sym·bol·i·cal·ly \-li-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See symbolic defined for English-language learners. See symbolic defined for kids. 
process of expressing mental processes and ideas in symbolic way, by use of words or sound. In this process, you can represent the mental state by using words symbols, sounds symbols. 
Symbolism is a form of communication, by the systematic or creative use of arbitrary symbols as abstracted representations of concepts or objects and the distinct relationships in between, as they define both context and the narrower definition of terms. The term symbolism is often limited to use in contrast to  representationalism ; defining the general directions of a linear spectrum wherin all symbolic concepts can be viewed in relation, and where changes in context may imply systemic changes to individual and collective definitions of symbols.
The structural-functional approach is a perspective in sociology that sees society as a complex system whose parts work together to promote solidarity and stability. It asserts that our lives are guided by social structures, which are relatively stable patterns of social behavior. 