PPIs decrease or block the production of stomach acid. Prilosec is used to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), to promote healing of erosive esophagitis, and to treat or prevent ulcers. Common side effects of Prilosec include gas, stomach pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and headache. Prilosec is the brand name of the drug omeprazole, which is used to treat symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD happens when acid from the stomach flows backward into the esophagus (the tube between the throat and the stomach).
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Omeprazole is in a class of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (PPI) that block the production of acid by the stomach. Other drugs in the class include lansoprazole (Prevacid), rabeprazole (Aciphex), pantoprazole (Protonix), and esomeprazole (Nexium). Proton pump inhibitors are used for the treatment of conditions such as ulcers, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, which are all caused by stomach acid. Omeprazole, like other proton-pump inhibitors, blocks the enzyme in the wall of the stomach that produces acid.
Prilosec (omeprazole) is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) used for the treatment of conditions such as ulcers, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, which are all caused by stomach acid. Our Prilosec Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Uses. Omeprazole is used to treat certain stomach and esophagus problems (such as acid reflux, ulcers). It works by decreasing the amount of acid your stomach makes. It relieves symptoms such as heartburn, difficulty swallowing, and persistent cough. 
Common side effects may include: 1  fever; 2  cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, sore throat; 3  stomach pain, gas; 4  nausea, vomiting, mild diarrhea; or. 5  headache. Our Prilosec Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Both Nexium and Prilosec have similar side effects. Common side effects include headache, diarrhea, nausea, gas, abdominal pain. In addition, Nexium can cause constipation, dry mouth, and drowsiness; Prilosec can cause vomiting. In children, Nexium can cause headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea. Prilosec, in addition to the side effects above, can also cause respiratory problems and fever. Prilosec is not recommended for infan
Medication may also cause gynecomastia as a side effect. Prilosec (omeprazole) is a proton pump inhibitor that is used to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and other conditions of the stomach caused by excess acid. Gynecomastia is a rare side effect of Prilosec. Prilosec is the brand name of the drug omeprazole, which is used to treat symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD happens when acid from the stomach flows backward into the esophagus (the tube between the throat and the stomach).
Omeprazole is available in generic form. Side effects of Prilosec may include headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, gas, constipation, fever, or cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, and sore throat. Our Prilosec Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Common names include: Omeprazole (Prilosec); Lansoprazole (Prevacid); Pantoprazole (Protonix); Rabeprazole (Aciphex); Esomeprazole (Nexium). ... Possible side effects include: Dizziness; Headache; Diarrhea; Increased risk of hip, wrist, and spine fractures in people who take ... Prilosec 速; Prilosec 速 OTC; Zegerid 速 (as a combination product containing Omeprazole, Sodium Bicarbonate); Zegerid 速 OTC (as a combination ... Omeprazole may cause other side effects. ... If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food ...
Common side effects may include: 1  fever; 2  cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, sore throat; 3  stomach pain, gas; 4  nausea, vomiting, mild diarrhea; or. 5  headache. 