The Greek name Theophilus is mentioned only twice: in the prologues of Luke's Gospel and Acts of the Apostles, where the author dedicates the books to Theophilus. The name 'Theophilus' means 'Loved by God' in the Greek language. Some point to strong evidence that the author of Luke's Gospel relied on material from the works of the Jewish historian, Josephus, in order to provide a semblance of history to his own works.
Theophilus (the-oph'-i-lus). Literally, the name means lover of God.. Davis Bible Dictionary says it means loved by God.. Smith's Bible Dictionary, Harpers Bible Dictionary, and Holman Bible Dictionary give the meaning as friend of God.. 1. The person to whom the books of Luke and Acts were written (Luke 1:3; Acts 1:1
The name 'Theophilus' is a Greek name. It is translated to mean 'loved by God, or more loosely, God's friend.. We read the name Theophilus in the gospel of Luke 1:3. Luke's gospel is written in the form of a letter, addressed to Theophilus.Again, we see that the New Testament book of Acts is a letter addressed to Theophilus.
In English Theophilus is also written Theophilos, both a common name and an honorary title among the learned (academic) Romans and Jews of the era. Their life would coincide with the writing of Luke and the author of Acts. Others say that Theophilus was probably a Roman official of some sort, because Luke referred to him as κρατιστε, optime in the Latin Vulgate translation, meaning most excellent (Luke 1:3), although in the parallel introduction to Acts he is simply referred to as 'O Theophilus'.
Theophilus. Theophilus is the name or honorary title of the person to whom the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles are addressed. It is thought that both Luke and Acts were written by the same author, and sometimes argued that the two books were originally a single unified work. 
Answers. Best Answer: Theophilus is the name of a person or an honorary title to whom the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles is addressed (Luke 1:3, Acts 1:1). It is translated to mean 'loved by God, or more loosely, God's friend.. We read the name Theophilus in the gospel of Luke 1:3. Luke's gospel is written in the form of a letter, addressed to Theophilus.Again, we see that the New Testament book of Acts is a letter
(June 2007). Theophilus is the name or honorary title of the person to whom the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles are addressed (Luke 1:3, Acts 1:1). Others say that Theophilus was probably a Roman official of some sort, because Luke referred to him as κρατιστε, optime in the Latin Vulgate translation, meaning most excellent (Luke 1:3), although in the parallel introduction to Acts he is simply referred to as 'O Theophilus'.
Dictionaries-Smith's Bible Dictionary-Theophilus. (friend of God) the person to whom St. Luke inscribes his Gospel and the Acts of the Apostles. (Luke 1:3; Acts 1:1) From the honorable epithet applied to him in (Luke 1:3) it has been argued with much probability that he was a person in high official position. From the fact that Luke applies to him the title most excellent, the same title Paul uses in addressing Felix (Acts 23:26; 24:3) and Festus (26:25), it has been concluded that Theophilus was a person of rank, perhaps a Roman officer. These dictionary topics are fromM.G.
Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Theophilus. lover of God, a Christian, probably a Roman, to whom Luke dedicated both his Gospel (Luke 1:3) and the Acts of the Apostles (1:1). Nothing beyond this is known of him. From the fact that Luke applies to him the title most excellent, the same title Paul uses in addressing Felix (Acts 23:26; 24:3) and Festus (26:25), it has been concluded that Theophilus was a person of rank, perhaps a Roman officer. These dictionary topics are fromM.G.