1 The largest species in the pig family is generally the giant forest hog (Hylochoerus meinertzhageni), a native of the African rainforests, at up to 275 kg (606 lb), 2.55 m (8.4 ft) in length and 1.1 m (3.6 ft) high at the shoulder. 1 The largest bear, and possibly the largest known mammalian land carnivore of all time, was Arctotherium angustidens. 2  The largest specimen yet found is estimated to weigh up to 1,600 kg (3,500 lb) and stood up to 3.4 m (11 ft 2 in) tall on the hind-limbs.
Elephants are the biggest land animals in the world. The African elephant is found on the continent of Africa and the Indian elephant is found in Asia. Elephants are mammals as well as herbivores, meaning they only eat plants rather than meat. 
Elephants, specifically African bush elephants, are the second largest animals in the world and the largest on land. The biggest elephant ever recorded weighed 10 tons and stood 4 meters at the shoulder. That’s pretty big, but only 5 percent of the weight of a blue whale and still dwarfed by the Bryde's whale -- the ninth largest baleen variety.
1 The largest species in terms of weight is the hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius), native to the rivers of sub-Saharan Africa. 2  They can attain a size of 4,500 kg (9,900 lb), 4.8 m (16 ft) long and 1.66 m (5.4 ft) tall. 1 The largest bear, and possibly the largest known mammalian land carnivore of all time, was Arctotherium angustidens. 2  The largest specimen yet found is estimated to weigh up to 1,600 kg (3,500 lb) and stood up to 3.4 m (11 ft 2 in) tall on the hind-limbs.
1 Rhinos are the second largest land mammal in the world, next to the elephant. 2  In Greek, rhinoceros means rhino=nose, ceros=horn. 3  Rhino horns have no boney core, like other horned mammals. 4  Rhino horns grow from the skin, and are made of compacted hair and keratin (the same substance as human hair and fingernails). Male rhinos can weigh up to 5,000 pounds (that’s more than 2 TONS). The rhino is the second largest land mammal in the world. A rhino’s head can weigh up to 500 pounds. The large hump on its neck is pure muscle, which enables him to hold up its 500-pound head.
16 Months of Patience. The white rhino is one of the largest of all rhino species, so it's not surprising that her large stature would lead to a long gestation period of 15 to 16 months. The length of the gestation period for many animals is determined by the size of their species. Smaller species of animals generally have a shorter gestation period than bigger animals. In some instances, longer gestation periods can be found among more developed species.
The largest species of Rhinos are the white rhinos. The African elephant and White rhino battle occurs in Africa as well as in India. The elephant too heavier and larger than … a rhinos as well as taller. 
The rhinoceros is a large mammal native to Africa and Asia. There are five species of rhino found in the world with 3 out of the 5 species of rhino now considered to be critically endangered. The rhino is thought to be the second biggest land mammal in the world behind the African elephant. The five species of rhinoceros are the white rhino (which is the largest species of rhino) and the black rhino which are both native to Africa and are only really distinguished in size as they look fairly similar. The rhino also has a large horn in the middle of its face and some species of rhino have a second smaller horn above the larger one. The rhinoceros is a herbivore and eats grasses, leaves, shoots, buds and fruits in order to gain the nutrients that the rhino needs to grow and survive.
Elephantidae is the only surviving family of the order Proboscidea; other, now extinct, members of the order include deinotheres, gomphotheres, mammoths, and mastodons. Male African elephants are the largest extant terrestrial animals and can reach a height of 4 m (13 ft) and weigh 7,000 kg (15,000 lb). Two species are traditionally recognised, the African elephant (Loxodonta africana) and the Asian elephant (Elephas maximus), although some evidence suggests that African bush elephants and African forest elephants are separate species (L. africana and L. cyclotis respectively).
It is bigger than Asian Elephant. Adult male elephant stand 12 ft tall and weigh 5,600kg but male can be as heavy as 7,000 kg. It is also known as Loxodonte which is Greek word means oblique-sides tooth. In 1970 their population was around 400000 but today it is only 10000 due to hunting. The average length of African elephant is 24 feet. Giraffe. It is the tallest land-living animal. Average height of adult male Giraffe is between 14 ft to 17 ft but it can be as tall as 20 ft. It feeds on leaves and vegetation. This animal is inhabitant of Central and South Africa. There is no danger to this animal as for as their extinction is concerned.