Passengers on many Delta flights must pay baggage fees to check their bags. The first checked bag for a domestic Delta flight costs travelers $25 as of 2011. Delta charges oversize fees to travelers whose bags are larger than the airline's limitations. Delta requires that all checked baggage weighs 50 lbs. or less. Checked bags also must not exceed 62 linear inches.
Delta Vacations Luggage Fee Policy. Many airlines assess a fee for checked luggage. These fees are payable directly to the airline, and are therefore not included in the Delta Vacations package price. The various airlines are listed below with links to the baggage fees for each carrier. 
Delta charges $25 USD/CDN for the first checked bag and $35 for a second when you pay at airport ticket counter, kiosk, or curbside. Online payments are discounted $2-$3. A third checked bag is $125. Fees increase to $200, beginning with the fourth checked bag. On international flights between the U.S., Canada and South America (except Brazil, Chile and Peru) to/from Europe, one carry-on and one checked bag are permitted for free, with a baggage fee of $100 for the second bag and $200 for each additional piece.
Checked Baggage Fees. Passengers on many Delta flights must pay baggage fees to check their bags. The first checked bag for a domestic Delta flight costs travelers $25 as of 2011. The second checked bag includes a $35 fee. Delta charges oversize fees to travelers whose bags are larger than the airline's limitations. Delta requires that all checked baggage weighs 50 lbs. or less. Checked bags also must not exceed 62 linear inches.
Delta currently does not charge passengers for checking a first bag on domestic flights. It has said it is studying a decision by several other major carriers to impose that fee. Delta customers checking bags on international flights can check a first and second bag at no charge. Fees are for each extra bag, each way. The fee for checking a third bag on a domestic flight will increase from $80 to $125, while the fee for checking a bag that is between 51 and 70 pounds on a domestic flight will rise from $80 to $90. 
In 2010, Spirit Airlines imposed a carry-on bag fee. This year, in 2015, the only two big U.S. airline companies that do not charge a baggage fee for checked luggage are JetBlue Airways (first checked in bag free) and Southwest Airlines (which allows you to check in two pieces of luggage for free). With most airlines charging baggage fees for checked luggage and even some charging a fee for carry-on bags, travelers are forced to spend more and more on their airplane tickets. Here, I'll show you a simple way to avoid paying for your checked-luggage which could save you around $50 per person for a round trip.
Now compare that to the overweight bag fee you might get charged by an airline: Delta, for example, has overweight bag charges of $75 and American AAL, +6.74% $100 for bags that are 51 to 70 pounds — both higher than what UPS might charge you over a short distance. But there are some ways to skirt — or at least lessen — those baggage fees. Last year, U.S. airlines collected a combined total of $3.35 billion in baggage fee revenue alone — with Delta DAL, +2.72% taking the No. 1 slot ($833 million), followed by United and US Airways.
Delta Airlines Oversize/Overweight Baggage Fees 2015 ↑ Back to Top Excess/Oversize/Overweight Summary Additional bags will be charged flat rates depending on your specific route, with rates ranging from $125/bag up to $285/bag. Delta has some of the harshest extra bag fees in the industry, so be sure to carefully read and understand the limits for your flight.
The airline that charges the most for the first checked bag is Spirit Airlines with a $45 fee, the second checked bag costs $55, and you will be charged $100 for an additional bag. American Airlines charges $25 for the first checked bag, $35 for the second, and $150 for an additional checked bag. With most airlines charging baggage fees for checked luggage and even some charging a fee for carry-on bags, travelers are forced to spend more and more on their airplane tickets. Here, I'll show you a simple way to avoid paying for your checked-luggage which could save you around $50 per person for a round trip.
Checking In & Paying Online. All baggage fees listed below are current and applicable for all ticketing on or after today when Delta's baggage rules are determined to apply. If you ticketed before today, please refer to Delta's previous checked baggage page for more details. 