CPA License in Texas. Texas CPA license requirements are fairly straightforward and require 150 semester units along with 1 year of qualifying work experience. The AICPA ethics exam that is typically required by most states is replaced by a four hour ethics class and the Texas Code of Professional Conduct exam.
The cost to take all four sections of the CPA exam in Texas is $743 plus the initial $50 application fee. The re-examination application fee is $60 – $105 plus the exam fees:
The National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) sets the CPA Exam fee that must be paid before a section of the exam can be scheduled. Fees for each section are based on costs for computer seat time, grading, and security measures provided before and during testing.
To apply for the CPA Exam, you must submit forms and transcripts, along with fees (ranging from $900 to $1,000), to the state board or its designee. You may apply to any state or jurisdiction, but may only register to take the exam in one jurisdiction at a time.
Note: In general you can expect the total CPA exam application fees (i.e. item 1 + 2) to cost you around $1,000. 3. CPA Exam Review Course Expenses. Very big range, from Wiley CPA books costing $30 at Amazon to a full Becker course at $3,000+.
CPA exam. Total exam cost varies based on jurisdiction, application, section and re-take fees. A future CPA in Minnesota applying for all four sections at one time can expect to spend about $1,000. An application fee is required each time you apply, so be mindful of your schedule to avoid additional fees.
1 Most states require you to pay for the CPA ethics exam fees after passing the Uniform CPA exam. 2  The AICPA-administered fee, which is preferred by most states, costs $131.25. 3  Although, this is not part of the CPA exam fees itself, you might also be required to pay for CPA Licensing Fees, which cost around $50 to $300.
1 A bachelor’s degree and 150 hours of study in business and accounting courses are the basic requirements in order for you to have the opportunity to even take the CPA examination. 2  The total cost of the CPA exam is inclusive of application fee, administration fee, and examination fees.