Mass Effect 2 was a commercial success and received considerable acclaim from video game publications, with the Xbox 360 version holding a score of 96 out of 100 at the review aggregate website Metacritic. Mass Effect 2 is an action role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 on January 26, 2010, and for PlayStation 3 on January 18, 2011.
While we originally thought we'd be dealing with a rapid comment-and-revision cycle on the proposed HVCC a year ago, we never envisioned it dragging out this long (the final HVCC takes effect May 1st), nor did we think there would be so much chaos and tumult along the way. Working RE plans to collect survey data all year and hopes you have much to share, post HVCC, about the state of the profession from your perspective. Theywill collect and share the data openly with you and with regulators and other interested parties.
Introduction. Ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution granted American women the right to vote—a right known as woman suffrage. At the time the U.S. was founded, its female citizens did not share all of the same rights as men, including the right to vote. On November 2 of that same year, more than 8 million women across the U.S. voted in elections for the first time. It took over 60 years for the remaining 12 states to ratify the 19th Amendment. Mississippi was the last to do so, on March 22, 1984.
Home Valuation Code of Conduct (HVCC) rules go into effect on May 1, 2009. Freelance reporter Marcie Geffner for Bankrate.com had a story picked up by the Seattle Times' titled  New appraisal rules may hurt home buyers  with respect to the Home Valuation Code of Conduct (HVCC) which goes into effect on May 1, 2009.
A: No. So far there have been 11 years in which the Social Security program did not take enough in FICA taxes to pay the current year's benefits. During these years, Trust Fund bonds in the amount of about $24 billion made up the difference. (See detailed Table. ). 
AFFECT/EFFECT. There are five distinct words here. When “affect” is accented on the final syllable (a-FECT), it is usually a verb meaning “have an influence on”: “The million-dollar donation from the industrialist did not affect my vote against the Clean Air Act.”. Occasionally a pretentious person is said to affect an artificial air of sophistication. Less common is a verb meaning “to create”: “I’m trying to effect a change in the way we purchase widgets.” No wonder people are confused. Note especially that the proper expression is not “take affect” but “take effect”—become effective.
The Working RE HVCC Appraiser Talkback Survey has been posted and so far you’ve provided some pretty interesting results. Working RE plans to collect survey data all year and hopes you have much to share, post HVCC, about the state of the profession from your perspective. Theywill collect and share the data openly with you and with regulators and other interested parties.
Mass Effect is a science fiction action role-playing third person shooter video game series developed by the Canadian company BioWare and released for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Microsoft Windows, with the third installment also released on the Wii U. Mass Effect (2007), the first game in the series, was originally created as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 but was later ported to Microsoft Windows by Demiurge Studios, and to the PlayStation 3 by Edge of Reality.