Over the years the Seahawks have had some notable players on the team, including Steve Largent, Dave Brown, Jim Zorn, Dave Krieg, John Randle, Kenny Easley, Curt Warner, Joe Nash, Brian Blades, Cortez Kennedy, Joey Galloway, Walter Jones, Steve Hutchinson, Shaun Alexander, Matt Hasselbeck and Marcus Trufant. The Seahawks are the only NFL franchise based in the Pacific Northwest region of North America and thus attract support from a wide geographical area, including Oregon, Montana, Idaho, and Alaska, as well as Canadian fans in British Columbia and Alberta.
© 2015 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Production
The Seattle Seahawks are a professional American football franchise based in Seattle, Washington. They are members of the West division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Seahawks joined the NFL in 1976 as an expansion team along with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Seahawks are owned by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen and are currently coached by Pete Carroll. The Seahawks are the only NFL franchise based in the Pacific Northwest region of North America and thus attract support from a wide geographical area, including Oregon, Montana, Idaho, and Alaska, as well as Canadian fans in British Columbia and Alberta.
Seahawks WR Tyler Lockett targeted five times in Week 5. by RotoWire Staff | RotoWire. Tyler Lockett caught two passes off of five targets for 29 yards in Sunday's loss to the Bengals. The Seattle Seahawks ' passing game is struggling thanks to poor offensive line play, which doesn't give Baldwin much time to get open. In addition, quarterback Russell Wilson spreads his targets around, leaving Baldwin with a relatively low opportunity for a breakout.
Seahawks RB Fred Jackson totals 34 yards in loss to Bengals. by RotoWire Staff | RotoWire. Fred Jackson (ankle) rushed twice for five yards and had three catches on three targets for 29 yards Sunday against the Bengals. The Seattle Seahawks ' passing game is struggling thanks to poor offensive line play, which doesn't give Baldwin much time to get open. In addition, quarterback Russell Wilson spreads his targets around, leaving Baldwin with a relatively low opportunity for a breakout.
Before collapse, Seahawks offense regained its identity in Cincinnati. Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson gives instructions in the huddle during the first possession of overtime Sunday in Seattle's loss to the Bengals in Cincinnati. (Bettina Hansen / The Seattle Times).
The list documents the season-by-season records of the Seahawks' franchise from 1976 to present, including postseason records, and league awards for individual players or head coaches. As of the end of the 2014 NFL season, the Seahawks have 18 winning seasons, 17 losing seasons and 4 seasons where they finished 8-8. 1  The Finish, Wins, Losses, and Ties columns list regular season results and exclude any postseason play
The Bengals are 4-0 as they face the Seahawks, with Dalton's best start to a season on ... Williams started in McCoy's place last week and scored for the fourth time in four games, the only NFL player who can make that claim. But he did not pass concussion ... Ex-NFL referee on botched Seattle Seahawks-Detroit Lions call: If it’s correctable, then correct it. 1  Unbeaten Bengals can turn heads with win over Seahawks San Francisco Gate.
© 2015 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Production