The name Mimi is like the word mami in Hebrew meaning sweet. The reason it means sweet is because it comes from the Hebrew word Marar which is the sweet herb eaten at a Passov … er seder. Some claim the name Mimi also means bitter. Mimi also means 'baby' in Chez. 
mimi. the HOTTEST girl at school, beautiful, best body imaginable. kind, caring, and sweet but also SEXY. all the guys wanna fuck her, and all the girls wanna be friends with her. incredible beautiful and voluptous but also incredibly nice and funny personality. luscious blonde hair, smells fruity at all times. 
American Meaning: The name Mimi is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mimi is: Resolute. Hebrew Meaning: The name Mimi is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Mimi is: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. French Meaning: The name Mimi is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Mimi is: Form of Williamina. Spanish Meaning: The name Mimi is a Spanish baby name.
The name Mimi is like the word mami in Hebrew meaning sweet. The reason it means sweet is because it comes from the Hebrew word Marar which is the sweet herb eaten at a Passov … er seder. Some claim the name Mimi also means bitter. Mimi also means 'baby' in Chez. 
In addition, Mimi is a diminutive form (Italian) of Maria. Mimi is also a diminutive form of the name Marilyn (English). Mimi is also a variation (English, German, and Italian) of the name Mary (English). Mimi is also a diminutive form (English and French) of the name Miriam (English, French, German, Yiddish, and Hebrew). Mimi is also a variation (French) of the name Wilhelmina (Dutch, English, German, and Polish). 
Mimi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Mi-mi. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5373 in baby name popularity for girls with 25 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
The name Mimi is of French origin, and it means Diminutive form of any name beginning with m . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
Mimi /mi-mi/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MEE-mee. It is of French origin. Pet name for Marilyn or Miriam. Also used as a Spanish pet name for Mira, Maria, and Noemi. First used by parents after the appearance of Puccini's famous opera La Boh me and its tragic heroine Mimi. Actress Mimi Rogers.