Saint Nicholas was born in Asia Minor in the Greek colony of Patras, now modern day Turkey, then known as Myra and today as Lycia. He was born about the year 270. St Nicholas was born in Greece (now part of southern Turkey) during  … the third century. He was brought up in a devout Christian family,  and his parents taught him values of selflessness and  self-sacrifice.
The true story of Santa Claus begins with Nicholas, who was born during the third century in the village of Patara. At the time the area was Greek and is now on the southern coast of Turkey. His wealthy parents, who raised him to be a devout Christian, died in an epidemic while Nicholas was still young. 
Discover the travels and evolution of the World's most prominent gift-giver.. Saint Nicholas-a brief history St. Nicholas was born in 280 AD, in Patara, a city of Lycia, in Asia Minor. He became the gift giver of Myra. His gifts were given late at night, so that the gift giver's identity would remain a secret. 
Synopsis. Nicholas II was born on May 6, 1868 (from the Julian calendar, which was used in Russia until 1918) in Pushkin, Russia. He inherited the throne when his father, Alexander III, died in 1894. Although he believed in autocracy, he was eventually forced to create an elected legislature. Nicholas II was born Nikolai Aleksandrovich Romanov in Pushkin, Russia, on May 6, 1868. He was his parents' firstborn child. Nicholas II's father, Alexander Alexandrovich, was heir to the Russian empire.
St. Nicholas, also known as Nikolaos of Myra, was a fourth century saint and Greek bishop of Myra. Nicholas was born in Asia Minor in the Roman Empire as an only child to Christian parents. 
Mini Bio (1). Nicholas Sparks was born on December 31, 1965 in Omaha, Nebraska. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1988 and is one of the more critically-acclaimed authors of the past 5 years. He is the author of 5 best-selling books, including The Notebook and The Rescue. 
Early Life. St. Nicholas was born sometime circa 280 in Patara, Lycia, an area that is part of present-day Turkey. He lost both of his parents as a young man and reportedly used his inheritance to help the poor and sick. A devout Christian, he later served as bishop of Myra, a city that is now called Demre. Born in Patara, a land that is part of present-day Turkey, circa 280, St. Nicholas was a Christian bishop who helped the needy. After his death, the legend of his gift-giving grew.
St Nicholas was born in Greece (now part of southern Turkey) during the third century. Brought up in a devout Christian family, Nicholas's parents taught him values of generos … ity and selflessness, practices to which he adhered throughout his life. St Nicholas was born in Greece (now part of southern Turkey) during  … the third century. He was brought up in a devout Christian family,  and his parents taught him values of selflessness and  self-sacrifice.