How long does pregnancy last and how many kittens will by cat have are two of the most common questions cat owners have. The regular gestation period for cats is between 58 and 65 days, or approximately 9 weeks. A queen (pregnant cat) may have anywhere from 1 to 8 kittens at a time. The average being 2 to 5 kittens.
Early In The Pregnancy: Gestation or the length of pregnancy of a cat averages 64 days. It is generally between 62 and 67 days or about 9-10 weeks. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. By the 4th or 5th week, your cat’s belly will begin to swell.
This stage is the big time! Now your pregnant cat will start to have major contractions. She will be breathing deeply and you will see visible movement and shuddering of her belly. In the beginning, the contractions for cats giving birth to kittens may be once every 30 minutes and possibly longer. First Stage of Labor. The first sign of labor for cats giving birth to kittens is restlessness with some growling or rhythmic purring. You might also be able to observe some shallow and rapid breathing, and possibly a slight flaring of your kitty's nostrils during the beginning faint
When your contractions get closer together, you are farther along in the delivery phase of labor. At the beginning, the tightening or painful part of the contraction will last approximately 30 to 45 seconds, near the end the pain will be longer. A true contraction is usually at least 30 seconds long. Your contractions will last from the beginning of labor until the baby is born. The average length of labor and contractions is approximately eight to 14 hours. How long do contractions last, is answered differently with each pregnancy. With your second and third pregnancies, labor and contractions may not last a
She will be uncomfortable during the first stage of her labor, because the uterine contractions have begun and the kittens are moving into birthing position. She may have trouble getting comfortable and can shift or change positions a lot during this stage. The first stage of labor can last from 12 to 24 hours. If she is in the first stage of labor for longer than 24 hours, or moves to the second stage then back to the first, contact your vet for advice.
It can take up to an hour for the first kitten to be born after she enters the second stage of labor. Once the nose and paws of the kitten appear, the kitten should be born within 15 minutes. Call your vet if the birth of the kitten is past 15 minutes, or if the nose and feet appear then disappear during her pushing. If she is in the first stage of labor for longer than 24 hours, or moves to the second stage then back to the first, contact your vet for advice.
Time between contractions decreases usually to around 2 to 3 minutes apart. The kitten should be born within 30 minutes to 1 hour after strong contractions commence and subsequent kittens within 15 minutes to 30 minutes between kittens. There is often a rest period which can be one to several hours while the second horn of the uterus is engaged. the uterus has two horns. Usually about two days before giving birth your cat's mammary glands will increase in size and she will begin. producing milk. Stage 1 - The onset of labour is often around 12 hours before the appearance of the first kitten.. The cat's temperature will decrease to about 99 degrees F and you may notice a drop in her appetite. She may become restless and begin nesting in earnest
2. Take her for a check-up. Once you know your cat is pregnant (or if you suspect that she may be), take her to a licensed veterinarian for a medical check-up. 1  The vet can verify that the pregnancy is advancing without complications and can advise you on how to prepare for the birth of the kittens. Whether you are breeding purebred cats for a living or you are responsible for a cat that has become pregnant in your care, it is important to know what to do when the cat goes into labor and begins to give birth to her kittens.