Apparently (to my teacher) the valley of ashes represents the people living in the valley. Also the valley is not a trash dump. Its an area where all the factories' ashes fall and leave the area filthy. It represents the lost hopes and dreams of people who have failed to live up to the American Dream.
Tom, Daisy, and Jordan, with their empty, void lives, are the characters represented as the formless bodies of ashes in the valley of ashes. The ashes are symbols of dead, with more self-centered and arrogant people arising from them. Every generation, the ashes pile distorting the American Dream further.
“This is a valley of ashes – a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of ash-grey men, who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air.
Literally, the Valley of Ashes is a massive trash dump. The rotting valley represents the rotting American dream. Tom, Daisy, and Jordan, with their endless socials and superficial lives represent how material excess rots their very souls. Their lives, like the valley, are hollow.
At the beginning of chapter two, Nick Carraway’s description of the Valley of Ashes is structured into paragraphs. The first paragraph describes the physical features of the valley, whereas the second paragraph of chapter two introduces the symbol of the eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg.
The Valley of Ashes is basically this big grey … dumping ground, and it's where the only poor characters in the novel live, Myrtle and George Wilson. These two, like their surroundings, are real and not fake like the world Gatsby made for himself.
Answered by Aslan. Literally, the Valley of Ashes is a massive trash dump. The rotting valley represents the rotting American dream. Tom, Daisy, and Jordan, with their endless socials and superficial lives represent how material excess rots their very souls. Their lives, like the valley, are hollow.