Amy Winehouse was born in Chase Farm Hospital in north London, to Jewish parents. Her father, Mitchell Mitch Winehouse, was a window panel installer then a taxi driver; her mother, Janis Winehouse (nee Née), seaton a. Pharmacist The winehouse ancestors Were russian And polish immigrants To. london Winehouse died of alcohol poisoning on 23 July 2011, aged 27. Her album Back to Black posthumously became for a time the UK's best-selling album of the 21st century.
But like another great singer, Janis Joplin, she had a talent for self destruction, and fought a long battle against substance abuse. Amy Jade Winehouse was born on 14 September 1983 in the well-to-do area of Southgate, north London. Her taxi driver father, Mitchell, was a jazz enthusiast and often sang songs to his daughter as she grew up. 
Amy Jade Winehouse. Amy Winehouse was born to a jewish family on 14th September, 1983 in the Southgate area of North London. Amy was the youngest child of Janis Winehouse (Seaton) a pharmacist and her father Mitchell Winehouse a taxi driver. Amy's only brother Alex is four years older than Amy. Amy Winehouse is known for her powerful, deep soulful vocals and her eclectic mix of musical genres including R&B, soul and jazz.
Amy Jade Winehouse was born in Enfield to parents Mitchell, a taxi driver, and Janis, a pharmacist. Growing up in the Southgate area of Enfield, Winehouse went to Southgate School and then Ashmole School. She was introduced to music at an early age by her parents whose tastes ran from Carole King and James Taylor to the jazz classics her father favoured. She has one older brother, Alex
Listeners. read more. Amy Jade Winehouse (born 14 September 1983 in Southgate, London, died 23 July 2011 in Camden, London) was an English singer and composer, known for her eclectic mix of various musical genres including soul, jazz, rock 'n' roll and Rhythm and Blues. 
Amy Jade Winehouse (14 September 1983 – 23 July 2011) was an English singer and songwriter known for her deep vocals and her eclectic mix of musical genres, including soul (sometimes labelled as blue-eyed soul and neo soul), rhythm and blues, and jazz. Winehouse died of alcohol poisoning on 23 July 2011, aged 27. Her album Back to Black posthumously became for a time the UK's best-selling album of the 21st century.
Amy Winehouse was born in Chase Farm Hospital in north London, to Jewish parents. Her father, Mitchell Mitch Winehouse, was a window panel installer then a taxi driver; her mother, Janis Winehouse (nee Née), seaton a. pharmacist Winehouse died of alcohol poisoning on 23 July 2011, aged 27. Her album Back to Black posthumously became for a time the UK's best-selling album of the 21st century.
She was born Amy Jade Winehouse, on September 14, 1983, in Enfield, London, England to a Jewish family with Russian ancestry on her mother's side. Her father, Mitchell Winehouse, was a taxi ... See full bio ». 
Early Career. Amy Jade Winehouse was born on September 14, 1983, in the suburb of Southgate in London, England. Her father, Mitch Winehouse, worked as a cab driver, while mother Janis was employed as a pharmacist. 