Minamata Disease. Minamata disease, sometimes referred to as Chisso-Minamata disease, is a neurological syndrome caused by severe mercury poisoning. Symptoms include ataxia, numbness in the hands and feet, general muscle weakness, narrowing of the field of vision and damage to hearing and speech. Minamata disease is a poisoning disease that affects mainly the central nervous system and is caused by the consumption of large quantities of fish and shellfish living in Minamata Bay and its surroundings, the major causative agent being some sort of organic mercury compound.. Read Full Article….
1 Minamata disease is a disease of the central nervous system, a poisoning caused by long-term consumption, in large amounts, of fish and shellfish from Minamata Bay. 2  The causative agent is methyl mercury. 1 The court's verdict in the 1969-1973 lawsuit filed against Chisso by the Litigation Group of Minamata disease patients. ( 2 p248).  3
Minamata disease. From Wikiquote. Minamata disease (水俣病 Minamata-byō), sometimes referred to as Chisso-Minamata disease (チッソ水俣病 Chisso-Minamata-byō), is a neurological syndrome caused by severe mercury poisoning. 1 The court's verdict in the 1969-1973 lawsuit filed against Chisso by the Litigation Group of Minamata disease patients. ( 2 p248).  3 Minamata disease is a disease of the central nervous system, a poisoning caused by long-term consumption, in large amounts, of fish and shellfish from Minamata Bay.
Minamata disease was first discovered in Minamata city in Kumamoto prefecture, Japan, in 1956. It was caused by the release of methylmercury in the industrial wastewater from the Chisso Corporation 's chemical factory, which continued from 1932 to 1968. Minamata disease broke out again in 1965, this time along the banks of the Agano River in Niigata Prefecture. The polluting factory (owned by Showa Denko) employed a chemical process using a mercury catalyst very similar to that used by Chisso in Minamata.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Minamata disease is a neurological syndrome triggered by acute mercury poisoning. Also known as Chisso-Minamata disease, it was first discovered in the Japanese city of Minamata in 1956. 
Minamata disease was first discovered in Minamata city in Kumamoto prefecture, Japan in 1956. It was caused by the release of methylmercury in the industrial wastewater from the Chisso Corporation's chemical factory, which continued from 1932 to 1968. 1 The court's verdict in the 1969-1973 lawsuit filed against Chisso by the Litigation Group of Minamata disease patients. ( 2 p248).  3 Minamata disease is a disease of the central nervous system, a poisoning caused by long-term consumption, in large amounts, of fish and shellfish from Minamata Bay.
4 A form of poisoning, Minamata disease is a disease of the central nervous system, caused by the consumption of fish and shellfish contaminated with methyl mercury compounds discharged into the environment as factory waste etc. and then accumulating in the marine life. 
Minamata disease: A disorder caused by methyl mercury poisoning that was first described in the inhabitants of Minamata Bay, Japan and resulted from their eating fish contaminated with mercury industrial waste. 
2 Certification of a person to be a patient with Minamata disease in Kumamoto Prefecture is made by Governors of Kumamoto Prefecture and Kagoshima Prefecture on the basis of the law(*); 2,263 patients with Minamata disease have been certified by these Governors by the end of November 1999. 