Diagnosis. A swollen ankle may have many causes, from a simple sprain to heart failure. Anytime your ankle swells unexpectedly, it is important to see a doctor right away for proper diagnosis. Even if swollen ankles are common for you, check with your doctor if your ankle swells before a trip. He or she can provide proper medication and treatment aids such as a wrap, cast or crutches
I fractured my tib and fib approx 4 weeks ago, and dislocated it too. I have had surgery on it, and have screws in the ankle for another 4 weeks (until about 20th June 08), when I will need another op to have them removed! I am flying from London to New York on 21st July, and am aware that I will be more at risk of DVT. I am also on oral contraception, which increases the risk too. Hi!! I fractured my tib and fib approx 4 weeks ago, and dislocated it too. I have had surgery on it, and have screws in the ankle for another 4 weeks (until about 20th June 08), when I will need another op to have them removed! I am flying from London to New York on 21st July, and am aware that I will be more... show more Hi!!
Yes, it should be safe to travel by airplane with an ankle fracture however, if possible it might be sensible to have a companion travel with you to help with luggage. The standard test is called PAD-Pain, Abnormal mobility and Deformity. In fact, with an ankle it can be very difficult to know unless it's obviously bent in the wrong … direction. Best thing to do if you suspect a fracture is to go to your closest A&E hospital (ED/ER depending on where you live).
How a broken ankle is treated. If your ankle is dislocated or the bones are badly misaligned (displaced) the doctor or paramedic may decide to manipulate them back into place (reduction). This is to avoid potential problems with the blood and nerve supply to the foot. The surgeon makes cuts in the skin near the ankle and the bones are put back into position. A combination of plates, screws and wires may be used to hold the bones together, and the wound is closed using stitches.
Talk with your physician to ensure that it is safe for you to fly. Make sure that the boot for your ankle is loose enough to remove while in the air. Flying causes swelling in the extremities, so it is important to have enough room in the boot for your ankle and leg to swell without cutting off circulation. Call the airline you are flying with to find out if they have any policies regarding flying with an injur
Introduction. A broken or fractured ankle is a relatively common injury, often caused by twisting the ankle, a fall, or a sporting accident. It may be treated with a cast or surgery and usually takes between six and 12 weeks to heal. The surgeon makes cuts in the skin near the ankle and the bones are put back into position. A combination of plates, screws and wires may be used to hold the bones together, and the wound is closed using stitches.
If so, I think it's all right to fly from UK to US provided you do the following: ice your bruised ankle for 20mins, elevate your leg while icing. If you have not ice your ankle before, please put a layer of wet towel on your skin before icing your ankle. Reason for doing so is that you might get ice burn from it, thus the wet towel as a buffer. Next, go to your local pharmacy & get a tubigrip. I repeat, TUBIGRIP.
Call your doctor to ensure air travel is safe, particularly if the bone fracture occurred recently. Swelling is common immediately following a broken bone and may worsen while sitting for extended periods. Blood clots are a concern for anyone on flights longer than four hours. Limited mobility with a cast, crutches, slings or other medical devices complicates air travel with a broken bone. If you cannot reschedule your trip, knowing what to expect at the airport and on the airplane makes your trip more comfortable without delays.