1 a second set for proteins synthesized by ribosomes that are attached to the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) forming rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER). 2  This electron micrograph (courtesy of Keith Porter) shows the RER in a bat pancreas cell. 3  The clearer areas are the lumens. 1 one set for those proteins synthesized by ribosomes that remain suspended in the cytosol, and. 2 
Free ribosomes are located in the cytoplasm, and the bound ribosomes are attached to the endoplasmic reticulum. Free ribosomes produce proteins for the cell, while bound ribosomes produce proteins that are transported out of the cell. In the cytoplasm, ribosomes are free floating. They can move all around the cell. Bound ribosomes are located on the surface of the endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum that contains ribosomes is described as the rough endoplasmic reticulum because of the bumpy surface.
1 Nucleus 2 Nuclear pore 3 Rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) 4 Smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) 5 Ribosome on the rough ER 6 Proteins that are transported 7 Transport vesicle 8 Golgi apparatus 9 Cis face of the Golgi apparatus 10 Trans face of the Golgi apparatus 11 Cisternae of the Golgi apparatus. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
The surface of rough endoplasmic reticulum is covered with ribosomes, giving it a bumpy appearance when viewed through the microscope. This type of endoplasmic reticulum is involved mainly with the production and processing of proteins that will be exported, or secreted, from the cell. It is the rough endoplasmic reticulum that is directly continuous with the nuclear envelope (as illustrated in Figure 1), which is also studded with ribosomes, and the two organelles are thought to have evolved simultaneously in ancient cells.
Ribosomes are attached to the rough ER and are free floating in the cytoplasm. Ribosomes are very tiny and don't consist of membranes.Ribosomes are in your face, hair, skin, and eyes. Ribosomes job is to help with protein synthesis and to make proteins. 
Ribosomes are found ‘free’ in the cytoplasm or bound to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to form rough ER. In a mammalian cell there can be as many as 10 million ribosomes. Several ribosomes can be attached to the same mRNA strand, this structure is called a polysome. Ribosomes have only a temporary existence. 1 Ribosomes are found ‘free’ in the cell cytoplasm and also attached to rough endoplasmic reticulum. 2  Ribosomes receive information from the cell nucleus and construction materials from the cytoplasm. 3  Ribosomes translate information encoded in messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA).
The surface of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (often abbreviated RER or Rough ER) (also called ergastoplasm) is studded with protein-manufacturing ribosomes giving it a rough appearance (hence its name). The binding site of the ribosome on the rough endoplasmic reticulum is the translocon. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The other region is called smooth ER because it lacks attached ribosomes. Typically, the smooth ER is a tubule network and the rough ER is a series of flattened sacs. The space inside of the ER is called the lumen.
Ribosomes and Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum (RER). Ribosomes are the site of protein synthesis, and can occur freely in the cytoplasm though more commonly on the outer surface of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum presents a large surface area on which these ribosomes can be situated, therefore allowing protein synthesis to occur on a large scale. Rough endoplasmic reticulum is particularly abundant in growing cells which demand a high turnover of materials in its growth.
Rough ER is found throughout the cell but the density is higher near the nucleus and the Golgi apparatus. Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. About 50% of the total membrane surface in an animal cell is provided by endoplasmic reticulum (ER).