1 The lymphatic system aids the immune system in removing and destroying waste, debris, dead blood cells, pathogens, toxins, and cancer cells. 2  The lymphatic system absorbs fats and fat-soluble vitamins from the digestive system and delivers these nutrients to the cells of the body where they are used by the cells.
White blood cells known as lymphocytes arise from by mitosis of stem cells in the bone marrow. Some lymphocytes migrate to the thymus and become T cells that circulate in the blood and are associated with the lymph nodes and spleen.
1 Leukemia: A form of blood cancer, in which white blood cells multiply abnormally and circulate through the blood. 2  The excessive large numbers of white cells deposit in the body's tissues, causing damage. 3  Multiple myeloma: A form of blood cancer of plasma cells similar to leukemia.
B, T, and NK cells also are called lymphocytes. Bloodstream: Immune cells constantly circulate throughout the bloodstream, patrolling for problems. When blood tests are used to monitor white blood cells, another term for immune cells, a snapshot of the immune system is taken.
They combine with a third system, the immune, to protect the body against pathogens that could threaten the organism's viability. The blood is responsible for the following: 1  Transportation of gases (oxygen O 2) and carbon dioxide (CO 2), chemical substances (hormones, nutrients, salts), and cells that defend the body.
The hematic and lymphatic systems flow through separate yet interconnected and interdependent channels. Both are systems composed of vessels and the liquids that flow through them. The immune system, a very complex set of levels of protection for the body, includes blood and lymph cells.
Some of these directly attack foreign substances in the body, and others work together to help the immune system cells. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are B and T type lymphocytes. 1  B lymphocytes become cells that produce antibodies. 2  Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 3  T lymphocytes attack antigens directly and help control the immune response.