Clostridium difficile colitis or pseudomembranous colitis is colitis (inflammation of the large intestine) resulting from infection with Clostridium difficile, a spore-forming bacterium. It causes an infectious diarrhea called C. difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD). Latent symptoms of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) often mimic some flu-like symptoms and may mimic disease flare-ups in people with inflammatory bowel disease –associated colitis. C. difficile releases toxins that may cause bloating and diarrhea, with abdominal pain, which may become severe.
Creating a CDEF. To create a new CDEF in Cacti, select the Graph Management option under the Management heading, and select CDEFs. Once at this screen, click Add to the right. You will be prompted for a CDEF name, for which you can type anything used to describe your CDEF. Click the Create button so you are redirected back to the edit page, now with an empty CDEF Items box.
Other risk factors for C. diff infection include: 1  Surgery of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  Diseases of the colon such as inflammatory bowel disease or colorectal cancer. 3  A weakened immune system. 4  Use of chemotherapy drugs. 5  Previous C. diff infection. 6  Advanced age -- 65 or older. What is the spleen and what causes an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly)? The spleen sits under your rib cage in the upper left part of your abdomen toward your back. It is an organ that is part of the lymph system and works as a drainage network that defends your body against
History: Chinese Democratic Education Foundation (CDEF) is a non-profit private organization registered in California, United States of America, Founded by Frank K. Wong in 1985. The headquartered is located in San Francisco. All members of CDEF are volunteers. Financial resources: Chinese Democratic Education Foundation (CDEF) is a non-profit private organization. The major financial supports come from the board members and volunteers of the CDEF. The CDEF is also accepted donations from individuals from public.
Behavior. Cdef arrives on a system from an infected Desktop file on removable media. The virus is triggered when the Desktop file is executed, which is usually when the media is inserted. It copies itself to all Desktop files on the first three connected volumes as the resource named CDEF 1. Cdef is a Macintosh virus from 1990. It was very widespread at Cornell University in Ithaca, the city it originated from. It was the third in a string of definition resource infecting viruses starting with Wdef. Its creator is suspected to be also behind the Mdef virus.
Clostridium difficile, also known as C. difficile, or C. diff, is a bacterium which infects and can make humans ill, as well as other animals. Symptoms can range from diarrhea to serious and potentially fatal inflammation of the colon. Most C. diff infection symptoms occur in patients who are taking antibiotic medications. It is not unusual for symptoms to appear ten weeks after antibiotic therapy has stopped. In medicine, a risk factor is a condition, illness, situation or environment which raises the risk of developing a disease.
Clostridium difficile (C. difficile, or C. diff) is a specific kind of bacterial infection that causes mild to life-threatening forms of diarrhea and colitis. It is caused by a bacteria, not a virus. C. difficile is a spore forming bacteria. A spore is a hard shell that some types of bacteria can wear to protect themselves in harsh environments for long periods of time (think of a seed). This hard shell makes C. difficile more difficult to treat, harder to clean, and easier to become contagious to others.
Symptoms of mild cases include watery diarrhea, three or more times a day for several days, with abdominal pain or tenderness. Symptoms of more severe C. diff infection include: 1  Watery diarrhea, up to 15 times each day. 2  Severe abdominal pain. 3  Loss of appetite. What is the spleen and what causes an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly)? The spleen sits under your rib cage in the upper left part of your abdomen toward your back. It is an organ that is part of the lymph system and works as a drainage network that defends your body against infection.
Above the CDEF Function List is a box labelled CDEFs, as shown below in Figure 5.3 [Creating a new CDEF function (Step 1)] . As you can see there is a link labelled Add at the top right corner. Click on the Add link to display the CDEFs [new] page. We can now add the remaining CDEF Items to our CDEF Function so that the resulting CDEF Items List resembles that shown below in Figure 5.7 [The completed CDEF function] . As you can see we have added a Custom String with a value of 1000 and an Operator with a value of / to complete our new CDEF function.