The metals are to the left of the line (except for hydrogen, which is a nonmetal), the nonmetals are to the right of the line, and the elements immediately adjacent to the line are the metalloids. The elements can be classified as metals, nonmetals, or metalloids. Metals are good conductors of heat and electricity, and are malleable (they can be hammered into sheets) and ductile (they can be drawn into wire). Most of the metals are solids at room temperature, with a characteristic silvery shine (except for mercury, which is a liquid).
Recognition status, as metalloids, of some elements in the p-block of the periodic table. Percentages are median appearance frequencies in the list of metalloid lists. The staircase-shaped line is a typical example of the arbitrary metal–nonmetal dividing line found on some periodic tables. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.
Name all the metalloids on the periodic table? Metalloid, or semi metal is a term used in chemistry when classifying the chemical elements. On the basis of their general physical and chemical properties, nearly every element in the periodic table can be termed either a metal or a nonmetal. What are some uses of metalloids? Together with the metals and nonmetals, the metalloids (in Greek metallon = metal and eidos = sort-also called semimetals) form one of the three categories of chemical elements as classified by ionization and bonding properties.
The metals nonmetals and metalloids on the periodic table is shown below. Metals. Elements found in the left two thirds of the periodic table. Most have the following properties-high thermal and electrical conductivities, high malleability and ductility and a metallic luster. Germanium is a metalloid and is placed in group 14 of p-block elements. It is used as a polymerization catalyst and as a byproduct of zinc smelting. It is also used in the field of infrared optics, optical fiber and in dental alloys.
A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.
metalloid. nonmetal. The elements can be classified as metals, nonmetals, or metalloids. Metals are good conductors of heat and electricity, and are malleable (they can be hammered into sheets) and ductile (they can be drawn into wire). Most of the metals are solids at room temperature, with a characteristic silvery shine (except for mercury, which is a liquid).
Most of the chemistry of germanium is characteristic of a nonmetal. Whether or not germanium forms a cation is unclear, aside from the reported existence of the Ge 2+ ion in a few esoteric compounds. It can form alloys with metals such as aluminium and gold. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.
As a halogen, astatine tends to be classified as a nonmetal. It has some marked metallic properties and is sometimes instead classified as either a metalloid or (less often) as a metal. Immediately following its production in 1940, early investigators considered it a metal. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.
Elements to the lower left of the line generally display increasing metallic behaviour; elements to the upper right display increasing nonmetallic behaviour. Aluminium is usually considered to be a metal, as described in the Wikipedia article Metalloids: Aluminium : Aluminium is ordinarily classified as a metal. It is lustrous, malleable and ductile, and has high electrical and thermal conductivity. Like most metals it has a close-packed crystalline structure, and forms a cation in aqueous solution. The reason why, in a few cases, aluminium is referred to as a metalloid, from the article: It has some properties that are unusual for a metal; taken together, these are sometimes used as a basis to classify aluminium as a metalloid. Its crystalline structure shows some evidence of directional bonding
Metalloids such as boron and silicon are the elements that form a diagonal separation between metals and nonmetals in the periodic table. Metalloids have properties somewhat between those of metals and nonmetals, and they often exhibit some of the characteristic properties of each type. Germanium is a metalloid and is placed in group 14 of p-block elements. It is used as a polymerization catalyst and as a byproduct of zinc smelting. It is also used in the field of infrared optics, optical fiber and in dental alloys.