Medical Definition of NEMATODA. : a phylum related to the Aschelminthes and comprising elongated cylindrical worms without an epithelial coelomic lining, with dorsal and ventral nerve cords, and with lateral excretory ducts that are parasites of humans, animals, or plants or free-living dwellers in soil or water and are known as roundworms, .... 
Aschelminthes are pseudocoelomate, unsegmented worms that are covered with a cuticle. An unusual aschelminth trait is parthenogenesis (development of an unfertilised egg). In the classes Nematoda, Rotifera and Gastrotricha, males may be lacking and successive generations of females are produced parthenogenetically. In hookworms, the mouth is armed with teeth or cutting plates. Some nematodes are provided with lips, papillae or a leaf crown around the external opening of the mouth. The pharynx (oesophagus) is a strong muscular tube with walls that can contract and expand, creating a pump-like suction mechanism.
The Aschelminthes (also known as Aeschelminthes), closely associated with the Platyhelminthes, are an obsolete phylum of pseudocoelomate and other similar animals that are no longer considered closely related and have been promoted to phyla in their own right. The term Aschelminth is now generally only used as an informal name for any member of the approximately ten different invertebrate phyla formerly included within Aschelminthes.
1 Search for Definitions for phylum aschelminthes. 2  Search for Synonyms for phylum aschelminthes. 3  Quotes containing the term phylum aschelminthes. 4  Search for Phrases containing the term phylum aschelminthes. Alternative searches for phylum aschelminthes 1  : Search for Definitions for phylum aschelminthes. 2  Search for Synonyms for phylum aschelminthes. 3  Quotes containing the term phylum aschelminthes. 4  Search for Phrases containing the term phylum aschelminthes.
Aschelminthes, Nematoda, phylum Nematoda. animal kingdom, Animalia, kingdom Animalia-taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct animals. helminth, parasitic worm-worm that is parasitic on the intestines of vertebrates especially roundworms and tapeworms and flukes. 
Asc·hel·min·thes. n. A phylum of the Metazoa that includes nematodes and other roundworms that are nonsegmented, bilaterally symmetrical, and cylindrical in form, with a pseudocele body cavity and rounded or pointed ends. 
Six different classes, dominated by the Class Nematoda, represent Aschelminthes as a phylum. The nematodes (Nema, thread) or roundworms are ubiquitous small worms that dwarf in numbers all other groups of multicellular animals except insects and mites. In hookworms, the mouth is armed with teeth or cutting plates. Some nematodes are provided with lips, papillae or a leaf crown around the external opening of the mouth. The pharynx (oesophagus) is a strong muscular tube with walls that can contract and expand, creating a pump-like suction mechanism.
Still another remarkable characteristic of the phylum is the consistency of cell numbers (eutely), in which a precise and relatively small number of cells, remaining unvaried throughout the animal’s life, comprise both specific organs and the entire animal. In hookworms, the mouth is armed with teeth or cutting plates. Some nematodes are provided with lips, papillae or a leaf crown around the external opening of the mouth. The pharynx (oesophagus) is a strong muscular tube with walls that can contract and expand, creating a pump-like suction mechanism.
The flatworms, or Platyhelminthes, Plathelminthes, or platyhelminths (from the Greek πλατύ, platy, meaning flat and ἕλμινς (root: ἑλμινθ-), helminth- , meaning worm) are a phylum of relatively simple bilaterian, unsegmented, soft-bodied invertebrates. They have about 11,000 species, more than all other platyhelminthes combined, and second only to roundworms among parasites on metazoans. Adults usually have two holdfasts, a ring around the mouth and a larger sucker midway along what would be the underside in a free-living flatworm.