• Bronopol is used as a biocide and preservative in process fluids, paper mills, personal-care products, metal-working fluids (not used for metalworking in EU countries), fuel/oil storage tanks, and water-based paints, inks, and adhesives. 2,3 For further details, see Product Uses. See Health Information. • Environmental releases – Small quantities of bronopol may be released into the environment if products or treated water that contain the material are discarded. In the event of a spill, the focus is on containing the spill to prevent contamination of soil, surface water, or groundwater.
Bronopol was invented by The Boots Company PLC in the early 1960s and first applications were as a preservative for pharmaceuticals. Bronopol is readily soluble in water; the dissolution process is endothermic. Solutions containing up to 28% w/v are possible at ambient temperature. Bronopol is poorly soluble in non-polar solvents but shows a high affinity for polar organic solvents.
Information @ a Glance General Bronopol (INN) is a highly active antimicrobial chemical compound whose chemical formula is 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol. Bronopol was invented by The Boots Company PLC, Nottingham, England. Bronopol is supplied as crystals or crystalline powder. General. 1  Bronopol (INN) is a highly active antimicrobial chemical compound whose chemical formula is 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol. 2  Bronopol was invented by The Boots Company PLC, Nottingham, England. 3 
Bronopol is produced by the bromination of di(hydroxymethyl)nitromethane, which is derived from nitromethane by a nitroaldol reaction. World production increased from the tens of tonnes in the late 1970s to current estimates in excess of 5,000 tonnes. Bronopol is readily soluble in water; the dissolution process is endothermic. Solutions containing up to 28% w/v are possible at ambient temperature. Bronopol is poorly soluble in non-polar solvents but shows a high affinity for polar organic solvents.
Bronopol B.P is a highly active antimicrobial chemical compound whose chemical formula is 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1, 3-diol. Bronopol was invented by The Boots Company PLC, Nottingham, England in the early 1960s and first applications were as a preservative for pharmaceuticals. Bronopol Chemical. We are counted amongst the illustrious names in the industry, offering comprehensive range of Bronopol Chemical that is an antimicrobial compound and are used in the formulation of varied pharmaceutical products. They are accurately composed and are in adherence with set quality standards.
Patents. The invention relates to the use of bronopol (bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol), in the treatment of various diseases of aquatic organisms, particularly salmonid fish and their eggs. The diseases which can be treated include thgose caused by fungal infections (such as Saprolegnia parasitica); protozoan... Thus, the invention provides, in one aspect, the use of bronopol, or a compound releasing bronopol in use, in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of fungal infections in fish, fish eggs or other aquatic organisms.
Appointments 407-352-2444. 2-Bromo-2-nitropropane-1, 3-diol (Bronopol). This patient information on Bronopol is provided by John L. Meisenheimer, M.D. a board certified Dermatologist and skin care specialist based in Orlando, Florida. 
1 2-Bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol (bronopol) has a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity (12) and is widely used, at concentrations of up to 0.1% (wt/vol), as a preservative for pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. General. 1  Bronopol (INN) is a highly active antimicrobial chemical compound whose chemical formula is 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol. 2  Bronopol was invented by The Boots Company PLC, Nottingham, England. 3  Bronopol is supplied as crystals or crystalline powder.
Bronopol (INN) is an organic compound that is used as an antimicrobial. It is a white solid although commercial samples appear yellow. Bronopol is readily soluble in water; the dissolution process is endothermic. Solutions containing up to 28% w/v are possible at ambient temperature. Bronopol is poorly soluble in non-polar solvents but shows a high affinity for polar organic solvents.