The teotihuacans toward the year 200 BC., created the most important. Mesoamerican Indian (people) : Olmec society was based on agriculture and had two groups: The elite The Olmec were the first main group in the history of Mesoamerican culture. The map. The map. Mesoamerican Indian (people) : Most Mesoamerican peoples belong to one of three linguistic groups: the Mayan (or The main branches of the OtoManguean family are OtoPamean, Amuzgoan, unit of Mesoamerica is the extended family of from two to four generations.
Aztec Food and Drink The Aztec's main food source was a type of corn called maize. The also ate tomatoes, avocados, tortillas made from maize and atole which was a form of porridge. Tamales that were prepared from steamed maize that was stuffed with vegetables or meat was also eaten.
Mesoamerica is a region and cultural area in the Americas, extending approximately from central Mexico to Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and northern Costa Rica, within which pre-Columbian societies flourished before the Spanish colonization of the Americas in the 15th and 16th centuries. 
Ancient Mesoamerican Agriculture. The origins of agriculture in Mesoamerica date to the Archaic period of Mesoamerican chronology, 8000-2000 BC. During this period many of the hunter gatherer micro-bands in the region began to cultivate wild plants. These three crops form the center of Mesoamerican agriculture. Maize, beans, and squash form a triad of products that gave the people of Mesoamerica some great advantages. These three crops form a complementing nutrient triangle. Each contributes some part of the essential vitamin mix that human beings need to survive.
Tortillas, cooked on a comal and used to wrap other foods (meat, beans, etc.), were common and are perhaps the best-known pre-Columbian Mesoamerican food. Tamales consist of corn dough, often containing a filling, that are wrapped in a corn husk and steam-cooked. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ancient Maya cuisine was varied and extensive. Many different types of resources were consumed, including maritime, flora, and faunal material, and food was obtained or produced through a host of strategies, such as hunting, foraging, and large-scale agricultural production.
Agriculture in Mesoamerica dates to the Archaic period of Mesoamerican chronology (8000-2000 BCE). During this period, many of the hunter gatherer micro-bands in the region began to cultivate wild plants. The second most important crop in Mesoamerican agriculture is the squash. Cultivated and domesticated before maize, dated to 10,000 years ago in Oaxaca, the people of Mesoamerica utilize several different types of squash. The most important may be the pumpkin, and its relatives.
These three crops form the center of Mesoamerican agriculture. Maize, beans, and squash form a triad of products, commonly referred to as the . Three Sisters , that provided the people of Mesoamerica a complementing nutrient triangle. The second most important crop in Mesoamerican agriculture is the squash. Cultivated and domesticated before maize, dated to 10,000 years ago in Oaxaca, the people of Mesoamerica utilize several different types of squash. The most important may be the pumpkin, and its relatives.
Ancient Mesoamerican agriculture. The origins of agriculture in Mesoamerica date to the Archaic period of Mesoamerican chronology, 8000-2000 BC. During this period many of the hunter gatherer micro-bands in the region began to cultivate wild plants