The movement of the scapula is largely determined by the position of the shoulder girdle as a whole. As a floating bone the scapula is often at the mercy of the more f … ixed extremities and can be acted upon by several different muscles simultaneously. That being said, the prime mover responsible for scapular depression is the trapezius (specifically the lower fibers). Other muscles which act as stabilizers or synergists in scapular depression and eventual scapular protraction are the subscapularis, the serratus anterior and the lower fibers of latissimus dorsi
The are six muscles of the eyes responsible for movement of the eye. These muscles function in Agonist and Antagonist pairs enabling us to move our eyeballs in the cardinal directions, up, down, left and right. There are six muscles which are responsible for controlling the movement of the eyeballs. These muscles are called extrinsic eye muscles because their origin points are outside of the eyeballs (in the orbit) and insertion points are on the outer surface of the Sclera. 
There are many muscles that are responsible for primary body movements during exercise. They sometimes work in pairs; when one contracts, the opposite muscle stretches to allow a motion to occur. Other times, the muscle that causes a primary motion may part of a group of muscles that perform a similar function. The primary muscle is directly responsible for the movement while the others play an indirect, supporting role. It is not uncommon for one muscle to play an important role in more than one movement. There are also numerous muscles needed to move the torso during exercise to produce the full extent of movement in this region of the body. The erector spinae muscles of the back and the rectus abdominus of the front of the torso are primarily responsible for bending forward and backward.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Another function related to movement is the movement of substances inside the body. The cardiac and visceral muscles are primarily responsible for transporting substances like blood or food from one part of the body to another. The final function of muscle tissue is the generation of body heat.
This primary muscle is called an “agonist.” It’s the main muscle that undergoes either isotonic or isometric contractions in order to produce or maintain a motion. Each major section of the body contains these agonist muscles that are responsible for primary movement. The deltoid is the major shoulder muscle responsible for moving the shoulder joint. The rotator cuff is a muscle group that includes the teres minor, infraspinatus, supraspinatus and subscapularis muscles, which together provide stability and allow the shoulder to rotate.
Most muscles are also responsible for more than one type of movement. Movements of the hip are described in anatomical terminology using anatomical terms of motion. The movement that brings the thighs close to the abdomen is called flexion. 
Chest and Shoulders. The primary muscles responsible for movement of the chest and shoulders are the pectorals, the deltoids, the rotator cuff and the trapezius. The pectorals, which cover the chest, include the pectoralis major and minor muscles. The deltoid is the major shoulder muscle responsible for moving the shoulder joint. The rotator cuff is a muscle group that includes the teres minor, infraspinatus, supraspinatus and subscapularis muscles, which together provide stability and allow the shoulder to rotate.
The muscle type responsible for body movements is skeletal muscle. This type of muscle is under voluntary control (unlike cardiac and smooth muscle) meaning that we can consciously control the movements we make. The specific skeletal muscle responsible for movement will depend on what movement is being made. That being said, the prime mover responsible for scapular depression is the trapezius (specifically the lower fibers). Other muscles which act as stabilizers or synergists in scapular depression and eventual scapular protraction are the subscapularis, the serratus anterior and the lower fibers of latissimus dorsi.