Esophagitis Treatment. Esophagitis refers to any kind of swelling, inflammation or irritation of the esophagus, regardless of the source. An episode of esophagitis can have symptoms that include difficult or painful swallowing, heartburn or a sore throat. A number of different causes can be behind an episode of esophagitis, including: Acid reflux can be treated in a variety of methods, including taking over-the-counter antacids or prescription medications. Changing eating habits can also help ease the symptoms of acid reflux. If esophagitis is caused by alcohol consumption or smoking, it may be time to discuss these habits with your doctor.
Esophagitis is the inflammation of the esophagus, the tube that leads down your throat to your stomach. If you have been diagnosed with esophagitis, it is very important that you treat it. However, the approach to your treatment will depend on the cause of the esophagitis. Scroll down to Step 1 to learn more. Method 2 of 4: Treating Esophagitis Caused by Reflux. 1. Remove any trigger foods from your diet. Acid reflux is often brought on by foods that are causing your stomach and esophagus duress--these foods are also known as trigger foods. Try removing these foods from your diet to see if your reflux will benefit
Esophagitis is the inflammation, irritation and swelling of the esophagus, which is the tube that leads from the mouth to the stomach. There are four types of this disease: corrosive, reflux, infectious and chronic. Irritation and infection may cause the esophagus to become inflamed and even develop ulcers. 
1 Another remedy that is widely used as an effective treatment for esophagitis is the intake of raw ginger. 2  You can peel a piece of ginger and keep it in the mouth for 30 minutes. 3  This will help relieve inflammation in the digestive tract. 4  Intake of ginger juice with honey after meals also helps relieve esophagitis. Other than these remedies to treat esophagitis, you need to modify your diet. One of the imperatives of a diet for esophagitis is to consume a lot of water and fluids to lubricate the lining of the digestive tract. You must refrain from consuming spicy foods as such foods inflame the lining of stomach.
With any type of esophagitis, you will want to lessen the pain of the condition while undergoing treatment. 1. Limit your intake of foods that irritate the esophagus. These irritating substances can include spicy foods, acid foods, alcohol, and caffeine. Method 2 of 4: Treating Esophagitis Caused by Reflux. 1. Remove any trigger foods from your diet. Acid reflux is often brought on by foods that are causing your stomach and esophagus duress--these foods are also known as trigger foods. Try removing these foods from your diet to see if your reflux will benefit
Effective treatment for the condition is vital because damage in the esophagus can lead to esophageal cancer. As such, we suggest consulting a doctor for an accurate diagnosis and to determine the severity of your condition. Effective treatment plans typically consist of regular monitoring of the cells in the esophagus and prescribed treatment for managing chronic heartburn and acid reflux. If the condition progresses treatment may involve surgery or removal of cells in your esophagus.
Lifestyle and home remedies. Depending on the type of esophagitis you have, you may lessen symptoms or avoid recurring problems by following these steps: 1  Avoid foods that may increase reflux. 1 Avoid eating excessive amounts of foods that you know worsen your symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. 2  These may include alcohol, caffeine, chocolate and mint-flavored foods. 3  Use good pill-taking habits. 4  Always take a pill with plenty of water. 5  Don't lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking a pill. 6  Lose weight.
1 Avoid foods that may increase reflux. 2  Avoid eating excessive amounts of foods that you know worsen your symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. 3  These may include alcohol, caffeine, chocolate and mint-flavored foods. 4  Use good pill-taking habits. 1 Avoid eating excessive amounts of foods that you know worsen your symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. 2  These may include alcohol, caffeine, chocolate and mint-flavored foods. 3  Use good pill-taking habits. 4  Always take a pill with plenty of water. 5  Don't lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking a pill. 6  Lose weight.
Found This Helpful. Erosive esophagitis can occur when an acid reflux condition is left untreated for too long. Gastric acids repeatedly leak up into the lower esophagus and cause inflammation. Physicians will usually prescribe an acid inhibiting drug like Nexium™ or Prevacid™. These pharmaceuticals can have side effects like headaches, constipation and others. You may want to try a more natural approach first. If you have allergies to any foods like dairy or wheat, you should avoid these trigger foods. Stress is a common cause of excess stomach acid, so start an exercise program like yoga or walking to help you relieve the stress in your life.