The names are Pala-koora -- means Palak(Spinach in Eng); Menthi-koora -- means Methi; Podeena -- means Mint; Kothimeera -- means Dhaniya (Cilantro in English); Karivepaku -- means Kadipatha (Curry leaves in English); Thota-koora -- means Tandal Jo ni Bhaji (in Gujarathi.. 
In Russia and Ukraine it is called shchavel (щавель) and is used to make soup called green borscht. It is used as a soup ingredient in other countries, too (e.g. Lithuania, where it is known as rūgštynė). In Hungary the plant and its leaves are known as soska (. [sóska]). ˈʃɔːʃkɒ A drink called zobo (sorrel squash) is made from a decoction of the plant calyx. In Romania, wild or garden sorrel, known as măcriş or ştevie, is used to make sour soups, stewed with spinach, added fresh to lettuce and spinach in salads or over open sandwiches.
In English it is called Malabar nightshade, Ceylon spinach, or Indian spinach and I don't think it's generally sold in American groceries. I haven't seen it in Chinese stores either but if you want to ask for it the Chinese names are: Response from: Indumukhi A., Hi lalitha,I believe bachchalikura is called ceylone spinach in english.I doubt you will get that in American stores.you can try in Indian stores, and chinese stores.
turmeric-little. coriander powder - 1/2 tspn. oil- 2tspn. PREPARATION: 1  First chop and then clean chukka kura leaves. 2  split greenchillies into 2. pell the skin of garlic and give a gentle crush on it. 1 First chop and then clean chukka kura leaves. 2  split greenchillies into 2. pell the skin of garlic and give a gentle crush on it. 3  heat a pan add oil, urad dal, cumin seeds, mustard seeds, crushed garlic, slit green chillies, methi leaves, curry leaves. 4  Now add chopped chukkakura leaves, mix well.
Botanists know it as Rumex vesicarius but it is important to be familiar with khatta palak's local nomenclature to identify it at your vegetable vendor's with whom you are most likely to find it. Also known as country sorrel, khatta palak is called chukkakura in Telugu, chukkankeerai in Tamil and hammaaz in Urdu. There's a Lot Going For It. The English physician Culpeper advocated sorrel as a way to build appetite and cool inflammation and heat of blood. In his book Indian Medicinal Plants: An Illustrated Dictionary, herbalist CP Khare notes that khatta palak has an astringent taste.
Common sorrel or garden sorrel (Rumex acetosa), often simply called sorrel, is a perennial herb in the family Polygonaceae. Other names for sorrel include spinach dock and narrow-leaved dock. It is a common plant in grassland habitats and is cultivated as a garden herb or leaf vegetable (pot herb). A drink called zobo (sorrel squash) is made from a decoction of the plant calyx. In Romania, wild or garden sorrel, known as măcriş or ştevie, is used to make sour soups, stewed with spinach, added fresh to lettuce and spinach in salads or over open sandwiches.
Chukkakura is looks just like palak but little sour in taste. this green leafy vegetable we will get only in Andhra and good for chutney. http://www.vahrehvah.com/chukka-kura-... Ingredients. 2 cup Chukka koora, leaves & tender stems. 4-5 clove Garlic. 3-4 number Green chillies. 5 ml Oil for tempering. 
Chukka kura (khatta palak/ambat chukka) is a sour leafy green available in our parts with fleshy leaves similar in looks to spinach and a flavor as tangy as red sorrel or gongura leaves. 
In Vietnam it is called Rau Chua and is used to added fresh to lettuce and in salads for Banh Bánh. Xēo In, portugal it is called azeda or-azeda (. [brava] , [ɐˈzeðɐ ɐˈzeðɐ] , ˈβɾavɐ, sour fierce), sour and is usually eaten raw in salads or used to make. soups A drink called zobo (sorrel squash) is made from a decoction of the plant calyx. In Romania, wild or garden sorrel, known as măcriş or ştevie, is used to make sour soups, stewed with spinach, added fresh to lettuce and spinach in salads or over open sandwiches.
As you all said in the query that Bacchala Kura is known as Spinach in English. In Hindi it is Palak. It's wrong. Bacchala kura is not spinach. PAALA KURA IS SPINACH.I don't know the english name for bacchala kura but it's definitely not spinach or palak. Hi lalitha,I believe bachchalikura is called ceylone spinach in english.I doubt you will get that in American stores.you can try in Indian stores, and chinese stores.