Lily is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Li-ly. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 27 in baby name popularity for girls with 6727 occurrences. 
Origin of the name Lily: Taken from the name of the plant having delicate, trumpet-shaped flowers regarded as a symbol of purity and perfection. The word is derived from the Middle English lilie, which is from the Old English and Latin lilium (lily). Alternatively, Lily is used as a pet form of both Lilian (lily) and Lilith (of the night). 
Look up Lily in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Lily is a feminine given name directly derived from lily, the flower. The popularity of the name increased steadily in most English-speaking countries during the late 20th century. In the United States, Lily became one of the top-100 names for newborn girls in 2002 and reached a rank of 18 by 2009. 
Lily is a very popular first name for women (#652 out of 4276, Top 15%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#71372 out of 150436, Top 47%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Lily for girls. Lily reached its apex rank of #15 in the U.S. in 2011, and is at #27 currently. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Lily and corresponding names. Prominent varying forms of Lily (#27 in 2014) are Elizabeth (#14 in 2014) , Lillian (#25) , Liliana (#119) , Lilly (#124) , Lila (#183) , Lilian (#506) , Lillie (#512) , Rosa (#608) , Lilia (#925) , Lilla and Lilyan.
Meaning of Lily. English name. In English, the name Lily means-Lily flower. Pure. The flower lily is a symbol of innocence; purity and beauty.. Other origins for the name Lily include-English, Latin-American, Hebrew.The name Lily is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Lily flower. Pure. 
The name Lily is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. Hebrew Meaning: The name Lily is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. American Meaning: The name Lily is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily
The Biblical baby name Lily is Latin/ Old English in origin and its meaning is a flowering plant. The Hebrew word for Lily is Shoshan and the Greek word is krinon. 
Lilly is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Lilly is lily flower. Two common variations of the name Lilly are Lily and Lillie. Nicknames include Lee, Lil, and Lee Lee. Famous people with the name Lilly include fashion designers Lilly Pulitzer and Lilly Dache. Lilly Scholz was a figure skater. 
The name Lily is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily (after the flower). Pure. English Meaning: The name Lily is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily flower. Pure. The flower lily is a symbol of innocence; purity and beauty. In Greek the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. Hebrew Meaning: The name Lily is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. American Meaning: The name Lily is an America