WiMAX OFDM Physical layer as per IEEE 802.16-2004 fixed wimax standard. WiMAX OFDMA Physical layer as per IEEE 802.16e mobile wimax standard. OFDM versus OFDMA. Physical layer takes MAC PDU consisting of MAC GMH, MAC payload and CRC and perform following functions. 1. Scrambling. 2.
WiMAX is a telecommunication technology aimed at providing wireless data over long distances in manyways, from point to point links to full mobile cellular type access.The current version of the WiMAX standarduses OFDMA PHY as the air interface technology and supports portability and mobility.
The forum describes WiMAX as a standards-based technology enabling the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an alternative to cable and DSL . IEEE 802.16m or WirelessMAN-Advanced is a candidate for the 4G, in competition with the LTE Advanced standard.
The standard for WiMAX technology is a standard for Wireless Metropolitan Area Networks (WMANs) that has been developed by working group number 16 of IEEE 802, specializing in point-to-multipoint broadband wireless access. Initially 802.16a was developed and launched, but now it has been further refined.
Main » TERM » 8 ». Commonly referred to as WiMAX or less commonly as WirelessMAN or the Air Interface Standard, IEEE 802.16 is a specification for fixed broadband wireless metropolitan access networks (MANs) that use a point-to-multipoint architecture.
WiMAX protocol stack. This article describes wimax protocol stack with functions of each in the system, which include wimax physical layer,WiMAX MAC layer and upper layers. The same protcol stack is depicted below in figure with sub layers.
This wimax tutorial covers what is wimax,wimax standards,wimax terminology,WiMAX Frame Structure,WiMAX Network Architecture, wimax Protocol Stack,wimax physical layer,wimax MAC layer,802.16m,fixed wimax versus mobile wimax,wiBro versus mobile wimax, Wimax Base station and subscriber station suppliers.
- IEEE 802.16, WiMAX, Wireless Microwave Access technology is able to provide 4G levels of Broadband Wireless Access for both mobile and fixed applications.