If you’re eating too much protein, you may be. consuming more calories and fat than you need. Consuming protein is an important part of a balanced diet. Our bodies need protein to build and repair cells. To make sure you’re not consuming too much protein, check the portion size. Protein servings of meat, poultry or fish should be about the size and thickness of the palm of your hand, which is about 3 ounces. And if you eat meat, you shouldn’t consume more than two palm-sized servings of meat per day
Although protein is important to your diet, consuming extra protein won’t help you build more muscle or make you stronger. And if you’re eating too much protein, you are probably consuming more calories and fat than your body needs. In some cases, more protein can actually be problematic to your health. To make sure you’re not consuming too much protein, check the portion size. Protein servings of meat, poultry or fish should be about the size and thickness of the palm of your hand, which is about 3 ounces. And if you eat meat, you shouldn’t consume more than two palm-sized servings of meat per day
If you were getting your protein from high fat and high calorie sources, then your body would actually store more fat. It is for this reason that you want to get your protein from as healthy a source as possible. There is quite a number of health issues associated with eating too much protein as well. Firstly, there can be problems with the liver, as it has to digest all of the protein that you are eating. Protein is good for you, however, as with most things, too much isn’t good for you and can cause some health problems. Stay healthy by only taking the amount of protein recommended for your body and you should do just fine! Try the supplement finder now to compare different protein supplements today!
Yes, eating too much protein can be bad for you, although there are good places to get protein and bad places to get protein. These will affect you differently. Protein is good for you, however, as with most things, too much isn’t good for you and can cause some health problems. Stay healthy by only taking the amount of protein recommended for your body and you should do just fine! Try the supplement finder now to compare different protein supplements today!
The average adult needs about 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of bodyweight a day, which comes out to roughly 56 grams of protein a day for men and 46 for women, according to the Institutes of Medicine. But despite protein showing up on more and more food labels, we’re already getting way more than our 46 or 56 grams. In some cases, more protein can even be problematic. Nestle points out that much of the research is “conflicted and uncertain”, but there are a few things we know so far. Here are three signs your diet might be too heavy-handed on the protein. You're gaining weight.
Another more important reason, however, is that a diet rich in proteins from high fat sources can lead to heart disease, according to the Mayo Clinic. In addition, the Mayo Clinic claims that too much protein can result in a depletion of fiber and other nutrients in the body. Protein is good for you, however, as with most things, too much isn’t good for you and can cause some health problems. Stay healthy by only taking the amount of protein recommended for your body and you should do just fine! Try the supplement finder now to compare different protein supplements today!
Weight Gain. Your body can only use a certain amount of protein each day. If you take in too much protein, you may gain weight. Each gram of protein has 4 calories. If you take in 100 grams of protein, but your body can only use 50 grams of it, your body will store the extra 200 calories' worth of protein as fat. 
Question. I have read one of your articles on Bodybuilding.Com and in it you said you take in about 300 grams of protein per day. I was wandering if this is too much daily protein. I read an article on WebMD, which stated approximately .36 grams of protein per pound of body weight is enough. I weigh 200 pounds, so my intake should be around 70 grams of protein per day. You're taking 300 grams per day. Several doctors told me too much protein is a bad thing. The liver cannot break down that much protein daily, which can ultimately lead to liver failure