You can deter vole populations and reinfestation, especially voles that forage above ground, by making their habitat less suitable for them. Lawn and turf areas should be mowed regularly. Close mowing in the fall before snow arrives can reduce damage to the lawns. 
The meadow vole is active year-round, usually at night. It also digs underground burrows, where it stores food for the winter and females give birth to their young. Although these animals tend to live close together, they are aggressive towards one another. The variables important to meadow vole habitat in Virginia include vegetative cover reaching a height of 8 to 16 inches (20–41 cm) and presence of litter. Meadow voles appeared to be randomly distributed within a grassland habitat in southern Quebec.
Distribution and habitat [edit]. The common vole is hardly restricted in means of distribution and habitat and inhabits large areas of Eurasia. As Microtus arvalis followed human civilization, primary and secondary habitats can be distinguished. The primary habitats are everything but dense forests, such as meadows, heath lands, and fallow land. 
Optimal meadow vole habitat consists of moist, dense grassland with substantial amounts of plant litter. Habitat selection is largely influenced by relative ground cover of grasses and forbs; soil temperature, moisture, sodium, potassium, and pH levels; humidity; and interspecific competition. The variables important to meadow vole habitat in Virginia include vegetative cover reaching a height of 8 to 16 inches (20–41 cm) and presence of litter. Meadow voles appeared to be randomly distributed within a grassland habitat in southern Quebec.
Habitat & Behavior. The meadow vole is the most widely distributed of the voles and can be found in meadows, fields, grassy marshes, and other places near streams, lakes, and swamps. A little known fact about meadow voles is that they are excellent swimmers. They typically eat seeds, sedges, grain, grasses, and bark. 
Four species of voles occur in Pennsylvania: the meadow vole, the pine vole, the red-backed vole, and the rock vole. The red-backed vole and rock vole are primarily restricted to mountainous areas, and it is the meadow vole and pine vole that are most often responsible in damage situations. Voles are small, chunky, ground-dwelling rodents. Mature voles are 5 to 7 inches long and have stocky bodies, short legs, and short tails.
Vole Habitat. Vole habitat can be a wide variety of climates and flora. The meadow vole has a preference for areas with heavy cover. Heavily grassed areas such as meadows or edge habitat make excellent vole habitat as well. Some voles are quite happy to live in orchards and cultivated fields. Vole Habitat-Range. Home ranges will vary between species but are normally quite small. The meadow vole will normally stay within 400 feet of their home. In the winter time their activity will not lead them much further than their underground vole habitat.
Vole Geography and Habitat. Voles are rodents of the Northern Hemisphere, inhabiting North America, Europe and Asia. There are 124 species, 23 of which are native to the United States. One vole's home range is usually no larger than 1/4 acre. 
The meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus), sometimes called the field mouse or meadow mouse, is a North American vole found across Canada, Alaska and the northern United States. The variables important to meadow vole habitat in Virginia include vegetative cover reaching a height of 8 to 16 inches (20–41 cm) and presence of litter. Meadow voles appeared to be randomly distributed within a grassland habitat in southern Quebec.
Microtus pennsylvanicus. The Meadow Vole, or Field Mouse, is a small, common rodent that lives in grassy fields, woodland, marshes, and along lakes and rivers. It is five to seven inches long, counting the tail, and usually weighs only and ounce or two. Meadow Voles' color can vary from yellowish-brown to reddish-brown to blackish-brown