The DNA in a person is a combination of the DNA from each of their parents. Part of an organism's DNA is  non-coding DNA  sequences. They do not code for protein sequences. Some noncoding DNA is transcribed into non-coding RNA molecules, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, and regulatory RNAs). 
Scientists in Israel have demonstrated that it is possible to fabricate DNA evidence, undermining the credibility of what has been considered the gold standard of proof in criminal cases. The scientists fabricated blood and saliva samples containing DNA from a person other than the donor of the blood and saliva. They also showed that if they had access to a DNA profile in a database, they could construct a sample of DNA to match that profile without obtaining any tissue from that person. Nucleix’s test to tell if a sample has been fabricated relies on the fact that amplified DNA — which would be used in either deception — is not methylated, meaning it lacks certain molecules that are attached to the DNA at specific points, usually to inactivate genes.
DNA evidence at a crime scene can copied by the processes of the _______ with the aid of a DNA polymerase and specific primers. 
When using either DNA or a fingerprint to identify a suspect, the evidence collected from the crime scene is com-pared with the “known” print. If enough of the identifying fea-tures are the same, the DNA or fingerprint is determined to be a match. Today, investigators with a fundamen-tal knowledge of how to identify, preserve, and collect DNA evidence properly can solve cases in ways previously seen onlyon television. Evidence invisible to the naked eye can be the keyto solving a residential bur-glary, sexual assault, orchild’s murder.
After isolating the DNA from its cells, specific regions are copied with a technique known as the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR. PCR produces millions of copies for each DNA segment of interest and thus permits very minute amounts of DNA to be examined. RFLP analysis requires a biological sample about the size of a quarter, but PCR can be used to reproduce millions of copies of the DNA contained in a few skin cells. Since PCR analysis requires only a minute quantity of DNA, it can enable the laboratory to analyze highly degraded evidence for DNA.
DNA can be obtained from any cell inside a person’s body. Often, blood or saliva is used. DNA can also be obtained from the roots of a person’s hair, although not from cut hair. The DNA inside the cells can be extracted from this tissue in a laboratory before it is analysed to obtain a DNA profile.
Therefore, DNA evidence collected from a crimescene can be linked to a suspect or can eliminate asuspect from suspicion. During a sexual assault, forexample, biological evidence such as hair, skin cells,semen, or blood can be left on the victim’s body or otherparts of the crime scene. 
Genetics. The resulting DNA profile for a sample, which is a combination of individual STR genotypes, is compared to other samples. In the case of a forensic investigation, these other samples would include known reference samples such as the victim or suspects that are compared to the crime scene evidence. With paternity investigations, a child's genotype would be compared to his or her mother's and the alleged father(s) under investigation. RFLP analysis requires a biological sample about the size of a quarter, but PCR can be used to reproduce millions of copies of the DNA contained in a few skin cells. Since PCR analysis requires only a minute quantity of DNA, it can enable the laboratory to analyze highly degraded evidence for DNA.
Do not use staples. whatever DNA is present in the sample; it cannot distinguishbetween a suspect’s DNA and DNA from another source. Transportation and storage When transporting and storing evidence that may contain DNA,it is important to keep the evidence dry and at room tempera-ture. Today, investigators with a fundamen-tal knowledge of how to identify, preserve, and collect DNA evidence properly can solve cases in ways previously seen onlyon television. Evidence invisible to the naked eye can be the keyto solving a residential bur-glary, sexual assault, orchild’s murder.