You'll likely need to excavate an area for your barn or shed. This would also include pouring a concrete foundation and floor. This is a job that's definitely suited for a pro, so this aspect will bring the cost of building a shed or barn up. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. If you're looking for some extra storage space for your home, building a barn or shed might be the way to go.
The total cost of a barn is determined by the cost for materials and labor. In terms of labor, hiring a general contractor to build a barn is one of the most expensive options. Paying a contractor and construction crew will make the cost of labor a large percentage of the total cost of the barn. By eliminating the need for a general contractor, you can significantly reduce the cost of a barn. Straight wall barns cost between $7 and $25 per square foot. The total cost will depend on the size (the larger the barn, the lower the square foot cost is), as well as the stalls and accessories necessary. Quonset style barns on the other hand, are less expensive to build.
For this discussion we will assess the cost of building a sturdy traditional English-style hay barn of 1200 square feet (30'x40') that can serve to house livestock or as a form of general storage. Cost breakdown. To construct a barn of this type, the typical costs will include: 1  According to the Craftsman Book Company, the average cost for building a barn of the type described above will average at $45,000. 2  The resale value of this update would hold at $34,690, or an approximately 77% return on investment
To me, a pole barn (for cattle) must either be a 3 sides enclosed, 1 side open or be insulated (sidewalls and cieling) and electrically ventillated with fans (confinement barn). Having livestock cattle in a fully enclosed, non insulated .non ventilated, building is an unhealthy disaster. 06-17-2010, 05:27 PM. 
FBi Buildings has designed and built indoor beef cattle feeding facilities, including monoslope beef barns, gable barns and other related beef cattle confinement production buildings, for many years. 1 Because these barns provide shelter from extreme weather, cattle gain weight at a consistent, predictable (and impressive) rate. 2  That means you can count on your beef cattle being at the right weight when it's time to sell.
1 According to the Craftsman Book Company, the average cost for building a barn of the type described above will average at $45,000. 2  The resale value of this update would hold at $34,690, or an approximately 77% return on investment. 3  The above figures place the cost of the barn at $37.55 per square foot. Cost breakdown. To construct a barn of this type, the typical costs will include: 1  According to the Craftsman Book Company, the average cost for building a barn of the type described above will average at $45,000. 2  The resale value of this update would hold at $34,690, or an approximately 77% return on investmen
Steel barn prices depend on the size of the building, accessories, and material delivery charges. Accessories can add as much as 20% to the material cost. When it comes to accessories, make sure that the steel barn has proper ventilation. Livestock require fresh air and sunlight. 
The average price of a steel barn will depend on the size you need and the style of building that you choose. Barns are available in both the straight wall system as well as the arched (or Quonset) style. Straight wall barns cost between $7 and $25 per square foot. The total cost will depend on the size (the larger the barn, the lower the square foot cost is), as well as the stalls and accessories necessary. Quonset style barns on the other hand, are less expensive to build.
Gable Barn. As of November 2010, Barn Pros has a wide selection of barns to choose from. The Gable Barn base prices start at $18,560 to $87,995. The lowest-priced stall package kits start at $21,250 for a two-stall, 36-by-24-foot barn, including 12-by-12-foot stalls, a wash bay, a tack room with window and a cupola. Steel Barn. As of November 2010, offering several different sized building kits, Braemar Steel has a base kit starting at $8,350 for a 24-by-30-by-12-foot structure rising to $19,723 for a 50-by-60-by-16-foot building. All buildings include everything required for a basic steel structure, excluding foundation design.