Peritonsillar Abscess. Peritonsillar abscess (also known as quinsy) is a pus-producing infection occurring in the cavity at the back of the throat, near the tonsils. Quinsy is usually a complication of tonsillitis, a bacterial infection of the tonsils. The infection may spread to the soft palate (the back of the roof of the mouth) or may travel down the throat into the chest.
A. A. A peritonsillar abscess forms in the tissues of the throat next to one of the tonsils. An abscess is a collection of pus that forms near an area of infected skin or other soft tissue. The abscess can cause pain, swelling, and, if severe, blockage of the throat. 
Introduction. Quinsy, also known as a peritonsillar abscess, is a rare and potentially serious complication of tonsillitis. The abscess (a collection of pus) forms between one of your tonsils and the wall of your throat. This can happen when a bacterial infection spreads from an infected tonsil to the surrounding area
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Quinsy is an abscess between the back of the tonsil and the wall of the throat. It's also known as a peritonsillar abscess. It happens when infection spreads from a swollen tonsil to the area around it, usually during a severe case of tonsillitis. The symptoms of quinsy are similar to tonsillitis and include:
Quinsy or to be more precise ‘peritonsillar abscess formation’starts as an inflammation of the tonsils, accompanied by a sore throat as well. It usually affects one tonsil in particular and develops into two pus-filled abscesses on the tonsils. Symptoms of quinsy. These symptoms are similar to tonsillitis which is why quinsy is often mistaken for this infection. Symptoms of quinsy include: 1  A sore throat which worsens over time especially over one side.
Medical Definition of QUINSY. : an abscess in the connective tissue around a tonsil usually resulting from bacterial infection and often accompanied by fever, pain, and swelling—called also peritonsillar abscess. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about quinsy. 
Synonym: quinsy. Peritonsillar abscess is a complication of acute tonsillitis. Tonsillitis is inflammation of the pharyngeal tonsils (see separate article Tonsillitis). In peritonsillar abscess, there is pus trapped between the tonsillar capsule and the lateral pharyngeal wall. 
Peritonsillar abscess (PTA), also known as a quinsy or quinsey, is a recognized complication of tonsillitis and consists of a collection of pus beside the tonsil in what is referred to as peritonsillar space (peri —meaning surrounding). Unlike tonsillitis, which is more common in the pediatric age group, PTA has a more even age spread, from children to adults. Symptoms start appearing two to eight days before the formation of an abscess. Progressively worsening, unilateral sore throat and pain during swallowing usually are the earliest symptoms.