During oxidative phosphorylation, electrons are transferred from electron donors to electron acceptors such as oxygen, in redox reactions. These redox reactions release energy, which is used to form ATP. This store of energy is tapped by allowing protons to flow back across the membrane and down this gradient, through a large enzyme called ATP synthase; this process is known as chemiosmosis. This enzyme uses this energy to generate ATP from adenosine diphosphate (ADP), in a phosphorylation reaction.
Cellular respiration (also known as'oxidative metabolism') is the set of themetabolic reactions and processes that takeplace in organisms' cells to convertbiochemical energy from nutrients intoadenosine triphosphate (ATP), and thenrelease waste products. 
NADH-coenzyme Q oxidoreductase, also known as NADH dehydrogenase or complex I, is the first protein in the electron transport chain. Complex I is a giant enzyme with the mammalian complex I having 46 subunits and a molecular mass of about 1,000 kilodaltons (kDa). This store of energy is tapped by allowing protons to flow back across the membrane and down this gradient, through a large enzyme called ATP synthase; this process is known as chemiosmosis. This enzyme uses this energy to generate ATP from adenosine diphosphate (ADP), in a phosphorylation reaction.
Oxidative Phosphorylation Oxidative phosphorylation is a process by which most ATPs (~34-36) are produced in cellular respiration. Within the inner mitochondiral membrane, the … re is what is called and Electron Transport Chain/System (ETC/ETS). In this case, an electron is stripped from the phosphate group in ATP so it can be used for energy, hence oxidative phosphorylation. The electron then moves through several processes that generate energy the cell can use. That's why it is most commonly referred to as the electron transport chain.
Chemiosmosis is proton flow across cell membranes and down their gradient through the ATP synthase. Oxidative phosphorylation is the oxidation of nutrients (str … ipping electrons) and using oxygen as the final electron acceptor at the end of the electron transfer chain. Oxidative Phosphorylation Oxidative phosphorylation is a process by which most ATPs (~34-36) are produced in cellular respiration. Within the inner mitochondiral membrane, the … re is what is called and Electron Transport Chain/System (ETC/ETS)
Oxidative phosphorylation (or OXPHOS in short) is the metabolic pathway in which the mitochondria in cells use their structure, enzymes, and energy released by the oxidation of nutrients to reform ATP. This store of energy is tapped by allowing protons to flow back across the membrane and down this gradient, through a large enzyme called ATP synthase; this process is known as chemiosmosis. This enzyme uses this energy to generate ATP from adenosine diphosphate (ADP), in a phosphorylation reaction.
ATP synthase, also called complex V, is the final enzyme in the oxidative phosphorylation pathway. This enzyme is found in all forms of life and functions in the same way in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. This store of energy is tapped by allowing protons to flow back across the membrane and down this gradient, through a large enzyme called ATP synthase; this process is known as chemiosmosis. This enzyme uses this energy to generate ATP from adenosine diphosphate (ADP), in a phosphorylation reaction.
Oxidative phosphorylation occurs in the mitochondria, and the two reactions (oxidation of NADH or FADH 2 and phosphorylation to generate ATP) are coupled by a proton gradient across the inner membrane of the mitochondria (Figure 9). We have seen that the electron-transport chain generates a large proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. But recall that the ultimate goal of oxidative phosphorylation is to generate ATP to supply readily-available free energy for the body.
The process that accounts for the high ATP yield is known as oxidative phosphorylation. A quick examination of Equations 5-7 shows that glycolysis and the citric-acid cycle generate other products besides ATP and GTP, namely NADH and FADH2 (blue). We have seen that the electron-transport chain generates a large proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. But recall that the ultimate goal of oxidative phosphorylation is to generate ATP to supply readily-available free energy for the body.