President Kennedy's motorcade route through Dallas was planned to give him maximum exposure to Dallas crowds before his arrival, along with Vice-President Lyndon Johnson and Texas Governor John Connally, at a luncheon with civic and business leaders in that city. John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was assassinated at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (18:30 UTC) on Friday, November 22, 1963, in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas.
Dallas, Nov. 22--President John Fitzgerald Kennedy was shot and killed by an assassin today. He died of a wound in the brain caused by a rifle bullet that was fired at him as he was riding through downtown Dallas in a motorcade. Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson, who was riding in the third car behind Mr. Kennedy's, was sworn in as the 36th President of the United States 99 minutes after Mr. Kennedy's death.
As the date for the President's visit approached, the two Dallas newspapers carried several reports of his motorcade route. The selection of the Trade Mart as the possible site for the luncheon first appeared in the Dallas Times-Herald on November 15, 1963. In fact, printed descriptions of the motorcade route had been printed in both the Dallas papers on Tuesday, November 19th. 1  Here is the description in the Dallas Morning News.
The motorcade was scheduled to enter Dealey Plaza at 12:10 p.m., followed by a 12:15 p.m. arrival at the Dallas Business and Trade Mart so President Kennedy could deliver a speech and share in a steak luncheon with Dallas government, business, religious, and civic leaders and their spouses. The assassination of President Kennedy was the longest uninterrupted news event in the history of American television until just before 9:00 a.m. EDT, September 11, 2001, when the networks were on the air for 72 hours straight covering the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
The assassination of John F. Kennedy, the thirty-fifth President of the United States, took place on Friday, November 22, 1963, in Dallas, Texas, USA at 12:30 p.m. CST (18:30 UTC). Kennedy was fatally wounded by gunshots while riding with his wife in a presidential motorcade through Dealey Plaza. 
Route Revealed: While the formal announcement of the details of the President's Texas and Dallas trip was to be made in Washington at 4 p.m., a White House representative in Dallas released the motorcade route. I was told, the routing of the motorcade had been changed at the last minute to Dealey Plaza. (Emphasis mine). From James Files' video Confession of an Assassin (1996). Around 7 AM on November 22, 1963 Jim Files drove to the Dallas Cabana Hotel to pick up John Rosselli.
1 Dealey Plaza was part of the traditional parade/motorcade route through Dallas. 2  Main Street was universally known to be the best choice for this in that it went through the heart of the city, flanked on either side by tall buildings which maximized the opportunity for large numbers of people to see the parade. 
President John F. Kennedy and wife and Jackie Kennedy, seated behind Texas Gov. John Connally, travel along the motorcade route in the presidential limousine just minutes before the president is assassinated. See what became of the other members of J﻿FK's motorcade ... President John F. Kennedy and wife and Jackie Kennedy, seated behind Texas Gov. John Connally, travel along the motorcade route in the presidential ...
We repeat our announcement that the President of the United States, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, is dead in Dallas, Texas, of an assassin's bullets. He was shot, and governor Tom Connelly of the state of Texas was shot, as they rode in a motorcade through the streets of Dallas less than an hour ago. Governor Connelly is in serious condition, President John Kennedy is dead. The 35th president of the United States, he was 46 years old. The assassination of President Kennedy was the longest uninterrupted news event in the history of American television until just before 9:00 a.m. EDT, September 11, 2001, when the networks were on the air for 72 hours straight covering the 9/11 terrorist attacks.