Pseudomonas. a genus of gram-negative, strictly aerobic bacteria, some species of which are pathogenic for plants and vertebrates. Pseudomonas aeruginosa. a common isolate from wounds, burns and urinary tract infections and from many other accumulations of pus in all species. 
Description of Pseudomonas fluorescens. Pseudomonas fluorescens: A species of nonpathogenic fluorescent bacteria found in feces, sewage, soil, and water, and which liquefy gelatin. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Pseudomonas fluorescens: 1  Pseudomonas. 2  Bacterial. 3  Bacterial disease. 4  Soil. 5  Water. 6  Clinical. 7  Food. 8  Food symptoms (1907 causes).
26 BACTERIA 27 motile Aeromonas and Pseudomonas septicemia I. Causative Agent and Disease Motile bacterial septicemias are caused by Gram-negative bacteria including Aeromonas and Pseudomo-nas with the Aeromonas hydrophila-complex and Pseudomonas fluorescens being the most common species. 
Pseudomonas fluorescens are Gram-negative rod shaped bacteria that inhabit soil, plants, and water surfaces.(2) The optimum growth temperature is between 25-30 degrees Celsius (10). Despite their commensal nature, Pseudomonas fluorescens are nonpathogenic and lack virulence factors of other plant pathogens. In Pseudomonas fluroescens Pf-5, enzymes that degrade plant cell walls and their components such as cellulase, pectinase, or pectin lyase are not present.
Topic Overview. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh). Healthy people often carry these bacteria around without knowing it and without having any problems. If you have swimmer's ear, your ear aches. If the infection causes pneumonia, you may get a cough. When the infections are elsewhere in the body, you may have a fever and feel tired. But all pseudomonas infections can make you very sick if they spread through the bloodstream (septicemia).
Causes of Pseudomonas infections: The most common species of Pseudomonas is P.aeruginosa. Other species that typically cause disease in humans include P. maltophilia, P. cepacia, P. fluorescens, P. testosteroni, P. acidovorans, P. alcaligenes, P. stutzeri, P. putrefaciens, and P. putida. Pseudomonas Infections-Causes, Symptoms and Treatments. Pseudomonas is a small gram-negative aerobic bacillus that produces nosocomial infections, superinfections of various parts of the body, and a rare disease called melioidosis.
A. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh). Healthy people often carry these bacteria around without knowing it and without having any problems. If you have swimmer's ear, your ear aches. If the infection causes pneumonia, you may get a cough. When the infections are elsewhere in the body, you may have a fever and feel tired. But all pseudomonas infections can make you very sick if they spread through the bloodstream (septicemia).
Pseudomonas fluorescens Morgan Boresi Pseudomonas fluorescens is an obligate aerobe, gram negative bacillus. These bacteria are able to inhabit many environments, including: plants, soil, and water surfaces. Its name comes from its production of the soluble fluorescent pigment pyoverdin.
Pseudomonas fluorescens is a common Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium. P. fluorescens has multiple flagella. It has an extremely versatile metabolism, and can be found in the soil and in water. It is an obligate aerobe, but certain strains are capable of using nitrate instead of oxygen as a final electron acceptor during cellular respiration.
Heat-stable lipases and proteases are produced by Pseudomonas fluorescens and other similar pseudomonads. These enzymes cause milk to spoil, by causing bitterness, casein breakdown, and ropiness due to production of slime and coagulation of proteins. P. fluorescens has multiple flagella. It has an extremely versatile metabolism, and can be found in the soil and in water. It is an obligate aerobe, but certain strains are capable of using nitrate instead of oxygen as a final electron acceptor during cellular respiration.