Plan B One-Step is an emergency contraceptive medication used to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sexual intercourse or a contraceptive failure. It is available by prescription for women younger than 17 years old, and is available as an over-the-counter product for women older than 17 years and older. Misconceptions. Women who have severe abdominal pain in addition to vaginal bleeding or spotting may not be experiencing menstruation, but an ectopic pregnancy. This occurs when a fertilized egg implants in a fallopian tube or another undesirable location instead of in the uterus.
If you take it within 72 hours after you've had unprotected sex, Plan B One-Step can reduce the risk of pregnancy by up to 89%. If you take Plan B One-Step within 24 hours, it is about 95% effective. But you should know that Plan B One-Step is not as effective as regular contraception. 
Best Answer: The morning after pill or Plan B, Can defenitly mess up your menstrual cycle. You usuallu start your period within 2 weeks from taking it and then the next month it can be early or late, short or long and by the third month it should be back to normal. 
Found This Helpful. Plan B is a brand of emergency contraception that is designed to prevent pregnancy when taken promptly after unprotected sex. While Plan B is safe and effective when used correctly, it may cause some side effects and alter your menstrual symptoms. (Creatas Images/Creatas/Getty Images). Tender breasts may or may not be a routine side effect of your impending period. After taking Plan B, the likelihood that your breasts will become sore or tender is high. The discomfort should be alleviated at the beginning of your period.
Tender Breasts. Taking Plan B can affect your next menstrual period. The hormones in emergency contraceptive pills prevent ovulation and alter the uterine lining. Because of this, you may notice some changes in the symptoms of your period. Tender breasts may or may not be a routine side effect of your impending period. After taking Plan B, the likelihood that your breasts will become sore or tender is high. The discomfort should be alleviated at the beginning of your period.
Best Answer: Dear Marie Bazin, Taking Plan B will affect your menstrual cycle. By taking EC, you are forcing the lining out of your uterus prematurely. You will probably experience spotting and bleeding immediately after taking Plan B. This is completely normal and it means that the pill has worked. 
Yes one of the side effects of the plan B is that it can actually affect your period. It can make your cycle longer or shorter than expected which means you can expect you period to appear later or before. Wait for your period for about a week or two if didn't come buy a pregnancy test. 
For more detailed information, read the instructions carefully. The morning-after pill such as ‘Plan B one-step’ can prevent ovulation and also prevent a fertilized egg from becoming implanted in the female uterus, and these mechanisms can affect your hormonal levels. As a result, you may notice your next period earlier or later than usual [1]. 
Now you have known the answer to Does Plan B affect your period?, it's time to learn more side effects of consuming Plan B. But experiences are very individual and vary from person to person. If you have taken Plan B or are planning to, it is important to know what the side effects may be. Although useful for those not ready for parenthood, Plan B can affect your period, like causing spotting or vaginal bleeding. So it's important to ensure you fully understand what effect Plan B may have on your body.
Plan B is also referred to as the morning after pill. It is taken by those who have unprotected sex, or use a condom that splits during intercourse. These instances can lead to ejaculation in the vagina which can cause impregnation. Plan B will help to prevent this from happening, but it may affect your period. Although useful for those not ready for parenthood, Plan B can affect your period, like causing spotting or vaginal bleeding. So it's important to ensure you fully understand what effect Plan B may have on your body.