May require a master's degree in exercise physiology, certification as an exercise technologist, and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Exercise Physiologist in the United States.
To be certified as a clinical exercise specialist by the ACSM, an applicant must have a bachelor's degree in exercise, physiology or kinesiology, consisting of 400 to 500 hours of total schooling, as well as work experience and CPR certification. Of these respondents, 26 percent had only a bachelor's degree while 67 percent had a master's, the minimum requirement to be certified as an exercise physiologist, and 81 percent had a clinical certification as either an exercise specialist or an exercise physiologist.
According to the 2010 CEPA salary survey, the median annual income of all workers in the exercise physiology or exercise specialist field was between $47,501 and $50,000. Of the respondents, 92 percent had at least a bachelor's degree, the minimum educational requirement to be certified as a specialist. Of these respondents, 26 percent had only a bachelor's degree while 67 percent had a master's, the minimum requirement to be certified as an exercise physiologist, and 81 percent had a clinical certification as either an exercise specialist or an exercise physiologist.
Prerequisites for the ACSM Clinical Exercise Physiologist Certification. Bachelor's Degree in Exercise Science, Exercise Physiology or Kinesiology (click here to see the details of an eligible program). Practical Experience in a clinical exercise program (click here to see details) . The exam content outline is the blueprint for the Clinical Exercise Physiologist certification examination. Every question on the examination is associated with one of the knowledge or skill statements in the outline.
Creates educational materials and sessions for patients. May require a master's degree in exercise physiology, certification as an exercise technologist, and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Exercise Physiologist in the United States is $48,468 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Exercise Physiologist in the United States are expected to make less than $48,468. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $48,468. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Exercise Physiologist in the United States.
Salary Range. Salaries for exercise physiologists vary by location, certification and experience. The median base salary is $42,264, with half of exercise physiologists earning between $37,479 and $48,431. While just about anyone can call themselves a “personal trainer,” an exercise physiologist is a health care professional who has completed a degree in exercise physiology and/or has been certified by the American Society of Exercise Physiologists (ASEP).
Prerequisites for the Registered Clinical Exercise Physiologist Certification. Minimum of Master's degree in Exercise Science, Exercise Physiology, or Kinesiology-coursework must cover clinical exercise physiology, clinical exercise assessment & testing, clinical exercise prescription and clinical exercise training. Submission and acceptance of RCEP Application.