Lipids are fats. Many foods contain fats. Most meat, poultry, seafood, and even fish. Most dairy products contain fats unless stated nonfat. In their natural state dairy contains fat. Cooking and salad oils contain fat. Food products that have been tested to contain large amounts of lipids include margarine spreads, soups, fast food … , and pre-packaged foods.
Your body needs both protein and lipids -- or fats -- for proper function, and many foods are rich in both of these nutrients. 
Eggs also contain fat-only the yolk. also junk food like chips, soda and cakes ect. The human body uses lipids, or fats, for insulation, to cushion organs and as a source of stored energy. Foods rich in lipids include pecans, peanuts, avocados, and tuna. Food products that have been tested to contain large amounts of lipids include margarine spreads, soups, fast food … , and pre-packaged foods.
Saturated, trans and unsaturated fats are all types of lipids, but unsaturated fats are healthier choices. Cholesterol is a type of lipid that does not provide calories and is not a necessary component of your diet. Healthy Lipids from Nuts and Peanuts. Nuts, such as almonds, pecans, pistachios and macadamia nuts, and peanuts are high in unsaturated fats and low in unhealthy saturated fats. An ounce of cashews has 13.1 grams of total fat, an ounce of pecans supplies 20.4 grams of fat and an ounce of peanuts has 14 grams of fat.
Lipids are a class of organic compound that are fatty acids. Food products that have been tested to contain large amounts of lipids include margarine spreads, soups, fast food … , and pre-packaged foods. found this useful
Lipids dissolve in ether or benzene but not water  …    so the list of food would include: steak, mixed nuts, canola oil, margarine, avacado, cheese, milk, crackers, frech fries, fruit pies, all oils, nuts... + 48 others found this useful. Jason Porter. Lipids are fats. Many foods contain fats. Most meat, poultry,  seafood, and even fish. Most dairy products contain fats unless  stated nonfat. In their natural state dairy … contains fat. Cooking  and salad oils contain fat. Eggs also contain fat-only the yolk.