Conceit as a Metaphor. A conceit in literature is essentially a form of metaphor. We can think of it as an extended metaphor because it evolves beyond the initial comparison and allows the writer to flesh out multiple points of contrast. A conceit in literature provides an exciting extended metaphor wherein we examine connections between two seemingly-unrelated concepts. Explore a conceit through a full definition and examples, and then test your knowledge with a quiz.
Conceit is a figure of speech in which two vastly different objects are likened together with the help of similes or metaphors. Conceit develops a comparison which is exceedingly unlikely but is, nonetheless, intellectually imaginative. A comparison turns into a conceit when the writer tries to make us admit a similarity between two things of whose unlikeness we are strongly conscious and for this reason, conceits are often surprising. Example #2. The term conceit usually reminds us of the examples from metaphysical poets of the 17th century, of whom John Donne stands out as the best exponent of the use of “Metaphysical Conceits”. John Donne in his poem “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning”: “If they be two, they are two so As stiff
A conceit is a metaphor that is expanded upon throughout the work.  A metaphysical conceit is a type of conceit in which the things  compared in the metaphor are seemingly v … ery different. Mikipedia. 25,169 Contributions. Answered. Conceit is when someone thinks very highly of himself or herself. For example, if someone goes around talking about how intelligent he is, that is conceit. It's also conceit w … hen someone thinks that nobody else is as good as she is at something.
Conceit. In literature, a conceit is an extended metaphor with a complex logic that governs a poetic passage or entire poem. By juxtaposing, usurping and manipulating images and ideas in surprising ways, a conceit invites the reader into a more sophisticated understanding of an object of comparison. 
In classic literature, we find two primary types of conceit: metaphysical conceit and Petrarchan conceit. Popular in the 17th century, metaphysical conceit takes spiritual or emotional qualities and compares them to everyday, earthly concepts. A conceit in literature provides an exciting extended metaphor wherein we examine connections between two seemingly-unrelated concepts. Explore a conceit through a full definition and examples, and then test your knowledge with a quiz.
Lesson Summary. A conceit in literature is essentially a form of metaphor. We can think of it as an extended metaphor. A conceit may begin with a juxtaposition, the side-by-side comparison of two unlikely concepts, but it always extends itself beyond that to compare from multiple angles. A conceit in literature provides an exciting extended metaphor wherein we examine connections between two seemingly-unrelated concepts. Explore a conceit through a full definition and examples, and then test your knowledge with a quiz.
These nouns denote excessively high regard for oneself: boasting that reveals conceit; the blatant egoism of his self-flattering memoir; arrogance and egotism that were obvious from her actions; narcissism that shut out everyone else; wounded his vanity by looking in the mirror. conceit. n. 1. a high, often exaggerated, opinion of oneself or one's accomplishments; vanity. 2. (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) an elaborate image or far-fetched comparison, esp as used by the English Metaphysical poets. 3
In literature, a conceit is an extended metaphor with a complex logic that governs a poetic passage or entire poem. By juxtaposing, usurping and manipulating images and ideas in surprising ways, a conceit invites the reader into a more sophisticated understanding of an object of comparison. Extended conceits in English are part of the poetic idiom of Mannerism, during the late sixteenth and early seventeenth century. In English literature the term is generally associated with the 17th century metaphysical poets, an extension of contemporary usage. The metaphysical conceit differs from an extended analogy in the sense that it does not have a clear-cut relationship between the things being compared.