Since AB, Rh positive patients may receive any ABO type RBC's (generally), and ABO, Rh negative patients may be transfused any Rh negative RBC's, they are rarely at risk for low inventory of compatible blood. In practice, the rarest blood type is the type not available when needed. O positive O negative A positive A negative B positive B negative AB positive AB negative The rarest of all these blood types listed is AB negative making up 0.7% of … the worlds population.
Within the ABO/Rhesus Group systems which are used to classify most blood types, there are several rare blood types. The rarest is AB-, with less than one percent of the world's population having this blood type. B-and O-are also very rare, each accounting for less than 5% of the world's population. Two types of blood on a blood typing test card. People with rare blood types often bank their blood ahead of surgical procedures. Red blood cells. Type O blood does not have A or B antigens.
Rarest Blood Type: A blood type is considered rare if fewer than 1 in 1,000 people have them. One of the rarest blood types in the world is Rh-null, which lack any antigens in the Rh system. There are only 9 active donors in the community of rare blood donors that have Rh-null blood. Rh-null is considered a universal blood for anyone with a rare blood type within the Rh system. 
1 AB Negative is the rarest blood type, and less than a percent of the world's population has this rare blood. 2  There will be slight differences in the rarity of blood types depending on location and country, but generally, this blood type is not seen very often. 3  B Negative. 1 This blood type is also extremely rare, and only about two percent of the population has this type of blood. 2  In general, all blood types that are negative are more rare than the positive. 3  B Negative is the second rarest type of blood in the world.
A blood type is considered rare if fewer than 1 in 1,000 people have them. One of the rarest blood types in the world is Rh-null, which lack any antigens in the Rh system. There are only 9 active donors in the community of rare blood donors that have Rh-null blood. Rh-null is considered a “universal blood” for anyone with a rare blood type within the Rh system. 
1 AB Negative. 2  AB Negative is the rarest blood type, and less than a percent of the world's population has this rare blood. 3  There will be slight differences in the rarity of blood types depending on location and country, but generally, this blood type is not seen very often. 1 This blood type is also extremely rare, and only about two percent of the population has this type of blood. 2  In general, all blood types that are negative are more rare than the positive. 3  B Negative is the second rarest type of blood in the world.
The rarest phenotypic blood type is Type AB negative found in only 0.7% of people worldwide. Genetically the rarest blood type should be Type O; however, it's the most common blood type. There is more to ABO blood typing that just the ABO gene. There is also an inhibitory gene that will change any genotype into the phenotype O. Therefore a person with genetically AB blood can be tested as having Type O. O positive O negative A positive A negative B positive B negative AB positive AB negative The rarest of all these blood types listed is AB negative making up 0.7% of … the worlds population.
The rarest common blood type is AB negative. However, there have been some rare blood types discovered which fall out of the A/B Antigen, Rh +/- system normally used to distin … guish blood types. O positive O negative A positive A negative B positive B negative AB positive AB negative The rarest of all these blood types listed is AB negative making up 0.7% of … the worlds population.
In addition to the A and B antigens, there is a third antigen called the Rh factor, which can be either present (+) or absent (–). In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB blood type. 
AB negative is the rarest blood type but the good news is those with AB negative blood can be given any negative blood type. The blood banks love O negative because they are universal donors. 