This form allows you to do a free check to ensure your own vehicle is on the Motor Insurance Database (MID). If you need to check whether someone else’s vehicle is insured in the event of an accident please visit the askMID ’Other Vehicle’ Look-up facility. 
go to www.askmid.co.uk and you can check if the vehicle is both insured and. taxed (use the link at the bottom of the page to connect to the DVLA site. and click on Vehicle enquiry) - or you can click on this link for direct. access. 
All you will need to have to hand is the registration of your vehicle and its make. You can also input your V5C document reference number if you want to, but this is not required. If you put it in, you will be able to also check the rates of vehicle tax for your car too. The system allows you to check when your MOT expires as well, which is useful if you don’t tend to keep track of these sorts of things. You can also find out: 1  The date your car was first registered. 2  The year it was manufactured. 3  The vehicle’s cylinder capacity. 4  Co2 Emissions. 5  What type of fuel it uses. 6  The status of the vehicle (i.e. if tax is due or not). 7  The colour of the vehicle. 8  Vehicle type approval. 9  What it’s wheelplan is. 10  The car’s revenue weight. 
Was good but then stopped working, sad. Was quite a good app, which enabled you to check the road tax and mot status of a car by inputting the reg and make. Also you can save several cars to enable the check the status of cars you own. Another feature is to run a history check on the car. 
Matters of Testing, — News and updates. You can now check a vehicle’s MOT and tax status online using the brand new vehicle enquiry service. A vehicle can be searched by make and model and shows results like the MOT and tax expiry dates. You can find out a vehicle's MOT and tax expiry date by carrying out a vehicle enquiry. 
Get vehicle information from DVLA. Check online to find out what information the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (. ) holds about a vehicle. You’ll need the vehicle’s make and registration number. Start now. This is a ‘beta’ service-find out what this means for you. You can find out various things about the vehicle, including: 1  when its current vehicle tax expires. 2  when its MOT expires. 3  the date it was first registered. 4  status. 5  colour. 6  engine size. 7  year of manufacture. 8  emissions
This free online vehicle enquiry tool will check your vehicle against the DVLA database, and ensure it is taxed. It also provides the current cost of vehicle excise, basic vehicle data, and tax expiry date. Check a vehicle. 
Your Motorcheck report will show if the vehicle’s road tax is current in Ireland as well as the expiry date of its existing disc and the expiry dates of previous discs (where available). If the road tax has expired Motorcheck will tell you how long it has been out of date. 
The DVLA has set up a new website that allows you to check whether any vehicle has valid vehicle tax. To check all you need to do is visit the website and enter your registration number and vehicle make. 