General Discussion. Autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), also known as Hashimoto's disease, is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the thyroid gland that is caused by abnormal blood antibodies and white blood cells that mistakenly attack and damage healthy thyroid cells.
Abstract. Purpose of Review. Studies have been published in the field of autoimmune thyroid diseases since January 2005. The review is organized into areas of etiology, autoimmune features, autoantibodies, mechanism of thyroid cell injury, B-cell responses, and T-cell responses. 
Autoimmune thyroid diseases, such as autoimmune thyroiditis, which is also known as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis, are conditions in which the immune system attacks the body’s own thyroid gland. While chronic autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally mild or even symptomless, they can progress to significant hypothyroidism. Seek prompt medical care for worrisome symptoms of hypothyroidism, such as depression or unexplained weight gain. 1  Previous. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3.
Overview of Thyroid Diseases. It is common for people to develop thyroid diseases, such as hyperthyroidism (hyper means too much) and hypothyroidism (hypo means too little.) The two main types of autoimmune thyroid disease fall into hyperthyroidism (Grave's disease), and hypothyroidism (Hashimoto's thyroiditis). Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease that causes inflammation of the thyroid gland, causing hypothyroidism (a depletion of thyroid hormone.) It is diagnosed by blood tests for thyroid antibodies, and treated with thyroid replacement medications. ISN.
Autoimmune thyroid diseases: The thyroid gland can be attacked by several different autoimmune diseases. The most common are Graves' disease (a form of hyperthyroidism or excessive thyroid hormone) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (a form of hypothyroidism with deficient thyroid hormone). more ». Autoimmune thyroid diseases: The thyroid gland can be attacked by several different autoimmune diseases. The most common are Graves' disease (a form of hyperthyroidism or excessive thyroid hormone) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (a form of hypothyroidism with deficient thyroid hormone). ...
Hashimoto’s disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It also is called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (theye-royd-EYET-uhss). The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. The thyroid makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. With Hashimoto’s disease, the immune system makes antibodies that damage thyroid cells and interfere with their ability to make thyroid hormone. Over time, thyroid damage can cause thyroid hormone levels to be too low. This is called an underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism (heye-poh-THEYE-royd-ism).
Autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally hereditary in origin, although environmental factors, such as infection, certain drugs, and iodine consumption, can play a role in their progression. Autoimmune thyroiditis is more common in women than in men, and it primarily affects people between 40 and 60 years of age. While chronic autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally mild or even symptomless, they can progress to significant hypothyroidism. Seek prompt medical care for worrisome symptoms of hypothyroidism, such as depression or unexplained weight gain. 1  Previous. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hashimoto's thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease in which the thyroid gland is attacked by a variety of cell-and antibody-mediated immune processes, causing primary hypothyroidism. 
Autoimmune thyroid disease: Disease of the thyroid gland due to autoimmunity in which the patient's immune system attacks and damages their thyroid. Graves disease and Hashimoto thyroiditis are forms of autoimmune thyroid disease. In these diseases, thyroid-reactive T cells are formed that infiltrate the thyroid gland. Both disorders are common with a prevalence of about 1% in the US.