Benefit Amount Examples. In Florida, for example, the latest statistics show the average cost for care in the $190 a day range. But if you plan on moving to New York City when you need the care, because that is where your kids are, plan on buying a $380 a day benefit. When looking at an Long Term Care insurance policy, the first and most important decision to make is the daily benefit amount. In other words, how much you would like your policy to pay out to you in benefits at the time of claim. The choices range from about $50 a day to $500 a day
BREAKING DOWN 'Loan-To-Cost Ratio-LTC'. The LTC ratio helps commercial real estate lenders assess the risk of making a construction loan. The higher the LTC ratio, the higher the risk. A similar, commonly used metric, the loan-to-value ratio, compares the amount of the loan to the fair-market value of the project.
How the Benefit Amount Related to the Cost of your Policy. Your long term care insurance premium will be directly related to benefit amount you choose. For example, a plan that pays up to $200 per day will be twice as much that only pays up to $100 per day. For this reason, many people will choose to co-insure their LTC costs i.e. they will choose a benefit amount lower than the average cost of care in their area. When looking at an Long Term Care insurance policy, the first and most important decision to make is the daily benefit amount. In other words, how much you would like your policy to pay out to you in benefits at the time of claim. The choices range from about $50 a day to $500 a day
The average cost for a nursing home in 2013 is approximately $87,000 per year. Generally people tend to need care for an average length of time of 3 years, thus an average long term care expense might amount to nearly $300,000 out-of-pocket should care be needed today. 
When buying long-term care insurance, you first need to decide how much coverage you want and how long you want your benefits to last. There are four major components used in calculating how much insurance to buy. Daily benefit amount: The maximum amount your policy will pay for each day you need care. This figure determines your policy's total value. If you buy a policy that pays $150 per day for three years, then your policy value is $164,250 ($150 x 365 days x 3 years). 
The cost of receiving these services can jeopardize not only our lifestyle but also our family's lifestyle and the financial security we've spent our lifetime establishing. This calculator is intended to help you better understand the costs of one such event, a long-term care (LTC) event. Please adjust the sliders to the right to better understand the potential cost of a long‑term care event and how it can vary by age, place, and length of the event. caregiving services.
DEFINITION of 'Loan-To-Cost Ratio-LTC'. A ratio used in commercial real estate construction to compare the amount of the loan used to finance a project to the cost to build the project. If the project cost $1 million to complete and the borrower was asking for $800,000, the loan-to-cost (LTC) ratio would be 80%. The higher the LTC ratio, the higher the risk. A similar, commonly used metric, the loan-to-value ratio, compares the amount of the loan to the fair-market value of
Assuming the average stay in a nursing home is three years, costs can easily surpass $270,000 for the entire long term care event. Learn how long term care insurance may help cover your long term care needs. To speak with an agent/producer, call 1-866-469-7902 today or request a free long term care consultation. Choose your gender, age, benefit multiplier (the number of years you want benefits to be paid) and daily maximum to the left to calculate your annual long term care premium estimate. This calculator provides long term care insurance premium estimates for {STATE} only, and assumes a 90-day elimination period