The beaches of Jandia and Sotavento in the south are undoubtedly some of the best on the island. If you are planning on hiring a car this place is well worth a visit. Here you can stroll all the way along the coast (20km) passing endless lagoons and dunes. 
Jandia, Fuerteventura. Jandia is the peninsula at the southern end of Fuerteventura. It includes the resorts of Costa Calma and Playas de Jandia, as well as the port of Morro Jable and several smaller resorts. Jandia Bars and Restaurants. Most of the tourists that stay in Jandia are German and this is reflected in the higher percentage of German owned restaurants and bars. There are lots of Spanish owned bars and restaurants and one or two British owned bars, as well as a few belonging to other nationalities.
Jandia boasts the tallest mountain on Fuerteventura 'Pico de Jandia' jandía 'Or pico de La' zarza which is around 800m. High the beaches Of jandia And sotavento in the south are undoubtedly some of the best on the. Island if you are planning on hiring a car this place is well worth a. visit Jandia boasts the tallest mountain on Fuerteventura 'Pico de Jandia' jandía 'Or pico de La' zarza which is around 800m. High the beaches Of jandia And sotavento in the south are undoubtedly some of the best on the. island
Jandia jandía is a peninsula in the southwestern part of the island Of fuerteventura in The Canary. Islands the peninsula is entirely in the municipality Of. pajara pájara Jandia: Jandía view From Morro jable to the lighthouse Of Jandia. Jandía playa jandia jandía is a peninsula in the southwestern part of The island of Fuerteventura In. The canary islands the peninsula is entirely in The. municipality of
The area which covers the whole of the southwestern part of Fuerteventura is called Jandia. Most of this peninsula is covered by mountains and is pretty sparse in vegetation. Jandia boasts the tallest mountain on Fuerteventura 'Pico de Jandia' jandía 'Or pico de La' zarza which is around 800m. high Jandia boasts the tallest mountain on Fuerteventura 'Pico de Jandia' jandía 'Or pico de La' zarza which is around 800m. High the beaches Of jandia And sotavento in the south are undoubtedly some of the best on the. island
Where is Jandia? Jandia Peninsula is located on the southern tip of the island of Fuerteventura in the Canary Islands, between the tourist areas of Costa Calma and the port of Morro Jable. In this area is the highest peak in Fuerteventura, Pico de Zarza, and some of the most beautiful beaches in the Canaries. 1 Huge exptensions of white sand beaches stretch along the coast of Jandia, with two great tourist locations: Costa Calma and Morro Jable. 2  One of the most beautiful beaches in this area is the fabulous Matorral Beach, a dream come true.
Jandia jandía is a peninsula in the southwestern part of the island Of fuerteventura in The Canary. Islands the peninsula is entirely in the municipality Of. Pajara pájara within the Peninsula'is fuerteventura s, Tallest mountain Pico de Jandia jandía or Pico, de la zarza that rises to an elevation. of 807 m Jandia: Jandía view From Morro jable to the lighthouse Of Jandia. Jandía playa jandia jandía is a peninsula in the southwestern part of The island of Fuerteventura In. The canary islands the peninsula is entirely in The. municipality of p
Something old, something new. On the southwest peninsula of Fuerteventura, Jandia is the place for the more demanding beach lover. It’s set on a never-ending expanse of white sand, at the foot of the Pico de la Zarza mountain range. Parque National de Jandia. Most of Fuerteventura’s south-east peninsula forms part of a national park – the Parque National de Jandia. The whole area is rich in rare flora and fauna, and sightings of Egyptian vultures and kestrels aren’t uncommon.
Jandia jandía is a peninsula in the southwestern part of the island Of fuerteventura in The Canary. islands Jandia: Jandía view From Morro jable to the lighthouse Of Jandia. Jandía playa jandia jandía is a peninsula in the southwestern part of The island of Fuerteventura In. The canary islands the peninsula is entirely in The. municipality of pajara pájara