11 - magma chamber. A magma chamber is a large underground pool of liquid rock found beneath the surface of the Earth. The molten rock in such a chamber is under great pressure, and given enough time, that pressure can gradually fracture the rock around it creating outlets for the magma. If it finds a way to the surface, then the result will be a volcanic eruption; consequently many volcanoes are situated over magma chambers. Magma chambers are hard to detect, and most of the known ones are therefore close to the surface of the Earth, commonly between 1 km and 10 km under the surface.
A magma chamber in a volcano is a pool-like container of liquid  rock just below the earth underground. It is constantly under  tremendous pressure, and with enough time, it … can start fracturing  rock to make places for magma to escape. 1 person found this useful. A magma chamber is the space beneath a volcano where magma is stored. A vent is a hole at the surface where lava and gas escape.
And they had also imaged a shallow magma chamber about 10 kilometers below the surface, containing about 10,000 cubic kilometers of molten material. But now they have found a deeper one, 4.5 times larger, that sits between 20 and 50 kilometers below the surface. Read the full story ›. And they had also imaged a shallow magma chamber about 10 kilometers below the surface, containing about 10,000 cubic kilometers of molten material. But now they have found a deeper one, 4.5 times larger, that sits between 20 and 50 kilometers below the surface. Read the full story 1  ›. Text smaller.
This study is the first geophysical observation that large magma chambers exist in the deep oceanic crust below.. This volcano is estimated to be between 300,000 and 600,000 years old. It is also the youngest and most southeastern volcano on the island, with active eruptions since January 1983. The first eruption was reported in 1959, according to National Geographic. Researchers found that the chamber is primarily composed of magma mush, which is a mixture of rock and magma.
If the magma is not vented to the surface in a volcanic eruption, it will slowly cool and crystallize at depth to form an intrusive igneous body composed of granite or gabbro (see also pluton). Often, a volcano may have a deep magma chamber many kilometres down, which supplies a shallower chamber near the summit. If it finds a way to the surface, then the result will be a volcanic eruption; consequently many volcanoes are situated over magma chambers. Magma chambers are hard to detect, and most of the known ones are therefore close to the surface of the Earth, commonly between 1 km and 10 km under the surface.
It was known before that Kilauea had small, shallow magma chambers , said Guoqing Lin, UM Rosenstiel School assistant professor of geology and geophysics and lead author of the study. This study is the first geophysical observation that large magma chambers exist in the deep oceanic crust below.. The study also showed that the deep chamber is composed of magma mush, a mixture of 10-percent magma and 90-percent rock. The crustal magma reservoir below Kilauea is similar to those widely observed beneath volcanoes located at mid-ocean ridges. This is the first geophysical observation that large magma chambers exist in the deeper parts of the volcano system. Scientists analyzed the seismic waves that travel through the volcano to understand the internal structure of the volcanic system.
Combined with the smaller chamber, they now form the largest known magma reservoir in the world. Counter to most people's belief, the magma chamber is not full of liquid molten rock. Instead, the rock is hot, mostly solid and sponge-like, with pockets of molten rock within it. 