To practice in most U.S. states, an athletic trainer must have a bachelor's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education, or CAATE. However, many athletic trainers continue their college education and earn master's degrees. An advanced degree can help you secure jobs in certain settings, such as for a university athletic program, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. It also can help an athletic trainer progress to a position of leadership.
In 2006, 46 states required athletic trainers to be licensed or registered; this requires certification from the Board of Certification, Inc. (BOC). For certification, athletic trainers need a bachelor's degree from an accredited athletic training program. According to the National Athletic Trainers Association, 68 percent of athletic trainers have a master's or a doctoral degree. Athletic trainers may need a master's or a higher degree to be eligible for some positions, especially those in colleges and universities, and to increase their advancement opportunities.
1 To become an athletic trainer, candidates must graduate with a degree in Athletic Training from an accredited athletic training program and successfully pass the Board of Certification (BOC) Exam. 1 Athletic Trainers (ATs) are health care professionals who collaborate with physicians to provide preventative services, emergency care, clinical diagnosis, therapeutic intervention and rehabilitation of injuries and medical conditions.
Essential Information. Athletic trainers are healthcare professionals who recognize, prevent and rehabilitate injuries that result from playing sports or other physical activities. Prospective athletic trainers need a bachelor's degree at minimum, and they may also need a master's degree. Their training will involve extensive medical and scientific coursework, plus practical experience. Educational Requirements for Athletic Trainers. The minimum requirement for most athletic trainer positions is a bachelor's degree, but many of these professionals have a graduate degree.
The MSAT program is a professional (entry-level) athletic training program for students who do not hold a bachelor’s degree in athletic training but who wish to pursue athletic training credentials by the Board of Certification (BOC) and pursue a career as a Certified Athletic Trainer (ATC). 
Athletic Trainer: Education Requirements & Career Summary. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an athletic trainer. Get a quick view of the requirements, including degree programs, job duties and licensure, to find out if this is the career for you. Educational Requirements for Athletic Trainers. The minimum requirement for most athletic trainer positions is a bachelor's degree, but many of these professionals have a graduate degree.
The minimum education level for entering the field of athletic training is a bachelor's degree, according to the National Athletic Trainers' Association, or NATA. However, many athletic trainers continue their college education and earn master's degrees. An advanced degree can help you secure jobs in certain settings, such as for a university athletic program, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. It also can help an athletic trainer progress to a position of leadership.
Certified athletic trainers have, at minimum, a bachelor's degree through an accredited athletic training program or meet other requirements set by the Board of Certification (BOC). The typical educational program includes: 
The majority of athletic trainer jobs require a bachelor's degree in athletic training. This usually takes the form of a Bachelor of Science degree and is available at more than 350 accredited universities, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Entry-level athletic trainers with bachelor's degrees can expect to earn a salary in the low-$20,000 range
Master's degree programs usually require an athletic trainer to have a bachelor's degree in the field; some also require experience in the field or state certification to practice. Entry-level athletic trainers with bachelor's degrees can expect to earn a salary in the low-$20,000 range, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.