Stomach ulcers are painful sores that can be found in the stomach lining or small intestine. Stomach ulcers are the most visible sign of peptic ulcer disease. They occur when the thick layer of mucus that protects your stomach from digestive juices is reduced, thus enabling the digestive acids to eat away at the lining tissues of the stomach. The severity of the symptoms depends on the severity of the ulcer. The most common symptom is a burning sensation or pain in the area between your chest and belly button. Normally, the pain will be more intense when your stomach is empty and it can last for a few minutes or several hours.
A stomach ulcer (also called a peptic ulcer or a gastric ulcer) is a small erosion (hole) in the gastrointestinal tract. The most common type of stomach ulcer is a duodenal ulcer. Duodenal ulcers occur in the first 12 inches of small intestine beyond the stomach. Ulcers that form in the stomach are called gastric ulcers. An ulcer is not contagious or cancerous. Duodenal ulcers are almost always benign, while stomach ulcers may become malignant.
An ulcer is a lesion that develops on the skin or mucus membranes of the body. Ulcers that occur in the stomach or small intestines are known as a peptic ulcers. A peptic ulcer in the stomach is also called a gastric ulcer. Ulcers may be caused by lifestyle factors like diet and stress, or an excess amount of stomach acids. However, the majority are caused by an infection caused by the bacterium Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). 1 Often pain caused by ulcers can be temporarily relieved by eating foods that buffer the acid in the stomach, or by taking an over-the-counter antacid medication. 2  If your stomach pain is caused by ulcers, flareups may occur at night and whenever you are hungry.
1 Peptic inflammation is inflammation caused by stomach acid. 2  Inflammation may be in the stomach; in the first part of the small intestine (the duodenum), as acid flows in with food; or in the lower gullet (oesophagus), if acid splashes up to cause 'reflux oesophagitis'. 3  A peptic ulcer is an ulcer caused by stomach acid. 1 Inflammation may be in the stomach; in the first part of the small intestine (the duodenum), as acid flows in with food; or in the lower gullet (oesophagus), if acid splashes up to cause 'reflux oesophagitis'. 2
If your ulcer was caused by H. pylori. Most stomach ulcers are caused by infection with H. pylori. Therefore, a main part of the treatment is to clear this infection. If this infection is not cleared, the ulcer is likely to return once you stop taking acid-suppressing medication. 1 Inflammation may be in the stomach; in the first part of the small intestine (the duodenum), as acid flows in with food; or in the lower gullet (oesophagus), if acid splashes up to cause 'reflux oesophagitis'. 2  A peptic ulcer is an ulcer caused by stomach acid.
Peptic ulcers are holes or breaks in the protective lining of the duodenum (the upper part of the small intestine) or the stomach -- areas that come into contact with stomach acids and enzymes. Duodenal ulcers are more common than stomach ulcers. Comparatively rare are esophageal ulcers, which form in the esophagus -- or swallowing tube -- and are often a result of exposure to medications, like certain antibiotics or anti-inflammatories, or alcohol abuse.
Peptic ulcer disease refers to painful sores or ulcers in the lining of the stomach or first part of the small intestine, called the duodenum. No single cause has been found for ulcers. However, it is now clear that an ulcer is the end result of an imbalance between digestive fluids in the stomach and duodenum. Most ulcers are caused by an infection with a type of bacteria called Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). 
When a peptic ulcer affects the stomach it is called a gastric ulcer, one in the duodenum is called a duodenal ulcer, while an esophageal ulcer is an ulcer in the esophagus. When the lining of these organs is corroded by acidic digestive juices secreted by stomach cells peptic ulcers can form. 1 Scarring may also cause vomiting and weight loss. 2  Pyloric stenosis-chronic inflammation in the lining of the stomach or duodenum caused by a peptic ulcer can result in a narrowing of the pylorus (small passage that links the stomach and the duodenum). 3  Pyloric stenosis is the narrowing of the pylorus.
Peptic ulcer disease (PUD), also known as a peptic ulcer or stomach ulcer, is a break in the lining of the stomach, first part of the small intestine, or occasionally the lower esophagus. An ulcer in the stomach is known as a gastric ulcer while that in the first part of the intestines is known as a duodenal ulcer. The most common symptoms are waking at night with upper abdominal pain or upper abdominal pain that improves with eating. The pain is often described as a burning or dull ache.