Labor: $109 - $139. Parts: $109 - $170. The average cost for a power door lock actuator replacement is between $218 to $309. Labor costs are estimated between $109 to $139 while parts are priced between $109 to $170. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. - Common Misdiagnoses. Failure to eliminate the door lock electrical circuit and the lock mechanism as a source of the problem may result in the replacement of a fully functional door lock actuator.
bmw x5 door actuator. Follow bmw x5 door actuator to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow bmw x5 door actuator to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following bmw x5 door actuator in your eBay Feed. BMW (02-09) Door Lock Actuator Front LEFT/Driver e60 e65 e70 e90 e92 latch (Fits: BMW X5).
If it's only one door then it could be an actuator or the GM5. I checked the schematic and it's possible for the GM5 to give you problems with just the driver door or all the doors expect the drivers or all the doors. If your problem is 1 or 2 out of three passenger doors then it's not the GM5. You don't have to touch a screwdriver or get your hands dirty. For all repair services please go to my Repair Servicepage. In my particular car, the doors would lock fine, but, would not unlock every time. On hot days it usually didn't work and on cooler days it would work most of the time.
The BMW you chose was made using the best care and skill; it ought to have new replacement or OEM components of the same top level of value. A vehicle's BMW Door Lock Actuator utilizes a gear and hook mechanism to latch and unlatch an automobile's doors internally. Every vehicle door has its specific BMW Door Lock Actuator which is located behind the inside door panel. Without a BMW Door Lock Actuator, you would be incapable to firmly lock the doors. Less crucial components of your car or truck, while not mandatory for the smooth operation of a vehicle, are nonetheless elements you'll want to keep in perfect working order.
This video will provide steps and tools necessary to remove a faulty door lock actuator. Removal process should be the same for BMW e53 X5 4.4 and 3.0 models from 2000-2003. We recommend you watch entire video. Good luck and let us know if any questions. Quality Used BMW Parts, Check Us OUT
This is a power door lock actuator that mounts inside the door. It is designed to REPLACE a broken or missing power door lock actuator. Specifications: 1  Fits Driver or Passenger Side Front Door. 2  Electric operation. 3  Correct electrical connection. 4  Direct bolt on. 5  Replaces dealer part numbers: 67118353014. This power door lock actuator is a great replacement and has substantial cost savings over a dealer power door lock actuator. Note: This electrical part is tested before it leaves our manufacturer, and is not returnable. It is eligible for exchange only
BMW Replacement Power Door Actuator. When car buyers want the utmost in luxury, innovation and performance they put their trust in BMW. Safeguards and dependability are high on the list for BMW, a dependable vehicle dealer whose name is known for quality. Without a BMW Door Lock Actuator, you would be incapable to firmly lock the doors. Less crucial components of your car or truck, while not mandatory for the smooth operation of a vehicle, are nonetheless elements you'll want to keep in perfect working order.