Medical Definition of TISSUE PLASMINOGEN ACTIVATOR. : a clot-dissolving enzyme that has an affinity for fibrin, that catalyzes the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, that is produced naturally in blood vessel linings, and that is used in a genetically engineered form to prevent damage to heart muscle following a heart attack and to reduce .... : a clot-dissolving enzyme with an affinity for fibrin that is produced naturally in blood vessel linings and is used in a genetically engineered form to prevent damage to heart muscle following a heart attack and reduce neurological damage following ischemic stroke —abbreviation TPA. ADVERTISEMENT.
tissue plasminogen activator: an anticlotting enzyme of the blood, produced in quantity by genetic engineering for use in dissolving blood clots. tissue plasminogen activator-a thrombolytic agent (trade name Activase) that causes fibrinolysis at the site of a blood clot; used in treating acute myocardial infarction.
Tissue plasminogen activator: (tPA) An enzyme that helps dissolve clots. tPA is made by the cells lining blood vessels and has also been made in the laboratory. It is systemic thrombolytic (clot-busting) agent and is used in the treatment of heart attack and stroke. Activase (alteplase) is a tissue plasminogen activator produced by recombinant DNA technology. Recombinant tPA is abbreviated r-tPA.
Tissue plasminogen activator (abbreviated tPA or PLAT) is a protein involved in the breakdown of blood clots. It is a serine protease (EC 3.4.21.68) found on endothelial cells, the cells that line the blood vessels. There have been twelve large scale, high-quality trials of rtPA in acute ischemic stroke. A meta-analysis of these trials concluded that rtPA given within 6 hours of a stroke significantly increased the odds of being alive and independent at final follow-up, particularly in patients treated within 3 hours.
tissue plasminogen activator (TPA), a clot-dissolving substance produced naturally by cells in the walls of blood vessels. It is also manufactured synthetically by genetic engineering techniques. tissue plasminogen activator. se
A gene on chromosome 8p12 that encodes tissue plasminogen activator, which converts inactive plasminogen to plasmin by hydrolysing a single Arg-Val bond in plasminogen, thereby playing a key role in tissue remodelling, degradation, cell migration and other cellular events. PLAT directly facilitates neuronal migration. tissue plasminogen activator. se
Definition of TISSUE PLASMINOGEN ACTIVATOR. : a clot-dissolving enzyme with an affinity for fibrin that is produced naturally in blood vessel linings and is used in a genetically engineered form to prevent damage to heart muscle following a heart attack and reduce neurological damage following ischemic stroke —abbreviation TPA. ADVERTISEMENT.
PLAT. A gene on chromosome 8p12 that encodes tissue plasminogen activator, which converts inactive plasminogen to plasmin by hydrolysing a single Arg-Val bond in plasminogen, thereby playing a key role in tissue remodelling, degradation, cell migration and other cellular events. PLAT directly facilitates neuronal migration. 
Medical Definition of TISSUE. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal and that in animals include connective tissue, epithelium, muscle tissue, and nerve tissue. Full Definition of TISSUE. 1. a: a fine lightweight often sheer fabric. 2. : a piece of soft absorbent tissue paper used especially as a handkerchief or for removing cosmetics.