How to get here: The Apple Store, Infinite Loop is located next to the main entrance of Apple Headquarters. Parking: opposite the store entrance in the visitor lot. Public Transit: Caltrain to Sunnyvale station; transfer on VTA bus 55 to DeAnza & Mariani. 
Apple Campus 2 [edit]. In April 2006, Steve Jobs announced to the city council of Cupertino that Apple had acquired nine contiguous properties to build a second campus, the Apple Campus 2. It will be located one mile east of the existing facility
The Apple Campus is the corporate headquarters of Apple Inc. , located at 1 Infinite Loop in Cupertino, California, United States. Its design resembles that of a university, with the buildings arranged around green spaces, similar to a suburban business park. In April 2006, Steve Jobs announced to the city council of Cupertino that Apple had acquired nine contiguous properties to build a second campus, the Apple Campus 2.
Apple's corporate headquarters was originally located at Building 1 on 20525 Mariani Ave in Cupertino. The land east of Mariani One across De Anza Boulevard where the campus was built was formerly occupied by the company Four Phase Systems (later acquired by Motorola). In April 2006, Steve Jobs announced to the city council of Cupertino that Apple had acquired nine contiguous properties to build a second campus, the Apple Campus 2.
Search the web for “Apple HQ” or “Apple Headquarters” and most of the results you get will be pictures of Apple’s Cupertino headquarters — from the outside. Usually with some fanboy or fangirl standing next to the “1 Infinite Loop” sign. It’s Apple Headquarters in Cupertino, California, and to Apple fans, it’s a place thought of with romance and wonder. Only the privileged elect have ever been deep within its most secretive recesses, but after an extensive search, I turned up. 156 pictures Inside Apple HQ that Apple probably doesn’t want you to see.
Apple Inc's headquarters are located at Apple Campus, 1-6 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California 95014, United States of America. 10 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Popular Online MBA Programs A Master's in Business Administration is a highly sought after degree. 
The Apple corporate office is located in Cupertino, CA. Tagged as: apple corporate, apple corporate headquarters, apple corporate office, apple corporate office address, apple corporate office email, apple corporate office email address, apple corporate office phone number, apple headquarters. 
The Apple Campus is located on the southeast corner of Interstate 280 and De Anza Boulevard, and occupies 32 acres (130,000 m 2) in six buildings spread over four floors. In April 2006, Steve Jobs announced to the city council of Cupertino that Apple had acquired nine contiguous properties to build a second campus, the Apple Campus 2.
Apple's new Campus 2 project is located about a mile east, visible at the top of the map in this Flyover view, just past the next freeway interchange. Once completed, Apple will migrate about 12,000 workers to the new site, but will also retain its existing Infinite Loop headquarters and other offices. Follow @AppleInsider. Apple is gearing up to begin construction on its largest project ever later this year: Apple Campus 2. Here's a detailed look at the Cupertino, California site where the company plans to build its iconic new spaceship headquarters. Apple's existing world headquarters Apple's current headquarters are located near interstate 280 and De Anza Boulevard, an address depicted in the company's Maps icon for iOS. The existing six-building campus is ringed by a road the company named Infinite Loop, which itself is surrounded by a series of parking lot