Power cord. Alternatively referred to as a power cable, mains cable or flex, a power cord is the primary cable that provides power to the computer, printer, monitor, and components within a computer. In the image to the right, is an example of the power cord that is commonly used with computers, monitors, printers, and other peripherals. Tip: When dealing with a laptop, the power cord is more properly referred to as an AC adapter.
Definition of:power adapter. A power supply for just about every electronic device on the market. Also called an AC adapter or a charger if used to recharge a battery, it plugs into the wall and converts AC current to a single DC voltage in most cases. There are also adapters that output a different AC voltage.
The terms power cable, mains lead, flex or kettle lead are also used. A lamp cord (also known as a zip cord) is a light-weight, ungrounded, single-insulated two-wire cord used for small loads such as a table or floor lamp. A cord set includes connectors molded to the cord at each end (see Appliance coupler). One end of the cord set is attached to a molded electrical plug; the other is typically a molded electrical receptacle to prevent the possibility of having an exposed live prong or pin which would cause electric shock.
Cable. 1. Alternatively referred to as a cord, connector or plug, a cable is one or more wires covered in a plastic covering that connects a computer to a power source or other device. For example, the data cable that connects your monitor to your computer and allows your computer to display a picture on the monitor. Other examples of data cables include the CAT5, IDE/EIDE, SATA, and USB cables. A power cable is any cable that powers the device. For example, the power cord that connects to your computer and a Molex style cable inside the computer are both good examples of power cables
The terms are generally used for cables using a power plug to connect to a single-phase alternating current power source at the local line voltage—(generally 100 to 240 volts, depending on the location). One end of the cord set is attached to a molded electrical plug; the other is typically a molded electrical receptacle to prevent the possibility of having an exposed live prong or pin which would cause electric shock.
Since the power supply is the first place an electronic device receives electricity, it is also the most vulnerable to power surges and spikes. Therefore, power supplies are designed to handle fluctuations in electrical current and still provide a regulated or consistent power output. Power Supply. A power supply is a hardware component that supplies power to an electrical device. It receives power from an electrical outlet and converts the current from AC (alternating current) to DC (direct current), which is what the computer requires.
A power cable is an assembly of one or more electrical conductors, usually held together with an overall sheath. The assembly is used for transmission of electrical power. Power cables may be installed as permanent wiring within buildings, buried in the ground, run overhead, or exposed. Flexible power cables are used for portable devices, mobile tools and machinery. See power cord and extension cable for further description of flexible power cables. Other types of flexible cable include twisted pair, extensible, coaxial, shielded, and communication cable. An X-ray cable is a special type of flexible high-voltage cable.