Rick Grimes has been described as an everyman character who emphasizes moral codes and values. Lincoln obtained the role in April 2010; Kirkman felt he was an amazing find. In the comic book series, Rick remains the longest-living survivor, followed closely behind by his son, Andrea (a friend and lover), the orphan Sophia, and Sophia's surrogate mother, Maggie Greene.
The Walking Dead on the AMC network, said to be most popular basic cable show in America, is scheduled to return for season 4 in October. The show is part of AMC’s powerhouse Sunday night franchise which also includes Mad Men and Breaking Bad. The season 3 finale featured the death by zombie of series regular Laurie Holden, who played “Andrea” for all three seasons, a development that was traumatic for many fans. As viewers know, “Dale” and “Shane,” two other principal characters, died in season 2.
The Walking Dead, based on a series of graphic novels by Robert Kirkman, follows a small group of survivors who are led by Georgia Sheriff Rick Grimes (British actor Andrew Lincoln) in a quest to try to find a safe haven far away from the menacing zombie-cannibal “walkers,” a.k.a. “biters.”. The season 3 finale featured the death by zombie of series regular Laurie Holden, who played “Andrea” for all three seasons, a development that was traumatic for many fans. As viewers know, “Dale” and “Shane,” two other principal characters, died in season 2.
Rick Grimes is the main character and the protagonist of Image Comics ' The Walking Dead who was first encountered in Issue 1 in 2003. Rick, a police deputy from Cynthiana, Kentucky, awakens from a coma to find the world infested with zombies. While on the road, Rick and the group meet up with a man named Tyreese, who is traveling with his daughter, Julie, and her boyfriend Chris; although Lori has some reservations about them, Rick invites Tyreese to join their group.
Rick asks him where his loyalties lie, Daryl confirming he is loyal to Rick. However, in The Suicide King, when Rick does not allow Merle to join the group, Daryl leaves with Merle, telling Rick if Merle doesn't come back, neither does he. 1 Rick is the first character in the television series to directly kill a living person (notably Dave) after the apocalypse. 2  Although Shane was the first character, overall, who caused the death of a living character (Otis). 3  Rick has stated that his blood type is A+.
Rick Grimes is the protagonist and a survivor of the outbreak in AMC 's The Walking Dead. He is a former police officer of the King County Sheriff's Department, who was shot in the line of duty and fell into a coma, only to wake up and find himself in the midst of the zombie apocalypse. 1 Rick is the first character in the television series to directly kill a living person (notably Dave) after the apocalypse. 2  Although Shane was the first character, overall, who caused the death of a living character (Otis). 3  Rick has stated that his blood type is A+.
In the comic series, Shane is portrayed as a Cynthiana Sheriff's Deputy, as well as the longtime friend and fellow police officer of series protagonist Rick Grimes. Shane is first overjoyed when Rick joins the group, but gradually becomes jealous of Rick and Lori getting back together. Eventually, Lori brushes off Shane's advances and says their brief romance must stop. Sent into an emotional meltdown by Lori siding with Rick, Shane leaves in a rage.
Rick Grimes was named the 26th Top Comic Book Hero by IGN, and Lincoln's portrayal of Rick Grimes has been generally well received by television commentators and audiences. He was nominated for a Saturn Award in the category for Best Actor in Television. In the comic book series, Rick remains the longest-living survivor, followed closely behind by his son, Andrea (a friend and lover), the orphan Sophia, and Sophia's surrogate mother, Maggie Greene.
Rick Grimes is a fictional character and main protagonist in the comic book series The Walking Dead and in the television series of the same name, portrayed by Andrew Lincoln. Created by writer Robert Kirkman and artist Tony Moore, the character made his debut in The Walking Dead #1 in 2003. Rick Grimes is a small town sheriff 's deputy who shares a son, Carl Grimes, with wife Lori Grimes. In the comic book series, Rick remains the longest-living survivor, followed closely behind by his son, Andrea (a friend and lover), the orphan Sophia, and Sophia's surrogate mother, Maggie Greene.