In many churches, the pastor’s salary is a quiet issue. There is a sense of discomfort from both the pastor and the members when the topic is broached. Such discomfort is unfortunate, however, because a number of churches will not seek every year to make certain the pastor is paid fairly. 
Here's my basic guideline for pastor salary: Don't make your pastor live on more faith than you do. By that I mean that you should pay your pastor about the same as what you live on. To be more specific, your clergy compensation package should be somewhere around your church's median household income. But I encourage you to carefully consider the following guidelines. If you're in a hurry, you may want to skip down to the section, Elements of a Pastor Salary Package.. There you'll find links to other pages where I discuss the various ingredients of effective clergy compensation.
Others felt that pastors should get paid, but that the salary should be lower than the average salary of the church members. Baffled by these sentiments, I told them that a lot of ministers go to school for seven years and often even have a masters degree. 
The Pastor and His Salary Package. Pastors should have a cash salary that meets the physical needs of the family independent of the wife having to work. In the middle 1960’s as a young accountant I began helping my pastor prepare his state and federal tax returns. This Pastor is 40 years of age, married and has 2 teenage children. Example – #1 – this pastor receives a cash salary of $45,000 per year and lives in a church owned parsonage with a monthly Fair Market Rental Value (FMRV) of $1600; the annual FMRV is $19,200. The church pays the utilities (which they should) that amount to $2,800 per year
In my experience, it is common practice in smaller churches for the pastor’s salary to be public information. In larger churches, that information is kept private. Often, the budget is presented with a line item that groups all staff and support staff salaries/expenses/benefits into one line item. 
If prices rose 5% and the pastor's salary only rises 3%, then he has experienced a 1.9% decrease in salary. So the final step in any review of compensation should be a review of the increase required to allow for inflation. There are several methods used to measure the rate of inflation. 
According to the National Association of Church Business Administration, the average pastor in 2012 received an annual salary of $28,000. One out of five pastors has to work a second job to support himself and his family. The average pastor’s salary of $28,000 a year is close to that of a teachers’ average salary in the United States which is $42,000 a year. As I stated before, these are the two lowest paid professionals with degrees in the nation. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Pastor in the United States is $89,879 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Pastor in the United States are expected to make less than $89,879. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $89,879. 
1 Paying a pastor salary frees a pastor to be more involved in ministry. 2  This is why you give your pastor compensation. 3  The greater his freedom, the more he is able to help you and your congregation. 4  A clergy compensation package should include provisions for both the immediate and long-term needs of your pastor. But I encourage you to carefully consider the following guidelines. If you're in a hurry, you may want to skip down to the section, Elements of a Pastor Salary Package.. There you'll find links to other pages where I discuss the various ingredients of effective clergy