Learn about Rett Syndrome from Dr. Kimberly Williams in this Howcast video. Rett syndrome is a very rare neurodevelopmental condition that typically affects females. Common signs of Rett disorder are the unique features of the hands and feet, as well as the head, which tend to be very small. There's a deceleration of growth. 
The most common form of the condition is known as classic Rett syndrome. After birth, girls with classic Rett syndrome have 6 to 18 months of apparently normal development before developing severe problems with language and communication, learning, coordination, and other brain functions. In more than 99 percent of people with Rett syndrome, there is no history of the disorder in their family. Many of these cases result from new mutations in the MECP2 gene. A few families with more than one affected family member have been described.
Definition. Rett syndrome is a rare genetic neurological and developmental disorder that affects the way the brain develops, causing a progressive inability to use muscles for eye and body movements and speech. It occurs almost exclusively in girls. 
Introduction. Rett syndrome is a rare condition that affects the development of the brain. It can cause severe physical and mental disability that begins in early childhood. The condition affects approximately one in every 10-12,000 females and is only rarely seen in males. 
The MECP2 gene is found on a person’s X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. Girls have two X chromosomes, but only one is active in any given cell. This means that in a girl with Rett syndrome only a portion of the cells in the nervous system will use the defective gene. Nearly all cases of Rett syndrome are caused by a mutation in the methyl CpG binding protein 2, or MECP2 (pronounced meck-pea-two) gene. Scientists identified the gene — which is believed to control the functions of many other genes — in 1999.
Rett syndrome is a childhood neurodevelopmental disorder that affects females almost exclusively. The child generally appears to grow and develop normally, before symptoms begin. 
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by the loss of spoken language and hand use, coupled with the development of distinctive hand stereotypies. This disorder is seen in infancy and occurs almost exclusively in females. It is usually caused by a mutation of the MECP2 gene on the X chromosome. Rett syndrome is found in all racial and ethnic groups throughout the world. It affects one in every ten thousand live female births.
Rett syndrome is a genetic that affects girls almost exclusively. It's rare -- only about one in 10,000 to 15,000 girls will develop the condition. In most cases of Rett syndrome, a child develops normally in early life. Most children with Rett syndrome have a mutation in a particular gene on the X chromosome. Exactly what this gene does, or how its mutation leads to Rett syndrome, isn't clear. It's believed that the single gene may influence many other genes involved in development.
Rett syndrome is a rare, but severe brain disorder that affects girls. It's usually discovered in the first two years of life, and a child's diagnosis with Rett syndrome can feel overwhelming. Although there's no cure, early identification and treatment may help girls and families who are affected by Rett syndrome. Most children with Rett syndrome have a mutation in a particular gene on the X chromosome. Exactly what this gene does, or how its mutation leads to Rett syndrome, isn't clear. It's believed that the single gene may influence many other genes involved in development.