Moreover, the majority of duct and vent cleaning services charge by the hour, so it is a good idea to call around and find out about different companies' hourly rates in addition to requesting an estimate for the total cost of the services. In general, it should not take more than 3 to 5 hours for the cleaners to get the job done. During this time, they will use a series of tools to clean out all the ducts and vents within your home or place of business. By having this type of work done, you can notice an immediate improvement in your home's air quality.
By Dave Trosdahl on August 25th, 2007. With air duct cleaning advertisments ranging in price from $88 – $450 – $1,000, it is quite difficult to guess who is right when it comes to the true cost of air duct cleaning. I wonder what kind a work people do charging $99.00 for air duct cleaning.I only charge $250.00,but takes me some where 3 to 4 hours to clean a house up to 10 vents,2 air returns,furnace,replace filters,sanitazin,cleaning dryer vent.Rotobrush equipment.
Companies offering a super low price on air duct cleaning might do more harm and no good. The fact of the matter is this: The average air duct cleaning for most homes costs between $300 and $500, with factors like the size of the home, the number of ducts and their configuration affecting the price. They quickly go through the house, vacuuming out a few vents, and are gone in less than 30 minutes. A legitimate air duct cleaning should take three to four hours to complete, according to reputable duct cleaning companies that I've spoken to.
Fortunately, hiring a professional cleaning service is much more affordable than you might think. While the specific cost will vary depending on how many vents and ducts you have in addition to their size, most home and business owners can have these services performed for about $150 to $400. In general, it should not take more than 3 to 5 hours for the cleaners to get the job done. During this time, they will use a series of tools to clean out all the ducts and vents within your home or place of business. By having this type of work done, you can notice an immediate improvement in your home's air quality.
1 A proper home air duct cleaning costs anywhere from $400-$1,000, depending on the size of the system to be cleaned, the type of services offered, the regional climate and the level of use the ventilation system gets, the type of materials inside the ductwork and the amount of contaminants (dust, mold, etc.). Shopping for duct cleaning: 1  Some older air ducts may contain asbestos in the insulation, register boots or other areas. 2  Asbestos removal absolutely requires specialized procedures which will add to the total cost, depending on the complexity and extent of the problem.
Typical Costs. As of 2014, the cost of residential duct cleaning ranges from $450 to $1,000 per heating or cooling system. Cost varies depending on how large the system is, contamination level of the debris in the ducts and accessibility.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost to clean ducts & vents is $333, with most homeowners spending between $238 and $429. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members
Many companies have a wide range of pricing for HVAC cleaning. Like stated before there are many variables to keep in mind when dealing with cleaning. The price will differ depending on the size of your home, the size of the ducts, the condition of the air ducts, as well as location (i.e. taxes and service charges). HVAC cleanings can range anywhere from $450 to $1000.
Air duct cleaning should take about 3 hours and cost between $300 and $500. Q: I'm looking to have my air ducts cleaned but I've seen prices vary from $99 to $800. I have not been given an explanation that I believe as the reason for the price difference. They quickly go through the house, vacuuming out a few vents, and are gone in less than 30 minutes. A legitimate air duct cleaning should take three to four hours to complete, according to reputable duct cleaning companies that I've spoken to.
In fact, NADCA and EPA state the cost for air duct cleaning by a qualified contractor will cost between $400 – $1,000. Bear in mind, there are a multitude of variables which affect pricing. 