Origin of the name Dixie: Borrowed from the term that denotes the southern states of the U.S., especially those that made up the Confederacy. Dixie was popularized as a given name in the 19th century by an 1859 minstrel song by D.D. Emmett, which became a Confederate war song. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Dixie : | Edit. Dixie is a nickname for the southern United States. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the origins of this nickname remain obscure.
1 The word Dixie refers to privately issued currency originally from the Citizens State Bank (located in the French Quarter of New Orleans) and then other banks in Louisiana. 2  These banks issued ten-dollar notes, labeled Dix, French for ten, on the reverse side. Today, it is most often associated with those parts of the Southern United States where traditions and legacies of the Confederate era and the Antebellum South live most strongly. Many businesses in the South contain Dixie in their name as an identifier, such as supermarket chain  Winn-Dixie .
Dixie has its origins in the French language. It is used largely in English and French. The meaning of Dixie is 'American South; ten'. The first name could be derived from Dixie, the nickname of the American South as used by Daniel D. Emmett in his song Dixie (1859).
The name Dixie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Dixie is: Abbreviation of Richard. In the USA Dixie refers to the French word for ten; also to the southern states below the Mason-Dixon line. American Meaning: The name Dixie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Dixie is: Abbreviation of Richard. In the USA Dixie refers to the French word for ten; also to the southern states below the Mason-Dixon line. French Meaning: The name Dixie is a French baby name.
Dixie /dix-ie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced DIK-see. It is of French and English origin, and the meaning of Dixie is tenth. Dixie is a very prominent first name for females (#481 out of 4276, Top 11%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#43157 out of 150436, Top 29%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Dixie for girls.
The name refers to a region of the US known as the Old South. It may derive from one of the surveyors of the Mason-Dixon line, or from the ten (in Cajun French dix) dollar note circulated from Louisiana, which made the South the land of dixies. Actress Dixie Carter. Kreatif forms: Daxie, Deoxie, Dexie. Dixie is a very prominent first name for females (#481 out of 4276, Top 11%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#43157 out of 150436, Top 29%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Dixie for girls.
From the term that refers to the southern United States, used by Daniel D. Emmett in his song Dixie in 1859. The term may be derived from French dix ten, which was printed on ten-dollar bills issued from a New Orleans bank. Popularity. 