Cerebral palsy can be caused by a number of factors, and in many cases, the precise causes are indeterminable. Generally, however, causes of cerebral palsy include: 1  Maternal infections, such as the measles, chickenpox, toxoplasmosis or syphilis. 2  Fetal infections, such as meningitis or other brain infections. 3  Fetal stroke.
The most common causes of congenital CP include: 1  Infections While Pregnant: Infections such as cytomegalovirus (CMV), chicken pox, and rubella may increase the chances of an infant developing CP as these diseases increase cytokins, tiny proteins that act as receptors in the body. Congenital Cerebral Palsy Causes. If an infant develops cerebral palsy before or during childbirth, it’s considered congenital CP. This form of CP is marked by development before birth. Per the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), congenital CP is the most common form of cerebral palsy.
Congenital Cerebral Palsy (CP). As the most common form of cerebral palsy, congenital cerebral palsy is an incurable form of brain damage that results in mildly to severely impaired cognition, speech, coordination and general movement. Generally, however, causes of cerebral palsy include: 1  Maternal infections, such as the measles, chickenpox, toxoplasmosis or syphilis. 2  Fetal infections, such as meningitis or other brain infections. 3  Fetal stroke.
Signs and symptoms can vary greatly. Movement and coordination problems associated with cerebral palsy may include: 1  Variations in muscle tone, such as being either too stiff or too floppy. 2  Stiff muscles and exaggerated reflexes (spasticity). 3  Stiff muscles with normal reflexes (rigidity). 4  Lack of muscle coordination (ataxia). 
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of disorders that affect a person’s ability to move and maintain balance and posture. CP is the most common motor disability in childhood. Cerebral means having to do with the brain. Palsy means weakness or problems with using the muscles. All people with CP have problems with movement and posture. Many also have related conditions such as intellectual disability; seizures; problems with vision, hearing, or speech; changes in the spine (such as scoliosis); or joint problems (such as contractures).
As a child with Cerebral Palsy grows, other symptoms may include drooling, speech impairment, difficulty maintaining bladder and/or bowel control, convulsive seizures, hand tremors, and the inability to identify objects by touch. 
Causes. Cerebral palsy is caused by an abnormality or disruption in brain development, usually before a child is born. In many cases, the exact trigger of this abnormality isn't known. Factors that may lead to problems with brain development include: 1  Random mutations in genes that control brain development
Signs & Symptoms of Congenital Cerebral Palsy. Early signs of congenital cerebral palsy usually appear before a child reaches 3 years of age, according to the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Parents are often the first to suspect that their baby’s motor skills aren’t developing normally. Congenital cerebral palsy occurs when a baby’s brain does not develop normally in the womb, or when brain damage has occurred during development. There are many causes of congenital cerebral palsy, some of which are not completely understood.
Congenital Cerebral Palsy. |. |. As the most common form of cerebral palsy, congenital cerebral palsy is an incurable form of brain damage that results in mildly to severely impaired cognition, speech, coordination and general movement. Congenital cerebral palsy occurs when a baby’s brain does not develop normally in the womb, or when brain damage has occurred during development. There are many causes of congenital cerebral palsy, some of which are not completely understood.