The treatment for trigger finger depends on the severity of your symptoms and how long you've had them. Sometimes, trigger finger gets better without treatment, so your GP may recommend avoiding activities that cause the pain to see if this helps relieve your symptoms. Open trigger finger release surgery. If you have open trigger finger release surgery, the surgeon will give you an injection of local anaesthetic into the palm of your hand. A small incision will be made in the palm of your hand along one of the natural creases, which may mean the scar will be less noticeable.
Trigger finger is a painful condition that causes the fingers or thumb to catch or lock when bent. In the thumb its called trigger thumb. Farmers, industrial workers, and musicians often get trigger finger since they repeat finger and thumb movements a lot. Even smokers can get trigger thumb from repeated use of a lighter, for example. Trigger finger is more common in women than men and tends to happen most often in people who are 40 to 60 years old.
1 The time of recovery from surgery for trigger finger depends upon the severity of the condition and the technique used, but 2 weeks is likely a good guideline. 2  Trigger thumb in infants should be operated on because they are more likely to develop a fixed flexion deformity as they get older. Splint use may be needed for up to 6 weeks. Splinting also helps prevent you from curling your fingers into a fist while you sleep, which can exacerbate trigger finger. 1  During the day, take the splint off periodically to perform finger stretches or light massages.
A. A. A. Trigger finger is a painful condition that causes the fingers or thumb to catch or lock when bent. In the thumb its called trigger thumb. Trigger finger happens when tendons in the finger or thumb become inflamed. Tendons are tough bands of tissue that connect muscles and bones. Farmers, industrial workers, and musicians often get trigger finger since they repeat finger and thumb movements a lot. Even smokers can get trigger thumb from repeated use of a lighter, for example. Trigger finger is more common in women than men and tends to happen most often in people who are 40 to 60 years old.
Trigger Finger Recovery. Initial recovery from a trigger finger surgery usually occurs within 6 weeks. Immediately after you may experience some soreness or pain in the area of the incision. You will normally be placed in a splint following the procedure to allow time for the incisions in your palm to heal. For the average patient, trigger finger recovery after surgery takes about 6 weeks, though it can vary from patient to patient. The Hand Surgery Center of Excellence staffs the most distinguished surgeons specializing in finger surgery and the treatment of hand conditions.
Surgery for trigger finger is effective and it's rare for the problem to return in the treated finger or thumb. However, you may need to take some time off work and there's a risk of complications (see below). The operation takes around 20 minutes, and you won't need to stay in hospital overnight. Open trigger finger release surgery. If you have open trigger finger release surgery, the surgeon will give you an injection of local anaesthetic into the palm of your hand. A small incision will be made in the palm of your hand along one of the natural creases, which may mean the scar will be less noticeable.
The time it takes to recover from trigger finger depends on how bad it is. The choice of treatment also affects recovery. For example, splinting may be necessary for six weeks. But most patients with trigger finger recover within a few weeks by resting the finger and using anti-inflammatory drugs. The first step is to rest the finger or thumb. Your doctor may put a splint on the hand to keep the joint from moving. If symptoms continue, your doctor may prescribe drugs that fight inflammation, such as ibuprofen or naproxen.