The definition of cinematography is the art and process of movie photography. An example of cinematography are the decisions made about lighting, camera filters and lenses when shooting a movie scene. Usage notes. 1  Traditionally the term cinematography referred to working with motion picture film emulsion, but it is now largely synonymous with videography due to the use of digital technology in both fields.
Cinematography can not only depict a moving subject but can use a camera, which represents the audience's viewpoint or perspective, that moves during the course of filming. This movement plays a considerable role in the emotional language of film images and the audience's emotional reaction to the action. In digital cinematography, the movie is shot on digital medium such as flash storage, as well as distributed through a digital medium such as a hard drive. Beginning in the late 1980s, Sony began marketing the concept of electronic cinematography, utilizing its analog Sony HDVS professional video cameras.
To put it simply, the cinematographer is the person accountable for a film’s cinematography, the art and science of motion picture photography. Every decision the cinematographer makes must also service the director and the story. On a large production, it is unlikely that the cinematographer operate the camera. 
A cinematographer or director of photography (sometimes shortened to DP or DOP) is the chief over the camera crews working on a film, television production or other live action piece and is responsible for achieving artistic and technical decisions related to the image. 
Cinematography. Cinematography is the art or science of motion picture photography. It is the technique of movie photography, including both the shooting and development of the film. The cinematographer could also be referred to as the film director's main visual collaborator.
The overall control of film lighting and cinematography, or the creative use of a movie camera, is usually given to one individual, the director of photography (or DP). 
Here's what the cinematographer does. Published by Gabe Moura, on. The cinematographer or director of photography (DP) is the person in charge of actually shooting the film. He is the head of the camera and lighting departments, and as such he has a big role in the making of any movie. Well, behind that gorgeous angle was a cinematographer. Published by Gabe Moura, on. The cinematographer or director of photography (DP) is the person in charge of actually shooting the film. He is the head of the camera and lighting departments, and as such he has a big role in the making of any movie.
cinematography. the art or technique of motion-picture photography. — cinematographer, cinematographist, n. — cinematographic, adj. the art or technique of motion-picture photography. — cinematographer, cinematographist, n. — cinematographic, adj. the art or technique of using a motion-picture camera or prjector. — cinematograph, n., v. — cinematographer, n. — cinematographic, adj
Therefore, it is as much to do with lighting and photography as it is with film. The cinematographer is a role of its own, and is also known as the Director of Photography. Includes all aspect of camera-work: camera shots, angles, movement, filters, lighting, filmstock (video, 16mm, 35mm), composition etc. It consists of the aperture plate, which is in front of the film and masks the frame, or picture; the pressure plate, which is in back of the film and holds it firmly against the aperture plate; and the edge guides, which keep the film stable laterally.