amiibo (アミーボ, amiibo) are a line of interactive figurines available for usage with the Wii U and Nintendo 3DS systems. For the Wii U, amiibo are scanned using the Wii U GamePad. The New Nintendo 3DS models are also natively compatible with amiibo, while older 3DS models will require an adapter to use the figurines.
Amiibo can store a character's unique data, such as a build in a particular game or be used as a key to unlock costumes or features. They can evolve as they are used in games and as new data is saved. Note that while amiibos can unlock features in multiple games, an amiibo can only store one game's data. So an amiibo used in Smash Bros. can't also be used to store data for Mario Party 10. Data can be erased, however, to switch an amiibo from one game to the other.
Figures shown not actual size and designs may vary. Compatibility and functionality of amiibo may vary per game. Software updates may be required. Game trademarks and copyrights are properties of their respective owners. Nintendo properties are trademarks of Nintendo. © 2015 Nintendo
A player of either game can place an Amiibo figurine on the bottom left side of the Wii U Gamepad, and the Amiibo will be able to fight against the player or assist them in battles. For 3DS use, the player is able to buy an add-on to use Amiibo (or simply place them on the touch screen on the New Nintendo 3DS /XL). Amiibo for all Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U fighters will be released, including DLC fighters. The Amiibo will use the same moveset, and have the same stats as the character they are modeled after. However, you are able to change their stats by feeding them items. This will change their base stats depending on what the piece of equipment is. The maximum level an Amiibo can reach is 50.
Amiibo toys can be used directly with the Wii U GamePad and New Nintendo 3DS series, while an adapter for the rest of the Nintendo 3DS series was released on September 25, 2015 along with the Nintendo 3DS game Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer. In March 2013, long predating Amiibo, Nintendo unveiled Pokemon Pokémon Rumble, u the first game for The Wii u to utilize The Wii GamePad 'gamepad s-near field communications support to enable the use of its own interactive. figurines
They're called  Amiibo , and the basic idea is that they're turning all of our favorite Nintendo characters into playable action figures that also augment gameplay in a number of upcoming titles beginning with the Wii U's Super Smash Bros. out this holiday season. 
Welcome to the amiibo wiki, the wiki about Nintendo's new line of figures that anyone can edit. amiibo are used on the Wii U and 3DS to bring your favorite characters to life on some of the biggest games yet. About. Amiibo (stylized as amiibo) is a near field communication (NFC) based platform, developed by Nintendo. This optional enhancement platform allows compatible figurines to link with supported video games, allowing two-way transfer of data into and out of a supported game, and possibly between supported platforms.
Super Smash Bros. Amiibo compatible figurines were first released in North America on November 21, 2014, in Europe on November 28, 2014, and in Japan on December 6, 2014, along with the release of Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. In March 2013, long predating Amiibo, Nintendo unveiled Pokemon Pokémon Rumble, u the first game for The Wii u to utilize The Wii GamePad 'gamepad s-near field communications support to enable the use of its own interactive. figurines