Glossary. contrast agent: a liquid (usually iodine or gadolinium) that is injected into your body to make certain tissues show up clearly during diagnostic imaging. gadolinium: a type of contrast agent used during MRI. radiofrequency: radiation used in MRI whose waves are in the frequency range of 300 MHz to 3 kHz.
Stroke-Related Disorders. MRI can be used to diagnose stroke, which occurs when blood flow to the brain stops. Two major types of strokes are ischemic, caused by a lack of oxygen reaching brain tissue due to artery narrowing or blockage, and hemorrhagic, caused by a broken vein or artery. MRI brain scans can diagnose several types of disorders. Photo Credit John Foxx/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, brain scans can be a useful diagnostic tool for many different conditions. However, their ability to diagnose conditions such as mental illness is still limited.
1 Head. 2  MRI can look at the brain for tumors, an aneurysm, bleeding in the brain, nerve injury, and other problems, such as damage caused by a stroke. 3  MRI can also find problems of the eyes and optic nerves, and the ears and auditory nerves. 4  Chest. Contrast material may be used during MRI to show abnormal tissue more clearly. An MRI scan can be done for the: 1 
MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is a noninvasive diagnostic test that takes detailed images of the soft tissues of the body. Unlike X-rays or CT, images are created by using a magnetic field, radio waves, and a computer. contrast agent: a liquid (usually iodine or gadolinium) that is injected into your body to make certain tissues show up clearly during diagnostic imaging. gadolinium: a type of contrast agent used during MRI. radiofrequency: radiation used in MRI whose waves are in the frequency range of 300 MHz to 3 kHz.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a diagnostic procedure that uses a combination of a large magnet, radiofrequencies, and a computer to produce detailed images of organs and structures within the body. Unlike X-rays or computed tomography (CT scans), MRI does not use ionizing radiation. New uses and indications for MRI have contributed to the development of additional magnetic resonance technology. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a new procedure used to evaluate blood flow through arteries in a noninvasive (the skin is not pierced) manner.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head is a painless, noninvasive test that produces detailed images of your brain and brain stem. The test is carried out with an MRI machine, which produces the images using a magnetic field and radio waves. This test is also known as a brain MRI or a cranial MRI. An MRI is different from a computed tomography (CT) scan or an X-ray in that it does not use radiation to produce images. The images can be combined to form a 3-D picture of your internal structures, so the MRI is more effective than other scans at detecting abnormalities in the pituitary gland
1 Problems with blood vessels may include an aneurysm or abnormal twisted blood vessels that are present at birth (this is called an arteriovenous [AV] malformation). 2  Check blood flow or blood clots to the brain. 3  MRI can show bleeding in or around the brain. 4  Check symptoms of a known or suspected head injury. 1 MRI can show bleeding in or around the brain. 2  Check symptoms of a known or suspected head injury. 3  Check symptoms such as change in consciousness, confusion, or abnormal movements.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head is done to: 1  Look for the cause of headaches. 2  Help diagnose a stroke or blood vessel problems in the head. 3  Problems with blood vessels may include an aneurysm or abnormal twisted blood vessels that are present at birth (this is called an arteriovenous [AV] malformation). 1 MRI can show bleeding in or around the brain. 2  Check symptoms of a known or suspected head injury. 3  Check symptoms such as change in consciousness, confusion, or abnormal movements.
The MRI can show tissue damage or disease, such as infection or inflammation, or a tumor, stroke, or seizure. Information from an MRI can be saved and stored on a computer for more study. Photographs or films of certain views can also be made. 1 MRI can show bleeding in or around the brain. 2  Check symptoms of a known or suspected head injury. 3  Check symptoms such as change in consciousness, confusion, or abnormal movements.