Add 1 cup of powdered dishwasher detergent, chlorine bleach or white vinegar to the water. Turn on the water jets and allow them to run for 5 minutes. Turn off the jets and allow the water to sit for 20 minutes. Turn on the jets for five to 10 minutes, then turn them off and drain the tub. Whirlpool tubs can provide a relaxing experience for your whole family. However, they require special care and cleaning techniques to remove the dirt, oils and soap scum buildup from the jet system.
Watch the Jacuzzi tub run for about 15 minutes. You should see a lot of dirty water and scum floating around in the tub at this point. Drain the tub and clean out any remaining junk from the walls and floor. You can simply use paper towels or a rag to clean up this mess. Tips & Warnings. 1  Complete the bleach and dishwasher detergent process several times per year to keep your jacuzzi tub clean. 2  If you use any bath salts or bath oils in your Jacuzzi tub you will want to do this process about once per month. 3  This is because those oils and salts will increase the buildup in your jets.
Refill the Jacuzzi tub; again, above the jets. Run the tub at full blast for another 10 minutes to rinse out all of the remaining dirt and bleach. If you notice a lot of junk still coming out of the jets, you may want to repeat the whole process or at least rinse it again until the jets spray clean water. Tips & Warnings. 1  Complete the bleach and dishwasher detergent process several times per year to keep your jacuzzi tub clean. 2  If you use any bath salts or bath oils in your Jacuzzi tub you will want to do this process about once per month. 3  This is because those oils and salts will increase the buildup in your jets.
1 Complete the bleach and dishwasher detergent process several times per year to keep your jacuzzi tub clean. 2  If you use any bath salts or bath oils in your Jacuzzi tub you will want to do this process about once per month. 3  This is because those oils and salts will increase the buildup in your jets. Tips & Warnings. 1  Complete the bleach and dishwasher detergent process several times per year to keep your jacuzzi tub clean. 2  If you use any bath salts or bath oils in your Jacuzzi tub you will want to do this process about once per month. 3  This is because those oils and salts will increase the buildup in your jets.
Clean Tubs with Jets. Fill the tub with very hot water, or that which reaches at least 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Add 1/2 cup of mild dish soap and up to 4 cups of bleach for a heavily soiled tub; add 2 cups of bleach to a slightly dirty tub. Run the jets for 20 minutes. Drain the tub. Fill it again with lukewarm water only. Clear the tub of any soap, soap caddies and bottles and set them aside. Rinse the tub with warm water and a sponge. Mix 1/2 cup of bleach in 1 gallon of water in a bucket. Wipe the tub with the solution and let it sit for at least five minutes. Rinse the tub with cool water and wipe it dry with a towel.
Fill your tub with hot water. You will want it to be at least a couple of inches above the jets, otherwise your jacuzzi will not be cleaned properly. Measure out a half cup of bleach and a tablespoon of detergent and put it in the Jacuzzi tub. Run the jets on their highest setting and fully open the jets. Tips & Warnings. 1  Complete the bleach and dishwasher detergent process several times per year to keep your jacuzzi tub clean. 2  If you use any bath salts or bath oils in your Jacuzzi tub you will want to do this process about once per month. 3  This is because those oils and salts will increase the buildup in your jets.
1 Fill the tub until the jets are covered by 2-3 inches of hot water. 2  Add 2 Tablespoons of a low-sudsing dishwashing liquid and 1/2 cup of bleach. 3  If you want to keep things green, you can substitute 1 cup of white vinegar for the bleach. But there are some simple ways to keep those jets clean using basic household ingredients. 1 
Use a non-abrasive detergent and rinse well after cleaning. 1  Fill the tub with hot water to at least two inches above the highest jet. 2  Add 2 teaspoons of low-suds automatic dishwasher detergent such as Cascade and 4 ounces of household bleach to the water. 3  Operate whirlpool for 10 minutes, drain. Air Bath System. Before the air bath tub is used the system should be flushed. 1  Fill bath with hot water to at least 6 inches above air injector holes. 2  Add 2 teaspoons of low sensing automatic dishwashing detergent and no more than 4 ounces of
Clean a Conventional Tub. Clear the tub of any soap, soap caddies and bottles and set them aside. Rinse the tub with warm water and a sponge. Mix 1/2 cup of bleach in 1 gallon of water in a bucket. Wipe the tub with the solution and let it sit for at least five minutes. Rinse the tub with cool water and wipe it dry with a towel.