Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Glucose is broken down in several steps of cellular respiration. The three main steps in cellular respiration are, in chronological order, Glycolysis, Oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate, and the Krebs Cycle (aka The Citric Acid Cycle). Each of these processes further break down glucose and extracts the energy from the bonds. That energy is then converted and used to make ATP. ATP which is the main energy molecule used by cells. And what fox5nyc said is wrong. Table sugar is sucrose, which is a molecule of fructose and glucose bonded together. Table sugar is NOT straight glucose. Hope this helps
In Stage 1 of Cellular Respiration, Glycolysis occurs, where glucose is broken down in the cytoplasm. Both anaerobic and aerobic processes go though glycolysis. During glycolysis, a one six-carbon molecule of glucose is broken down to three-carbon pyruvates with the help of enzymes. Pyruvate is an ion, a molecule that has lost or gained one or more electrons. This ion makes up a three-carbon organic acid called pyruvic acid. An anaerobic process is a process that uses metabolism without air, while an aerobic process is a process that uses metabolism with air. Synopsis of Cellular Respiration. In Cellular Respiration, energy in organic compounds, including glucose, is harnessed. In stage one of Cellular Respiration, glucose is broken down in the cytoplasm through glycolysis, and converted to pyruvate, which produces a small amount of ATP and NADH
Through the metabolic process known as glycolysis, glucose is converted into pyruvate (CH3COCOO- + H+). The energy from this process creates ATP and NADH. Explained: G … lucose is made through photosynthesis which involves CO2+H2O+Energy = C6H12O6 (a.k.a glucose). Cellular respiration is the process of breaking down glucose for energy used by nearly all complex organisms. It breaks glucose into CO2, H2O, and most importantly, energy.
So, glycolysis (the breakdown of glucose) results in the formation of 2 pyruvic acid and a net gain of 2 ATP. The pyruvic acid is then converted to either lactic acid or alcohol and carbon dioxide without the production of any more ATP. 
If oxygen is present, then glucose can be broken all the way down into carbon dioxide and water. This process is called aerobic respiration because it requires air (oxygen). In the absence of oxygen, the cell uses a process called anaerobic fermentation. or simply fermentation. Glycolysis is the lysing or cutting of glucose to release energy. The six carbon sugar, glucose, is cut in half and converted into two three carbon sugars called pyruvate. What happens next depends on the presence or absence of oxygen.
The anaerobic process of splitting glucose to form pyruvic acid is  called glycolysis. The citric acid cycle is a series of reactions  in aerobic respiration that begins and … ends with the same 6 carbon  compounds. Answered. In Food & Cooking. 
Most carbohydrates (sugars and starches) are converted into glucose before they are broken down in the cytosol to release energy. The series of steps where glucose is broken down to release energy begins with a metabolic pathway called glycolysis. Glycolysis is the lysing or cutting of glucose to release energy. The six carbon sugar, glucose, is cut in half and converted into two three carbon sugars called pyruvate. What happens next depends on the presence or absence of oxygen.
Steps of the anaerobic glycolytic system: 1  Initially stored glycogen is converted to glucose. 2  Glucose is then broken down by a series of enzymes. 3  2 ATP are used to fuel glycolysis and 4 are created so the body gains 2 ATP to use for muscular contraction. 1
Stage 2 Aerobic Respiration. During aerobic cellular respiration, the pyruvate produced during glycolysis enters a mitochondrion where it is converted to a two-carbon compound, making a reaction. A Carbon dioxide molecule, a NADH molecule, and a two-carbon acetyl group are produced because of this reaction. An anaerobic process is a process that uses metabolism without air, while an aerobic process is a process that uses metabolism with air. Synopsis of Cellular Respiration. In Cellular Respiration, energy in organic compounds, including glucose, is harnessed. In stage one of Cellular Respiration, glucose is broken down in the cytoplasm through glycolysis, and converted to pyruvate, which produces a small amount of ATP and NADH