The hip flexor is responsible for significant leg movement, including lifting your thigh. When you strain the muscles of your hip flexor, they might tear, causing pain, or they could rupture, causing severe pain and impaired movement. Several sports can lead to this type of injury, from soccer to football. Step 1. Rest your hip flexor muscles following an injury. Do not run, lift your thigh up high or kick. Do not perform any activity that causes pain in your leg. For the first couple of days, keep with your feet elevated to relieve pain and inflammation from your hip flexor.
One way to determine which you have is that groin pulls will usually cause pain when you perform lateral movements (e.g., cutting sideways) while hip flexor strains do not. Additionally, again due to location, injury to the upper quadriceps can mimic symptoms of a hip flexor strain. There are numerous possible causes of a pulled hip flexor muscle, however, let’s take a look at some of the most common causes: 1  strong contraction of the hip flexor muscles. 2  high kicks or knee movement (e.g., soccer, improper martial arts movements). 3  lack of flexibility in
Overview. A common sports injury, hip flexor strain causes pain in the group of muscles at the front of the hip or groin. Your hip flexors help you to lift your knees and bend at the waist
Common symptoms of a strained hip flexor muscle include: 1  sudden, sharp pain in the upper hip, lower back, front of thigh, and groin where it meets the pelvis during exercise – most usually felt during sprinting, kicking, or high knee movements. 2  pain upon standing or sitting. There are numerous possible causes of a pulled hip flexor muscle, however, let’s take a look at some of the most common causes: 1  strong contraction of the hip flexor muscles. 2  high kicks or knee movement (e.g., soccer, improper martial arts movements). 3  lack of flexibility in
Grade three is a complete hip-flexor tear usually with extreme pain and loss of muscle function. A hip flexor strain is tearing of one or more of the hip flexor muscles, typically with pain in the front of the hip or groin. 1  grade one hip flexor strain recovery time is one to two weeks. 2  Minor strain requiring rest and the conventional RICE (rest, ice, compression, elevation). 
Hip Flexor Strain. (Also known as Hip Flexor Injury, Iliopsoas Strain, Psoas Strain, Hip Flexor Tear, Strained Iliopsoas Muscle, Torn Iliopsoas Muscle, Pulled Hip Flexor). A strain is a stretch or tear of a muscle or tendon, a band of tissue that connects muscle to bone. The tendon may be inflamed. Inflammation of a tendon is called tendonitis. The hip flexor muscles allow you to lift your knee and bend at the waist. 
Hip Flexor Strain. A hip flexor strain causes pain at the front of the hip. The hip flexors are a group of muscles which work to lift the thigh upwards. They also assist in lifting the trunk when in a laying position. The two main muscles in this group are the Iliopsoas and the Rectus Femoris. Symptoms of a Hip Flexor Strain. 1  Pain at the front of the hip. 2  Pain develops suddenly. 3  Pain is made worse by raising the thigh against resistance. 4  Stretching these muscles may causes pain. 5  It may be tender to touch the area at the front of the hip, although Iliopsoas is very deep so difficult to feel.
View image. A hip flexor strain is a stretch or tear of a muscle in your hip. You use the hip flexor muscles when you flex or lift your knee, do high kicks, or bend at the waist. Your muscles can get strained from overuse. 