1 There are different types of RV battery chargers that you can use. 2  A 3-stage charger works well because it will slow down as it reaches a full charge, so you don't have to keep an eye on it the whole time it is charging. 3  Your battery may not require distilled water. Warnings. 1  Be careful not to get any of the battery acid on your skin. 2  It will burn. 3  If you do get acid on your skin, wash it off with a mixture of water and baking soda. 4  Do not attempt to charge the RV battery with the RV running. 5  Do not remove the battery cables without wearing heavy gloves, or you could get a shock.
So if the only charging device you have is a converter, it can take many hours to recharge a depleted battery. The typical alternator on a motorhome or tow rig engine can charge batteries at from 40 amps to 100 amps. However running this engine is not very efficient. More expensive two stage converter/charger ($300) have capacity to provide 30 amps of battery charging. The most expensive three or four stage converter/charger ($600) can provide over 100 amps of charging capability. 
“Make sure to use a charger specifically designed for deep-cycle or marine/RV batteries. To fully charge a completely discharged battery with a 10-amp charger may take approximately 6-10 hours. Charging time will vary based on size of battery, state-of-charge and size of charger.”. THIS MAY BE CONTROVERSIAL. If you own a camper or other recreational vehicle, it probably has a battery or two or at least is set up for a battery. If you want to utilize a battery in your RV, battery selection is paramount and probably more important is the proper charging settings.
rv image by Greg Pickens from Fotolia.com. Charging the batteries in a recreational vehicle is not a difficult task, but it does require a bit of concentration. Since all of your appliances and lights are powered by the batteries, it's important to keep a full charge. Step 2. Open up the location where the battery or batteries are stored. Depending on the size of your RV and how many things require power, you could have two or more batteries to keep charged. Step 3. Wipe any corrosive material off the connections with a rag or paper towel.
RV Battery Converter-Chargers. The basic RV charging system is called a Converter-Charger. Its primary function is to convert 120v shore power to 12V DC power so that your battery does not need to provide DC while you are plugged in. Its secondary function is to charge the battery(s) when and if it has excess capacity. 
1 You can jump-start the battery with jumper cables if you do not have a battery charger. 2  There are different types of RV battery chargers that you can use. 3  A 3-stage charger works well because it will slow down as it reaches a full charge, so you don't have to keep an eye on it the whole time it is charging. Warnings. 1  Be careful not to get any of the battery acid on your skin. 2  It will burn. 3  If you do get acid on your skin, wash it off with a mixture of water and baking soda. 4  Do not attempt to charge the RV battery with the RV running. 5  Do not remove the battery cables without wearing heavy gloves, or you could get a shock.
For some, electricity and the workings of things electrical is a mystery. The purpose of this primer is to help you understand some simple principles that relate to lead acid batteries used in RV's. By the end of this article, I hope you will understand a little about electricity and how to charge your RV batteries. I will try to present this information by relating electrical terms into something that may be a little easier to understand. For usage in RV's the charge time can vary considerably, from over night to a month or more. What voltage should our RV batteries be charged at. There are many factors, all with a specific answer which can get complex depending upon how many factors you take into consideration.
If your RV is equipped with a battery disconnect switch, make sure it is in the OFF position when you’re not using the RV or when it is in storage. Batteries in storage will self discharge. It’s not uncommon for a battery to discharge up to 10 percent a month. 
Tips. 1  You can jump-start the battery with jumper cables if you do not have a battery charger. 2  There are different types of RV battery chargers that you can use. 3  A 3-stage charger works well because it will slow down as it reaches a full charge, so you don't have to keep an eye on it the whole time it is charging. Warnings. 1  Be careful not to get any of the battery acid on your skin. 2  It will burn. 3  If you do get acid on your skin, wash it off with a mixture of water and baking soda. 4  Do not attempt to charge the RV battery with the RV running. 5  Do not remove the battery cables without wearing heavy gloves, or you could get a shock.