Avaya Aura. An IP PBX is a private branch exchange (telephone switching system within an enterprise) that switches calls between VoIP (voice over Internet Protocol or IP) users on local lines while allowing all users to share a certain number of external phone lines. The typical IP PBX can also switch calls between a VoIP user and a traditional telephone user, or between two traditional telephone users in the same way that a conventional PBX does.
An IP PBX can be referred to as a lot of things: a business phone system, a unified communication system, or simply as a PBX.. These are a lot of different names but ultimately all mean the same thing. The PBX in IP PBX stands for Private Branch Exchange, which is actually a bit of a dated term that has changed considerably throughout the past hundred years.
A PBX (Private Branch Exchange) is a switch station for telephone systems. It consists mainly of several branches of telephone systems and it switches connections to and from them, thereby linking phone lines. Definition: A PBX (Private Branch Exchange) is a switch station for telephone systems. It consists mainly of several branches of telephone systems and it switches connections to and from them, thereby linking phone lines. Companies use a PBX for connecting all their internal phones to an external line.
An IP PBX or VoIP phone system replaces a traditional PBX or phone system and gives employees an extension number, the ability to conference, transfer and dial other colleagues. All calls are sent via data packets over a data network instead of the traditional phone network. 
IP PBX is a phone system that utilizes IP communications. Traditionally IP PBX's are located on site where they can also interface to traditional telco services such as analogue phone lines. The business end users connect via IP to the IP PBX for voice service. The PBX in IP PBX stands for Private Branch Exchange, which is actually a bit of a dated term that has changed considerably throughout the past hundred years.
An IP PBX is a PBX with Internet Protocol connectivity and may provide additional audio, video, or instant messaging communication utilizing the TCP/IP protocol stack. The features of an IP PBX are similar to the features of a normal PBX but are typically enhanced with features taking advantage of Internet / intranet connectivity, such as: 1  Unified communications / unified messaging. 2  Voicemail transcription (speech to text). 3  Find me/follow me.
An IP PBX is a combination of a switch/router and a PBX that handles Voice over IP (VoIP): IPLAPBX PC PC PC PSTN Internet Internet To Main Office IP Phone IP Phone Fax IP Phone N LAN www.silicon-press.com Email: info@silicon-press.com Tel: 908-273-8919 Fax: 908-273-6149 © Silicon Press. In an IP PBX, computers can be on a shared LAN that is connected to the IP PBX. Telephones, on the other hand, should be directly connected to the IP PBX. This avoids Quality of Service (QoS) issues that arise if both computers and telephones are on a shared LAN.
Also known as an IP PBX, Unified Communications System or business phone system, a PBX acts as the central switching system for phone calls within a business. PBX systems handle internal traffic between stations and act as the gatekeeper to the outside world. 
The IP PBX has a directory of all phones/users and their corresponding SIP address and thus is able to connect an internal call or route an external call via either a VoIP gateway or a VoIP service provider to the desired destination. The IP PBX server is similar to a proxy server: SIP clients, being either soft phones or hardware based phones, register with the IP PBX server, and when they wish to make a call they ask the IP PBX to establish the connection.
Also referred to as an IP PBX, VoIP PBX systems can typically switch calls between VoIP on local lines or between VoIP and traditional telephone users in the same way a PBX does. A VoIP PBX system can be hardware based or can function entirely as a software system. 