Ethanol is a volatile, flammable, colorless liquid with a slight chemical odor. It is used as an antiseptic, a solvent, a fuel, and, due to its low freezing point, the active fluid in post-mercury thermometers. Its structural formula, CH 3CH 2OH, is often abbreviated as C 2H 5OH, C 2H 6O or EtOH. Ethanol is the systematic name defined by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) for a molecule with two carbon atoms (prefix eth-), having a single bond between them (suffix -ane), and an attached functional group-OH group (suffix -ol).
Ethanol has the chemical formula CH 3 CH 2 OH and is often simply called 'alcohol' by the general public. However, the term alcohol actually refers to a whole family of organic chemicals of which ethanol is only one member. Historically, ethanol has been used as a fuel-you may even have once had a chemistry set with a methylated spirit or alcohol burner in it to act as a heating source. Ethanol has a combustion value of 26.8MJ/kg, which is better than that of wood but less than that of petrol.
Ethanol /ˈɛθənɒl/ , also commonly called ethyl alcohol, drinking alcohol, or simply alcohol is the principal type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages, produced by the fermentation of sugars by yeasts. It is a neurotoxic psychoactive drug and one of the oldest recreational drugs used by humans. Ethanol is the systematic name defined by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) for a molecule with two carbon atoms (prefix eth-), having a single bond between them (suffix -ane), and an attached functional group-OH group (suffix -ol).
Photo: Warren Gretz, NREL 10571. Ethanol, or ethyl alcohol, has the chemical formula C 2 H 5 OH. It is the same alcohol found in alcoholic beverages, but ethanol also makes an effective motor fuel. There have been decades of motor fuel application experience in the United States and other countries with ethanol. 
Prof. Shakhashiri www.scifun.org General Chemistry ETHANOL Ethanol (ethyl alcohol, grain alcohol) is a clear, colorless liquid with a characteristic, agreeable odor. In diluteaqueous solution, it has a somewhat sweet flavor, but in mo re concentrated solutions it has a burning taste. 
Ethanol. Ethanol or ethyl alcohol is commonly called alcohol. Ethanol in its pure state is a colorless flammable liquid which is completely miscible with water. Ethanol is made from the fermentation of sugars from agricultural crops such as 1. barley used to make beer or 2. grapes used to make wine. The molecular formula for ethanol is C 2 H 6 O and its molar mass is 46.068 g/mol. Pure ethanol is used as solvent for esters, medicines, solvent based paints and perfumes. It is also used as a cleaning product (methylated spirits).
The electronegativity of the oxygen atom, which polarises hydroxyl groups, is what makes ethanol such a good polar solvent-and this is a major use for ethanol in chemistry. It mixes with water in all proportions forming hydrogen bonds between the hydroxyl group of the alcohol with those in the water. Historically, ethanol has been used as a fuel-you may even have once had a chemistry set with a methylated spirit or alcohol burner in it to act as a heating source. Ethanol has a combustion value of 26.8MJ/kg, which is better than that of wood but less than that of petrol.
Once alcohol (or ethanol, the chemical in alcoholic beverages) is in your bloodstream, it is carried to the brain and all the organs of your body within 90 seconds. 
Ethanol is ethyl alcohol or grain alcohol. It is the type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages. Here's a look at its chemical formula. Answer: There is more than one way to represent the chemical formula of ethanol. The molecular formula is CH 3 CH 2 OH. The empirical formula of ethanol is C 2 H 6 O. The chemical formula also may be written as CH 3 –CH 2 –OH