Eleutherococcus, also known as eleuthero or Siberian ginseng, grows in mountain forests and is native to eastern Asia including China, Japan, and Russia. 
Overview. Siberian ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus), also known as eleuthero, has been used for centuries in Eastern countries, including China and Russia. Despite its name, it is completely different from American (Panax quinquefolius) and Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng), and has different active chemical components. Siberian ginseng is available as liquid extracts, solid extracts, powders, capsules, and tablets, and as dried or cut root for tea. The quality of many herbal supplements, including Siberian ginseng, may vary greatly.
Eleutherococcus senticosus is a species of small, woody shrub in the family Araliaceae native to Northeastern Asia. It is often colloquially referred to as Siberian ginseng, eleuthero or ciwujia. 
Save. Siberian ginseng is an herb that has been used in Eastern countries, such as Russia and China. Siberian ginseng is different from American or Asian ginseng due to its different chemical compounds. Russians and Siberians have used ginseng as an adaptogen, which allows them to adapt to mental and physical stressors like the harsh winters. Siberian ginseng was used to stimulate appetite and enhance memory
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Siberian ginseng, also known as eleuthero, is a plant that is grown primarily in northern Asia. Some say that a naturopathic medicine made from the root of the plant can help conditions ranging from the common cold to memory loss. However, evidence showing that it works is limited. In traditional Russian medicine, Siberian ginseng is used to stimulate the immune system. Shigoka, the Siberian ginseng rhizome, is a traditional medicine used as a tonic in northeastern Asia and far eastern Russia.
Ginseng is characterized by the presence of ginsenosides and gintonin. Siberian ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus) is in the same family, but not genus, as true ginseng. Like ginseng, it is considered to be an adaptogenic herb. The active compounds in Siberian ginseng are eleutherosides, not ginsenosides. Instead of a fleshy root, Siberian ginseng has a woody root. 
Siberian ginseng, also known as santa root or root of life, is a spiny, woody shrub with a carrot-like root, in the family Araliaceae. It is native to East Asia, China, Japan, and Russia. 
Siberian ginseng was traditionally used to prevent colds and flu and to increase energy, longevity, and vitality. It is widely used in Russia as an adaptogen.. An adaptogen is a substance that is supposed to help the body better cope with either mental or physical stress. Siberian ginseng is available as liquid extracts, solid extracts, powders, capsules, and tablets, and as dried or cut root for tea. The quality of many herbal supplements, including Siberian ginseng, may vary greatly.
Siberian Ginseng Benefits. Siberian ginseng, also known as Eleuthero, is considered as a normalizer, stress reducer and energizer. It has been traditionally used to negate stress and fatigue. It is often used as a tonic to invigorate a person physically and mentally. It’s considered an “adaptogen”. Siberian ginseng is a shrub that can be found at the foot of cliffs and in oak groves and has in the past, been used to prevent flu and colds. It’s also a powerful energy booster and used for vitality and longevity.
GINSENG, SIBERIAN Overview Information. Siberian ginseng is a plant. People use the root of the plant to make medicine. Siberian ginseng is often called an “adaptogen.” This is a non-medical term used to describe substances that can supposedly strengthen the body and increase general resistance to daily stress. Children: Siberian ginseng is POSSIBLY SAFE in teenagers (ages 12-17 years) when taken by mouth for up to 6 weeks. There is not enough reliable information about the safety of Siberian ginseng when taken by teenagers long-term.