Dystonia is a general term which describes involuntary movements and extended muscle contractions-a range of movement disorders. The patient has twisting body movements, tremor and unusual or awkward postures. Dystonia is also defined according to body part(s) affected: Dystonia can also be classified according to age of onset: A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor notice.
1 Secondary dystonia-when dystonia signs and symptoms occur as a consequence of an underlying condition-usually genetic, neurological or an injury which affects the nervous system. 2  Focal dystonia-only one part of the body is affected. 3  Segmental dystonia-two or more regions of the body are affected. Dystonia is also defined according to body part(s) affected: Dystonia can also be classified according to age of onset: A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor notice.
Dystonia is a neurological movement disorder in which sustained muscle contractions cause twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The movements may resemble a tremor. Dystonia is often initiated or worsened by voluntary movements, and symptoms may “overflow” into adjacent muscles. Dystonia is classified by: 1. Clinical characteristics such as age of onset, body distribution, nature of the symptoms, and associated features such as additional movement disorders or neurological symptoms, and 2. Cause (which includes changes or damage to the nervous system and inheritance).
Keep smiling, friends. Or try. Dystonia causes involuntary repetitive twisting and sustained muscle contractions. These result in abnormal movements and postures. The symptoms usually begin in one body region, such as the neck, face, vocal cords, an arm or a leg, and then may spread to other parts of the body.
Cervical dystonia, also known as torticollis, is the most common type of dystonia and affects the muscles in the neck. There are thought to be 40,000 people in the UK with this condition with the average age of sufferers being the early 40s, and with more women being affected than men. Cervical dystonia causes the muscles in the neck to spasm or contract meaning that the head and neck twist, are pulled forward, pulled backward or pulled from side to side.
0. 4. A dystonia is a lasting muscle spasm that may cause repeated twisting movements, or unusual body positions. It can affect just one muscle, a group of muscles such as those in the arms, legs, or neck, or the entire body. About 1 person in 900 is thought to have a type of dystonia in the UK. These vary with the type of dystonia that you have. A dystonia is a lasting muscle spasm that often causes repeated twisting movements or unusual body positions. The severity of the muscle spasm often changes depending on the position the person is in and whether the area of the body involved is doing something.
Dystonia is a movement disorder in which a person's muscles contract uncontrollably. The contraction causes the affected body part to twist involuntarily, resulting in repetitive movements or abnormal postures. Dystonia can affect one muscle, a muscle group, or the entire body. 1 Oromandibular dystonia causes spasms of the jaw, lips, and tongue muscles. 2  This dystonia can cause problems with speech and swallowing. 3  Spasmodic dystonia affects the throat muscles that are responsible for speech. 4  Tardive dystonia is caused by a reaction to a drug