Taxonomy/Description The Northern Cardinal is a member of the Order Passeriformes which means perching birds. It is in the family Cardinalidae, which is made up of cardinals and grosbeaks. It is also in the Genus, Cardinalis, which contains the Cardinals.photo Ivan Andrijevic The Northern Cardinal is a medium sized songbird with a large crest on the head, and a thick conical bill.
Scientific name: Cardinalis cardinalis Common name: Northern Cardinal. (Information in this Species Page was compiled by Tim Burg in Spring, 2001 and Mindy Beale in Spring 2004 for Biology 220W at Penn State New Kensington). Appearance. The northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is one of the most recognized birds of North America. The bright red body feathers and distinctive black mask of the male and the more subdued but equally elegant olive brown and red-tinted females stand out clearly in their wide range of preferred habitats.lso, cowbirds are common nest parasites, and northern cardinals complete with catbirds and mockingbirds for nesting sites. On average, northern cardinals live for 3 years in the wild although several individuals have had life spans of 13 to 15 years. The longevity record for a captive northern cardinal is 28 ½ years!
The northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal. It can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico. It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps. The northern cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 cm (8.3 in). It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female
Also, cowbirds are common nest parasites, and northern cardinals complete with catbirds and mockingbirds for nesting sites. On average, northern cardinals live for 3 years in the wild although several individuals have had life spans of 13 to 15 years. The longevity record for a captive northern cardinal is 28 ½ years!
Insects, seeds, fruit, nuts, sap, berries, cracked corn. Habitat and Migration: Northern cardinals are common throughout the eastern United States from Maine to Florida and continuing west to southern Minnesota, Nebraska, Texas and the eastern half of Mexico. These birds prefer dense woodland cover but can easily be found in suburban areas.
The northern cardinal is the state bird of seven states, more than any other species: Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and West Virginia. It was also a candidate to become the state bird of Delaware, but lost to the Delaware Blue Hen. It can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico. It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps. The northern cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 cm (8.3 in).
The Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis). The Northern Cardinal is the official Bird of the Deep South Region. Despite its name, the Northern Cardinal is a bird that originated in the Southeast. In the last one hundred years, it has expanded it's territory north and northwest of the Mississippi River. The Northern in its name refers to it being a bird of the northern hemisphere. The common and familiar Northern Cardinal is a bird whose range has expanded northward in the last 100 years. Originally a bird of the Southeast, the Northern Cardinal’s range expanded north and northwest along the Mississippi River and its tributaries
BIRDS » 100 COMMON BIRDS OF TENNESSEE. Northern CardinalCardinalis cardinalisRedbird is a popular common name for the Northern Cardinal. This non-migratory bird is abundant in Tennessee and can be found in a variety of habitats from suburban neighborhoods and rural areas, to bottomland forests and mountainsides. A cardinal will often spend its entire life within a mile of where it hatched. Policies & Privacy ©Copyright 2015 TWRA Listen: Birdcall Adult male Share BIRDS » 100 COMMON BIRDS OF TENNESSEE Northern CardinalCardinalis cardinalisRedbird is a popular common name for the Northern Cardinal.
Male cardinals are very distinctive, with a brilliant red body and a black face. (Runner Jenny/Flickr). The northern cardinal is a small, red songbird that lives in gardens, backyards and wooded areas throughout the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Cardinals grow to 7 to 9 inches in length with a long tail.