Measuring for curtain poles. 1  Decide where the pole is to be positioned. 2  Measure the required width (A), taking into account the space needed for the curtains to be drawn back either side of the window (B). 3  Ensure there is space for your chosen finial at either end of. 4  the pole (C). 5  Watch videos on how to measure up for poles. 1 Decide where the pole is to be positioned. 2  This can be either on the window frame or above it on the wall. 3  Measure the required width (A), taking into account the space needed for the curtains to be drawn back either side of the window (B). 4  Ensure there is space for your chosen finial at either end of. 5  the pole (C).
Should we put the curtains at the same height and have more of the wall showing than the other, or have the rods at the same height but have them uneven in the living room. I hope that is easy to understand. Thanks. Reply. says: 03/02/2013 at 7:40 pm. Yes the curtains should be the same height. Source. The window above is probably the same size as the ones in the first image but the rod is longer on each side leaving enough room for the drapery to just cover the casing which makes the window look bigger in addition to adding softness and vertical height.
Tip #1: Hang the Window Treatment High. Hang the window treatment high to give the illusion of height; this is the most important rule when hanging a curtain. The pole or valance should be hung a minimum of 4 inches and a maximum of 12 inches above the top of the window in most cases. When this rule is ignored and the curtain is hung on or just above the wood work, it always looks unprofessional and inexpensive. Hanging the curtain outside the window frame also prevents shadows on the sides of the window. When a curtain panel is hanging in the open position, each curtain panel should measure 12 inches in width.
2) Measure the width of your window space. The curtain pole should be wider than your windows by approximately 15-20cm either side, allowing enough space for the curtains to be tied back when required. 
Next decide how much space you want to allow for curtains to be drawn back either side of the window-Measurement B. This should be at least 15cm (6”) each side i.e. 30cm (12”) in total. All pole measurements are that of the pole only, on which the curtain rings can travel so always check that there is space for the finial design you have chosen. If you are unsure of the pole length to choose then choose the longer size as most poles can be cut down to size.
Shower Curtain Rod Height. A standard shower curtain is typically 72 inches long, so the curtain rod should be installed around 75 to 77 inches from the floor. This height will keep the shower curtain from touching the floor. 
If you have an existing curtain pole which you are replacing then measuring the length of this will give you the correct length for your new pole. If you are using a curtain pole for the first time then follow our measuring guide to be sure you buy the right length curtain pole. If you are measuring for a bay window use the How to Measure: Bay Windows guide instead. All you need is a tape measure, metal ones are best as fabric or paper ones can stretch over time. All pole measurements are that of the pole only, on which the curtain rings can travel so always check that there is space for the finial design you have chosen. If you are unsure of the pole length to choose then choose the longer size as most poles can be cut down to size.
The 96″ curtain panels with a 2-3 inch drop from the ring clips should bring you pretty close to the top of the ceiling. We suggest hanging the rod maybe a few inches above the top of the window, somewhere in between the ceiling and the window frame. 
Length. Measure the length of the window or area you want to cover from top to bottom. Overall curtain length, anywhere from the sill to the apron or to the floor is a personal preference and need not be exact. By moving your rod up or down a little you can adjust the position of the curtain at your window. 