Clan Calder is a Highland Scottish clan. The clan is recognised by the Lord Lyon King of Arms but as it does not currently have a clan chief it is therefore considered an Armigerous clan. The name of Calder did not disappear and the Calders of Asswanly received lands near Elgin in 1440. In 1686 this family obtained a baronetcy of Nova Scotia. The most notable member of this branch of the clan was Robert Calder who saw substantial service in the Napoleonic Wars.
Calder Name Meaning. Scottish: habitational name from any of the various places called Calder, Caldor, or Cawdor. Calder in Thurso is recorded in the early 13th century in the form Kalfadal and was named with Old Norse kalfr ‘calf’ + dalr ‘valley’.
Calder /cal-der/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAHL-der. It is of Celtic and Old English origin, and the meaning of Calder is stream. Geographical name based on rivulets in the English landscape, such as Brooks and Burne. Sculptor Alexander Calder. Kreatif forms: Calde, Calderro, Cloder. Calder is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#6661 out of 150436, Top 4%).
Origins of the Clan [edit]. The surname of Calder is believed to be of territorial origin, being derived from the Old Scots word for a small stream. It is found as a place name throughout Scotland. For example, East Calder and West Calder that are both near Edinburgh, and also Calderwood near Glasgow. The name of Calder did not disappear and the Calders of Asswanly received lands near Elgin in 1440. In 1686 this family obtained a baronetcy of Nova Scotia. The most notable member of this branch of the clan was Robert Calder who saw substantial service in the Napoleonic Wars.
This interesting surname may be of either early medieval English or Scottish origin, and is a locational name from Calder in Cumberland, or from any of the various places in Scotland called Calder or Cawdor. This is probably an ancient British (pre-Roman) name from ancestors of the Welsh caked, hard, harsh, violent, with dwfr, water, stream. Calder in Thurso, Caithness, is recorded in the early 13th Century in the form Kalfadal, and gets its name from the Old Norse kalf, calf, with dair, valley.
Origin of the name Calder: Transferred use of English surname derived from several river names which are believed to be from the Gaelic elements coille (a wood) and dur (a stream) or from the Welsh call (a breaking or starting out) and dwr (water). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. We named our son Calder (2 years old) because we were looking for something unique but not weird or made up sounding. We loved the connection to art and hockey and felt it would be a good reflection of us and the things we enjoy.
Tweet. Calder is used mostly in the English language and its language of origin is Welsh. The meaning of the name is violent stream. The first name is derived from an English surname, possiby from Calder in Cumbria. It is of the Welsh elements 'caled' (meaning violent, hard) and 'dwfr' (stream, water). The surname was borne by the American sculptor Alexander Calder (1898-1976), who invented mobile kinetic sculpture.