inflammation-a response of body tissues to injury or irritation; characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat. 1. redness, swelling, and fever in a local area of the body, often with pain and disturbed function, in reaction to an infection or to a physical or chemical injury. 2. the act or fact of inflaming. 3. the state of being inflamed.
Full Definition of INFLAMMATION. 1. : a local response to cellular injury that is marked by capillary dilatation, leukocytic infiltration, redness, heat, and pain and that serves as a mechanism initiating the elimination of noxious agents and of damaged tissue. 2. : the act of inflaming: the state of being inflamed.
Medical Definition of INFLAMMATION. : a local response to cellular injury that is marked by capillary dilatation, leukocytic infiltration, redness, heat, pain, swelling, and often loss of function and that serves as a mechanism initiating the elimination of noxious agents and of damaged tissue. 1. : a local response to cellular injury that is marked by capillary dilatation, leukocytic infiltration, redness, heat, and pain and that serves as a mechanism initiating the elimination of noxious agents and of damaged tissue. 2. : the act of inflaming: the state of being inflamed.
Inflammation (Latin, inflammatio) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants. Inflammation is a protective response that involves immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.
Inflammation is characterized by pain, redness, swelling, heat, and disturbance of function. It may be acute or chronic. The term is not synonymous with. infection, which implies an inflammatory reaction initiated by invasion of living organisms. chronic inflammation prolonged and persistent inflammation marked chiefly by new connective tissue formation; it may be a continuation of an acute form or a prolonged low-grade form. exudative inflammation one in which the prominent feature is an exudate.
The reaction of a part of the body to injury or infection, characterized by swelling, heat, and pain. Inflammation increases the amount of blood flow to the injured area, bringing in more white blood cells and often healing the damaged tissue. 1. redness, swelling, and fever in a local area of the body, often with pain and disturbed function, in reaction to an infection or to a physical or chemical injury. 2. the act or fact of inflaming. 3. the state of being inflamed.
Inflammation: A localized reaction that produces redness, warmth, swelling, and pain as a result of infection, irritation, or injury. Inflammation can be external or internal. 
1. inflammation-a response of body tissues to injury or irritation; characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat. redness, rubor. inflammatory disease-a disease characterized by inflammation. adenitis-inflammation of a gland or lymph node. 1. redness, swelling, and fever in a local area of the body, often with pain and disturbed function, in reaction to an infection or to a physical or chemical injury. 2. the act or fact of inflaming. 3. the state of being inflamed.
inflammation. n. 1. (Pathology) the reaction of living tissue to injury or infection, characterized by heat, redness, swelling, and pain. 2. the act of inflaming or the state of being inflamed. 1. redness, swelling, and fever in a local area of the body, often with pain and disturbed function, in reaction to an infection or to a physical or chemical injury. 2. the act or fact of inflaming. 3.
Etymology: L, inflammare, to set afire. the protective or destructive response of body tissues to irritation or injury. Inflammation may be acute or chronic. Its cardinal signs are redness (rubor), heat (calor), swelling (tumor), and pain (dolor), often accompanied by loss of function. chronic inflammation prolonged and persistent inflammation marked chiefly by new connective tissue formation; it may be a continuation of an acute form or a prolonged low-grade form. exudative inflammation one in which the prominent feature is an exudate.