New Zealand Flag Meaning: The Union Jack represents New Zealand's British Commonwealth heritage. The Blue background symbolizes the sea and sky. The four stars symbolizing the constellation 'the Southern Cross', represent the stars Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. The Southern Cross is a prominent constellation in the southern hemisphere, and represents New Zealand's geographical position to the rest of the world. New Zealand Antilles Flag History: The New Zealand flag was adopted on June 12, 1902 but the flag was actually introduced in 1869.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The union jack in the top left is the British ensign included when NZ was still a Briish colony. The four red stars represent the 4 brightest stars in the southern cross as seen from New Zealand. The Stars on the New Zealand flag represent the Southern Cross Star constellation which is only visible in the Southern Hemisphere, and south of latitude 30 degrees in the Nor … thern hemisphere. The formation actually omits the fifth star in the constellation
Proportions: 1:2. New Zealand Flag Description: The flag of New Zealand consists of a dark blue base with a British Union Jack in the upper left quarter. On the right side of the flag are four, five-point red stars outlined in white. The stars are positioned to represent a southern cross. The Southern Cross is a prominent constellation in the southern hemisphere, and represents New Zealand's geographical position to the rest of the world. New Zealand Antilles Flag History: The New Zealand flag was adopted on June 12, 1902 but the flag was actually introduced in 1869.
The flag of New Zealand is a defaced Blue Ensign with the Union Flag in the canton, and four red stars with white borders to the right. The stars' pattern represents the asterism within the constellation of Crux, the Southern Cross. The first flag of New Zealand was adopted 9 (or 20) March 1834 by a vote made by the United Tribes of New Zealand, a meeting of Māori chiefs convened at Waitangi by British resident James Busby.
New Zealand Flag Description. The flag of New Zealand is blue with the British Union Jack in the upper left corner (the canton), and four red stars making up the Southern Cross. The Union Jack, which is the flag of Great Britain, reflects New Zealand's history as a British colony. The stars on New Zealand's flag represent the Southern Cross, a constellation of stars, forming the ends of a cross, that shine brightly in the skies of the Southern Hemisphere. The flag of New Zealand has a 1:2 ratio. Resemblance.
The 4 stars represent the southern cross, which is a constellation seen in the southern hemisphere. New Zealand's flag also has a small union jack on it which symbolises NZ' … s association with Britain and the queen as its head of state. The Stars on the New Zealand flag represent the Southern Cross Star constellation which is only visible in the Southern Hemisphere, and south of latitude 30 degrees in the Nor … thern hemisphere. The formation actually omits the fifth star in the constellation
The colours on the New Zealand flag represent: White: Peace and Honesty Red: Hardiness, … Strength, Bravery and valour Blue: Vigilance, Truth, Loyalty, Preservance, and Justice. Note: Crux, The cross is commonly known as the southern cross. The stars symbolize the southern cross. The Stars on the New Zealand flag represent the Southern Cross Star constellation which is only visible in the Southern Hemisphere, and south of latitude 30 degrees in the Nor … thern hemisphere. The formation actually omits the fifth star in the constellation
Page 1 – Introduction. The New Zealand flag is the symbol of the realm, government and people of New Zealand. Its royal blue background is derived from the ensign of the Blue Squadron of the Royal Navy. The stars of the Southern Cross emphasise this country's location in the South Pacific Ocean. The New Zealand flag hasn't always been our official flag. It was adopted in 1902 amidst the pomp and patriotism of the South African War. For six decades before that, the Union Jack fluttered from New Zealand's flagpoles. But even that wasn't our first flag.
New Zealand's first flag, the flag of the United Tribes of New Zealand, was adopted in 1834, six years before New Zealand became a British colony following the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi in 1840. The first flag of New Zealand was adopted 9 (or 20) March 1834 by a vote made by the United Tribes of New Zealand, a meeting of Māori chiefs convened at Waitangi by British resident James Busby.