Arthritis means joint inflammation. The joint inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling, pain, stiffness, and redness in the joints. The inflammation of rheumatoid disease can also occur in tissues around the joints, such as the tendons, ligaments, and muscles. 1 Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that can cause chronic inflammation of the joints and other areas of the body. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs include. 3  joint pain in the feet, hands, and knees, 4  swollen joints, 5  fever, 6  tender joints, 7  loss of joint function,
A. A. Unlike osteoarthritis, a condition caused by wear and tear on joints, rheumatoid arthritis happens when your immune system targets your joint linings. It’s a long-term condition that also affects other tissue, but the joints are usually the most severely affected. Doctors don’t know exactly what causes RA. 
A. A. Arthritis means inflammation in a joint. That inflammation causes redness, warmth, swelling, and pain within the joint. Rheumatoid arthritis affects joints on both sides of the body, such as both hands, both wrists, or both knees. This symmetry helps to set it apart from other types of arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is one of a group of diseases, called autoimmune diseases, in which the body's immune cells mistakenly attack the body's own tissues or organs. In the case of RA, the assault occurs in the joints of the body, producing inflammation, pain, and impaired movement. 
Background. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease of unknown cause. The hallmark feature of this condition is persistent symmetric polyarthritis (synovitis) that affects the hands and feet, though any joint lined by a synovial membrane may be involved. 
Share +. Text A A A. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease where the body's immune system attacks normal joint tissues, causing inflammation of the joint lining. This inflammation of the joint lining (called the synovium) can cause pain, stiffness, swelling, warmth, and redness
Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that affects the joints. It causes pain, swelling, and stiffness. If one knee or hand has rheumatoid arthritis, usually the other does too. This disease often occurs in more than one joint and can affect any joint in the body. 
The pathophysiology of rheumatoid arthritis is mediated by an inter-related network of cytokines, proteolytic enzymes and prostanoids. IL-1, TNF-alpha, etc. are proinflammatory cytokines and are the central mediators in the disease. 