Traditionally, Plasmodium species were described based on morphological and morphometric characteristics, primarily of the blood stage of the lifecycle. Other characters used in the past for classification have been virulence-level and life-cycle period in the erythrocytic stage (24, 48, or 72 hours). Although Plasmodium parasites infect a variety of vertebrate hosts (including primates, rodents, ungulates, birds, and lizards), they rarely cause severe disease in any vertebrate hosts other than humans.
Trophozoites-Plasmodium falciparum: Early trophozoites have the characteristic signet ring shape. Also, unique to P. falciparum is the presence of multiple trophozoites in one cell. Trophozoites-Plasmodium vivax: Red blood cells infected by P. vivax are often larger than uninfected red blood cells. 
There are four parasites that infect humans and cause malaria: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. malariae, and P. ovale. Although Plasmodium parasites infect a variety of vertebrate hosts (including primates, rodents, ungulates, birds, and lizards), they rarely cause severe disease in any vertebrate hosts other than humans. The most common forms of human malaria are caused by Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. knowlesi, and P. malariae. P. falciparum, common in sub-Saharan Africa, and P. knowlesi, common in Southeast Asia, are especially dangerous.
Plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite that causes an infectious disease known as malaria. P. falciparum is the most severe strain of the malaria species correlated with almost every malarial death. [1] The other 3 species that cause malaria include: P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae. [3] There are four common species of Malaria of which P. falciparum is the most severe. Plasmodium falciparum continues to increase in drug-resistant populations and insecticide-resistant mosquitoes leading to the prediction that the disease will only worsen over time.
The parasite is thought to have originated from Dinoflagellates, photosynthetic protozoa. The most common forms of human malaria are caused by Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. knowlesi, and P. malariae. P. falciparum, common in sub-Saharan Africa, and P. knowlesi, common in Southeast Asia, are especially dangerous. The genus Plasmodium was first described in 1885. It now contains about 200 species divided into several subgenera; as of 2006 the taxonomy was shifting, and species from other genera are likely to be added to Plasmodium.
The disease malaria is caused by infection by a protozoan of the genus Plasmodium. While approximately 156 species of Plasmodium are known to infect various vertebrates, only four species infect humans. (2) Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae are the parasites that cause malaria in humans. (1) Occasionally human cases of simian malaria are reported, mostly caused by P. knowlesi.
Plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite, one of the species of Plasmodium that cause malaria in humans. It is transmitted by the female Anopheles mosquito. 
Plasmodium, commonly known as the malaria parasite, is a large genus of parasitic protozoa. As with some other genera of clinically important microorganisms, the genus name also yields a common noun; thus species of the genus are known as plasmodia. The genus Plasmodium was first described in 1885. It now contains about 200 species divided into several subgenera; as of 2006 the taxonomy was shifting, and species from other genera are likely to be added to Plasmodium.
Organisms that belong to the genus Plasmodium are obligate eukaryotic parasites, best known as the etiological agent of human malaria. There are four parasites that infect humans and cause malaria: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. malariae, and P. ovale. Although Plasmodium parasites infect a variety of vertebrate hosts (including primates, rodents, ungulates, birds, and lizards), they rarely cause severe disease in any vertebrate hosts other than humans.