Wind is an example of motion (kinetic energy). Using this kinetic energy it is possible to generate electricity. The kinetic energy of moving air initiates the force that tu … rns a windmill's blades. Wind energy can be transformed to a suitable form for human use. It could use turbine connected with dynamo to generate electricity. It could connect the turbine with gear and … use the mechanical energy transformed to pump the water or operate a mill.
The terms wind energy or wind power describe the process by which the wind is used to generate mechanical power or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical power. Simply stated, a wind turbine works the opposite of a fan. Instead of using electricity to make wind, like a fan, wind turbines use wind to make
Energy is defined as the capacity for activity or the exertion of power. 1  An example of energy is a person being able to run five miles just after waking up. 2  An example of energy is what is created by a wind turbine. 
Part of the Electronics glossary: Wind power is the kinetic energy of wind, harnessed and redirected to perform a task mechanically or to generate electrical power. Sailing and similar activities are among the simplest, oldest and most direct applications of wind power. Wind power was used to enable electrolysis, the separation of water into hydrogen and oxygen, to make it possible to store energy as early as the 1890s.
Noun. 1. turbine-rotary engine in which the kinetic energy of a moving fluid is converted into mechanical energy by causing a bladed rotor to rotate. vane, blade-flat surface that rotates and pushes against air or water. 
Wind is a form of solar energy. Winds are caused by the uneven heating of the atmosphere by the sun, the irregularities of the earth's surface, and rotation of the earth. Wind flow patterns are modified by the earth's terrain, bodies of water, and vegetative cover. Wind Turbines. Wind turbines, like aircraft propeller blades, turn in the moving air and power an electric generator that supplies an electric current. Simply stated, a wind turbine is the opposite of a fan. Instead of using electricity to make wind, like a fan, wind turbines use wind to make electricity.
Wind power is extracted from air flow using wind turbines or sails to produce mechanical or electrical power. Windmills are used for their mechanical power, windpumps for water pumping, and sails to propel ships. Wind power is very consistent from year to year but has significant variation over shorter time scales. It is therefore used in conjunction with other electric power sources to give a reliable supply.
The terms  wind energy  or  wind power  describe the process by which the wind is used to generate mechanical power or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical power. This mechanical power can be used for specific tasks (such as grinding grain or pumping water) or a generator can convert this mechanical power into electricity to power homes, businesses, schools, and the like. Wind Turbines. Wind turbines, like aircraft propeller blades, turn in the moving air and power an electric generator that supplies an electric current. Simply stated, a wind turbine is the opposite of a fan. Instead of using electricity to make wind, like a fan, wind turbines use wind to make electricity.
• TURBINE (noun). The noun TURBINE has 1 sense: 1. rotary engine in which the kinetic energy of a moving fluid is converted into mechanical energy by causing a bladed rotor to rotate. Familiarity information: TURBINE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. gas turbine (turbine that converts the chemical energy of a liquid fuel into mechanical energy by internal combustion; gaseous products of the fuel (which is burned in compressed air) are expanded through a turbine).