Megaesophagus can also be a symptom of another disease in dogs called myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis is a neuromuscular disease where the primary symptom is weakness in various body parts of the dog. However, when an animal has megaesophagus, the esophagus stays enlarged and does not push the food down to the stomach. Therefore, the food fails to enter the stomach and often stays in the esophagus, and is eventually regurgitated, or enters the lungs through breathing, or decays in the esophagus.
Megaesophagus, also known as ME, is a condition in humans, cats, dogs and horses where peristalsis fails to occur properly and the esophagus is enlarged. Normally, when the animal's esophagus is functioning properly, it acts as a muscle and pushes the food down the esophagus into the stomach. However, when an animal has megaesophagus, the esophagus stays enlarged and does not push the food down to the stomach. Therefore, the food fails to enter the stomach and often stays in the esophagus, and is eventually regurgitated, or enters the lungs through breathing, or decays in the esophagus.
Definition: Megaesophagus is a condition affecting humans, cats, and dogs, in which the muscles of the esophagus fail; they can no longer properly move food or water downward, into the stomach. A normal esophagus works with a muscular, wave-like motion to propel food and water into the stomach. 
Megaesophagus in Dogs. Megaesophagus is a generalized enlargement of the esophagus -- a muscular tube connecting the throat to the stomach -- with a decreased to absent motility. Esophageal motility is required for moving food and liquid down to the stomach. Megaesophagus is seen more often in dogs as compared to cats. 
1 Megaesophagus is difficult to detect and diagnose, and the medical options are few. 2  But, many of these pets can be managed and lead relatively normal lives. 3  The condition is reported in humans, dogs, cats, ferrets and other animals. 
Overview of Canine Megaesophagus. Megaesophagus is a condition where there is decreased or absent motility (movement, muscular contractions) of the esophagus in dogs. The esophagus is the tube that carries food and water from the throat to the dog's stomach. 
Megaesophagus is the medical term for an enlarged esophagus. Relatively rare in cats, but common in dogs, the typical sign of megaesophagus is regurgitation, or effortless vomiting without the use of abdominal muscles. Treatment varies, depending on the cause. Sometimes medications help. In rare cases, surgery can correct an underlying problem.
Megaesophagus is a medical condition found in dogs, cats, horses and humans. Relatively rare in cats, but common in dogs, megaesophagus (ME) occurs when the esophagus (the fibromuscular tube that transports food from the mouth to the stomach) becomes abnormally enlarged. A normal esophagus is narrow, with 2 valves (called sphincters) at each end.
Overview. Megaesophagus is a relatively common condition in dogs characterized by a distension of the esophagus, the vital tube that moves food from the mouth into the stomach. Relatively rare in cats, but common in dogs, the typical sign of megaesophagus is regurgitation, or effortless vomiting without the use of abdominal muscles. Treatment varies, depending on the cause. Sometimes medications help. In rare cases, surgery can correct an underlying problem.
Megaesophagus in Dogs. Megaesophagus is the most common cause for regurgitation in the dog. Regurgitation results from the inability of the esophagus to contract properly and propagate the food down to the stomach. As a result, the ingested food and/or liquid remains in the esophagus, for anywhere from minutes to hours to days.