2. These types of radon mitigation systems are typically installed when a house is being constructed. The home is built with differing pressures in various rooms and parts of the house. This is done so that there is no need to use a fan attached to a vent in order to suck radon from the home. Radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer. This makes radon mitigation systems important. This article will go over various types of radon mitigation systems that could be installed in your home.
Testing is easy. First, perform a short term test. Most short term tests take 2-7 days. Allow a minimum of 48 hours for a radon test. Test for radon in each of the lowest structural areas of the home. If your house has one or more foundation types, a test should be placed in or above each area. For example, if a home has a basement, test in the basement if anyone spends at least 7 hours a week in the basement.
Two General Types of Radon Testing are long term and short term. They are differentiated by the length of time it takes to conduct the test. A short term radon test will remain in your home from 2 to 90 days. A long term radon test remains in your home for over 90 days, up to a year or more. There are different types of devices and kits used to perform both types of tests. Short Term Test Kits are easy to use and inexpensive. There are several types of inexpensive Do it yourself radon test kits that range in cost from about $8 up to $40 including lab fees. Some states and county health departments even have free kits available, call yours to see what is available.
Where To Find Test Kits. There are different types of short-term radon detectors. Some come in a bag, some in a vial, and some are in a round canister. Download a guide to several common types of detectors. Follow the package directions for the detector you choose. Test for radon in each of the lowest structural areas of the home. If your house has one or more foundation types, a test should be placed in or above each area. For example, if a home has a basement, test in the basement if anyone spends at least 7 hours a week in the basement.
Radon is a gas that is odorless and tasteless created from decomposing uranium found in water, soil and rocks. Radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer. This makes radon mitigation systems important. This article will go over various types of radon mitigation systems that could be installed in your home.
Radon is a colorless, odorless, radioactive gas. It forms naturally from the decay (breaking down) of radioactive elements, such as uranium, which are found in different amounts in soil and rock throughout the world. Some studies have suggested that radon exposure may be linked to other types of cancer as well, such as childhood leukemia. But the evidence for such links has been mixed and not nearly as strong as it is for lung cancer.
There are two different types of radon tests: 1  Passive tests: A passive device does not require electricity or power to operate. 2  It has the advantage of being very inexpensive, but it does not provide an indication of changes during the test period. 3  It usually requires laboratory analysis to determine the radon level. What is Radon. Radon is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas. It is formed as natural deposits of uranium throughout the earth’s crust decay. As radon decay products are inhaled, they can alter the cells in the lungs.
Once small cracks form in the concrete, the radon gas escapes. If this is the cause of your radon problem, an active suction radon mitigation system will be installed. A hole is drilled in the foundation and a system containing a fan is placed in the hole. A venting pipe is added to the outside of the home. Radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer. This makes radon mitigation systems important. This article will go over various types of radon mitigation systems that could be installed in your home.
Some granite countertops may expose people to different levels of radon. Most health and radiation experts agree that while a small portion of granite countertops might give off increased levels of radon, most countertops give off extremely low levels. Some studies have suggested that radon exposure may be linked to other types of cancer as well, such as childhood leukemia. But the evidence for such links has been mixed and not nearly as strong as it is for lung cancer.
TESTING FOR RADON... there are a lot of options to consider; when and why to test; professional service or self test kit; timing, long term or short term; accuracy and tamper resistant concerns; the potential for false positives; convenience and cost; plus much more. Short Term Test Kits are easy to use and inexpensive. There are several types of inexpensive Do it yourself radon test kits that range in cost from about $8 up to $40 including lab fees. Some states and county health departments even have free kits available, call yours to see what is available.