Victor French. 768 pages on this wiki. Victor French (December 4, 1934 - June 15, 1989) was an American actor who was born in Santa Barbara, California, he played the character Mr. Edwards on Little House on the Prairie. French was also the costar of Highway to Heaven, which was also a show created by Michael Landon. 
AP. LOS ANGELES, June 15— Victor French, an actor and director who played leading roles in the television series ''Highway to Heaven,'' ''Little House on the Prairie'' and ''Gunsmoke,'' died of lung cancer on Thursday at Sherman Oaks Community Hospital. He was 54 years old. 
From 1977–79, he left Little House to star as a small-town Georgia police chief in Carter Country. When the series ended, the actor was surprised that Michael Landon was agreeable to his returning to the character of Mr. Edwards. French appeared in Episode 8 of Season 6, in Episode 8 of Season 8, then returned full-time, starting with Episode 19 of Season 8. Born in Santa Barbara, California, to Ted French, an actor and stuntman who appeared in westerns in the 1940s, French later appeared with his father in one episode of Gunsmoke entitled Prime Of Life in 1966, as well as a war film in 1963 called The Quick And The Dead. Ted French died in 1978.
Victor French who played Mr. Edwards on the TV show Little House on the Prairie. Victor French was born December 4, 1934 in Santa Barbara, California. He was most famous for playing the role of Mr. Isaiah Edwards on the TV show Little House on the Prairie co-starring with Michael Landon. Victor French and James Arness in an episode of the TV show Gunsmoke. Victor French then. Victor French (Mr. Edwards), Melissa Sue Gilbert (Laura Ingalls), Sidney and Lindsay Greenbush (Carrie Ingalls) from the TV show Little House on the Prairie.
Mr. Edwards-Biography. Laura fondly writes of Mr. Edwards, the wildcat from Tennessee throughout her series of books. Mr. Edwards was the one who made sure Laura and her sisters got their Christmas gifts from Santa Claus in Little House on the Prairie. It is also Mr. Edwards who gives Mary a twenty dollar bill to start off her college education fund.
Victor French played Isaiah Edwards on the TV show Little House on the Prairie. Victor French, (Isaiah Edwards), Matthew Laborteaux (Albert Quinn Ingalls), Michael Landon (Charles Ingalls), Dean Butler (Almanzo James Wilder) and Melissa Sue Gilbert (Laura Ingalls Wilder) of the TV show Little House on the Prairie. Victor French and James Arness in an episode of the TV show Gunsmoke. Victor French then. Victor French (Mr. Edwards), Melissa Sue Gilbert (Laura Ingalls), Sidney and Lindsay Greenbush (Carrie Ingalls) from the TV show Little House on the Prairie.
Victor French was the son of a stuntman. His debut was a small role in Lassie (1954), uncredited. He had his first real acting experiences in western-films, where he usually played the bad guy due to his rather gruff look. This changed with Little House on the Prairie (1974), (as Isaiah Edwards). In 1977, he left Little House on the Prairie (...
Mr. Edwards is a fictional character that appeared in the Little House series of autobiographical children's novels written by Laura Ingalls Wilder. His character was later adapted for the NBC television show, Little House on the Prairie and given the name Isaiah Edwards.. As stated by Wilder in her books, Mr. Edwards was the wildcat from Tennessee  whom the Ingalls met during their stay near Independence, Kansas in the Little House on the Prairie novel.
French is most widely known for costarring with Michael Landon on two television series. He appeared on Little House on the Prairie (1974–1977), (1981–1984) as Isaiah Edwards (French also directed some episodes of Little House). He appeared on Highway to Heaven (1984–1989) as Mark Gordon. Born in Santa Barbara, California, to Ted French, an actor and stuntman who appeared in westerns in the 1940s, French later appeared with his father in one episode of Gunsmoke entitled Prime Of Life in 1966, as well as a war film in 1963 called The Quick And The Dead. Ted French died in 1978.