Background The leaves of as many as 15 Epimedium species are used to make yin yang huo, an herb in traditional Chinese medicine. The name literally means obscene goat leaves of pulse plants, which is translated as horny goat weed in English. Epimedium species that are used to make horny goat weed grow in China and Korea. The leaf of the plant is most commonly used as medicine, although other parts may sometimes be used. Horny goat weed is rarely used as a single ingredient. It is traditionally used as an ingredient in a tonic to help promote health.
Latin: Epimedium grandiflorum, E. species. Chinese: Yin yang huo. English: Horny goat weed. WHAT IT DOES: Epimedium herb is pungent and sweet in taste, and warming in action. It increases sperm production and motility, increases sex drive and fertility, enhances metabolism and strengthens the bones. RATING: Yellow, due to limitations in use.
Horny goat weed was named epimedium because it is similar to a plant found in the ancient Asian kingdom of Media, now a part of Iran. Epimedium is a genus of many related plant species and some are used for medicinal purposes, including Epimedium sagittatum, brevicornum, grandiflorum, and koreanum. Supplement companies have adopted the provocative name by which it is known in the U.S. Epimedium is a genus of about 52 species in the family Berberidaceae, which also known as Rowdy Lamb Herb, Xianlinpi, Barrenwort, Bishop's Hat, Fairy Wings, and Yangheye or Yin Yang Huo.
How to Use: Epimedium. The name Horny goat weed is based on a colorful Chinese legend. Epimedium, also known as Yin Yang Huo or Horny Goat Weed, is a powerful remedy in Traditional Chinese Medicine and has been used for thousands of years to promote male potency, libido, and as an aphrodisiac. Plant Description. Epimedium grandiflorum Violaceum. 1  Plant Class: Pereinnial ivy-like ground shrub, It is in the same plant family as barberry and Oregon grape root. 2  Etymology: The genus was named epimedium because it is similar to a plant found in the ancient Asian kingdom of Media, now a part of Iran.
About. Epimedium, also known as Rowdy Lamb Herb, Barrenwort, Bishop's Hat, Fairy Wings, Horny Goat Weed, or Yin Yang Huo (), is a genus of about 60 or more species of herbaceous flowering plants in the family Berberidaceae. 
Epimedium, also known as barrenwort, bishop's hat, fairy wings, horny goat weed, rowdy lamb herb, randy beef grass or yin yang huo (Chinese: 淫羊藿), is a genus of flowering plants in the family Berberidaceae. Epimedium species are deciduous or evergreen hardy perennials. The majority have four-parted spider-like flowers in spring. The plant contains icariin, which is a PDE5 inhibitor like sildenafil, the active ingredient of Viagra.
Epimedium grandiflorum 'Lilafee' (lilac fairy barrenwort) plant and flowers. Epimedium grandiflorum ‘Lilafee’ (lilac fairy barrenwort or bishop’s hat) is a fabulous shade perennial. The leaves are especially nicely shaped, some like asymmetrical hearts, while the purple blooms start appearing shortly after the leaves. 
Noteworthy Characteristics. Epimedium grandiflorum is a dense, rhizomatous, clump-forming, usually deciduous perennial that typically grows 10-15” tall with a spread to 18-20. It is native to deciduous woodland areas of Japan, Korea and Manchuria. Easily grown in average, acidic, dry to medium moisture, well-drained soils in part shade to full shade. Prefers loose, organically rich loams with consistent moisture in part shade (sun-dappled or morning sun). Foliage will usually burn in full afternoon sun.
Epimedium grandiflorum (large flowered barrenwort, bishop's hat) is a species of flowering plant in the family Berberidaceae, native to China, Japan and Korea. It is known as dam dâm dương hoắc In. vietnamese 
However, some types of horny goat weed are POSSIBLY UNSAFE when used for a long period of time or in high doses. Long-term use of these other forms of horny goat weed might cause dizziness, vomiting, dry mouth, thirst, and nosebleed. 