About Atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis) is a disease in which plaque (plak) builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death.
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death.
Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the tissues, except for pulmonary arteries, which carry blood to the lungs for oxygenation. (Usually veins carry deoxygenated blood to the heart but the pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood.) There are two unique arteries.
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. Plaque buildup also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries. Blood clots can partially or completely block blood flow. If blood flow to your heart muscle is reduced or blocked, you may have angina (chest pain or discomfort) or a heart attack.
The arteries are the blood vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the tissues of the body. Each artery is a muscular tube lined by smooth tissue and has three layers: 1  The intima, the inner layer lined by a smooth tissue called endothelium. Conditions of the Arteries. 1  Atherosclerosis: The buildup of cholesterol (a waxy substance) into what are called plaques in the arteries' walls. 2  Atherosclerosis in the arteries of the heart, brain, or neck can lead to heart attacks and strokes.
Main Content: Your arteries and high blood pressure. High blood pressure. The arteries are the large blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to all the organs and muscles of the body, to give them the energy and oxygen they need. The arteries manage the flow of blood by controlling the speed and direction it flows in. 
(Cancer is number two on the list.). Atherosclerosis is a disease of the arteries, the blood vessels that carry oxygen and nutrients to our organs and tissues (including heart muscle tissue). 
In this article. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood rich in oxygen throughout your body. They go to your brain as well as to the tips of your toes. Healthy arteries have smooth inner walls and blood flows through them easily. Some people, however, develop clogged arteries. 
1 Coronary artery disease: Atherosclerosis with narrowing of the arteries supplying blood to the heart muscle. 2  Coronary artery disease makes a heart attack more likely. 3  Carotid artery disease: Atherosclerosis with narrowing of one or both of the carotid arteries in the neck. Conditions of the Arteries. 1  Atherosclerosis: The buildup of cholesterol (a waxy substance) into what are called plaques in the arteries' walls. 2  Atherosclerosis in the arteries of the heart, brain, or neck can lead to heart attacks and strokes.
A SecondsCount.org answered. Arteries are strong tubes, or vessels, that carry blood from your heart to the rest of your body. Arteries transport blood containing oxygen and nutrients to smaller tubes called arterioles, which then deliver blood to even smaller vessels called capillaries