(August 2014). Dihydrocodeine is a semi-synthetic opioid analgesic prescribed for pain or severe dyspnea, or as an antitussive, either alone or compounded with paracetamol (as in co-dydramol) or aspirin. It was developed in Germany in 1908 and first marketed in 1911. For use against pain, dihydrocodeine is usually formulated as tablets or capsules containing a quarter grain (15 or 16 mg) or a half grain (30 or 32 mg) with or without other active ingredients such as aspirin, paracetamol (acetaminophen), ibuprofen, or others.
Home » Dihydrocodeine » Dihydrocodeine Side Effects. Side effects are a possibility with any prescription medication. They can range from mild to uncomfortable to dangerous if misuse is a factor. Dihydrocodeine is an opiate (narcotic) medication used to treat chronic cough, pain and shortness of breath. Side effects can begin after first use or shortly thereafter.
Save. measuring cough medicine image by Larry Allen from Fotolia.com. Dihydrocodeine is a semi-synthetic opioid painkiller developed in the 1900s that is used to treat pain, severe shortness of breath and cough. Also called DHC, Drocode, Paracodeine and Parzone, dihydrocodeine is similar in chemical structure to codeine, and like codeine, it is a controlled substance in the United States. In pain medications, dihydrocodeine is often used in combination with other pain relievers such as aspirin, paracetamol, and ibuprofen. Cough suppressants and respiratory medications may contain dihydrocodeine along with active ingredients such as antihistamines and decongestants.
Dihydrocodeine is an analgesic drug from the opioid family. Opioid drugs have psychogenic effects along with its analgesic effect. Common use for this drug is for the relief of pain but this particular substance may also be combined with other drugs to help in patients with breathing difficulties and those with coughs. Dihydrocodeine is usually prescribed for pain management, shortness of breath, and some types of coughing. For people with coughs, this drug specifically acts as a suppressant or as an anti-tussive. For pain indications, moderate to severe pain may respond to this drug.
Dihydrocodeine is used as an alternative or adjunct to codeine for the aforementioned indications. It is available as the following salts, in approximate descending order of frequency of use: bitartrate, phosphate, hydrochloride, tartrate, hydroiodide, methyliodide, hydrobromide, sulfate, and thiocyanate. For use against pain, dihydrocodeine is usually formulated as tablets or capsules containing a quarter grain (15 or 16 mg) or a half grain (30 or 32 mg) with or without other active ingredients such as aspirin, paracetamol (acetaminophen), ibuprofen, or others.
Dihydrocodeine is a semi-synthetic opioid analgesic prescribed for pain, severe shortness of breath, or as an antitussive (either alone or compounded with paracetamol or aspirin). It was developed in Germany in 1908 and first marketed in 1911. 2 hours. Dihydrocodeine is a semi-synthetic opioid analgesic prescribed for pain, severe shortness of breath, or as an antitussive (either alone or compounded with paracetamol or aspirin). It was developed in Germany in 1908 and first marketed in 1911. Dihydrocodeine is also known as Drocode, Paracodeine and Parzone.
Dihydrocodeine is an opioid medicine (sometimes called an opiate). It is used to treat moderate-to-severe types of pain. It works by binding to certain tiny areas, called opioid receptors, in your central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). This leads to a decrease in the way you feel pain and your reaction to pain. 16. Dihydrocodeine is prescribed for moderate-to-severe types of pain. The most common side-effects are feeling sick, constipation, feeling dizzy or sleepy, and a dry mouth. Dihydrocodeine is likely to affect your reactions and ability to drive.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Dihydrocodeine is a moderate strength narcotic used as an analgesic. Available in several different forms, this drug treats pain associated with a number of conditions and surgical procedures. It acts on the opoid receptors to block pain signals. Dihydrocodeine carries the risk of addiction and abuse. Side effects of dihydrocodeine may include drops in blood pressure. Dihydrocodeine acts extremely quickly, especially if it is administered intravenously. Patients with a history of liver dysfunction should not be treated with dihydrocodeine.