Cairo (/ˈkaɪroʊ/ KYE-roh; Arabic: القاهرة ‎; Coptic: Ⲕⲁϩⲓⲣⲏ) is the capital of Egypt and the largest city in the Middle-East and second-largest in Africa after Lagos. Its metropolitan area is the 15th largest in the world. The Egyptian name for Cairo is said to be: Khere-Ohe, meaning: The Place of Combat, supposedly, in reference to a battle which took place between the Gods Seth and Horus. Sometimes the city is informally also referred to as كايرو Kayro [ˈkaejɾo] . ˈkæjɾo
Cairo (ؓلقاهرة al-Qāhirah) is the capital of Egypt and, with a total population in excess of 16 million people, one of the largest cities in both Africa and the Middle East (the regions which it conveniently straddles). It is also the 19th largest city in the world, and among the world's most densely populated cities. On the Nile river, Cairo is famous for its own history, preserved in the fabulous medieval Islamic city and Coptic sites in Old Cairo. The Egyptian Museum in the centre of town is a must see, with its countless Acient Egyptian artefacts, as is shopping at the Khan al-Khalili bazaar.
Cairo is located in the north of Egypt below the Nile Delta and the Nile River runs through it. Its 6,758,851! 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Chaotic Cairo: Five Things to Do in Cairo on a Budget Cairo, Egypt, one of the world's largest cities, is a chaotic and crowded yet beautiful city well-known for its pyramids, pharaohs and the River Nile.
About city. Cairo is the capital of Egypt. It is the largest city in Africa and the Arab world and the 16th largest in the world. It covers an area of 453 sq km and had an approximate population of 9,120,350 in 2011. It is also called the city of the thousand minarets for its predominantly Islamic architecture. 
1 Chaotic Cairo: Five Things to Do in Cairo on a Budget Cairo, Egypt, one of the world's largest cities, is a chaotic and crowded yet beautiful city well-known for its pyramids, pharaohs and the River Nile. 2  There is so much to see…. Its 6,758,851! 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1 
Location Map of Cairo on Egypt Map. Cairo is the capital city of Egypt and the largest city of Africa. Initially, the Cairo is founded by the Fatimid dynasty in the 10th Century. Therefore, Cairo is also associated with Ancient Egypt because of the proximity to the ancient cities of Memphis, Giza, and Fustat.
Cairo, incorporated in 1870, is located in Grady County in southwest Georgia, thirty miles north of Tallahassee, Florida. Named either for the city in Egypt or for Cairo, Illinois, but pronounced Cayroe, the city has been the county seat since 1906. For decades it was known as the heart of Georgia's syrup industry. 
Cairo is located at the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. The rivers converge at Fort Defiance State Park, a Civil War fort that was commanded by General Ulysses S. Grant. Cairo has the lowest elevation of any location within Illinois and is the only city in the state surrounded by levees. This part of Illinois is known as Little Egypt. Several blocks in the town comprise the Cairo Historic District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). 