Hydrogen peroxide is often described as being “water but with one more oxygen atom”, a description which can give the incorrect impression that there is a great deal of similarity between the two compounds. Hydrogen peroxide is the simplest peroxide (a compound with an oxygen-oxygen single bond) and finds use as a strong oxidizer, bleaching agent and disinfectant. Concentrated hydrogen peroxide, or ' high-test peroxide ,' is a reactive oxygen species and has been used as a propellant in rocketry
Carbamide peroxide is an adduct of urea and hydrogen peroxide which on contact with water break down to urea and hydrogen peroxide. For example, a 10% carbamide peroxide gel would yield a maximum of 3.6% hydrogen peroxide. 750,000 tonnes hydrogen peroxide (calculated as 100% H 2 O 2) were produced in Europe in 1995. 
The chemical symbol H 2 O 2 for hydrogen peroxide is very similar to water’s H 2 O. The H 2 represents two hydrogen atoms while the O 2 represents two oxygen atoms (water molecules contain only one oxygen atom). 
It looks pretty similar to the chemical formula for water, which is H 2 0, except that hydrogen peroxide has an extra O, an extra oxygen. Hydrogen peroxide is not a very stable compound, so, it is always decomposing to water and oxygen, but under normal conditions, the decomposition goes very slowly. 
Sodium percarbonate. Sodium percarbonate is a chemical, an adduct of sodium carbonate and hydrogen peroxide (a perhydrate), with formula 2Na 2 CO 3 · 3H 2 O 2. It is a colorless, crystalline, hygroscopic and water-soluble solid. It is used in some eco-friendly cleaning products and as a laboratory source of anhydrous hydrogen peroxide. 
Hydrogen peroxide readily decomposes when in contact with a catalyst to produce oxygen gas and water. A catalyst is a substance that speeds up a chemical reaction. The decomposition of hydrogen peroxide is shown by the following chemical reaction. 2H 2 O 2 2 + 2H 2 O. The hydrogen peroxide was used to provide a source of oxygen for the fuel in the torpedoes in many Russian submarines. How hydrogen peroxide sunk a nuclear submarine. The chemical formula of hydrogen peroxide is H 2 O 2 which looks similar to water. Its properties however, are completely different. Hydrogen peroxide is commonly used as an antiseptic and to lighten or bleach hair. Hydrogen peroxide is commonly sold in chemists at a concentration of 3 to 5% with water
Hydrogen peroxide is a chemical compound with the formula H 2O 2. In its pure form it is a colourless liquid, slightly more viscous than water; however, for safety reasons it is normally used as an aqueous solution. Hydrogen peroxide is the simplest peroxide (a compound with an oxygen-oxygen single bond) and finds use as a strong oxidizer, bleaching agent and disinfectant. Concentrated hydrogen peroxide, or ' high-test peroxide ,' is a reactive oxygen species and has been used as a propellant in rocketry
The oxidation number of hydrogen in hydrogen peroxide is 1. 1  Formula: H 2 O 2. 2  Hill system formula: H 2 O 2. 3  CAS registry number: [7722-84-1]. 4  Formula weight: 34.015. 5  Class: 6  Colour: almost colourless. 7  Appearance: liquid. 8  Melting point: -0.43°C. 9  Boiling point: 150°C (extrapolated). 10  Density: 1442 kg m -3 (liquid at 25°C). 