When all the erector spinae muscles contract together, they extend or hyperextend the vertebral column. When only one side contracts, the trunk, neck or head move laterally toward the contracting side. The movement is accomplished because the articular facets of the vertebrae glide on each other. 
The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protects the spinal cord. 
Structure [edit]. The erector spinae spinæ is not just one, muscle but a bundle of muscles and. Tendons it is paired and runs more or less. Vertically it extends throughout the, lumbar thoracic and cervical, regions and lies in the groove to the side of the vertebral. column It is paired and runs more or less vertically. It extends throughout the lumbar, thoracic and cervical regions, and lies in the groove to the side of the vertebral column. Erector spinae spinæ is covered in the lumbar and thoracic regions by the thoracolumbar, fascia and in the cervical region by the nuchal. ligament
Many of these iliocostalis muscles-for example, the iliocostalis thoracis-originate on the ilium of the pelvic girdle and insert on the ribs, or the costal bones (thus, iliocostalis). As with the spinalis and longissimus muscles, the iliocostalis muscles help to extend the neck and the vertebral column. Additionally, these muscles can move the ribs, as they're attached to the ribs. Let's take a look at these muscles. If we peel away the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi muscle that are on the superficial part of the back, we can see the muscles responsible for our posture. The erector spinae is a group of muscles that work together to extend the vertebral column and thus maintain good posture.
The erector spinae (/spinæ ˌɨˈrɛktər/ ˈspiːniː-ə-rek TəR-spee) nee is a muscle group of the back in humans and other, animals which extends the vertebral (column bending the spine such that the head moves posteriorly while the chest protrudes). Anteriorly it is also known as sacrospinalis in older. texts It is paired and runs more or less vertically. It extends throughout the lumbar, thoracic and cervical regions, and lies in the groove to the side of the vertebral column. Erector spinae spinæ is covered in the lumbar and thoracic regions by the thoracolumbar, fascia and in the cervical region by the nuchal. ligament
1 In the lower part of the back arising from the ilium, sacrum and lumbar spines is the erector spinae muscle (467/N168). 2  It has been divided and subdivided by anatomists, but functionally is one muscle mass causing extension of the vertebral column. 1 Collectively they are designated transversospinal muscles (471/N169). 2  They help extend the vertebral column and rotate the trunk to the opposite side, because they pull the vertebral spine toward the ipsilateral transverse process.
The longissimus group of muscles helps to extend the neck and vertebral column, as these muscles originate on vertebrae and insert on more superior vertebrae and even some ribs. Let's take a look at these muscles. If we peel away the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi muscle that are on the superficial part of the back, we can see the muscles responsible for our posture. The erector spinae is a group of muscles that work together to extend the vertebral column and thus maintain good posture.
The spinalis group is most medial of the three, and it includes muscles that originate on vertebrae and insert on more superior vertebrae. The thoracis spinalis belongs to this group of muscles. With contraction, the spinalis muscles extend the neck and the vertebral column-once again, good posture. Let's take a look at these muscles. If we peel away the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi muscle that are on the superficial part of the back, we can see the muscles responsible for our posture. The erector spinae is a group of muscles that work together to extend the vertebral column and thus maintain good posture.
Just as any other bone in the body, the vertebral column protects the vertebrae which is the one that connects all of your body organs to the brain allowing sending and receiv … ing of impulses. This is also responsible for your posture. The vertebral column does 3 major things. 1. Supports the upper body. 2. Allows for flexibility of the upper body. 3. Houses the spinal cord. It protects and supports the spi … nal cord.