Definition. A type of liability insurance held by businesses. Comprehensive liability insurance (CGL) is a broad policy that protects the organization from liability claims related to products coverage, completed operations coverage premise and operations coverage, and independent contractors coverage. 
Umbrella liability insurance is excess liability insurance coverage above the limits of automobile liability and CGL policies. The umbrella policy also provides liability coverage for exposures not covered under the primary CGL insurance policies and not excluded by the umbrella liability insurance policy. For information about our various bond resources, visit Bond Resources. Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance protects business owners against claims of liability for bodily injury, property damage, and personal and advertising injury (slander and false advertising).
Life before the eighties was a little different. Tab Cola flowed like water, the USSR stood menacingly against the West, and small-business owners could expect to purchase a Comprehensive General Liability insurance policy. But just like Tab and the USSR, comprehensive policies fell to the wayside. And that would mean sky-high premiums for you. That's why today, what was once called Comprehensive General Liability is now known as Commercial General Liability Insurance. It's essentially the same protection, just with a different name.
Definition of LIABILITY INSURANCE. : insurance against loss resulting from liability for injury or damage to the persons or property of others. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis
Definition. A type of insurance that provides blanket coverage for all types of liability with the exception of those specifically excluded. It covers contractual liability as well as unforeseen future hazards, and may also include automobile coverage. 
Your business faces liabilities every day. The only way to protect your assets is to carry adequate business liability insurance. A Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance policy is the first line of defense against many common claims. General Liability insurance covers claims of bodily injury or other physical injury or property damage. Business Liability insurance protects your business against financial loss resulting from claims of injury or damage caused to others by you or your employees. (Some coverage may not be available on all policies or in all states.). 1  Automatic Additional Insured.
Liability insurance is a part of the general insurance system of risk financing to protect the purchaser (the insured) from the risks of liabilities imposed by lawsuits and similar claims. It protects the insured in the event he or she is sued for claims that come within the coverage of the insurance policy. Liability insurance is designed to offer specific protection against third party insurance claims, i.e., payment is not typically made to the insured, but rather to someone suffering loss who is not a party to the insurance contract.
The only way to protect your assets is to carry adequate business liability insurance. A Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance policy is the first line of defense against many common claims. General Liability insurance covers claims of bodily injury or other physical injury or property damage. It is frequently offered in a package with Property insurance to protect your business against incidents that may occur on your premises or at other covered locations where you normally conduct business