Some mirrorless cameras, such as the $1700 Panasonic GH4 and $1500 Samsung NX1, can capture 4K, or Ultra HD, video with four times the resolution of HD footage. The technology is likely to trickle down to lower-priced mirrorless models. Currently no DSLRs shoot 4K/Ultra HD video. A mirrorless camera is better for a casual to semi-serious photographer who wants an all-day carry camera. A serious or pro shooter who wants access to a wider range of lenses and other gear would be better off with a DSLR.
DSLR cameras use what is called phase detection to focus on a subject, while mirrorless cameras use contrast detection. Phase detection takes advantage of the mirror in a DSLR camera to divide the incoming light into pairs of images, compares them, and then quickly focuses the lens on the subject. Choosing a mirrorless camera can be a daunting task with lots of options, from sensor size, to video capabilities, to lens systems, and more. We will cover them all, and give you the information you need. Buying your new camera should be an exciting experience, so let this guide help you make an informed decision.
Other mirrorless cameras use an APS-C sensor, which is the same size sensor used in common DSLRs such as the Canon Rebel T5i and Nikon D3200 (however, even Canon and Nikon use slightly different image sensor sizes), but there are some models such as the Sony A7R that use full-frame sensors as well. All smartphone cameras are mirrorless, as are most point-and-shoot models. Instead of a tiny little viewfinder that you hold up to your eye, you can see a preview of your image right on the phone or on the back of the camera itself.
A good thing about mirrorless cameras is that because there is no mirror inside the camera in front of the sensor, their design allows for a very short focal flange distance, or the distance between the lens mount and the plane of the sensor. Choosing a mirrorless camera can be a daunting task with lots of options, from sensor size, to video capabilities, to lens systems, and more. We will cover them all, and give you the information you need. Buying your new camera should be an exciting experience, so let this guide help you make an informed decision.
A mirrorless interchangeable lens camera (MILC, commonly referred to simply as a mirrorless camera), is a camera with an interchangeable lens that does not have a mirror reflex optical viewfinder. Not all mirrorless cameras have a large sensor: The original Pentax Q (announced in June 2011) has a 1/2.3 sensor (typical of mainstream compact cameras); the current Pentax Q7 (announced in June 2013) has a 1/1.7 sensor (typical for high-end compacts).
Mirrorless 101. 'Mirrorless' camera is a bit of an unfortunate term in that it defines the tool by what it lacks: the moving-mirror found in every DSLR. Mirrorless cameras (more accurately called mirrorless interchangeable lens cameras) do retain one attractive feature of DSLRs: their interchangeable lens mount. Tweet. 'Mirrorless' camera is a bit of an unfortunate term in that it defines the tool by what it lacks: the moving-mirror found in every DSLR.
In a mirrorless camera, light passes through the lens and right onto the image sensor, which captures a preview of the image to display on the rear screen. Some models also offer a second screen inside an electronic viewfinder (EVF) that you can put your eye to. A mirrorless camera is better for a casual to semi-serious photographer who wants an all-day carry camera. A serious or pro shooter who wants access to a wider range of lenses and other gear would be better off with a DSLR.
Also called a mirrorless interchangeable-lens camera (MILC), hybrid camera and compact system camera (CSC), the body is thinner than a digital SLR (DSLR) because it does not use a mechanical mirror to switch the scene between the optical viewfinder and image sensor. 
Often, entry-level mirrorless cameras are a replacement for consumers who are using an entry-level DSLR and like the interchangeable-lens feature, but want something that is lighter and smaller. These cameras usually offer an LCD to compose your photos instead of an electronic viewfinder. Choosing a mirrorless camera can be a daunting task with lots of options, from sensor size, to video capabilities, to lens systems, and more. We will cover them all, and give you the information you need. Buying your new camera should be an exciting experience, so let this guide help you make an informed decision.