1 If you're alone, perform five cycles of compressions and breaths on the child — this should take about two minutes — before calling 911 or your local emergency number or using an AED. 2  Use only one hand to perform chest compressions. 1 Do not use an AED for children younger than age 1. Administer one shock, then resume CPR — starting with chest compressions — for two more minutes before administering a second shock. 2  If you're not trained to use an AED, a 911 or other emergency medical operator may be able to guide you in its use.
CPR may be done when a person stops breathing or the heart stops beating (like when a person has a heart attack or almost drowns). When it's possible that the person may get better, CPR is an important life-saving technique. CPR may prolong life for patients who have a better health status or who are younger. CPR may also prolong life if it's done within 5 to 10 minutes of when the person's heart stopped beating or breathing stopped.
1 Following the two breaths, immediately begin the next cycle of compressions and breaths. 2  After five cycles (about two minutes) of CPR, if there is no response and an AED is available, apply it and follow the prompts. 3  Use pediatric pads if available, for children ages 1 through 8. 1 Do not use an AED for children younger than age 1. Administer one shock, then resume CPR — starting with chest compressions — for two more minutes before administering a second shock. 2  If you're not trained to use an AED, a 911 or other emergency medical operator may be able to guide you in its use.
1 Administer one shock, then resume CPR — starting with chest compressions — for two more minutes before administering a second shock. 2  If you're not trained to use an AED, a 911 or other emergency medical operator may be able to guide you in its use. 3  If an AED isn't available, go to step 5 below. 1 Do not use an AED for children younger than age 1.
5 cycles of CPR should be performed in 2 minutes.   They believe compressions are more effective than breaths given to the p … atient as they normal body reflexes bring in a small amount of air and you just need to keep that heart pumping.  . 7 people found this useful. Confidence votes 15. An internet addict. You need to do 5 cycles of CPR in about 2 minutes. 2 breaths and 30 chest compressions constitutes a cycle. Chest compressions should be at a rate of about 100 compressions per minute-doing compressions in time to 'Nelly the Elephant' will be about the right speed.
According to the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation guidelines, CPR involves chest compressions at least 5 cm (2 in) deep and at a rate of at least 100 per minute in an effort to create artificial circulation by manually pumping blood through the heart and thus the body. Standard CPR is performed with the person in supine position. Prone CPR or reverse CPR is CPR performed on a person lying on their chest, by turning the head to the side and compressing the back.
The American Red Cross is the governing body on CPR and the rules and regulations to successfully carry out this procedure. The amount of force for chest compressions for an i … nfant is far less than for that of an adult. 1/2 to 1 inch is the maximum the chest should be compressed for an infant. CPR is performed to create an Oxygen rich circulation of blood to the brain to prevent tissue necrosis, (Brain Death). So effectively when performing CPR you are not keeping the patient alive, you, are preventing them from brain damage and or Death. CPR is performed for three reasons: 1.
Answer by DJGnome. Confidence votes 1.7K. First of all CPR does not sustain life-When CPR is started the patient is unconscious, not breathing and has no pulse, this is called 'Clinical Death'. CPR is performed to create an Oxygen rich circulation of blood to the brain to prevent tissue necrosis, (Brain Death). So effectively when performing CPR you are not keeping the patient alive, you, are preventing them from brain damage and or Death. CPR is performed for three reasons: 1.
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation, commonly known as CPR, is an emergency procedure performed in an effort to manually preserve intact brain function until further measures are taken to restore spontaneous blood circulation and breathing in a person who is in cardiac arrest. Standard CPR is performed with the person in supine position. Prone CPR or reverse CPR is CPR performed on a person lying on their chest, by turning the head to the side and compressing the back.