While quinoa is usually considered to be a whole grain, it is actually a seed, but can be prepared like whole grains such as rice or barley. Try a quinoa salad recipe, or serve a vegetable stir-fry over cooked quinoa instead of rice. Quinoa is my favorite whole grain for three reasons: 1  First, it takes less time to cook than other whole grains-just 10 to 15 minutes. 2  Second, quinoa tastes great on its own, unlike other grains such as millet or teff. 1 Second, quinoa tastes great on its own, unlike other grains such as millet or teff. 2  Add a bit of olive oil, sea salt and lemon juice and-yum! 3  Finally, of all the whole grains, quinoa has the highest protein content, so it's perfect for vegetarians and vegans.
This picture is used with permission from Quinoa Corporation. 1  Quinoa is pronounced as KEEN-WAH. 2  Quinoa is 100% whole grain and is close to being a perfect food source in the balance of nutrition it provides. 3  Technically it's not a grain but the seed of a leafy plant related to spinach. 1 Quinoa has a nutty, smoky flavor and is less filling than other grains and pastas. 2  Quinoa has been one of the primary foods of the Inca Indians for more than 5,000 years. 3  The Incas referred to Quinoa as Mother Grain.
1 Quinoa can be substituted for almost any other grain. 2  Quinoa has a nutty, smoky flavor and is less filling than other grains and pastas. 3  Quinoa has been one of the primary foods of the Inca Indians for more than 5,000 years. 4  The Incas referred to Quinoa as Mother Grain. 1 Quinoa has a nutty, smoky flavor and is less filling than other grains and pastas. 2  Quinoa has been one of the primary foods of the Inca Indians for more than 5,000 years. 3
1 Quinoa is 100% whole grain and is close to being a perfect food source in the balance of nutrition it provides. 2  Technically it's not a grain but the seed of a leafy plant related to spinach. 3  Quinoa is an excellent source of protein - 12% to 18%. 1 Quinoa has a nutty, smoky flavor and is less filling than other grains and pastas. 2  Quinoa has been one of the primary foods of the Inca Indians for more than 5,000 years. 3  The Incas referred to Quinoa as Mother Grain.
Quinoa (/ˈkiːnoʊ.ə/ , from Quechua kinwa or kinuwa) is a species of the goosefoot genus (Chenopodium quinoa), a grain crop grown primarily for its edible seeds. It is a pseudocereal, similar in some respects to buckwheat, rather than a true cereal, as it is not a member of the true grass family. As a chenopod, quinoa is closely related to species such as beetroots, spinach and tumbleweeds. Quinoa was important to the diet of pre-Columbian Andean civilizations. Protein content is very high for a cereal/pseudo-cereal (14% by mass), but not as high as most beans and legumes. This includes a low gluten content that appears to be well tolerated when consumed at normal levels by people with celiac disease.
Quinoa is often classified as a whole grain, but it's technically a seed that cooks like a grain. It's native to the Andean region in South America that spans from Colombia to the north of Argentina and southern Chile. To ensure nothing is added to your quinoa, look for plain quinoa which is sold packaged or in bulk. Cook the grains in a ratio of 1 cup quinoa to 2 cups liquid. Use plain quinoa as a base for stews or add it to soup. Mix it with nuts, dried fruit and milk for a breakfast cereal
This type of pasta is made from the seeds of the quinoa plant, which has its origins in the Andes of South America. It is not a grass, and therefore not a true cereal in the way wheat or rice is. Quinoa pasta is an entire family of pasta made from quinoa instead of the traditional ingredient of wheat.
Quinoa seeds have a naturally bitter coating to deter birds that must be soaked off before preparing. Packaged quinoa has likely been pre-soaked, but check before cooking. To cook it, soak 1 cup quinoa in 2 cups water for 5-10 minutes (to dissolve any remaining bitter coating). Drain and rinse. Pour into a pot and add 1 1/2 cups of water and a half teaspoon of salt. Boil, then cover with a tight-fitting lid
Pronounced keenwa, it is what's called a pseudocereal because it does not come from a grass plant. Quinoa is more closely related to leafy greens like chard and spinach. The small, round seeds of the plant are what is eaten. In color, quinoa is usually white or pale yellow but can be red or black. When cooked they fluff up dramatically but have a slightly crunchy texture. Quinoa is a good substitute for rice.