Spirit, Frontier and Allegiant now charge for carry-ons, and a single checked bag costs $50 per roundtrip flight on most major airlines. Fortunately, there are ways to avoid the industry's barrage of baggage fees -- tricks that the airlines probably don't want you to know about. You could pay anywhere from $26 to $100 for a carry-on bag aboard Spirit Airlines if it doesn't fit under the seat in front of you, and the carrier's checked bag fees cover a similar range. Take the Train. While airlines are charging left and right for bags of any shape and size, train travel is a different story.
If you don't pay for a carry-on bag, you're still free to put your bag in the overhead bin—if there is room. Bring one bag. Spirit permits only one personal item, so it will also charge fliers $100 at the gate for bringing a small extra bag, like a pocketbook. 
The Spirit Airlines baggage fees vary, depending on where and when you book them. The cheapest way is to pay for your bags during online booking, before online check-in. If you're not part of the Spirit Airlines $9 fare club, then it's $35 each way for a carry on and $30 each way for your first checked bag. I've never heard of a carry on costing more than a checked bag before now…. One of the main reasons Spirit Airlines is so profitable is because everything costs extra when you buy a low cost fare with them – so of course baggage costs extra and you even have to pay for your Spirit Airlines carry on (although you are allowed a personal item for free – something that fits in a 16x14x12 space).
Unfortunately, not all discount airlines have magnanimous baggage policies. You could pay anywhere from $26 to $100 for a carry-on bag aboard Spirit Airlines if it doesn't fit under the seat in front of you, and the carrier's checked bag fees cover a similar range. Take the Train. While airlines are charging left and right for bags of any shape and size, train travel is a different story.
Tack on another $5. And if you try to sneak it to the gate and play dumb, you'll pay $100 for that bag. Don't do it. And no matter when you choose to check your baggage, be careful about Spirit's bag rules. Checked bags must weigh less than 40 pounds each—that's less than most airlines. 
Spirit Airlines allows passengers to bring 1 + 1, one personal item (free) and one carry-on item (for an fee). An example of a personal item is a laptop or purse. A personal item may not exceed 16 inches by 14 inches by 12 inches (40 cm x 35 cm x 30 cm). If it does you will be charged the appropriate carry-on fee. Spirit Airlines allows customers to bring 1 + 1, one personal item (free) and one carry-on item (for a fee). An example of a personal are: Laptop & P
Spirit: We hope fliers don't pay our $100 carry-on bag fee. Spirit Airlines today ups its top fee for large carry-on bags to $100 each way, though the carrier insists it's a fee it hopes it never collects. The $100 fee, which applies only to carry-on bags declared. Post to Facebook. Cancel Send. 
4. Pay at the gate: flat $45 fee. The airline still offers bag $10 discounts to passengers who are a part of their paid Fare Club. Spirit Airlines made headlines last year for being the first airline to start charging passengers up to $45 for carry-on bags. The airline is hoping the new fees will encourage customers to pay for their bags earlier, saving them money, officials say. Spirit is encouraging customers to save money by pre-purchasing their carry-on and checked bags [fees] online more than 24 hours prior to departure, says Spirit spokeswoman Misty Pinson.
Spirit has 24 different baggage fees, depending on when and where you pay for it. Carry-on bags will cost $26 now if you pay for them online while booking your ticket. Spirit is the only airline to charge for carry-on bags. A first checked bag will cost $21 and a second will cost $31. Remaining bags will cost $76 each to check. The new fees apply only to members of Spirit's $9 Fare Club, who get access to the lowest fares. If you are a member of the $9 Fare Club and pay for your bags while checking in online, you'll pay $36 for your carry-on. The prices for checked bags will go from $31 to $41 to $86, depending on how many you check