In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted.
Cardiovascular disease is a general name for a wide variety of diseases, disorders and conditions that affect the heart and sometimes the blood vessels as well. Cardiovascular disease is the number one killer of women and men in the United States, according to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood institute. 
Overview. The circulatory system, or cardiovascular system, is made up of the heart, veins, arteries and capillaries. This system is responsible for carrying oxygen and nutrients to all parts of the body. Heart disease and other circulatory problems are major sources of disability and death. 
Six Types of Cardiovascular Disease. Cardiovascular disease is a term that refers to more than one disease of the circulatory system including the heart and blood vessels, whether the blood vessels are affecting the lungs, the brain, kidneys or other parts of the body. Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in adult Canadian men and women. 1 Ischemic heart disease is the most common type of cardiovascular disease in Canada and other industrialized countries around the world. 2  It refers to problems with the circulation of blood to the heart muscle.
Heart Disease. Heart disease, or coronary artery disease, occurs when the blood vessels that supply oxygen to the heart narrow and stiffen. Smoking, an unhealthy diet, stress, and a sedentary lifestyle all increase the risk of heart disease. A heart attack or stroke can occur if the condition is untreated. This article discusses common circulatory system diseases and the corresponding treatment options. The circulatory system is responsible for moving blood, nutrients, and gases to and from cells to keep the body in proper balance.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted.
Knowledge center. Cardiovascular diseases include illnesses that involve the blood vessels (veins, arteries and capillaries) or the heart, or both-diseases that affect the cardiovascular system. The cardiovascular system, also called the circulatory system, is the system that moves blood throughout the human body. It is composed of the heart, arteries, veins, and capillaries. It transports oxygenated blood from the lungs and heart throughout the whole body through the arteries. Examples of diseases that affect the cardiovascular system. 1  Cardiac diseases (Heart diseases) - examples include: - 2  Angina (considered as both a cardiac and vascular disease). - 3  Arrhythmia (problems with the heartbeat, irregular heartbeat). - 4  Congenital heart disease. - 5  Coronary artery disease (CAD).
The blood vessels transport blood to and from the heart, the heart pumps oxygenated blood to the body, and the oxygen, gases, and nutrients exchange in the capillaries. Anything that affects the integrity of the tubing can impair the health of the circulatory system. This article discusses common circulatory system diseases and the corresponding treatment options. The circulatory system is responsible for moving blood, nutrients, and gases to and from cells to keep the body in proper balance.
The term heart disease is often used interchangeably with the term cardiovascular disease.. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.