Antigens are chemicals on the surface of a cell. All cells have these. The immune system checks cells and identifies them as self or non-self. Antibodies are proteins produced by certain lymphocytes in response to a specific antigen. B-lymphocytes and T-lymphocytes produce the antibodies. Helper T cells activate B cells that produce antibodies. Supressor T cells slow down and stop the immune response of B and T cells, serving as an off switch for the immune system. Cytotoxic (or killer) T cells destroy body cells infected with a virus or bacteria.
The cells of the acquired immune system are mainly the B cells and the T cells, but there are also other important parts of the acquired immune system, such as the ‘ complement cascade ‘ and the production of antibodies. There are two types of lymphocytes of the acquired immune system: T cells and B cells. There is a third type of lymphocyte known as natural killer (NK) cells, but these are a part of the innate immune system.
The white blood cells involved in the acquired immune response are called lymphocytes. There are two main types of lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B and T lymphocytes are made in the bone marrow, like the other blood cells. Lymphocytes have to fully mature before they can help in the immune response. B cells mature in the bone marrow. But the immature T cells travel through the bloodstream to the thymus gland where they become fully developed. Antibodies can also detect and kill damaged cells. The B cells are part of the memory of the immune system. The next time the same germ tries to invade, the B cells that make the right antibody are ready for it. They are able to make their antibody very quickly.
The receptors match only one specific antigen. White blood cells called lymphocytes originate in the bone marrow but migrate to parts of the lymphatic system such as the lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus. There are two main types of lymphatic cells, T cells and B cells. The lymphatic system also involves a transportation system-lymph vessels-for transportation and storage of lymphocyte cells within the body.
B cells are produced in the bone marrow. The precursors of T cells are also produced in the bone marrow but leave the bone marrow and mature in the thymus (which accounts for their designation). 
In birds, B cells mature in the bursa of Fabricius (the “B” from B cells comes from the name of this organ). B cells, unlike the other 2 classes of lymphocytes, T cells and natural killer cells, express B cell receptors (BCRs) on their cell membrane. BCRs allow the B cell to bind a specific antigen, against which it will initiate an antibody response. They function in the humoral immunity component of the adaptive immune system by secreting antibodies. Additionally, B cells present antigen (they are also classified as professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs)) and secrete cytokines.
Lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are two types of lymphocytes of the acquired immune system: T cells and B cells. There is a third type of lymphocyte known as natural killer (NK) cells, but these are a part of the innate immune system.
The immune system protects the body against illness and infection caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi or parasites. It is really a collection of reactions and responses that the body makes to damaged cells or infection. Antibodies can also detect and kill damaged cells. The B cells are part of the memory of the immune system. The next time the same germ tries to invade, the B cells that make the right antibody are ready for it. They are able to make their antibody very quickly.
B cells, also known as B lymphocytes, are a type of white blood cell of the lymphocyte subtype. They function in the humoral immunity component of the adaptive immune system by secreting antibodies. Additionally, B cells present antigen (they are also classified as professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs)) and secrete cytokines.
Macrophages -- Macrophages are important in the regulation of immune responses. They are often referred to as scavengers or antigen-presenting cells (APC) because they pick up and ingest foreign materials and present these antigens to other cells of the immune system such as T cells and B cells. It is made up of B cells, T cells, macrophages, dendritic cells, natural killer cells and red blood cells. In addition to capturing foreign materials (antigens) from the blood that passes through the spleen, migratory macrophages and dendritic cells bring antigens to the spleen via the bloodstream.