Plus, many networks allow you to stream live TV wherever there’s an Internet connection. Cox TV Connect ® Watch live TV right on your computer, iPad, ® iPhone ® or tablet in any room of your house. Now you can take your favorite shows with you and turn any room into a TV room. Contour ® App A revolutionary app for your iPad ® with personalized entertainment options that are just a swipe away. Live TV, On DEMAND SM shows and network apps can all be accessed anywhere in your home. Contour on Your TV The Contour Guide learns what you like and brings you new shows that you will love.
Hi Shawn, Thanks for contacting Contour Technical Support. There are a couple of different ways to view the videos from your Contour camera. The easiest is to install and open the Contour Storyteller program (http://store.contour.com/ae/us/storyteller/icat/storyteller/) on your computer and then connect your camera.
With Cox DVR, customers can: • Easily record a program to watch at a later time – Cox DVR customers can instantly record what’s on television or schedule the recording of a future program. • Pause and rewind live TV – Cox DVR allows a viewer to pause live television and playback later, without missing a scene. • Watch one program while recording another or watch a recorded program while simultaneously recording two live programs on different channels.
11 from Cox Welcome to Contour! Contour from Cox lets you watch TV in a way that perfectly fits you by learning what you like and serving up recommendations based on the shows you watch and the choices you make. Contour ® App A revolutionary app for your iPad ® with personalized entertainment options that are just a swipe away. Live TV, On DEMAND SM shows and network apps can all be accessed anywhere in your home. Contour on Your TV The Contour Guide learns what you like and brings you new shows that you will love.
LIVE Watch live TV on your tablet anywhere in your home. Contour ® learns what you like and recommends the new shows you’ll love. MY LIBRARY Takes you to your personalized watchlist of shows and movies and easy access to the TV network apps you’ve downloaded that are included with your service. Contour ® App A revolutionary app for your iPad ® with personalized entertainment options that are just a swipe away. Live TV, On DEMAND SM shows and network apps can all be accessed anywhere in your home. Contour on Your TV The Contour Guide learns what you like and brings you new shows that you will love.
This was the first thing I looked for when the guy finished installing the box (just now). For people who travel for work it would be important to be able to access Contour from Windows based machines as that is what many still use for work laptops. The iPad is OK, but hard to connect to a bigger monitor and better speakers when on the road. 
can't seem to figure out how to play my videos on my computer! Up -15 rated Down. Hi Shawn, Thanks for contacting Contour Technical Support. There are a couple of different ways to view the videos from your Contour camera. The easiest is to install and open the Contour Storyteller program (http://store.contour ... Thanks for contacting Contour Technical Support. There are a couple of different ways to view the videos from your Contour camera. The easiest is to install and open the Contour Storyteller program (http://store.contour.com/ae/us/storyteller/icat/storyteller/) on your computer and then connect your camera
28 Oct 2013 3:12 AM. I subscribed to Contour with the promise from Cox Customer Service that I could watch DVR recorded programs on my iPads. I don't know how to get this to work. Please explain it. I have heard from many Contour subscribers that they CAN access their DVR recordings on their iPad. I have also read on this forum Cox employees answer questions regarding this feature by explaining that this ability is impossible at the current time.. Many of the channels you subscribe to have individual apps that allow you to watch programs outside of your home. Contour can link you to those apps so you can save the shows you want to watch in your Contour Watch List! For more info about Contour, check out http://bit.ly/AboutContourApp and http://bit.ly/ContourAppFAQs. I hope this helps!