Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a form of psychotherapy. It was originally designed to treat depression, but is now used for a number of mental disorders. It works to solve current problems and change unhelpful thinking and behavior. The name refers to behavior therapy, cognitive therapy, and therapy based upon a combination of basic behavioral and cognitive principles.
cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), a broadening of behavior therapy to include consideration of cognitive processes and use specific techniques for teaching cognitive skills that help the patient adaptively perceive, interpret, and respond to the environment. Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a collaborative, action-oriented therapy effort. As such, it empowers the patient by giving him an active role in the therapy process and discourages any overdependence on the therapist that may occur in other therapeutic relationships.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a short-term, structured form of psychotherapy that focuses on the client's present. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a short-term approach to treatment in which a client and therapist work together to identify and restructure the client's negative thoughts. The key tenet is that our thoughts influence our behaviors and feelings.
Cognitive therapy is sometimes called cognitive behavior therapy because it aims to help people in the ways they think (the cognitive) and in the ways they act (the behavior). Cognitive therapy has, for instance, been used to help cocaine-dependent individuals become abstinent from cocaine and other substances. The underlying assumption is that learning processes play an important role in the development and continuation of cocaine abuse and dependence.
Find a Doctor. Cognitive therapy, or cognitive-behavioral therapy as it is more commonly called today, is an active, structured form of psychotherapy based on the idea that the way a person views the world has a major influence on his or her emotions and behavior. 
cognitive therapy (cognitive-behavioral therapy) a directive form of psychotherapy based on the theory that emotional problems result from distorted attitudes and ways of thinking that can be corrected. Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a collaborative, action-oriented therapy effort. As such, it empowers the patient by giving him an active role in the therapy process and discourages any overdependence on the therapist that may occur in other therapeutic relationships.
Cognitive therapy: A relatively short-term form of psychotherapy based on the concept that the way we think about things affects how we feel emotionally. Cognitive therapy focuses on present thinking, behavior, and communication rather than on past experiences and is oriented toward problem solving. Cognitive therapy has been applied to a broad range of problems including depression, anxiety, panic, fears, eating disorders, substance abuse, and personality problems. Cognitive therapy has, for instance, been used to help cocaine-dependent individuals become abstinent from cocaine and other substances. The underlying assumption is that learning processes play an important role in the development and continuation of cocaine abuse and dependence.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (also known by its abbreviation, CBT) is a short-term, goal-oriented psychotherapy treatment that takes a hands-on, practical approach to problem-solving. Its goal is to change patterns of thinking or behavior that are behind people’s difficulties, and so change the way they feel. 
Lesson Summary. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a structured form of psychotherapy focused on the client's present-the goal is to find, confront, and fix a client's negative thought patterns. CBT's main components are core beliefs and automatic thoughts. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a short-term approach to treatment in which a client and therapist work together to identify and restructure the client's negative thoughts. The key tenet is that our thoughts influence our behaviors and feelings.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy is an action-oriented form of psychosocial therapy that assumes that maladaptive, or faulty, thinking patterns cause maladaptive behavior and negative emotions. Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a collaborative, action-oriented therapy effort. As such, it empowers the patient by giving him an active role in the therapy process and discourages any overdependence on the therapist that may occur in other therapeutic relationships.