Mackerel tabby, with the striped pattern. A tabby is any domestic cat that has a coat featuring distinctive stripes, dots, lines or swirling patterns, usually together with a mark resembling an 'M' on its forehead. Tabbies are sometimes erroneously assumed to be a cat breed. The patched tabby is a calico or tortoiseshell cat with tabby patches (also known as caliby and torbie, respectively). All those patterns have been observed in random-bred populations. Several additional patterns are found in specific breeds. A modified Classic tabby is found in the Sokoke breed.
There are four tabby patterns that have been shown to be genetically distinct: mackerel, classic, spotted, and ticked. A fifth includes tabby as part of another basic color pattern, the patched tabby, which may be a calico or tortoiseshell cat with tabby patches (the latter is called a torbie). A cat's coat can be described as red tabby or gray tabby. Black and blue are colors that usually show up without tabby markings, but with some cats, a faint tabby pattern can actually be noticed. White is the only color that does not have any tabby markings.
Not so; the tabby is a color pattern-most often stripes, but sometimes stripes and whorls, or even spots and stripes. The tabby pattern is so popular that it can be found in many pedigreed cats today, and is accepted in a number of breeds by the most popular registries. A fifth includes tabby as part of another basic color pattern, e.g. the patched tabby, which may be a calico or tortoiseshell cat with tabby patches (the latter is called a torbie.. Some pointed breeds also allow tabby points within their color standards.
There are four tabby patterns that have been shown to be genetically distinct: Mackerel, Classic, spotted, and ticked. A fifth includes tabby as part of another basic color pattern. The patched tabby is a calico or tortoiseshell cat with tabby patches (also known as caliby and torbie, respectively). All those patterns have been observed in random-bred populations. Several additional patterns are found in specific breeds. A modified Classic tabby is found in the Sokoke breed.
A tabby is a cat with a distinctive coat that features stripes, dots, or swirling patterns, usually together with an M mark on its forehead. Tabbies are sometimes erroneously assumed to be a cat breed. A cat's coat can be described as red tabby or gray tabby. Black and blue are colors that usually show up without tabby markings, but with some cats, a faint tabby pattern can actually be noticed. White is the only color that does not have any tabby markings.
The tabby is not a breed of cat, nor is it a coat color. It's simply a coat pattern. It can show up in combination with a variety of coat colors. A cat's coat can be described as red tabby or gray tabby. Black and blue are colors that usually show up without tabby markings, but with some cats, a faint tabby pattern can actually be noticed. White is the only color that does not have any tabby markings.
Portrait of a Tabby Cat. Tabby cats aren't a breed. The word tabby refers to a color pattern that may occur in almost any type of domestic cat. The word tabby describes a color pattern of stripes, swirls or dots in grey, brown, buff or orange tones. Tabby is also sometimes used as a generic term for any cat, just as hound is sometimes used to describe any dog. The term tiger cat is also used to describe striped tabby cats. During the 16th and 17th centuries, tabby referred to a female cat, and tabby specifically referred to a female cat belonging to a witch.
– Calico Tabby or “Tabico” for short – A calico mixed with a brown tabby, so you get brown and orange tabby markings plus larger patches of white. – Tortoiseshell or “Torties” for short – Torties aren’t true tri-colored cats, as they are mainly black and orange (also called red) swirled in a “brindle” pattern. 
Tabby refers to a cat's coat pattern and not a cat breed. Although some breeds (such as the Ocicat, Egyptian Mau, American Shorthair, Bengal and Toyger) are distinguished by their tabby patterns, many mixed breeds also are tabbies. And in many cat breeds, the tabby pattern is one of many possible coat patterns. 
People sometimes call the average domestic cat a Tabby, but tabby is not a cat breed — it is actually the pattern of kitty’s coat. And it happens to be the most common of all the feline coat patterns. Technically speaking, no matter what color or markings you see on your cat, all felines possess the tabby gene. 