A cost-sharing charge is the amount an individual has to pay for a medical item or service (e.g., hospital stay, physician visit, or prescription) covered by his health insurance plan. This is the maximum amount that an enrollee is required to pay for all cost-sharing charges (including the deductible, copayments and/or coinsurance) during the course of a year. The health law requires each plan to have a maximum out-of-pocket amount that applies to covered benefits delivered by in-network providers.
Cost Sharing Requirements. 1  Your plan may require you to pay before the plan begins to pay. 2  This is called a deductible (e.g. if your deductible is $500 per year you would pay the first $500 of incurred medical expenses). 3  Plans also may charge a deductible for certain services (e.g., you pay $100 for a hospital stay). This is called cost sharing or out-of-pocket costs. Cost sharing varies with different types of health plans, but most will have a copayment, coinsurance or deductible amount.
For instance, if you have a $1,000 deductible, you will be responsible for all health care charges until those charges reach $1,000. Once your $1,000 deductible is met, you will share the cost of your health care services with your insurance company by paying coinsurance and/or copays. Note: copays do not count towards your deductible, but do count towards your out-of-pocket maximum.
A good rule: keep your deductible to no more than 5% of your gross annual income. “Coinsurance”: I think this is what you mean by “cost-share.” Coinsurance is the amount that you are obliged to pay for covered medical services after you’ve satisfied any co-payment or deductible required by your health insurance plan. “Deductible”: Your annual deductible is the amount you may be required to pay out-of-pocket before the insurance company will begin paying for your medical claims.
For example, you might pay $10 or $20 for a doctor’s visit or prescription. Cost Sharing The amount you may be required to pay as your share of the cost for health care services or prescriptions. Cost sharing can include copayments, coinsurance, and/or deductibles. Term Definition Annual Deductible The amount you must pay for your health care or prescriptions before Original Medicare, your prescription drug plan, your Medicare Health Plan, or your other insurance begins to pay.
Let's say your plan's deductible is $1,500. That means for most services, you'll pay 100 percent of your medical and pharmacy bills until the amount you pay reaches $1,500. After that, you share the cost with your plan by paying coinsurance and copays. This information will help you if you're shopping for health insurance and have questions about how it works. When both you and your health insurance company pay part of your medical expense, it’s called cost sharing. Deductibles, coinsurance and copays are all examples.
Coinsurance versus Copays… (and Deductibles). Copays, coinsurance, and deductibles are all considered cost sharing, a term used to describe situations where both you and your health insurance company pay part of your medical expenses. Once your $1,000 deductible is met, you will share the cost of your health care services with your insurance company by paying coinsurance and/or copays. Note: copays do not count towards your deductible, but do count towards your out-of-pocket maximum.
The example plan features: $1,000 deductible, 80/20 coinsurance rate (up to $5,000**), $1,000 out-of-pocket limit (deductible excluded), and $20 copayment. The example assumes seeking health care services within your company providers’ network. It shows the cost sharing from the insured’s point of view. The cost sharing stops when medical expenses reach your out-of-pocket maximum, which usually is between $1,000 and $5,000. If your medical expenses in a calendar year excess out-of-pocket limit, then your insurer covers all the remaining costs.
The same covered item or service may itself have different cost-sharing charges; for example, generic drugs may require a $10 copayment, preferred brand-name drugs a $25 copayment, and other high-cost drugs 50 percent coinsurance. This is the maximum amount that an enrollee is required to pay for all cost-sharing charges (including the deductible, copayments and/or coinsurance) during the course of a year. The health law requires each plan to have a maximum out-of-pocket amount that applies to covered benefits delivered by in-network providers.
Coinsurance. Coinsurance is a health care cost sharing between you and your insurance company. The cost sharing ranges from 80/20 to even 50/50. For example, if your coinsurance is 80/20, that means that your insurer covers 80% of annual medical expenses and you pay the remaining 20%. The cost sharing stops when medical expenses reach your out-of-pocket maximum, which usually is between $1,000 and $5,000. If your medical expenses in a calendar year excess out-of-pocket limit, then your insurer covers all the remaining costs.