Am I a good candidate for a brow lift? The best brow lift patient is in good health, a non-smoker, and is able to avoid blood thinning medications for two weeks before surgery. He or she has low and heavy eyebrows, and may be aware of looking tired, angry, or worried much of the time. If you have further questions about brow lifts, check the list below to find answers. While some information presented here is also contained in the above text, these short responses should complete your introduction to brow lifts.
An endoscopic brow lift, also known as brow enhancement, is a surgical procedure able to elevate and properly position the eyebrows and diminish frown lines in order to provide a younger, more refreshed appearance. Compared to traditional surgery, the endoscopic brow lift is a minimally invasive procedure. An endoscopic brow lift may be performed in a surgeon’s office-based facility, an outpatient surgical center or a hospital.
Brow lift surgery recovery time. Initial wound healing may take 10 to 14 days. Sutures or clips will be removed when it is appropriate. You should be ready to return to work and normal activity after two weeks. Find Your Surgeon. During your brow lift recovery, your forehead may be taped and your head may be loosely wrapped to minimize swelling and bruising after the procedure is completed. A thin tube may be present to drain any excess blood or fluid that may collect under the skin. You will be given specific instructions that may include:
It takes approximately 6-8 weeks for the majority of swelling and edema to resolve after a blepharoplasty or browlift procedure. The eyelid surgery is less invasive and suture are removed after 5-7 days. An open or coronal brow lift can lead to significant swelling for up to 6 weeks. On the other hand, the endoscopic technique leads to precise dissection of forehead, temporal, and leads to significantly less edema. During the first month following eyelid or browlift surgery, the dramatic swelling that you experienced during the first 48 hours will shrink fairly quickly. The bruising is typically gone by two to three weeks after the
An endoscopic brow lift is a procedure to elevate the eyebrows, smooth the forehead, and decrease the effect of muscle contraction on the area between the eyebrows. It can be combined with other facial plastic surgeries, such as eyelid surgery, facelift surgery, and laser skin resurfacing. An endoscopic brow lift is performed at an outpatient surgery center under twilight anesthesia. The procedure typically takes about an hour to perform. Often, an endoscopic brow lift is performed in combination with an upper eyelid blepharoplasty.
Most of the recovery takes place in the one to two weeks following the procedure. For more information on Tampa brow lifts, contact Dr. Mack’s office at 813-875-LIDS or schedule a consultation today. For more information, visit our brow lift frequently asked questions page. FACIAL SURGICAL PROCEDURES HOME PAGE. An endoscopic brow lift is performed at an outpatient surgery center under twilight anesthesia. The procedure typically takes about an hour to perform. Often, an endoscopic brow lift is performed in combination with an upper eyelid blepharoplasty.
The best candidate for an endoscopic brow lift is a physically healthy man or woman who has realistic expectations and is interested in improving the appearance of drooping or overhanging brows and furrowed lines above the nose. An endoscopic brow lift may be performed in a surgeon’s office-based facility, an outpatient surgical center or a hospital.
The brow lift surgery procedure should only be performed by an experienced, skilled plastic surgeon. You will either undergo a traditional brow lift or endoscopic brow lift, which is less invasive, depending on your specific situation. The procedures generally last from one to two hours total. 