Megalodon VS Whale. The megalodon shark is a massive oceanic animal that existed at least 28 million years ago until it became extinct around 1.5 million years ago. These sharks were believed to hunt other smaller sharks and giant turtles as well as marine mammals such as whales and dolphins. 
The problem with a blue whale being the culprit is that the loudest sound ever recorded by a blue whale could only just reach the range of 1000 miles. Thus, whatever it is that caused this sound had to be several orders of magnitude larger than the largest known organism, the blue whale. Take this size comparison chart. The problem is the loudest sound detected by a blue whale could only reach a little under 1000 miles...thus whatever it is that caused this sound had to be several orders of magnitude larger than the largest known living organism.
I think it did exist though, but either way.. The blue whale shark is the largest animal to have ever existed (as of right now of course :p) and is still extant. The Megaladon is thought to be the largest of most sharks, bigger than the Great White shark. But the size of a modern female blue whale is over 30 mtrs (115 feet) which makes so far as we know the largest animal that has ever existed. (Until we find fossils of something bigger).
The Blue Whale is the largest animal to have ever lived on Earth. It is quite larger than the Liopleurodon, even though the Liopleurodon is still quite large. Blue whales aver … age around 80-90 feet, (24-27 meters) and the largest specimens can reach 100 feet (30.5 meters) or slightly more. Megalodon Only Grew Up To 18 Meters Long. The Blue Whale Is Bigger Than Both Of Them. The Blue Whale Grows Up To 30 Meters. Leedisitchis Could've Grew Up To 27
It is believed that the average size of the megalodon was between 12 metres (39 ft) and 18 metres (59 ft). But the size of a modern female blue whale is over 30 mtrs (115 feet) which makes so far as we know the largest animal that has ever existed. (Until we find fossils of something bigger). So the Megalodon was probably bigger than some smaller whales but not the Blue whale. Also since sharks don't have a bony skeleton this size is an estimation based on the assumption that the size to tooth ratio is the same of present large sharks but this could be in error. Source(s): Mabel · 1 year ago
It is believed that the average size of the megalodon was between 12 metres (39 ft) and 18 metres (59 ft). But the size of a modern female blue whale is over 30 mtrs (115 feet) which makes so far as we know the largest animal that has ever existed. (Until we find fossils of something bigger). So the Megalodon was probably bigger than some smaller whales but not the Blue whale. Also since sharks don't have a bony skeleton this size is an estimation based on the assumption that the size to tooth ratio is the same of present large sharks but this could be in error. Which shark is larger megalodon shark or whale shark? megalodon shark was much bigger than whale shark cause a megalodon shark is almost 100 feet while an whale shark is just 62-75 feet. But the megalodon has been extinct for abo … ut 1.5 million years, leaving the whale shark the biggest shark alive
While Megalodon Is Thought By Some People To Be 40 Meters Long Or Other. This Is False As Well! Megalodon Only Grew Up To 18 Meters Long. The Blue Whale Is Bigger Than Both Of Them. The Blue Whale Grows Up To 30 Meters. Leedisitchis Could've Grew Up To 27 Meters Long.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Some People Think That The Megalodon Is Bigger Than The Blue Whale. The Blue Whale Is Even Bigger Than Liopluerodon. In Fact, Liopluerodon Is THOUGHT To Be 25 Meters Long Or More. Megalodon Only Grew Up To 18 Meters Long. The Blue Whale Is Bigger Than Both Of Them. The Blue Whale Grows Up To 30 Meters. Leedisitchis Could've Grew Up To 27
Megalodon's Closest Living Relative is the Great White Shark. A Great White Shark having its lunch (Wikimedia Commons). Technically, Megalodon is known as Carcharodon megalodon --meaning it's a species (Megalodon) of a larger shark genus (Carcharodon). Also technically, the modern Great White Shark is known as Carcharodon carcharias, meaning it belongs to the same genus as Megalodon. 