Financial Resources for Your Business. New businesses must be capitalized carefully to ensure that there is enough money to get the business up and running. Entrepreneurs must identify their start-up capital needs and cash-flow requirements.
Emotional Resources. Starting a business can be an extremely stressful endeavor for an entrepreneur to undertake. To maintain her sanity as well as stay motivated, it is important she have a support team that can give her inspirations and guidance as needed.
Knowledge is another resource you need to have in place before you start a business. Continue on to the next page to learn what types of knowledge and skills you must have if you want to start a business with staying power.
41 BUSINESS START-UP & RESOURCE GUIDE Failure to comply with any covenant or restriction can put a loan in default and give the lender the right to call on you to pay the balance of the loan. Loan restrictions are often as important as the interest rate.
Given everything else is in place, here is a checklist of the basic areas you need to cover before opening your business. This Website provides you with several resources to help complete each item. Click on each item to see it's resources.
In fact, it is. Of the many businesses that open each year, many fail to last as long. Though there is no guarantee for success, an entrepreneur who has properly prepared has a leg up on the competition. In addition to a strong business plan, there are five resources that contribute to the success of a new enterprise.
5 BUSINESS START-UP & RESOURCE GUIDE What are your expectations for the business: Within one year? After three years? CONCLUSIONS Understanding your personal characteristics, required business skills, and demands of business ownership are critical in helping you find the business best suited to you and your interest.
Financial Resources. The most important element in starting a business is funding. Even the most basic home business incurs a multitude of startup costs, including registering a business name, obtaining a business telephone line and printing business cards.