Iron blood test. Iron blood tests are usually taken in the morning before you eat anything. You should also avoid taking iron pills or tablets for 24 hours before your test. Your body absorbs iron very quickly from food or pills, so this can raise your iron levels and affect the test results. In other cases, you will be instructed not to eat or drink (other than water) before your test. This is known as a fasting blood test. You may also be told not to drink alcohol or not to smoke
An analysis of a blood sample taken with a needle and syringe gives a better indication of health risks. The GP can ask for a full lipid profile test, which not only tests the levels of cholesterol but also of triglycerides. Before having this type of blood test, you will be asked to not eat or drink for 10–12 hours. Because this is a fasting blood test, it can be scheduled for the morning so the fasting period includes when you are asleep at night and therefore normally fasting. A simple blood test is the only way to measure the amount of lipids in the blood, including LDL and HDL cholesterol. Although the practice nurse or GP can take a blood sample by pricking a finger, this pinprick test is usually used only for screening purposes.
You can eat and drink as normal before some blood tests. In other cases, you will be instructed not to eat or drink (other than water) before your test. This is known as a fasting blood test. You may also be told not to drink alcohol or not to smoke before your test.
1 You do not have to fast prior to a GGT blood test. 2  You should not drink alcohol within 24 hours of testing. 3  You should not smoke within 24 hours of testing; your healthcare professional may recommend that you abstain from smoking for a longer period prior to testing in some cases. 1 You'll need to fast the night before and take the test the first thing in the morning to get an accurate reading. 2  You should not drink alcohol within 24 hours of testing. 3  If you normally take a vitamin supplement, do not take it within 24 hours of the test.
A liver function test is done to determine how well the liver works. Its done by taking a blood sample and testing how many liver cell … s are detected in the bloodstream. A high amount of cells detected would mean there's a problem with how well your liver is working. Supposed to be a 12 hr fast-except water or juices. The above answer is wrong. Water is the ONLY thing that you can drink to satisfy the fasting criteria...8 hrs should be adequate. Liver function tests do not require fasting since the tests are not affected one way or the other. Juices generally contain sugars that affect other testing (like glucose)
However, iron tests and GGT tests do not require fasting. Blood testing is done to check the blood for abnormalities, including high cholesterol and glucose levels. Before going to a hospital or doctor's office for testing, people often wonder if they can eat or drink before the blood test. 1 You'll need to fast the night before and take the test the first thing in the morning to get an accurate reading. 2  You should not drink alcohol within 24 hours of testing. 3  If you normally take a vitamin supplement, do not take it within 24 hours of the test.
A. If you are on cholesterol-lowering medication, including statins, fibrates, bile-acid resins, absorption inhibitors or nicotinic acid/niacin, it’s recommended your liver enzyme levels be checked regularly. Statin medications work by blocking the liver enzyme that is responsible for producing cholesterol. 
A cholesterol test is a fasting blood test. 1  You will have to refrain from eating or drinking anything other than water for a period between 9 and 12 hours before the test. 2  You will need to bring a record of every food and beverage you have consumed for the week prior to testing with you for the doctor to review. 1 You'll need to fast the night before and take the test the first thing in the morning to get an accurate reading. 2  You should not drink alcohol within 24 hours of testing. 3  If you normally take a vitamin supplement, do not take it within 24 hours of the test.
Do not eat or drink anything except water for 8 to 10 hours before a fasting blood glucose test. These are used to diagnose diabetes, a condition caused by too much glucose (sugar) in the blood. In other cases, you will be instructed not to eat or drink (other than water) before your test. This is known as a fasting blood test. You may also be told not to drink alcohol or not to smoke