Group 11 is also known as the coinage metals, due to their former usage. This had led to most modern coins being made of base metals – copper nickel (around 80:20, silver in color) is popular as are nickel-brass (copper (75), nickel (5) and zinc (20), gold in color), manganese-brass (copper, zinc, manganese, and nickel), bronze, or simple plated steel.
Coinage metal may also refer to the group 11 elements. The coinage metals comprise, at minimum, those metallic chemical elements which have historically been used as components in alloys used to mint coins. The term is not perfectly defined, however, since a number of metals have been used to make demonstration coins which have never been used to make monetized coins for any nation-state, but could be.
All Group 11 elements are relatively inert, corrosion-resistant metals. Copper and gold are colored. These elements have low electrical resistivity so they are used for wiring. Copper is the cheapest and most widely used. This had led to most modern coins being made of base metals – copper nickel (around 80:20, silver in color) is popular as are nickel-brass (copper (75), nickel (5) and zinc (20), gold in color), manganese-brass (copper, zinc, manganese, and nickel), bronze, or simple plated steel.
Metals Used in Coins. Coins available from the United States mint are made from a variety of metals. Exotic metals such as silver and gold were used by the United States mint for making coins. However, due to the increasing price of these metals, they are only used now for making bullion coins or collectors’ coins. Other metals such as copper, nickel and zinc are used to make ordinary coins. 
The coinage metals are resistant to oxidation, hence their traditional use in making coins. Unlike the majority of the transition metals, the coinage metals each have a full d sublevel and one electron in an s sublevel, that is, an electron configuration that terminates in (n-1) d. n s. 
Question. The coinage metals -- copper, silver, and gold -- crystallize in a cubic closest packed structure. Use the density of copper (8.95 g/cm3) and its molar mass (63.55 g/mol) to calculate an approximate atomic radius for copper. View more.
Historically, many coinage metals (or alloys) are from the three nonradioactive members of group 11 of the periodic table: copper, silver and gold. However, there are many more, even for coins made from intrinsically precious metals. Precious metals are always used in bullion coins and some collectable coins. The term is not perfectly defined, however, since a number of metals have been used to make demonstration coins which have never been used to make monetized coins for any nation-state, but could be.
One of these small families, the coinage metals, consists of copper, silver and gold, the three elements in group 11. The other family, the platinum metals, includes elements from three groups: ruthenium and osmium from group 8; rhodium and iridium from group 9; and palladium and platinum from group 10. Unlike the majority of the transition metals, the coinage metals each have a full d sublevel and one electron in an s sublevel, that is, an electron configuration that terminates in (n-1) d.
EXPERT ANSWER. Coinage metals are part of group of three malleable ductile transition metals forming group 11 of the periodic table copper (Cu), silver (Ag), and gold (Au) which are used for making coins. Their outer electronic configurations have the form nd 10 (n +1) s 1. 