basalt. n. 1. (Geological Science) a fine-grained dark basic igneous rock consisting of plagioclase feldspar, a pyroxene, and olivine: the most common volcanic rock and usually extrusive. See flood basalt. 2. (Ceramics) a form of black unglazed pottery resembling basalt. A dark, fine-grained, igneous rock consisting mostly of feldspar, iron, and magnesium. Basalt makes up most of the ocean floor. It commonly forms when volcanic lava becomes solid. See Table at rock.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt
By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals. Basalt is one of the most common rock types in the world. Basalt is the rock most typical of large igneous provinces. The largest occurrences of basalt are in the ocean floor that is almost completely made up by basalt.
/bəˈsɔːlt/ , /ˈbaesɒlt/ , /ˈbæsɒlt/ , ˈbaesɔːlt /ˈbæsɔːlt/) or ˈbeɪsɔːlt is a common (extrusive) igneous volcanic rock formed from the rapid cooling of basaltic lava exposed at or very near the surface of a planet. Or moon flood basalt describes the formation in a series of lava. basalt flows Basalt is one of the most common rock types in the world. Basalt is the rock most typical of large igneous provinces. The largest occurrences of basalt are in the ocean floor that is almost completely made up by basalt.
Full Definition of BASALT. : a dark gray to black dense to fine-grained igneous rock that consists of basic plagioclase, augite, and usually magnetite. — ba·sal·tic \bə-ˈsȯl-tik\ adjective. See basalt defined for English-language learners. See basalt defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : a dark gray to black dense to fine-grained igneous rock that consists of basic plagioclase, augite, and usually magnetite
Noun. 1. basalt-the commonest type of solidified lava; a dense dark grey fine-grained igneous rock that is composed chiefly of plagioclase feldspar and pyroxene. pyroxene-any of a group of crystalline silicate mineral common in igneous and metamorphic rocks. A dark, fine-grained, igneous rock consisting mostly of feldspar, iron, and magnesium. Basalt makes up most of the ocean floor. It commonly forms when volcanic lava becomes solid. See Table at rock.
1. a fine-grained dark basic igneous rock consisting of plagioclase feldspar, a pyroxene, and olivine: the most common volcanic rock and usually extrusive. 2. a form of black unglazed pottery resembling basalt. [ bə′sȯlt ]. Basalt. a magmatic rock. Basalt consists predominantly of plagioclase (labradorite); also present are pyroxenes, olivine, magnetite, sphene, apatite, and other minerals. The chemical composition of basalt is close to gabbro which is its analogue in depth. Almost completely crystalline basalts are called dolerites.
The definition of Basaltic Lava is: A volcanic fluid rock of basaltic composition. It is hardened lava that produced a very dark rock. Basaltic lava flows form from mafic magmas located blow the earth's surface. These lava flows, when crystallized, will produce rhyolite and dacite. Intermediate compositions-- … that is, a mixture of felsic and more of mafic magmas-- will produce andesitic rock.