Satya Narayana Nadella (/ˈnədɛlae/ ; ˈnədɛlæ Born august, 19) 1967 is An-Indian american business. Executive he is the current chief executive (OFFICER) ceo Of. Microsoft he was appointed AS ceo on 4 february, 2014 Succeeding Steve. ballmer Satya Narayana Nadella (/ˈnədɛlae/ ; ˈnədɛlæ Born august, 19) 1967 is An-Indian american business. executive
Microsoft just revealed how much it is paying its new CEO, Satya Nadella. All told for the first year, it's a package worth $84 million, the company said in a regulatory filing. 
The other elements of Nadella’s $84.3 million in compensation included an annual stock bonus valued at $7.1 million, a $3.6 million cash bonus and salary of about $919,000. Microsoft valued the first-year pay for CEO Satya Nadella at $84 million–largely in the form of future stock payouts. Agence France-Presse/Getty Images.
Salary: Microsoft have confirmed in an 8-K filing Nadella will be paid $1.2 million a year as CEO, and will also be eligible for a cash bonus of up to 300 per cent a year. The lowdown on Satya Nadella's salary, net worth, education and career history. You stop doing useful things if you don’t learn. Microsoft has chosen long-time employee Satya Nadella as its new CEO, bringing to a close its five-month search for Steve Ballmer’s replacement.
Satya Nadella's base salary 70% more than Ballmer's. According to a recent regulatory filing by Microsoft with the SEC, Nadella's annual salary has been increased to $1.2 million. Nadella, 44, joined the company in 1992 after a brief stint with Sun Microsystems. According to a report in Wall Street Journal, Nadella's base salary is 70% higher than the base pay received by Steve Ballmer.
Satya Nadella will get $1.2 million in salary for his first year as CEO of Microsoft, the company said Tuesday. That’s a substantial jump on his previous salary of $675,000 and considerably more than the $700,000 earned by former CEO Steve Ballmer in Microsoft’s previous financial year. Ballmer had asked for a relatively low salary and his pay was below the average for other CEOs of similar companies.
IDG News Service. Satya Nadella will get $1.2 million in salary for his first year as CEO of Microsoft, the company said Tuesday. That’s a substantial jump on his previous salary of $675,000 and considerably more than the $700,000 earned by former CEO Steve Ballmer in Microsoft’s previous financial year. Ballmer had asked for a relatively low salary and his pay was below the average for other CEOs of similar companies.
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is earning a pay package worth $84.3 million for the financial year 2014. Most of the amount is in the form of stock awards, which will be paid out over several years. (Photo: Johannes Marliem). Microsoft has given CEO Satya Nadella a pay package worth $84.3 million, most of which are in the form of long-term stock awards. A regulatory document that Microsoft filed showed that Nadella received a salary of $918,917 and a bonus of $3.6 million for the financial year that ended on June 30. Nadella was also given stock awards with a value of almost $79.8 million, with most of the payments to be spread out over several years
Age: 46. Salary: Microsoft have confirmed in an 8-K filing Nadella will be paid $1.2 million a year as CEO, and will also be eligible for a cash bonus of up to 300 per cent a year. This equates to an extra $3.6 million. His base salary is around 70 per cent higher than what the previous CEO, Steve Ballmer, received. The lowdown on Satya Nadella's salary, net worth, education and career history. You stop doing useful things if you don’t learn. Microsoft has chosen long-time employee Satya Nadella as its new CEO, bringing to a close its five-month search for Steve Ballmer’s replacement.
Nadella's compensation is reportedly higher than his previous salary of $675,000 and substantially more than the $700,000 earned by former CEO Steve Ballmer in Microsoft's previous financial year. According to a report in Wall Street Journal, Nadella's base salary is 70% higher than the base pay received by Steve Ballmer.