One tablespoon of hummus provides you with 6 percent of your daily fiber needs, based on a 2,000-calorie diet. This fiber primarily comes from the chickpeas in hummus, which contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. A balance of both types of fiber is the key to digestive health. Heart Health. Hummus can lower your risk of heart disease by lowering risk factors such as elevated cholesterol and blood pressure. According to a study published in the Annals of Nutrition & Metabolism, adding chickpeas to your diet can lower total and LDL cholesterol, the so-called bad cholesterol.
Healthy Ingredients. Chickpeas, hummus’s main ingredient, give you protein, good-for-you carbs, and fiber. Like other members of the legume family, they routinely top lists of the world’s healthiest foods. Eating more plant foods is good for you. People who make that a habit are less likely to get certain diseases. Of course, lots of things affect your health -- there's no miracle food -- but a little hummus wouldn't hurt. Garlic and olive oil are two of the best-known and most studied ingredients.
Pin It. (NaturalNews) Hummus is a traditional Middle Eastern spread made of pureed chickpeas. Usually blended with tahini (sesame seed butter), olive oil, lemon juice, salt and garlic, it is a very good source of protein and vitamins. Studies even indicate that hummus has properties to help fight against cancer. 
Marketed as a healthy dip, most commercial hummus dips combine chickpeas, Tahini, soybean and canola oils with various spices, making it a staple in vegan diets. With a variety of flavors, there’s literally a hummus for every occasion. But there’s no need to make it a part of every meal. 
The creamy and decadent taste of this Middle Eastern dip has become a healthy kitchen staple in the homes of millions of Americans. Hummus’s ingredients, including mashed chickpea, tahini, oil, lemon juice, and garlic, load the thick paste with vitamins, antioxidants and minerals. The superfood is not only heart-healthy, it delivers a myriad of benefits for the mind, body, and soul. 
Hummus, the simple dip of chickpeas, olive oil, lemon juice and salt, has America under a spell. The New York Times reported that the hummus industry has grown from just a $5 million dollar business 15 years ago, to one that totaled $530 million at U.S. food retailers in 2012. According to this recipe from Food & Wine, all you need to make your own hummus is a food processor, a can of chickpeas, a garlic clove, extra virgin olive oil, tahini, lemon juice and salt. Then all you have to do is throw all the ingredients in the processor. Voila!
Hummus is a Mediterranean spread made by combining chickpeas, olive oil, lemon, garlic and a sesame paste called tahini. These ingredients each contain health-promoting nutrients and when combined, form a dish packed with many health benefits. Heart Health. Hummus can lower your risk of heart disease by lowering risk factors such as elevated cholesterol and blood pressure. According to a study published in the Annals of Nutrition & Metabolism, adding chickpeas to your diet can lower total and LDL cholesterol, the so-called bad cholesterol.
4. Healthy Eating. Hummus is a popular dish that originated in the Middle East. It is a spread, dip, or paste made of chickpeas and tahini that is usually eaten with pita or any other flat bread, often during breakfast. It has a texture and consistency similar with peanut butter. This Middle Eastern favorite is widely used in countries like Syria, Israel, Turkey, Greece, Cyprus and Lebanon.
A basic hummus recipe includes chickpeas and tahini (ground sesame seed paste) seasoned with various flavorings and blended smooth with oil. A two-tablespoon serving of plain hummus contains 70 calories, 5 grams of fat, 1 gram of saturated fat, 1 gram of fiber and 2 grams of protein. 