The Ionian Islands are also traditionally called the Seven Islands, but the group includes many smaller islands as well as the seven principal ones. The group is situated off the west coast of Greece, stretching from the north of Epirus to the southern tip of the Peloponnese. The six northern islands are off the wet coast of Greece, in the Ionian Sea and the seventh, Kythira, is off the southern tip of the Peloponnese. There are 2943 Hotels in Ionian Islands.
What is more, the traits of the Ionian Islands are perfectly combined with a flawless tourism infrastructure, excellent hotel accommodations, restaurants, diving centers, sea sports, cultural events, and a multitude of sights, historic monuments and museums worth visiting. The Ionian Islands were part of the Byzantine Empire until1204 when the Franks took over Constantinople and the Ionian Islands were eventually ceded to the Venetians. Under Venetian rule, the Ionian Islands formed their own local nobility whose register survived as late as the 19 th century.
Travel guide to Ionian, Greece. Located on the western side of Greece, the islands of the Ionian Sea are famous for their gorgeous beaches and the lush greenery. Corfu, Kefalonia, Zakynthos and Lefkada are the most popular, while there are also few other secluded islands. Discover the best sightseeing with the help of our Ionian islands travel guide. Travel info. The Ionian, in Greece, is located on the western side of Greece. This Greek islands group actually form the sea boundary of Greece with Italy. They are getting very popular in summer and they are famous for their exotic beaches and green landscape.
Ionian Islands. The Ionian Islands are located in the Ionian Sea, off the west coast of Greece and are composed of Corfu, Kefalonia, Zakynthos, Lefkada, Ithaca, Paxos and Kythira. This site is a complete travel guide to Ionian Islands. Hotels, Studios & Apartments, Restaurants-Greek Tavernas, Bars, Clubs, Car Rentals, Travel Agencies, Photos, Beaches, Sightseeing and much more useful information, are just a click away.
Scattered along the western coastline of Central Greece, the Ionian Islands as they are known, are an island cluster comprising twelve small and large islands whose total surface area comes to 2,200 square kilometers. Zakynthos, Ithaca, Corfu (Kerkyra), Kefalonia, Lefkada, and Paxi are the six, large Ionian Islands. Antipaxi, Erikousa, Mathraki, Othoni, Meganisi and the deserted islets of Strofades south of Zakynthos are the smaller Ionian Islands. The Ionian Islands were part of the Byzantine Empire until1204 when the Franks took over Constantinople and the Ionian Islands were eventually ceded to the Venetians. Under Venetian rule, the Ionian Islands formed their own local nobility whose register survived as late as the 19 th century.
The six northern islands are off the west coast of Greece, in the Ionian Sea. The seventh island, Kythira, is off the southern tip of the Peloponnese, the southern part of the Greek mainland. Kythira is not part of the region of the Ionian Islands, as it is included in the region of Attica. [ioˈnia]). In English, the adjective relating to Ionia is Ionic, not Ionian. The islands themselves are known by a rather confusing variety of names. During the centuries of rule by Venice, they acquired Venetian names, by which some of them are still known in English (and in Italian).
Greek Island Guide Ionian Islands. The Ionian islands of western Greece remind many people of Italy, particularly the island of Corfu. They receive more rain than the islands in the Aegean and so are greener. Known for their beautiful beaches, unique cuisine and package tourism they are not as easy to reach from Athens since there are no boats. 
For the ancient region in western Anatolia, see Ionia. The Ionian Islands (Modern Greek: ιόνια νησιά, Ionia nisia; Ancient Greek, Katharevousa: ἰόνιοι νῆσοι, Ionioi Nēsoi; Italian: Isole Ionie) are a group of islands in Greece. [ioˈnia]). In English, the adjective relating to Ionia is Ionic, not Ionian. The islands themselves are known by a rather confusing variety of names. During the centuries of rule by Venice, they acquired Venetian names, by which some of them are still known in English (and in Italian).