Diabetes and your heart. If you have diabetes, you are more likely to develop coronary heart disease than someone without diabetes. Diabetes causes high levels of glucose in your blood. This can affect the walls of your arteries, and make them more likely to develop fatty deposits (atheroma). If you have diabetes, it’s very important to make sure that you control your blood sugar, blood pressure and cholesterol levels to help reduce your risk of coronary heart disease and other cardiovascular diseases. To do this you can: 1  do more physical activity. 2  eat a healthy, balanced diet. 3  control your weight, and
While sugar provides you with energy, high blood sugar levels accompanied with high cholesterol can lead to heart disease. Excess sugar stored in the body turns into fat and excess weight, which adversely affects your body's ability to process fuel properly. This problem affects your cardiac and pulmonary system. 
If this occurs in the coronary arteries, it can affect the supply of blood to your heart, which can cause chest pains (angina) or, in severe cases, a heart attack. Similarly, a stroke can occur when arteries leading to the brain become blocked, starving the brain of oxygen. Diabetes affects risk of blood vessels narrowing; leading to blockages. The heart is hugely powerful organ that works non-stop/round the clock to keep blood, which carries oxygen and many other important substances, flowing through your body.
Hello! You have a fast heart rate. A heart rate over 100 beats per min is considered Tachycardia. If you don't have any symptoms at all like chest discomfort ,short of breath ,palpitations, the feeling that your heart is racing fast ,you don't need to worry. 
By Serena Gordon. HealthDay Reporter. TUESDAY, April 22, 2014 (HealthDay News) -- Low blood sugar levels -- known as hypoglycemia -- in people with diabetes may cause potentially dangerous changes in heart rate, according to a small new study. Although some oral diabetes medications can cause low blood sugar levels, the most common treatment to drop blood sugar levels too low is insulin. Insulin is a naturally occurring hormone that helps usher sugar into cells to be used as fuel.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. Many people with diabetes also have heart disease. When you do things to take care of your diabetes, like manage your blood sugar, exercise, and eat a healthy diet, that's also good for your heart. It's important to understand your risk and how you can lower it. Types of Heart Disease. People with diabetes are at risk for: Coronary artery disease. Your coronary arteries are in your heart. Fatty deposits, called plaques, can narrow them. If plaque suddenly breaks, it can cause a heart attack. Exercise, eating a healthy diet, and not smoking are musts. Congestive heart failure.