Max is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Max. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 112 in baby name popularity for boys with 3468 occurrences. It ranked 8288 in popular baby names for girls with 14 occurrences. 
Maxx is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Maxx. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1057 in baby name popularity for boys with 186 occurrences. It ranked 12602 in popular baby names for girls with 8 occurrences.
A popular boy name Max is pronounced maks. The source of the name is Maximilianus, a Latin name meaning The greatest.. Short form of Maximilian, Maximo, or Maxwell. Maxime (max-EEM) is a French form. Writer Max Beerbohm; actor Max von Sydow are two famous personalities with the Max. Nicknames of the name Max include Maxie
Maxx /maxx/ [1 syll.] as a name for boys is an alternate spelling of Max: short variation of Maximilian, Maximo. Maxx is an equally unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Maxx for boys. Maxx was first listed in 2009 and reached its apex position of #953 in the U.S. in the year 2010, but is not found in the list currently.
Maxx is an uncommonly occurring given name for males. Maxx is an equally unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Maxx for boys. Maxx was first listed in 2009 and reached its apex position of #953 in the U.S. in the year 2010, but is not found in the list currently.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Maxx. Maxx is an elaboration of Max, which is the short form of Maximus, Maxim, Maximilian, Maxwell or any name starting with the Max prefix (including the feminine Maxine). Almost all Max names are derived from the Latin cognomen “Maximus” which is Latin for “greatest” (a superlative of “magnus” meaning “great, large”). 
Latin Meaning: The name Max is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Max is: Greatest. American Meaning: The name Max is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Max is: Greatest. Scottish Meaning: The name Max is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Max is: Magnus' spring. Mac's well. Surname and place name. 
Max is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1960s. At the modest peak of its usage in 2011, 0.195% of baby boys were given the name Max. [ 1 syll. max, ma-x ] The baby boy name Max is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. Its pronunciation is M AE KS (English) or M AA KS (German) †.
Maxx is largely used in English, and it is derived from Latin and Old English origins. Maxx is a variant transcription of the name Max (Dutch, English, German, Scandinavian, and Latin). Maxx is also an English diminutive form of the name Maxwell (English and Scottish). Maxx is a rare baby name for boys. At the recent peak of its usage in 2010, 0.010% of baby boys were named Maxx. It ranked at #950 then
Max (#112) is the most chic name for newborns here, and there is also a resurgence in baby name popularity for this name. Shown below is an analysis of the usage of Maxx and affiliated names. Maxx is an equally unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Maxx for boys. Maxx was first listed in 2009 and reached its apex position of #953 in the U.S. in the year 2010, but is not found in the list currently.