(December 2013). A pneumatic tool, air tool, air-powered tool or pneumatic-powered tool is a type of power tool, driven by compressed air, supplied by an air compressor. Pneumatic tools can also be driven by compressed carbon dioxide (CO 2) stored in small cylinders allowing for portability. 
Pneumatics is the technology of compressed air, but in some circles, it is more fashionable to refer to it as a type of automation control. Pressurized gas—generally air that may be either of the dry or lubricated type—is used to actuate an end effector and do work. A pneumatic system generally uses an air compressor to reduce the volume of the air, thereby increasing the pressure of the gas. The pressurized gas travels through pneumatic hoses and is controlled by valves on the way to the actuator.
Fluid power is a term describing hydraulics and pneumatics technologies. Both technologies use a fluid (liquid or gas) to transmit power from one location to another. With hydraulics, the fluid is a liquid (usually oil), whereas pneumatics uses a gas (usually compressed air). The principles of pneumatics are the same as those for hydraulics, but pneumatics transmits power using a gas instead of a liquid. Compressed air is usually used, but nitrogen or other inert gases can be used for special applications. With pneumatics, air is usually pumped into a receiver using a compressor
The word pneumatic comes from the Greek pneuma, meaning air or wind. Examples of these devices are rock drills, jackhammers, spray painters, and air brakes. In some cases, air suction instead of compression is used to operate the tool or appliance, as in the familiar vacuum cleaner. Pneumatic. pneumatic device... 
Full Definition of PNEUMATIC. 1. : of, relating to, or using gas (as air or wind): a: moved or worked by air pressure b (1) : adapted for holding or inflated with compressed air (2) : having air-filled cavities. 2. : of or relating to the pneuma: spiritual. 3. Medical Definition of PNEUMATIC. : of, relating to, or using gas (as air): as a: moved or worked by air pressure b: adapted for holding or inflated with compressed air. — pneu·mat·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb.
This comes from Greek pneumatikos, from pneuma ‘wind’. Greek pnein ‘breathe’ is the base. Because the Greeks felt there was a strong association between breath and the soul the pneumatic is used in New Testament Greek to mean ‘spiritual’, and this is the sense first recorded in English. 
Pneumatics (Greek:which means breath) is a branch of physics applied to technology that makes use of gas or pressurized air. Pneumatic systems used extensively in industry are commonly powered by compressed air or compressed inert gases. A centrally located and electrically powered compressor powers cylinders, air motors, and other pneumatic devices. A pneumatic system controlled through manual or automatic solenoid valves is selected when it provides a lower cost, more flexible, or safer alternative to electric motors and actuators. Pneumatics also has applications in dentistry, construction, mining, and other areas.
2. of or pertaining to pneumatics. 3. operated by air or by the pressure or exhaustion of air: a pneumatic drill. 4. filled with or containing compressed air, as a tire. 5. of or pertaining to the spirit; spiritual. 6. having lungs or air cavities. 
ATM 1112 – Basic Hydraulics and Pneumatics 6 Module 1: Introduction to pneumatics A dental drill is one of the uses of the pneumatic technology A pneumatic device is used to fill the tire with compressed air to adjust the tire pressure. ATM 1122 – Basic Hydraulics and Pneumatics. 