Financial Liability. Definition: Under international financial reporting standards, a financial liability can be either of these two items: 1  A contractual obligation to deliver cash or similar to another entity or a potentially unfavorable exchange of financial assets or liabilities with another entity.
li·a·bil·i·ty. n. pl. li·a·bil·i·ties. 1. The state of being liable. Something for which one is liable; an obligation, responsibility, or debt. b. liabilities The financial obligations entered in the balance sheet of a business enterprise. 3. Something that holds one back; a handicap.
Full Definition of LIABILITY. 1. a: the quality or state of being liable b: probability. 2. : something for which one is liable; especially: pecuniary obligation: debt —usually used in plural. 3. : one that acts as a disadvantage: drawback. See liability defined for English-language learners. 
the item has a value that can be measured with reliability. For some items that satisfy the definition of a liability, significant judgement is required to evaluate whether such items satisfy the recognition criteria. Individual IFRSs provide principles and application guidance. Recognise expense and a liability at the earlier of: when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits. when the entity recognises the related restructuring provision in accordance with IAS 37. No disclosures specified in IAS 19.
DEFINITION of 'Liability'. A company's legal debts or obligations that arise during the course of business operations. Liabilities are settled over time through the transfer of economic benefits including money, goods or services. BREAKING DOWN 'Liability'. Recorded on the balance sheet (right side), liabilities include loans, accounts payable, mortgages, deferred revenues and accrued expenses. Liabilities are a vital aspect of a company's operations because they are used to finance operations and pay for large expansions.
English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: financial futures, Financial Ombudsman, financial year, Financial Services Authority. ! إعداد التقارير المالية وفقا للنظم المتبعة. إعداد التقارير المالية وفقا للنظم المتبع ة. n. Prepare financial reports in accordance with followed syste 
liability. An obligation that legally binds an individual or company to settle a debt. When one is liable for a debt, they are responsible for paying the debt or settling a wrongful act they may have committed. 
Definitions (3). 1.Finance: A claim against the assets, or legal obligations of a person or organization, arising out of past or current transactions or actions. Liabilities require mandatory transfer of assets, or provision of services, at specified dates or in determinable future. 
Liability. In personal finance, liabilities are the amounts you owe to creditors, or the people and organizations that lend you money. Typical liabilities include your mortgage, car and educational loans, and credit card debt. An obligation to pay an amount in money, goods, or services to another party. The balance sheet lists the liabilities. Also called debt. Compare asset. See also contingent liability, current liability.