Animal Kingdom: organisms that usually move around and find their own food. Plant Kingdom: organisms that make their own food and do not actively move around. Fungi Kingdom: organisms that absorb food from living and non-living things. Protist Kingdom: organisms that have single, complex cells.
In contrast, animals do not produce their own food but must eat other organisms to obtain it. Animals are generally more complex structurally. Unlike plants, they have nerves and muscles that aid in rapid, controlled movement around their environment. Kingdom to Subphylum. The highest category in the traditional Linnaean system of classification is the kingdom. At this level, organisms are distinguished on the basis of cellular organization and methods of nutrition.
Class: Agaricomycetes. Order: Russulales. Family: Russulaceae. Russula nobilis (syn. Russula mairei) is commonly known as the Beechwood Sickener. It has a bitter taste, and if eaten it usually causes sickness, stomach pains and vomiting. The caps vary from almost white to a rich rosy pink
Phylum. Immediately below kingdom is the phylum level of classification. At this level, animals are grouped together based on similarities in basic body plan or organization. For instance, species in the phylum Arthropoda have external skeletons as well as jointed bodies and limbs. Kingdom to Subphylum. The highest category in the traditional Linnaean system of classification is the kingdom. At this level, organisms are distinguished on the basis of cellular organization and methods of nutrition.
Some organisms have characteristics which do not qualify them to fit neatly into either kingdom. For instance, funguses and most bacteria do not photosynthesize and most of them lack a means of controlled locomotion. Some organisms have attributes of both plants and animals. Kingdom to Subphylum. The highest category in the traditional Linnaean system of classification is the kingdom. At this level, organisms are distinguished on the basis of cellular organization and methods of nutrition.
Nematodes belong to the Animal Kingdom and their taxonomic hierarchy is expressed as follows: KINGDOM PHYLUM CLASS ORDER SUPERFAMILY FAMILY SUBFAMILY GENUS SPECIES Species are named using the binomial system of Linnaeus (1753) and are written in italics. Classification. All living organisms, plants and animals, are organized into a hierarchy of groups called taxa. This structure is based primarily on the degrees of similarity among members of the same group and also shows the contrasts among members of different taxa.
Animal Classes. © Contributed by Leanne Guenther. No, animal classes are not like the classes people have at school! An animal class is made up of animals that are all alike in important ways. Scientists have grouped animals into classes to make it easier to study them. There are many different animal classes and every animal in the world belongs to one of them. 
Russula is the most commonly consumed and economically important mushroom genus in Madagascar, particularly Russula prolifica and Russula edulis. This and other edible Russula are typically stripped of their cap cuticle before selling to make them more similar in appearance to the Agaricus bisporus. Around 750 worldwide species of ectomycorrhizal mushrooms compose the genus Russula. They are typically common, fairly large, and brightly colored – making them one of the most recognizable genera among mycologists and mushroom collectors.