Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. global English and language change from our blog. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of blessed from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
Synonyms and Antonyms of BLESSED. 1. Synonyms blessed (also blest), divine, godlike, godly, heavenly, sacred, supernatural. Related Words eternal, everlasting, immortal; all-powerful, almighty, omnipotent, omniscient, supreme. Near Antonyms human, mortal, natural.
2. Synonyms blessed (also blest), consecrate, consecrated, hallowed, sacral, sacred, sacrosanct, sanctified. Related Words adored, enshrined, glorified, revered, venerated, worshipped (also worshiped); ceremonial, liturgical, priestly, religious, ritual, sacramental, spiritual; biblical, scriptural. Synonyms blessed (also blest), divine, godlike, godly, heavenly, sacred, supernatural. Related Words eternal, everlasting, immortal; all-powerful, almighty, omnipotent, omniscient, supreme. Near Antonyms human, mortal, natural.
English Collins Dictionary-English synonyms & Thesaurus &nbsp. blessed Pronounced blest for meaning 1, and blesɪd for meaning 2. 1 adj If someone is blessed with a particular good quality or skill, they have that good quality or skill. v-link ADJ with n Both are blessed with uncommon ability to fix things. 2 adj You use blessed to describe something that you think is wonderful, and that you are grateful for or relieved about. ADJ n (approval) Rainy weather brings blessed relief to hay fever victims.
A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. American definition and synonyms of bless from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Close.
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. global English and language change from our blog. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of blessed from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Close.
Synonyms bless, endue (or indue), favor, gift, invest. Related Words equip, provide, supply; bestow (on or upon), clothe, confer (on), cover; accord, award, grant; empower, enable, enhance, enrich, heighten; bequeath, will. Near Antonyms dispossess, divest, strip; deplete, drain, exhaust; skimp, stint. 2. Synonyms bless, carol, celebrate, emblazon, exalt, extol (also extoll), glorify, hymn, laud, magnify, resound. Related Words adore, belaud, deify, idolize, worship; acclaim, applaud, commend, compliment, hail, renown, salute; chant, cheer, eulogize, rhapsodize; cite; flatter; crack up, recommend, tout.