Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Concrete Edging! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Edging Installation project. For a basic 60 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Concrete Edging ranges between $4.75 - $8.49 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Landscape Edging! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Landscape Edging Installation project. For a basic 60 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Landscape Edging ranges between $2.02 - $5.76 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 1 Costs to prepare the worksite for Landscape Edging Installation, including costs to protect existing structure(s), finishes, materials and components. 2  Costs for job cleanup and debris removal at project completion.
In addition, include the cost of installation in your landscape edging plans. The installation cost of different materials varies, as does the ease of doing the installation yourself. Some materials require professional installation or special tools to get the desired look. A wide range of materials is suitable for landscape edging. The material you choose should be based on function, style, and cost. Lawn & Garden Divider: As a divider between the lawn and garden bed, edging can be as simple as a trenched edge or a V-shape ditch.
Don’t let your remodeling budget go over-board by hidden surprises – understand what the average installed costs for Lawn Edging is in your zip code by using our handy calculator. If you’re looking for 2015 breakdown for Cost of Lawn Edging materials and what installation cost might be, you’ve come to the right place. As an experienced licensed home improvement contractor, I know first hand what it should cost for various levels — from Basic, Better, and of course the best.
Hand-Trimmed Edging. You can keep a clean edge between landscape areas by using manual edging tools. This can be done with a basic garden spade, which will cost from $10 and up, depending on your tool preferences. Or you can opt for a manual garden edging tool at about $25. Electric and gas-powered edgers run between $80 and $150. In order for this method to work, edging must be done three or four times per year. 
The cost of hiring a professional landscaping company may differ by geography, but an estimated cost will be between $45 and $60 to have 50 linear feet of lawn edging installed. This price may include certain materials and supplies that may be necessary for the job, such as soil, plant fertilizer and ground stakes. Metal lawn edging is priced from $15 for a 14-inch piece to $100 for 16 feet and $135 for 50 feet of commercial grade. Aluminum lawn edging is also available for $47 for 24 feet. Terracotta lawn edging costs $34 for 20 feet.
Natural wood lawn edging is available for $30 as a set totaling about 50 feet. Composite lawn edging is durable and inexpensive at a cost of only $1 per foot. Metal lawn edging is priced from $15 for a 14-inch piece to $100 for 16 feet and $135 for 50 feet of commercial grade. Aluminum lawn edging is also available for $47 for 24 feet. Terracotta lawn edging costs $34 for 20 feet.
Cost to Install Landscape Edging-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors. 1 Costs to prepare the worksite for Landscape Edging Installation, including costs to protect existing structure(s), finishes, materials and components. 2  Costs for job cleanup and debris removal at project completion.
Recycled plastic lawn edging material is very durable, easy to install and costs about $32 for 40 feet. Another high-quality rubber lawn edging, known as Rubberific landscape border costs $10 for an 8 foot section. Plastic lawn edging also comes in varieties that resemble stone and costs $12.98 for about 10 feet. Metal lawn edging is priced from $15 for a 14-inch piece to $100 for 16 feet and $135 for 50 feet of commercial grade. Aluminum lawn edging is also available for $47 for 24 feet. Terracotta lawn edging costs $34 for 20 feet.