thyroxine. a thyroid hormone that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine, occurring naturally as l-thyroxine; its chemical name is tetraiodothyronine. It is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin and released from the gland by the action of a proteolytic enzyme. thyroxine, thyroxin. a hormone of the thyroid gland that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine. The chemical name for thyroxine is tetraiodothyronine (symbol, T 4); it is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin, the storage form. Thyroxine is
Description. Thyroxine hormone is produced in the thyroid gland from tyrosine and iodine. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) is produced by the hypothalamus. It stimulates the production of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in the anterior pituitary gland, which affects the thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR). Iodine is captured by a hydrogen peroxide trap procuced by thyroid peroxidase and added to the 3' and 5' postitions of tyrosine.
Thyroxine activity is controlled by thyrotropin thyrotropinor thyroid-stimulating hormone(TSH), hormone released by the anterior pituitary gland that stimulates the thyroid gland to release thyroxine. The release of thyrotropin is triggered by the action of thyrotropin-releasing factor (TRF), a substance found in..... 
Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: January 11, 2015. Thyroxine is the main hormone secreted into the bloodstream by the thyroid gland. It plays vital roles in digestion, heart and muscle function, brain development and maintenance of bones. Alternative names for thyroxine T4; tetraiodothyronine; thyroxin. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body. TSH (with a half life of about an hour) stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete the hormone thyroxine (T 4), which has only a slight effect on metabolism. T 4 is converted to triiodothyronine (T 3), which is the active hormone that stimulates
What is thyroid stimulating hormone? Thyroid stimulating hormone is produced and released into the bloodstream by the pituitary gland. It controls production of the thyroid hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine, by the thyroid gland by binding to receptors located on cells in the thyroid gland. Thyroid stimulating hormone is produced by the pituitary gland. Its role is to regulate the production of hormones by the thyroid gland. Alternative names for thyroid stimulating hormone TSH; thyrotropin, thyrotrophin.
The thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and its prohormone, thyroxine (T4), are tyrosine-based hormones produced by the thyroid gland that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism. Iodine is necessary for the production of T 3 and T 4. Thyroxine is produced by attaching iodine atoms to the ring structures of tyrosine molecules. Thyroxine (T 4) contains four iodine atoms. Triiodothyronine (T 3) is identical to T 4, but it has one less iodine atom per molecule. Iodide is actively absorbed from the bloodstream by a process called iodide trapping.
TSH stimulates the release of T3 and T4 from thyroglobulin. The ratio of T4 to T3 produced in the thyroid is 4:1. Although all the bodies T4 is produced in the thyroid T3 can be derived from deiodination of T4 in other tissues such as the liver or the kidney, this process releases iodide back in to the body. 