Q: How long will it take to install window tint on my vehicle? A: Installation time ranges from 1 to 3 hours depending on how many windows are being tinted and what type of vehicle it is. If windows are rolled down before that time frame the tint often peels off because it has not had enough time to cure. Should this happen we can redo your window at a low cost, but it is not covered under the warranty. Q: I just had my windows tinted and they look a little hazy.
Care and cleaning of new window film: 1  Rolling windows down: We recommend that you leave your windows up for 48 hours (2 days) after they are tinted. 2  This will allow the film time to adhere to the glass so it will not peel when it is finally rolled down. This is normal! When windows are tinted, the squeegee can only remove a certain amount of the water from between the film, and the glass. As the film dries, the remaining water will form little pockets. These will simply evaporate and go away by themselves.
The moisture we use for install can remain between the film and windows for up to 2 to 3 weeks; sometimes longer in colder climates. Moisture or condensation comes in the forms of haziness and water bubbles or pockets. 
A: We recommend keeping your windows up for at least 2-4 days. If windows are rolled down before that time frame the tint often peels off because it has not had enough time to cure. Should this happen we can redo your window at a low cost, but it is not covered under the warranty. Q: I just had my windows tinted and they look a little hazy.
Care and Cleaning of New Window Tint Film. 1  Rolling windows down: We recommend that you leave your windows up for 48 hours (2 days) after they are tinted. This is normal! When windows are tinted, the squeegee can only remove a certain amount of the water from between the film, and the glass. As the film dries, the remaining water will form little pockets. These will simply evaporate and go away by themselves.
The installation can take anywhere from 30 minutes up to three hours. Installation time varies depending on how many windows will be getting tinted and what type of vehicle it is. We offer a One-Way Mirror film by LLumar that is reflective exteriorly and tinted interiorly. During the day time, this film will hinder others from being able to see in while not completely eliminating your view looking out.
1 However, having this level of window film on front doors is not legal in Missouri. 2  Vehicle factory window tint is usually 26%-15% film level. 3  Missouri law states that the front door legal light transmission is 35%, which is lighter than the rear window of your factory tinted vehicle. 1 Aftermarket window film also has many more solar benefits than factory window tint. 2  Factory tint only rejects part of the UV rays, and only rejects a small amount of heat. 3  Aftermarket window film rejects 99% of ultraviolet rays and between 35%-60% of heat, depending on the film level used.
1 A: Yes. 2  However, having this level of window film on front doors is not legal in Missouri. 3  Vehicle factory window tint is usually 26%-15% film level. 4  Missouri law states that the front door legal light transmission is 35%, which is lighter than the rear window of your factory tinted vehicle. 1 Aftermarket window film also has many more solar benefits than factory window tint. 2  Factory tint only rejects part of the UV rays, and only rejects a small amount of heat. 3  Aftermarket window film rejects 99% of ultraviolet rays and between 35%-60% of heat, depending on the film level used.
1 Rolling windows down: We recommend that you leave your windows up for 48 hours (2 days) after they are tinted. 2  This will allow the film time to adhere to the glass so it will not peel when it is finally rolled down. This is normal! When windows are tinted, the squeegee can only remove a certain amount of the water from between the film, and the glass. As the film dries, the remaining water will form little pockets. These will simply evaporate and go away by themselves.
Window tint is not permanent and can be removed at any time. It can be a very difficult job and a professional should be used for this process. Removal can take anywhere from 30 minutes to several hours depending on the difficulty, quality and age of the film. 5. The life expectancy of window film depends on the type of film, glass, and climate. On a vehicle the range can be anywhere from 1 year on the cheaper films to 15 years on the best films. 3M professional grade window films should last over ten years. Most window films carry a lifetime warranty. 6.