Short for cisgender (opposite of transgender), used to describe someone whose gender identity matches their anatomical gender at birth. Occasionally used derogatorily. Mark: I heard that Stacy decided to start her transition. 
The terms “cis” and “trans” are from Latin, in which cis means on this side and trans means on the other side or across. The term geometric isomerism is considered an obsolete synonym of cis/trans isomerism by IUPAC. (November 2014). cis-but-2-ene. trans-but-2-ene. Cis/trans isomerism (geometric isomerism, configurational isomerism) is a term used in organic chemistry to refer to the stereoisomerism engendered in the relative orientation of functional groups within a molecule.
Cisgender (often abbreviated to simply cis) describes related types of gender identity perceptions, where individuals' experiences of their own gender agree with the sex they were assigned at birth. In 2010 the term cisgender privilege  appeared in academic literature, defined as the set of unearned advantages that individuals who identify as the gender they were assigned at birth accrue solely due to having a cisgender identity.
The prefix cis-is Latin meaning “on this side of,” whereas trans-means “on the other side of.” While trans-atlantic means “on the opposite side of the Atlantic Ocean,” an American could describe New York or Virginia or the Rocky Mountains as cis-atlantic. Other leaders in the trans community, like Serano, feel the word is useful in spreading the idea that even if the vast majority of people are not transgender, they too have a gender identity; it’s just not one that is challenged or questioned.
There are a number of derivatives of the terms in use, including cis male for male assigned male at birth, cis female for female assigned female at birth, analogously cis man and cis woman, as well as cissexism (or cissexual assumption or cisnormativity). In 2010 the term cisgender privilege  appeared in academic literature, defined as the set of unearned advantages that individuals who identify as the gender they were assigned at birth accrue solely due to having a cisgender identity.
This adjective had its biggest year yet in 2014. Cisgender is a word that applies to the vast majority of people, describing a person who is not transgender. If a doctor announces, “It’s a girl!” in the delivery room based on the child’s body and that baby grows up to identify as a woman, that person is cisgender. Similarly, a baby designated male in the delivery room who grows up to identify as a man is cisgender. Other leaders in the trans community, like Serano, feel the word is useful in spreading the idea that even if the vast majority of people are not transgender, they too have a gender identity; it’s just not one that is challenged or questioned.
“Cisgender has its origin in the Latin-derived prefix cis, meaning “to/this the near side,” which is antonymous with the Latin-derived prefix “trans.” This usage can be seen in the cis-trans distinction in chemistry, or in the ancient Roman term “Cisalpine Gaul”, i.e., “Gaul on this side of the Alps”. 
Todd Helmenstine. In gemetrical isomer nomenclature, the prefix cis-and trans-are used to identify which side of the double bond the similar atoms are found. The cis-prefix is from the Latin meaning on this side. In this case, the chlorine atoms are on the same side of the carbon-carbon double bond. This isomer is called cis-1,2-dichloroethene. The cis-prefix means on this side. This is the ball and stick model of trans-dichloroethene. Todd Helmenstine. The trans-prefix is from the Latin meaning across. In this case, the chlorine atoms are across the double bond from each other.
Sociologists Kristen Schilt and Laurel Westbrook define cisgender as a label for individuals who have a match between the gender they were assigned at birth, their bodies, and their personal identity. They see cisgender as a complement to transgender. In 2010 the term cisgender privilege  appeared in academic literature, defined as the set of unearned advantages that individuals who identify as the gender they were assigned at birth accrue solely due to having a cisgender identity.