My cyclone3 is a firefox extension. I think it should enable firebug in it, but I don't know how to enable it in cyclone3. --. with kind regards. 2010/5/28 John J Barton. -- You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups Firebug group. To post to this group, send email to fir...@googlegroups.com. I can see the firebug icon in my status bar of my extension. but I can not see the firebug icon in the status bar of cyclone3. I have seen some code of cyclone3, it seems that there is no code to embed firebug into the status bar, is there any methods to embed firebug into the status bar of cyclone3?
A while ago, I have written a post about Firebug 1.2 activation that is used to enable and disable certain Firebug features and avoid performance penalties the user could pay when not using Firebug and just browsing with Firefox. Most users will select panels once. After that, the common operations will be: 1  One click to open Firebug on a web page, Ctrl+R to reload the page to see details in the Console, Script or Net panel. 2  One click to minimize Firebug, work with the page, one click to reopen Firebug.
Breakpoints. Setting a breakpoint on a line enables you to pause/resume execution of code at your will. When you put a breakpoint on a line, say line 10, the program pauses execution when it reaches line 10. Let’s see how we can do that: Turn Firebug on and enable Console and Script views. Then visit ajaxify.com. In the Script view, choose firebug.js from the dropdown menu at the top left corner. On the sub-view at the right click on Breakpoints pane. On the left margin of Script view, you will see the line numbers appear
Enabling Panels. To work on Javascript code or to study the network action on a site, you need to enable one or more Firebug panels. If you select the Console, Script, or Net panels, you will see the tab is grey and the panel says disabled. Each panel tab has a small menu control for enabling the panel. To bring down the Firebug UI you can either push the Firebug toolbar icon a second time or use the minimize button next to the search box (down arrow). To close Firebug on a page, use the red [x].
One Click to Start Firebug. After you install Firebug you will see a gray 'Firebug' in the Firefox Navigation toolbar (along the top of the window). Click on the Bug to start. Firebug will open in the bottom of your web page. To bring down the Firebug UI you can either push the Firebug toolbar icon a second time or use the minimize button next to the search box (down arrow). To close Firebug on a page, use the red [x].
1 One click to open Firebug on a web page, Ctrl+R to reload the page to see details in the Console, Script or Net panel. 2  One click to minimize Firebug, work with the page, one click to reopen Firebug. 3  One click to close Firebug on a page you don't want to debug after all. Most users will select panels once. After that, the common operations will be: 1 
One gripe I have is that the Firebug icon in the status bar is a really small target to hit. I know that I can press F12, but I’d prefer to have a button that I can click. Now it’s also possible to add a Firebug icon to the toolbar, but this opens Firebug in a new window instead of at the bottom of the page! Finally, the following page is displayed for a disabled panel (Net panel in this case). The page allows one click enablement of the panel and also activation of multiple panels at once. The user can just select appropriate panels and press Enable selected... button.
Enabling Firebug. Firebug tries to stay out of your way until you need it; it goes away if you switch to another Firefox tab. Firebug can be optimized for HTML authors, CSS designers, Javascript developers, and Site Engineers. To bring down the Firebug UI you can either push the Firebug toolbar icon a second time or use the minimize button next to the search box (down arrow). To close Firebug on a page, use the red [x].