As the business world grew, this definition of logistics called for management, leading to the development of experts called supply chain logisticians. This type of leadership encompasses the planning and management of all activities involved in sourcing, procurement, conversion, and logistics management activities. 1 Disposal Logistics, also known as reverse logistics, stands for all operations related to the reuse of products and materials. 2  The main function of this field is to reduce logistics cost, enhance service, and save natural resources.
Business logistics is the planning process as well as the implementation of efficient and effective storage of raw materials, inventory, finished goods and services. It also refers to the flow and transportation of product from the warehouse to the consumer. Service organizations also value business logistics. Logisticians make certain that materials and information is provided at the time of service delivery.
In business, logistics may have either an internal focus (inbound logistics) or an external focus (outbound logistics), covering the flow and storage of materials from point of origin to point of consumption (see supply-chain management). Outbound logistics :Outbound logistics is the process related to the storage and movement of the final product and the related information flows from the end of the production line to the end user.
DEFINITION of 'Logistics'. The overall management of the way resources are obtained, stored and moved to the locations where they are required. Logistics management entails identifying potential suppliers and distributors; evaluating how accessible and effective they are and establishing relationships and signing contracts with the companies who offer the best combination of price and service.
Logistics means having the right thing, at the right place, at the right time.. Logistics - (business definition) Logistics is defined as a business planning framework for the management of material, service, information and capital flows. It includes the increasingly complex information, communication and control systems required in today's business environment. Logistics-The procurement, maintenance, distribution, and replacement of personnel and materiel. -- (Websters Dictionary). Logistics - 1. The branch of military operations that deals with the procurement, distribution, maintenance, and replacement of materiel and personnel.
Emergency logistics is a term used by the logistics, supply chain, and manufacturing industries to denote specific time-critical modes of transport used to move goods or objects rapidly in the event of an emergency. Outbound logistics :Outbound logistics is the process related to the storage and movement of the final product and the related information flows from the end of the production line to the end user.
Logistics-The science of planning, organizing and managing activities that provide goods or services. -- (MDC, LogLink / LogisticsWorld, 1997). Logistics-Logistics is the science of planning and implementing the acquisition and use of the resources necessary to sustain the operation of a system. Logistics-The procurement, maintenance, distribution, and replacement of personnel and materiel. -- (Websters Dictionary). Logistics - 1. The branch of military operations that deals with the procurement, distribution, maintenance, and replacement of materiel and personnel.
Logistics is the management of the flow of things between the point of origin and the point of consumption in order to meet requirements of customers or corporations. Outbound logistics :Outbound logistics is the process related to the storage and movement of the final product and the related information flows from the end of the production line to the end user.
Providing product in an efficient manner, which business logistics helps to do, also helps to build good consumer relations. This is not only important for immediate monetary gain, but also because good customer relations can mean more business. It also refers to the flow and transportation of product from the warehouse to the consumer. Service organizations also value business logistics. Logisticians make certain that materials and information is provided at the time of service delivery.