Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
about 6 months of age. some lay a bit before that and the eggs are usually very small at first. and they lay everyday on the dot for about 2 years. Source(s): chicken breeder and raiser. Best Answer: A pullet (young female) starts laying at about 20-24 weeks old. Her first eggs will be small. A hen will lay about 20 dozen (240) eggs in the first year and probably no more than 1000 in her lifetime. When she is molting (losing feathers for new ones) she will lay little or no eggs
Laying Hens. Hens typically start laying eggs around 5 months of age. Some hens have laid as early as 4 months, and one of my hens didn’t start until she was 6 months old. The fun thing is that your hens will start giving you hints that an egg is coming. 
Female chickens (hens) generally start laying eggs at around 20-24 weeks of age. Some breeds take longer. They don't need a rooster to lay eggs and if you are lucky they will … lay an egg per day. Again this depends on the breed, with some chickens laying an egg every few days. If they are layers they will need to be 16-20 weeks old   Most breeds start to lay after 4 to 5 months old. Some breeds are slower to lay and can be 6 to 7 months old before offering the first egg.
It depends entirely upon the breed. If they are layers they will need to be 16-20 weeks old   Most breeds start to lay after 4 to 5 months old. Some breeds are slower to lay and can be 6 to 7 months old before offering the first egg. Make sure light conditions are right, a combination of 14 hours per day of both natural and artificial lighting
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A pullet (young female) starts laying at about 20-24 weeks old. Her first eggs will be small. A hen will lay about 20 dozen (240) eggs in the first year and probably no more than 1000 in her lifetime. When she is molting (losing feathers for new ones) she will lay little or no eggs
Most chickens start laying at the age of about 6-8 months. since your chickens are only 5 months, you will have to wait and see for about the next 1-2 months. You don't need a box for each chicken but you might need to increase the number of boxes you have to accommodate all of the chickens. 
When Pullets Start to Lay Eggs. Summer has arrived and your spring chicks will be approaching puberty. Assuming they’ve enjoyed good food and care, the young hens, called pullets, begin laying sometime between their 16th and 24th week of age. You can anticipate the arrival of eggs soon! Discovering a hen’s first egg from your own hand-raised chicks is a thrill. Pullet eggs are tiny and look like gems in the nest. 
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 