Ms. is the generic term of address for a female, just like Mr. is the generic term of address for a male. In the business world, there's no reason to attach labels to people indicating their marital status.
RE: When to use Ms or Mrs in a formal letter when marital status is unknown? Im writing a letter for a job application, the the receipient is a woman. However, I have no idea if she is married or not so i&#39;m unsure if I should use Dear Ms Smith or Dear Mrs smith.
Bottom Line. Using Ms. or Mrs. in a cover letter depends on whether or not you know the marital status of the woman. If you are ever uncertain, it is always safe to use Ms. because it does not make an assumption about her marital status.
In selecting Ms., Mrs., or Miss, always respect the woman’s preference. If it is not known, use the title “Ms” or omit the courtesy title altogether. Kelly, the examples Gregg gives are “Dear Ms. Noonan” or “Dear Joan Noonan.” I vote for “Ms.” if you don’t know her preference, and it’s business-related.
Use Miss to address a woman in a cover letter if this is how she's referred in the job posting. For instance, Dear Miss Smith.. It is also the typical form used to address a woman when you know she is not married.
According to Online Grammar, if you do not know the marital status of the woman whom you are addressing, it is appropriate to use Ms. If you are uncertain, you should never assume that a woman is married or unmarried.
Instead, use Ms (+ surname). Ms is pronounced (Mizz) and is used for all women – whether married or not. If you are replying to a letter in which the woman has written her name as Mrs + surname, then it is fine to reply to her using Mrs + her surname.
3. If you are speaking to or referring to a woman and you know the woman's surname, use Ms. and the surname if (a) the woman has a position of authority, (b) you don't know the woman's marital status, or (c) the woman is your age or older than you: I have an appointment with Ms. Ikegami.
According to Time, Mrs. refers to a married woman, while Ms. refers to a woman regardless of her marital state. If you know that a woman is married, then it is appropriate to use Mrs. You may also use Miss to address an unwed woman.