Overview. Benign positional vertigo (BPV) is the most common cause of vertigo. Generally, it causes a sudden sensation of spinning, but it can also make you feel like your head is spinning from the inside. BPV can involve brief periods of mild or intense dizziness. 
Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) is the most common of vestibular disorders and the most easily treated. In most patients, it can be cured with a simple physical therapy maneuver. BPPV can affect people of all ages, although it is most common in folks over the age of 60. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is a disorder arising in the inner ear. Its symptoms are repeated episodes of positional vertigo, that is, of a spinning sensation caused by changes in the position of the head. 
Definition. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo — the sudden sensation that you're spinning or that the inside of your head is spinning. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo causes brief episodes of mild to intense dizziness. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is usually triggered by specific changes in the position of your head. This might occur when you tip your head up or down, when you lie down, or when you turn over or sit up in bed.
... Definition Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo — the sudden sensation that you're spinning or that the inside of your head is spinning. ... Vertigo www.lifescript.com/health/a-z/conditions_a-z/conditions/v/vertigo.aspx. The goal of the canalith repositioning procedure is to move the otoconia from your inner ear to the utricle. The inner ear and canalith repositioning image as referenced in these related articles(s): - Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV).
BPPV is the most common vestibular disorder. Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (or BPPV) is the most common cause of vertigo, a false sensation of spinning. 1. 1  Benign – it is not life-threatening. 2  Paroxysmal – it comes in sudden, brief spells. 3  Positional – it gets triggered by certain head positions or movements.
Save. Positional vertigo is also called BPPV, or benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. According to the Mayo Clinic (see Reference 1), positional vertigo is a common cause of vertigo. While BPPV is not a serious medical disorder, it can cause discomfort
But it can come back again. BPPV is not a sign of a serious health problem. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is caused by a problem in the inner ear. Tiny calcium stones inside your inner ear canals help you keep your balance. Normally, when you move a certain way, such as when you stand up or turn your head, these stones move around. 
Patient Comments Read 19 Comments Share Your Story. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo, the symptom that describes the feeling of intense spinning of the head. BPPV describes the situation where the spinning sensation lasts only a few minutes and often stops by itself. 