Lab Tests. High or low levels of certain substances in your body can be a sign of cancer. So, lab tests of the blood, urine, or other body fluids that measure these substances can help doctors make a diagnosis. However, abnormal lab results are not a sure sign of cancer. Diagnosis. If you have a symptom or your screening test result suggests cancer, the doctor must find out whether it is due to cancer or some other cause. The doctor may ask about your personal and family medical history and do a physical exam.
Blood cancers affect the production and function of your blood cells. Most of these cancers start in your bone marrow where blood is produced. Stem cells in your bone marrow mature and develop into three types of blood cells: red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets. In most blood cancers, the normal blood cell development process is interrupted by uncontrolled growth of an abnormal type of blood cell. Myeloma is a cancer of the plasma cells. Plasma cells are white blood cells that produce disease-and infection-fighting antibodies in your body. Myeloma cells prevent the normal production of antibodies, leaving your body's immune system weakened and susceptible to infection.
There are three main types of blood cancers: Leukemia, a type of cancer found in your blood and bone marrow, is caused by the rapid production of abnormal white blood cells. Myeloma is a cancer of the plasma cells. Plasma cells are white blood cells that produce disease-and infection-fighting antibodies in your body. Myeloma cells prevent the normal production of antibodies, leaving your body's immune system weakened and susceptible to infection.
Blood cancer represents a large group of different malignancies. This group includes cancers of the bone marrow, blood, and lymphatic system, which includes lymph nodes, lymphatic vessels, tonsils, thymus, spleen, and digestive tract lymphoid tissue. What causes these cancers is not known. As leukemia and myeloma grow within the bone marrow, they can interfere with the bone marrow’s ability to produce normal blood cells, including white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets.
1 This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 2  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 3  A bone marrow biopsy may help confirm a diagnosis of a blood cancer. 4  Blood protein testing. Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found
The diagnosis of hematologic cancer is often suspected by symptoms or findings on physical examination. These symptoms indicate the presence of excessive cells in the bone marrow or lymphatic system (for example, bone pain and enlarged lymph nodes) or low numbers of normal blood cells. 
Cancer blood tests: Lab tests used in cancer diagnosis. Cancer blood tests and other laboratory tests may help your doctor make a cancer diagnosis. Reduce your anxiety by learning about cancer blood tests and how they're used. Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are foun
Leukemia and myeloma, which start in the bone marrow, and lymphoma, which starts in the lymphatic system, are the most common types of blood cancer. What causes these cancers is not known. As leukemia and myeloma grow within the bone marrow, they can interfere with the bone marrow’s ability to produce normal blood cells, including white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. This can cause frequent infections, anemia, and easy bruising