That is the reason why Procurement must understand the lifecycle value creation potential of an item, not only as a driver of the Total Cost of Ownership but, more importantly, as a driver of product pricing through the premiums provided by exclusivity, and/or market growth for the company. Nothing in this approach is proprietary, unique, or differentiating. Firms that have not adopted a “level 2” in procurement are lagging, but reaching “level 2” is not a guarantee of being ahead for a significant time. The complexity of relationships in our industry has increased significantly.
The Pharmaceutical industry today is especially under pressure to increase shareholder value. This must become an objective for all the functions of the firm, including Procurement, which in turn must reassess its role and its culture. Nothing in this approach is proprietary, unique, or differentiating. Firms that have not adopted a “level 2” in procurement are lagging, but reaching “level 2” is not a guarantee of being ahead for a significant time. The complexity of relationships in our industry has increased significantly.
Draft Figure 2: Procurement is the Manager of External Resources The role of the CPO is to optimize all the relations with external suppliers, a much broader role than the traditional cost cutting approach. Nothing in this approach is proprietary, unique, or differentiating. Firms that have not adopted a “level 2” in procurement are lagging, but reaching “level 2” is not a guarantee of being ahead for a significant time. The complexity of relationships in our industry has increased significantly.
Operational principles for good pharmaceutical procurement 11functions such as drug selection, quantification, tendering and contracting; the lead times at various levels of the system; import procedures; customs clearance; and access to transport. Some examples of specific requirements are: separation of the key procurement functions, the need for financi al audit, mandatory use of generic names, the need for product registration (which should also apply to the public sector but is often ignored) and formal supplier qualification.
Procurement and Logistics. The pharmaceutical procurement system is a major determinant of pharmaceutical availability and total pharmaceutical costs. In most developing countries, pharmaceutical purchases represent the single largest health expenditure after personnel costs. 
If there is an appearance of special influence on the selection of products and suppliers or if the procurement process is not managed in an efficient and transparent manner, interest among suppliers in competing for procurement contracts decreases, leading to fewer choices and higher prices for drugs. Some examples of specific requirements are: separation of the key procurement functions, the need for financi al audit, mandatory use of generic names, the need for product registration (which should also apply to the public sector but is often ignored) and formal supplier qualification.
(October 2010). Procurement is the act of acquiring, buying goods, services or works from an external source. It is favourable that the goods, services or works are appropriate and that they are procured at the best possible cost to meet the needs of the acquirer in terms of quality and quantity, time, and location. Direct procurement, which is the focus in supply chain management, directly affects the production process of manufacturing firms. In contrast, Indirect procurement activities concern “operating resources” that a company purchases to enable its operations.
The evolution of Procurement is illustrated by the Figure 1. Figure 1: The evolution of Procurement When Procurement became an agent of change in a cross-functional approach to optimizing the Total Cost of Ownership, its impact was transactional effectiveness (defined as “level 2” above). Nothing in this approach is proprietary, unique, or differentiating. Firms that have not adopted a “level 2” in procurement are lagging, but reaching “level 2” is not a guarantee of being ahead for a significant time. The complexity of relationships in our industry has increased significantly.
Procurement professionals in the pharmaceuticals industry can proactively drive value-creation by: 1  Seeking and capturing supplier innovation from the earliest stages of research and development all the way through healthcare delivery. Procurement functions for pharmaceuticals companies must help their organizations create Comparative Clinical and Economic Value (CCEV) that translates to concrete benefits for payers, patients and shareholders in today’s ever demanding healthcare system.
Operational princi ples for good pharmaceutical procurement 18 and the value of total purchases from the supplier by year and performance for each tender. 12. Procurement procedures/systems should include all assurances that the drugs purchased are of high quality, according to international standards. Some examples of specific requirements are: separation of the key procurement functions, the need for financi al audit, mandatory use of generic names, the need for product registration (which should also apply to the public sector but is often ignored) and formal supplier qualification.