confine verb. C2 [T] to ​limit an ​activity, ​person, or ​problem in some way: Let's confine ​our ​discussion to the ​matter in ​question, ​please! Please confine ​your use of the ​phone to ​business ​calls. This ​attitude ​seems to be confined to the verty ​wealthy. More examples. 1  Men have always ​ played an ​ active ​ part in ​ leading ​ worship while women have been confined to more ​ passive ​ roles. 2  The ​ campaign ​ aims to ​ dispel the ​ prejudice that ​ AIDS is confined to the ​ homosexual ​ community.
Show more usage examples... Working in a confined space can be difficult if you have coworkers who eat lunch at their desks and tend to eat aromatic foods. 5 people found this helpful. Sometimes if you have a really important task to do you may want to lock yourself in a confined space away from distraction. 
confine. vb (tr). 1. to keep or close within bounds; limit; restrict. 2. to keep shut in; restrict the free movement of: arthritis confined him to bed. 2. restrict, limit She had largely confined her activities to the world of big business. plural noun. 1. limits, bounds, boundaries, compass, precincts, circumference, edge, pale The movie is set entirely within the confines of the abandoned factory.
I found this course a great help, getting to know the right way to enter a confined space, as well as our responsibilities. It was great to be able to do it online and I found a lot of useful information throughout the course.. This confined space course was well put together and easy to understand. The principles were very informative and explained well.. Any worker who may potentially need to work in a confined space as described above, will need to have some form of confined space training, depending on the level of work needed. The overall objective of this training is to protect those entering or working around a confined space. In this course you will learn the physical, chemical, and biological principles related to safe working with confined spaces.
We found your Confined Space course very informative and helpful and look forward to utilizing your services for all of our future training. Thank you for providing a great service to our company.. The Confined Space course was very helpful. Easy to follow and taught you what you need to know. The overall objective of this training is to protect those entering or working around a confined space. In this course you will learn the physical, chemical, and biological principles related to safe working with confined spaces.
con•fine. 1. to enclose within bounds; limit or restrict: Confine your remarks to the subject at hand. 2. to shut or keep in; prevent from leaving a place because of imprisonment, illness, discipline, etc. 3. Usu., confines. a boundary or bound; limit; border. 2. restrict, limit She had largely confined her activities to the world of big business. plural noun. 1. limits, bounds, boundaries, compass, precincts, circumference, edge, pale The movie is set entirely within the confines of the abandoned factory.
Fables by Aesop View in context. For instance, some worthy persons maintained that the moon was an ancient comet which, in describing its elongated orbit round the sun, happened to pass near the earth, and became confined within her circle of attraction. 
Full Definition of CONFINED. : undergoing childbirth. See confined defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. Rhymes with CONFINED. affined, behind, fly blind, inclined, in-kind, mankind, month's mind, night-blind, purblind, refined, remind, rewind, sand-blind, snow-blind, spellbind, stone-blind, streamlined, unbind, unkind, unwind.
bed confined. A term used in the context of medical necessity, which is defined by Medicare as the inability to get up from bed without assistance, ambulate or to sit in a chair or wheelchair. 
GCIDE (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: confined (adj.). having movement or progress restricted to a certain area; as, an outbreak of the plague confined to one quarter of the city; wildfires confined to within the canyon. 