Potatoes are the all-star of the vegetable world in our opinion. Mashed, fried, or just as skins, potatoes rock our world in so many ways. And preparing a great potato dish doesn't have to be difficult -- it can be has simple as throwing them in the oven with some butter and salt. The hardest part, in fact, is often making sure you buy the right type of potato. 
Types of Sweet Potatoes. There are hundreds of types of sweet potatoes ranging from white and mild to deep red and super sweet. Many are grown in small quantities and can be found at local farmers markets. Lucky for you, North Carolina sweet potatoes are available every month of the year. 
World-wide there are about 6,500 sweet potato varieties including wild accessions, farmer varieties, and breeding lines. Source-International Potato Center (CIP). Sweet potato skin colors come in various shades of creamy white, yellow-orange, tan, reddish-purple and red. 
Potato Types. There are more than 100 varieties of potatoes sold throughout the United States. Each of these varieties fit into one of seven potato type categories: russet, red, white, yellow, blue/purple, fingerling and petite. Learn more about the characteristics and cooking recommendations for each type below. To see videos about what makes each type of potato unique, please visit our Potato Type videos page.
6 Types of Potatoes to Create Original Dishes in your Kitchen. You won’t believe the different types of potatoes and the countless potato varieties that exist all the over the world to this day. For cooking purposes, we can say that there are basically six main types: yellow, red, Russet, white, fingerling and blue. They are among the most common types of potatoes. The Russet variety has a brown, tough skin with white flesh and is very high in starch. Normally they are bigger than the yellow and red types. The Russets also last longer than yellow and red ones when kept on the proper conditions (dark, cool and dry storage area).
The potato is a starchy, tuberous crop from the perennial nightshade Solanum tuberosum L. The word potato may refer either to the plant itself or to the edible tuber. In the Andes, where the species is indigenous, there are some other closely related cultivated potato species. The name potato originally referred to a type of sweet potato although the two plants are not closely related; in many of the chronicles detailing agriculture and plants, no distinction is made between the two.
Yesterday I started us on a potato journey with a post about how to select the right kind of potato. Today I'm going to show you the loot I picked up from the farmers' market last week: sixteen varieties of potatoes. Some are common varieties and available from farmers in many potato-growing regions. Others are rare varieties. Take it as a loose guide, and a colorful tour of the spuds of the NYC area. Remember that potatoes fall into three basic categories: starchy, waxy, and those in-between which are referred to as all-purpose.
There are more than 575 + types of potatoes and the list is probably still growing since they are crossbred all the time. However potatoes can be more generally broken down by their skin: Russet, Red, Yellow, White, Blue and Purplest from flavour, Sweet, flowery, hard, bitter, easy cook, long cook, etc. There are more than 575 types of potatoes and the list is probably still growing since they are cross-bred all the time. However potatoes can be more generally broken down by … their skin: Russet, Red, Yellow, White, Blue and Purple. and some potatoes are evolving bigger and new. + 54 others found this useful.