Listen. Dr. James Naismith was a Canadian physical education instructor who invented the game of basketball in 1891 while working at the YMCA Training School in Springfield, Massachusetts.. 
Wiki Commons. Dr. James Naismith was the Canadian-born physical education instructor who, inspired by a teaching assignment and his own childhood, invented basketball in 1891. Naismith was born in Almonte, Ontario and educated at McGill University and Presbyterian College in Montreal. 
Basketball was invented in 1891 by physical education instructer  James Naismith at Springfield College in springfield. He created  the game so his phys-ed students could pl … ay a sport in the winter  that was indoors. Facts about Dr. James Naismith James Naismith was born in Almonte, Ontario in 1861. He was educated at McGill University and Presbyterian College in Montreal. He was the physical education teacher at McGill University (1887 to 1890) and at Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts (1890 to 1895).
James Naismith was the inventor of basketball in Springfield, Massachusetts, USA in 1891, where the sport of basketball was born. YMCA Not only was basketball invented by a YMCA institution, but the game's first professional team came from a Y. The Trenton (N.J.) YMCA had fielded a basketball team since 1892 and in 1896 its team claimed to be the national champions after beating various other YMCA and college teams.
The game of basketball, as we know it today was created by Dr. James Naismith in December 1891 in Springfield, Massachusetts to condition young athletes during the cold. It consisted of peach baskets and a soccer style ball. 
Basketball was invented in 1891 by physical education instructer  James Naismith at Springfield College in springfield. He created  the game so his phys-ed students could pl … ay a sport in the winter  that was indoors. YMCA Not only was basketball invented by a YMCA institution, but the game's first professional team came from a Y. The Trenton (N.J.) YMCA had fielded a basketball team since 1892 and in 1896 its team claimed to be the national champions after beating various other YMCA and college teams.
Basketball was invented by James Naismith in December, 1891. He created the sport in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was a physical education teacher at the Springfield Y … MCA. YMCA Not only was basketball invented by a YMCA institution, but the game's first professional team came from a Y. The Trenton (N.J.) YMCA had fielded a basketball team since 1892 and in 1896 its team claimed to be the national champions after beating various other YMCA and college teams.
Basketball was invented by James Naismith in December, 1891. He created the sport in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was a physical education teacher at the Springfield Y … MCA. Facts about Dr. James Naismith James Naismith was born in Almonte, Ontario in 1861. He was educated at McGill University and Presbyterian College in Montreal. He was the physical education teacher at McGill University (1887 to 1890) and at Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts (1890 to 1895).
The roots of basketball are firmly embedded in Canada. In 1891 the game was invented by Dr. James Naismith, a Canadian who hailed from Almonte, Ontario. Basketball played by school and local amateur teams has been part of the Canadian sports scene since the turn of the century
Report Abuse. James Naismith was the Canadian physical education instructor who invented basketball in 1891. James Naismith was born in Almonte, Ontario and educated at McGill University and Presbyterian Cllege in Montreal. 