Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. 
Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 
1 If you like your eggs medium-boiled, remove them from the water in 5-7 minutes. 2  The yolks should be semi-soft in the very center and the whites should be very firm. 3  If you like your eggs hard-boiled, leave the eggs in the hot water for up to 10-15 minutes. 4  The yolks should be firm all the way through. 1 If you like your eggs medium-boiled, let them sit for about 15 minutes. 2  The yolk should be semi-soft and the whites should be quite firm. 3  If you like your eggs hard-boiled, let them sit for 20 minutes or more. 4  The white and yolk should be completely firm without being an unappealing grey-green color.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. Older eggs are easier to peel than fresh eggs. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!)
Directions. Place eggs in a large saucepan. Cover them with cool water by 1 inch. Slowly bring water to a boil over medium heat; when the water has reached a boil, cover and remove from heat. Let sit 12 minutes. Transfer eggs to a colander; place under cool running water to stop the cooking. Get a perfect hard-boiled egg every time with these simple tips on how to hard-boil an egg. Boiled eggs are a convenient and affordable source of protein. With hard-boiled eggs on hand, you have the components of a satisfying breakfast, lunch, snack, appetizer, or dinner.
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. An egg that is at room temperature at the start of the cooking process will require about 1 minute less cooking time than eggs taken directly from the refrigerator. 4. Technique for hard-cooking (boiled) eggs: Choose the right size pot to cook your eggs in: The eggs must not be stacked but be in one (1) layer only.
Step 1: Place the Eggs in a Pan of Water and Bring to a Boil. For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes. Step 4: Perfect Hard-Boiled Eggs. You can store hard-boiled eggs peeled or unpeeled for about a week in the refrigerator. They are great deviled or in egg salad  or even added to mac and cheese and casseroles. Tip: Hard-boiled eggs are perishable; don't let them sit at room temperature for more than two hours.