Cuvier did not live long enough to learn about Charles Darwin's proof of evolution, but Lyell did. He came to accept this proof in the early 1860's along with most leading scientists of that time. Lyell also became a friend of Charles Darwin. Erasmus Darwin 1731-1802. Another late 18th century closet-evolutionist was Erasmus Darwin, the grandfather of the well known 19th century naturalist, Charles Darwin. Erasmus was an English country physician, poet, and amateur scientist.
Erasmus Darwin House, his home in Lichfield, is now a museum dedicated to Erasmus Darwin and his life's work. His poems included much natural history, including a statement of evolution and the relatedness of all forms of life. He was a member of the Darwin–Wedgwood family, which includes his grandsons Charles Darwin and Francis Galton.
In the early 19th century Jean-Baptiste Lamarck (1744 – 1829) proposed his theory of the transmutation of species, the first fully formed theory of evolution. In 1858 Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace published a new evolutionary theory, explained in detail in Darwin's On the Origin of Species (1859). Unlike Lamarck, Darwin proposed common descent and a branching tree of life, meaning that two very different species could share a common ancestor.
He read the works of Lamarck, his grandfather Erasmus Darwin, Chambers, and others. Darwin did not come up with the theory of evolution. It predates him by centuries. He did propose the theory of natural selection (based on his observations in the Galapagos and his experience breeding pigeons) and compiled enough evidence for evolution to convince nearly the entire scientific community.
Born at Elston Hall, near Newark, Nottinghamshire, on 12th December 1731, Darwin was the youngest of four sons who became one of the foremost physicians of his time; indeed King George III asked him to be his personal physician but Erasmus declined, preferring to stay where he had settled in Lichfield, Staffordshire. If anyone would like to do further research on Erasmus Darwin, his place in history or as a man of science; or has anything to add to the investigations already undertaken on the Period of Enlightenment, then we would be interested to hear.
Erasmus Darwin (12 December 1731 – 18 April 1802) was an English physician. One of the key thinkers of the Midlands Enlightenment, he was also a natural philosopher, physiologist, slave-trade abolitionist, inventor and poet. His poems included much natural history, including a statement of evolution and the relatedness of all forms of life. He was a member of the Darwin–Wedgwood family, which includes his grandsons Charles Darwin and Francis Galton.
, Erasmus Darwin outlined not only his belief in evolution, but his belief that modern life arose from simple, minute organisms. Decades later, when faced with the same brand of derision Erasmus had faced, Charles Darwin would try to disown his scandalous grandfather, then eventually relent and write his biography. Though impeded by a stammer, Erasmus Darwin was widely known as charming, kind and attractive to the ladies. He was twice married, and took at least one mistress after the death of his first wife.
Erasmus Darwin offered the first glimpse of his theory of evolution, obliquely, in a question at the end of a long footnote to his popular poem The Loves of the Plants (1789), which was republished throughout the 1790s in several editions as The Botanic Garden. His poems included much natural history, including a statement of evolution and the relatedness of all forms of life. He was a member of the Darwin–Wedgwood family, which includes his grandsons Charles Darwin and Francis Galton.
Erasmus Darwin's thoughts on evolution. Charles was not the first in his family to consider the concept of evolution. His grandfather Erasmus Darwin (1731 - 1802) was a successful country doctor who published widely in many scientific fields. Thus, by the time Charles Darwin became interested in natural history, many of the concepts crucial for his thinking had been developed. Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution by natural selection. Charles Robert Darwin (1809 - 1882) was one of six children born to Robert & Susannah Darwin.
This revolutionary idea was instrumental in leading Charles Darwin to his understanding of biological evolution in the 1830's. However, it was not until the late 19th century that most educated people in the Western world finally rejected the theory of catastrophism in favor of uniformitarianism. Erasmus Darwin 1731-1802. Another late 18th century closet-evolutionist was Erasmus Darwin, the grandfather of the well known 19th century naturalist, Charles Darwin. Erasmus was an English country physician, poet, and amateur scientist.