People taking antipsychotic drugs are at risk of developing certain side effects known as extrapyramidal symptoms. Extrapyramidal symptoms (also known as EPS) are a set of side effects that are common with antipsychotic medications, as well as with a few other types of medications. Extrapyramidal S
Extra-pyramidal effects include: drug-induced parkinsonism, dystonia and even akathisia. EXTRAPYRAMIDAL EFFECTS: There is a wide range of reactions which occur in the extra pyramidal tract, these reactions are categorised under the term extrapyramidal effects. . No related posts
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), also known as extrapyramidal side effects (EPSE), are drug induced movement disorders that include acute and tardive symptoms. 
extrapyramidal system a functional, rather than anatomical, unit comprising the nuclei and fibers (excluding those of the pyramidal tract) involved in motor activities; they control and coordinate especially the postural, static, supporting, and locomotor mechanisms. see extrapyramidal system (below). extrapyramidal system. a functional, rather than anatomical, unit comprising the nuclei and fibers (excluding those of the pyramidal tract) involved in motor activities; they control and coordinate especially the postural, static, supporting and locomotor mechanisms.
Extrapyramidal side effects: Physical symptoms, including tremor, slurred speech, akathesia, dystonia, anxiety, distress, paranoia, and bradyphrenia, that are primarily associated with improper dosing of or unusual reactions to neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications. 
Abstract. Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPSs), such as akathisia, dystonia, psuedoparkinsonism, and dyskinesia, are drug-induced side effects that can be problematic for persons who receive antipsychotic medications (APMs) or other dopamine-blocking agents. 
In anatomy, the extrapyramidal system is a neural network that is part of the motor system causing involuntary movements. The system is called extrapyramidal to distinguish it from the tracts of the motor cortex that reach their targets by traveling through the  pyramids  of the medulla. All of these regulatory components can be considered part of the extrapyramidal system, in that they modulate motor activity without directly innervating motor neurons. The extrapyramidal tracts include parts of the following: 1  rubrospinal tract.
Extrapyramidal symptoms are serious side-effects of antipsychotic and other drugs. Blair DT(1), Dauner A. Author information: (1)Colmery-O'Neil Veterans Administration Medical Center, Topeka, Kan. Comment in Nurse Pract.1993 Feb;18(2):13. Antipsychotic medications commonly produce extrapyramidal symptoms as side effects. The extrapyramidal symptoms include acute dyskinesias and dystonic reactions, tardive dyskinesia, Parkinsonism, akinesia, akathisia, and neuroleptic malignant syndrome.