So, the most it can cost you to run a ceiling fan without lights is about $126 per year, which is equal to about $10 per month and the least it will cost you is $19 per year, which comes out to just $1 per month...which in either case, is amazingly cheap.
Report Abuse. The average ceiling fan uses about 60 watts on high speed, so my guess is it would use about 35 on medium. If you are paying $0.08 per kilowatt and are running them all the time. It would be 35 watts X 24 hours X 31 days to get a total of 26.04 kwh.
The average power consumption for fans operating at low speed was 8.8 watts. For medium speed, the average power consumption was 26.9 watts, and for high-speed models, it was 67 watts. To determine the cost of operating your fan, track how long your fan is running and what speed setting you typically use. Electrical energy consumption is measured in kilowatt-hours.
you voted. Answer by Jimbob (2275). The cost for the average ceiling fan to run all day on low power will be about five cents a day. However if the ceiling fan is rather large or if it is on high power the usage may be more.
The wattage of the light fixture can have a much greater impact on the cost than the motor. When calculating the cost to operate a fan with the lights on, you must add the wattage of the lights to that of the motor. The range of wattage for a ceiling fan light fixture is anywhere from 13 watts to 190 watts. FYI: Ceiling fans used to have up to 300 watts with a 5-light fixture using 60 watt bulbs, but the EPA began inforcing regulations that now limit the maximum wattage of the light
The highest wattage consumed by the most energy guzzling ceiling fan on our website is about 120 watts. So if you input 120 as the fan watts and run our calculator, you will see that it still costs less than 2 cents per hour to operate the most energy guzzling ceiling fan in most states.
1 Prices start at $20-$90 for a basic one-or two-speed ceiling fan that works off a pull chain or wall switch, usually with a straightforward design and a standardized (if unexciting) light fixture. 2  Expect to pay $200-$600 for a better-designed ceiling fan in a range of styles from Victorian to tropical to modernistic.