1. : inflammation of the meninges and especially of the pia mater and the arachnoid. 2. : a disease marked by inflammation of the meninges that is either a relatively mild illness caused by a virus (as various Coxsackie viruses) or a more severe life-threatening illness caused by a bacterium (as the meningococcus). — men·in·git·ic \-ˈji-tik\ adjective. See meningitis defined for English-language learners
Meningitis is inflammation of the protective membranes covering the brain and spinal cord, known collectively as the meninges. The inflammation may be caused by infection with viruses, bacteria, or other microorganisms, and less commonly by certain drugs. 
n. Inflammation of the meninges of the brain and the spinal cord, most often caused by a bacterial or viral infection and characterized by fever, vomiting, intense headache, and stiff neck. men′in·git′ic (-jĭt′ĭk) adj. (ˌmɛnɪnˈdʒaɪtɪs). meningitic adj. inflammation of the meninges, esp. of the pia mater and arachnoid, caused by a bacterial or viral infection and characterized by high fever, severe headache, and stiff neck or back muscles. [1820–30]. men`in•git′ic (-ˈdʒɪt ɪk) adj.
Inflammation of the meninges (three thin layers of tissue that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord). Meningitis is usually caused by a bacterial or viral infection, but sometimes is caused by cancer, drug allergies, or inflammatory diseases. Meningitis is most often caused by a bacterial infection. It also may be caused by a virus, fungal infection, parasite, a reaction to certain medications or medical treatments, a rheumatologic disease such as lupus, some types of cancer, or a traumatic injury to the head or spine.
Meningitis: Inflammation of the meninges, the three membranes that envelop the brain and the spinal cord. Meningitis can be caused by infection by bacteria, viruses, and protozoa. Other causes include cancer (metastasis to the meninges), inflammatory diseases, and drugs. 
Meningitis (from Greek μῆνιγξ meninx, méninx membrane and the medical-suffix, itis) inflammation is an acute inflammation of the protective membranes covering the brain and spinal, cord known collectively as the. meninges The most common symptoms of meningitis are headache and neck stiffness associated with fever, confusion or altered consciousness, vomiting, and an inability to tolerate light (photophobia) or loud noises (phonophobia).
meningitis-infectious disease characterized by inflammation of the meninges (the tissues that surround the brain or spinal cord) usually caused by a bacterial infection; symptoms include headache and stiff neck and fever and nausea. inflammation of the meninges, esp. of the pia mater and arachnoid, caused by a bacterial or viral infection and characterized by high fever, severe headache, and stiff neck or back muscles. [1820–30]. men`in•git′ic (-ˈdʒɪt ɪk) adj.
• MENINGITIS (noun). The noun MENINGITIS has 1 sense: 1. infectious disease characterized by inflammation of the meninges (the tissues that surround the brain or spinal cord) usually caused by a bacterial infection; symptoms include headache and stiff neck and fever and nausea. Familiarity information: MENINGITIS used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: Infectious disease characterized by inflammation of the meninges (the tissues that surround the brain or spinal cord) usually caused by a bacterial infection; symptoms include headache and stiff neck and fever and nausea. Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs.