A blue whale's tongue weighs around 2.7 tonnes (3.0 short tons) and, when fully expanded, its mouth is large enough to hold up to 90 tonnes (99 short tons) of food and water. Despite the size of its mouth, the dimensions of its throat are such that a blue whale cannot swallow an object wider than a beach ball.
Best Answer: A blue whale's tongue can weigh up to 6,000 pounds. An adult African bull elephant weighs about twice that, but adult females are about 6,000 pounds. So... yeah. A blue whale's tongue is huge, about the size of a female African elephant.
Tweet. Blue whales are the largest creatures on Earth weighing up to 200 tons (181 metric tons), and a blue whale’s tongue weighs over two tons (2000 kg) or approximately the same weight as an elephant.
Size relative to a bus: Blue whales are the largest animals ever known to have lived on Earth. These magnificent marine mammals rule the oceans at up to 100 feet (30 meters) long and upwards of 200 tons (181 metric tons). Their tongues alone can weigh as much as an elephant. Their hearts, as much as an automobile.
Report Abuse. Blue Whales-the largest mammal on earth A blue whale's tongue is so large that fifty people could stand on it. A blue whale's tongue weighs more than an elephant. Average fully grown blue whales are around 100-120 tonnes and particularly large individuals have been estimated at 200 tonnes. An average blue is about the equivalent of about 25 fully grown African bull elephants.
Blue Whales-the largest mammal on earth A blue whale's tongue is so large that fifty people could stand on it. A blue whale's tongue weighs more than an elephant. Average fully grown blue whales are around 100-120 tonnes and particularly large individuals have been estimated at 200 tonnes. An average blue is about the equivalent of about 25 fully grown African bull elephants.
Quick Answer. The blue whale is the largest mammal in the world, and its massive tongue can weigh as much as an elephant, or 15,000 pounds, according to National Geographic. The tongue is an important muscle used in the whale's unique feeding routine.