Understanding the similarities and differences between boost and promoted posts helps you make better budget decisions. In this article you’ll discover the differences between the boost post and promoted post options, and how to choose which is right for your marketing efforts. When you boost a post, the ad results show up in your Facebook Ads Manager. From there you can monitor the ad, run more detailed reports and watch the performance. Notice in this boosted post that the bulk of the ad spend went to showing the ad to friends of fans.
Boost your posts. Boosting posts is an effective and inexpensive way to get more exposure for your content. It’s a simple and easy process-posts are boosted right from your Facebook Page-and you can boost a post for any amount you want. It’s a great way to get more people to see your posts, promote special events, offers and news, and to reach new audiences through targeting. Watch the video or follow the steps below to boost a post today. Step 2: Choose your audience. Next, decide who you'd like to see your post: If you select People you choose through targeting, you’ll be able to specify the people you show your boosted post to. Then, refine their locations, ages, genders and interests.
Boost a post with the click of a button. When you click Boost Post, you have the option to choose either pushing the post to “ People who like your page and their friends ” or “ People you choose through targeting .” You’ll also be able to set your budget. You can choose your target audience and your budget. When you boost a post, the ad results show up in your Facebook Ads Manager. From there you can monitor the ad, run more detailed reports and watch the performance. Notice in this boosted post that the bulk of the ad spend went to showing the ad to friends of fans.
Here’s how to get started: 1. Click the Boost Post button on the post you want to create an Ad for. 2. Select “People you choose through targeting” in the Audience section. 3. In the “Add Targeting” dropdown, select your preferences in Location, Age, and Gender. You can select multiple. 
Boosting a post is very easy to do and available for any post on your page’s timeline. All you need to do is click Boost Post in the lower right corner of your post. Boost a post with the click of a button. When you click Boost Post, you have the option to choose either pushing the post to “ People who like your page and their friends ” or “ People you choose through targeting .” You’ll also be able to set your budget. You can choose your target audience and your budget. 
Get people talking by boosting your posts. When you post to your Page, you can click the Boost Post button to get your post to a larger audience. With a boosted post, more people see your update, photo, video, event, offer and more. And you'll reach more of the people who like your Page, their friends and all-new audiences in their News Feeds. When you click the Boost Post button, you can choose to reach the people who like your Page and their friends. You can also reach other audiences by location, age, gender and interests. Just make selections about the type of audience that should see your post and tell us what things they might be interested in.
Best practices for boosting a post. When you boost a post from your Page, you'll see an Audience section where you'll get to choose between different targeting options. In the Audience section, you can choose to target your ad to: People who like your Page. People who like your Page and their friends. You can only boost a post from your Page. Posts from a personal profile can't be boosted. To boost posts on your Page: 1  Go to a post you've created and then click Boost Post in the lower-right corner. 2  Choose your audience and budget based on how many people you want to reach and how long you'd like your boost to run. 3  Click Boost Post