Lower the repo rate means the cost of short-term rate is low which means at higher repo rates the economy growth may slowdown whereas at lower repo rate economy growth may get enhanced. CRR and SLR are the two ratios. CRR is a cash reserve ratio and SLR is statutory liquidity ratio. Under CRR a certain percentage of the total bank deposits has to be kept in the current account with RBI which means banks do not have access to that much amount for any economic activity or commercial activity. 
SLR. SLR (Statutory Liquidity Ratio) is the amount a commercial bank needs to maintain in the form of cash, or gold or govt. approved securities (Bonds) before providing credit to its customers. SLR rate is determined and maintained by the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) in order to control the expansion of bank credit. 
By adjusting CRR, SLR, Repo Rate and Reverse Repo Rate, RBI will ensure that the banking system is working fine. It will adjust these factors to promote an orderly growth of the economy by controlling interest rates and liquidity in the system. It is called Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR). On 30 th October.2012, RBI reduced the CRR by 25 basis points to 4.25%. If the bank is having a deposit of 100/-, it has to keep Rs.4.25 as cash reserve with RBI and it can use only the balance 95.75 for lending or investments.
CRR and SLR are the two ratios. CRR is a cash reserve ratio and SLR is statutory liquidity ratio. Under CRR a certain percentage of the total bank deposits has to be kept in the current account with RBI which means banks do not have access to that much amount for any economic activity or commercial activity. Repo rate is a rate at which banks borrow from RBI for short periods up to 7 or 14 days but predominantly overnight. RBI manages this repo rate which is the cost of credit for the bank.
SLR, statutory liquidity ratio is the amount of money that is invested in certain specified securities predominantly central government and state government securities. Once again this percentage is of the percentage of the total bank deposits available as far as the particular bank is concerned. Repo rate is a rate at which banks borrow from RBI for short periods up to 7 or 14 days but predominantly overnight. RBI manages this repo rate which is the cost of credit for the bank.
with the slr statutory liquidity ratio the rbi can ensure the solvency a commercial bank it is also helpful to control the expansion of bank credits by changing the slr rates rbi can increase or decrease bank credit expansion slr statutory liquidity ratio is the amount a commercial bank needs to maintain in the form of cash or gold or govt approved securities bonds before providing credit to its customers slr rate is determined and maintained by the rbi reserve bank of india in order to control the expansion of bank credit
Bank Rate is the rate at which central bank of the country (in India it is RBI) allows finance to commercial banks. Bank Rate is a tool, which central bank uses for short-term purposes. What is CRR (For Non Bankers): CRR means Cash Reserve Ratio. Banks in India are required to hold a certain proportion of their deposits in the form of cash.
Rama sub is a gud answer for CRR... SLR is statutory liquid ratio, this is the % of deposits that need to be maintained as liquid thru' investing in RBI bonds. SLR includes CRR, for example CRR is 7% and SLR is 10%, the 3% should be can non-cash investments. This ratio (what part of the total deposits is to be held as cash) is stipulated by the RBI and is known as the CRR, the cash reserve ratio. When a bank’s deposits increase by Rs100, and if the cash reserve ratio is 10, banks will hold Rs10 with the RBI and lend Rs 90.
What is SLR? (For Non Bankers) : SLR stands for Statutory Liquidity Ratio. This term is used by bankers and indicates the minimum percentage of deposits that the bank has to maintain in form of gold, cash or other approved securities. What is CRR (For Non Bankers): CRR means Cash Reserve Ratio. Banks in India are required to hold a certain proportion of their deposits in the form of cash.