Most people think of 'normal' body temperature as 37C (98.6F), measured using a thermometer in the mouth.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below
For instance, a 1992 evaluation of his work in the US, and based on 148 participants, found that 36.8C was a more accurate figure. Normal body temperature also depends on where the temperature reading is taken. For instance, a reading from the armpit will be about 0.5C lower than the body's core temperature.
The ideal core temperature is considered to be around 98.6° Degree Fahrenheit or 37° degree Celsius. This temperature is however, the average body temperature and the overall normal temperature varies from a minimum of 97.7° Fahrenheit (36.5° Celsius) to a maximum of almost 99.5° Fahrenheit (37.5° Celsius) .
Also, your normal body temperature changes by as much as 1°F (0.6°C) throughout the day, depending on how active you are and the time of day. Body temperature is very sensitive to hormone levels and may be higher or lower when a woman is ovulating or having her menstrual period.
Your body will use more energy trying to maintain its core temperature in extremely hot or cold temperature. If you actively help maintain your bodies temperature, that energy can be then applied to the effort of the race, instead of using the energy to heat or cool your body.
The skin and temperature control. Core body temperature is normally 37°C no matter what the temperature of the surroundings or the activity level of the individual. It is controlled by a negative feedback system.
body temperature the temperature of the body of a human or animal; see temperature. core temperature the temperature of structures deep within the body, as opposed to peripheral temperature such as that of the skin. critical temperature that below which a gas may be converted to a liquid by increased pressure.
The normal core body temperature of a healthy, resting cow is stated on average to be 101.5 degrees Fahrenheit (38.6 degrees Celsius). Though the body temperature measured on an individual cow can vary, a healthy cow can maintain a fairly consistent body temperature that is around the mark of 101.5 °F (38.6 °C).