Skin Candida, Candidiasis. Candida is an yeast type of fungus that occurs on the skin and cavities of the body but will not cause an infection in most cases. A candida infection, known as candidiasis, is more likely to occur on the skin although it can also infect the vagina, mouth or intestines. In Candida albicans infection, it may appear as a red skin rash that is slightly raised and becomes dark (hyperpigmented) over time. Other signs and symptoms of a skin yeast infection includes 1  : Itchy skin rash.
Recognizing the Symptoms of Candidiasis of the Skin. Candidiasis of the skin can occur anywhere on the skin, but it is most likely to occur on areas where the skin is folded. This includes areas in the armpits, in the groin, between your fingers, and under your breasts. Rashes from candidiasis can appear either as white or red skin. If you were to take a swab of your skin and grow the cells on a petri dish, you’d likely find lots of bacteria and fungal organisms living and growing without hurting your health. While some fungal infections are not harmful, the candida fungus can be.
Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. 
Candida is a type of yeast (fungus). Small numbers of candida normally live on your skin and do no harm. Sometimes, under certain conditions, they can multiply and cause infection. The common sites for candida to cause infection are your vagina (vaginal thrush), your mouth (oral thrush) and your skin. 
Candida albicans is the most common species of yeast that lives on the skin. It tends to infect the folds of the skin, especially if there are any breaks or cuts. In cases where body movement or clothing may cause chaffing of these skin folds (intertrigo), the yeast will quickly infect the skin. In Candida albicans infection, it may appear as a red skin rash that is slightly raised and becomes dark (hyperpigmented) over time. Other signs and symptoms of a skin yeast infection includes 1  : Itchy skin rash.
Thrush is a common infection in the mouth of babies, on rashes (especially nappy rashes and rashes in moist places such as under the chin of a dribbling baby), on the nipples of breast feeding mothers and in the vagina of women. It can be very irritating but it is treatable. Treating thrush on a skin rash. 1  You will need to see your doctor or pharmacist (chemist) to get a special cream for the rash, and sometimes they will suggest that you also use a treatment that needs to be taken by mouth to reduce the amount of candida in the gut. ( 2 Make sure that you use creams, not gels, on the rash.
One of the most common manifestations of candida albicans is an often extremely itchy skin rash. Although it can look quite different depending on a few factors, most candida skin rash examples are red and show signs of inflammation. Some have white crusty areas on them as well. 3. Intertrigo is a rash that is caused from candida, although it’s rarely referred to in that manner. This type of candida skin rash lives in the cracks and crevices of your skin where it is dark and moist. 4. A candida skin rash can develop as a die off symptom post overgrowth.
Yeast Infection Skin Rash Overview. Candidiasis is by far the most common type of yeast infection in human skin. Candidiasis is infection with Candida species. More than 20 species of Candida exist. The most common is Candida albicans. These fungi live on all surfaces of our bodies and only occasionally cause infection. 1 Candidal vulvovaginitis is a candidal infection of the vaginal tract. 2  Candida albicans is a common inhabitant of the vaginal tract and can result in itching, redness, irritation, and burning. 3  This is often referred to as a feminine yeast
A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 