The term monogenic obesity requires some specification and discussion: a ‘monogene’ is by common textbook definition, a gene with a strong effect on the phenotype [Mendelian traits or Mendelian (single gene) conditions], giving rise to a (close to) one-to-one relationship between genotype and phenotype. The brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in weight regulation downstream of the MC4R. Mutations in single genes of the leptinergic–melanocortinergic pathway have been shown to have a monogenic effect on the development of obesity.
The distinction between monogenic obesity and obesity due to a major gene effect may appear semantic. However, because BMI is a quantitative trait with obesity representing the right tail of the distribution, attempts to address this distinction are warranted. The brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in weight regulation downstream of the MC4R. Mutations in single genes of the leptinergic–melanocortinergic pathway have been shown to have a monogenic effect on the development of obesity.
The heterogeneity of human morbid obesity is becoming increasingly apparent with a growing number of monogenic disorders leading to profound dysregulation of body fat mass being identified. Congenital leptin deficiency is associated with extreme hyperphagia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. 
Monogenic obesity: Introduction. Monogenic obesity: Obesity caused by a mutation in a single gene. So far, four different genetic mutations have been linked to this condition. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Monogenic obesity is available below. Review possible medical complications related to Monogenic obesity: 1  Increased risk of cardiovascular disease. 2  Increased risk of cancer. 3  Increased risk of type 2 diabetes. 4  more complications...».
Monogenic diabetes is a rare condition resulting from mutations (changes) in a single gene. In contrast, the most common types of diabetes—type 1 and type 2—are caused by multiple genes (and in type 2 diabetes, lifestyle factors such as obesity). Most cases of monogenic diabetes are inherited. Monogenic diabetes appears in several forms and most often affects young people. In most forms of the disease, the body is less able to make insulin, a hormone that helps the body use glucose (sugar) for energy. Rarely, the problem is severe insulin resistance, a condition in which the body cannot use insulin properly.
Monogenic obesity. The elucidation of the mutations underlying diverse rodent mouse models (monogenic and one transgenic) led to the identification of most of the currently known monogenic forms of obesity in humans [ 43 ]. The brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in weight regulation downstream of the MC4R. Mutations in single genes of the leptinergic–melanocortinergic pathway have been shown to have a monogenic effect on the development of obesity.
The heritability of obesity and body weight in general is high. A small number of confirmed monogenic forms of obesity—the respective mutations are sufficient by themselves to cause the condition in food abundant societies—have been identified by molecular genetic studies. The brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in weight regulation downstream of the MC4R. Mutations in single genes of the leptinergic–melanocortinergic pathway have been shown to have a monogenic effect on the development of obesity.
Adj. 1. monogenic-of or relating to an inheritable character that is controlled by a single pair of genes. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms. heritable, inheritable-capable of being inherited; inheritable traits such as eye color; an inheritable title. monogenic. adj. 1. (Genetics) genetics of or relating to an inherited character difference that is controlled by a single gene. 2. (Biology) (of animals) producing offspring of one sex. (ˌmɒn əˈdʒɛn ɪk).
Obesity results from the energy imbalance that occurs when a person consumes more calories than their body burns. Obesity is a serious public health problem because it is associated with some of the leading causes of death in the U.S. and worldwide, including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and some types of cancer.
Abstract. Currently, no topic is more controversial in bariatric surgery than performing these procedures on children with monogenic and syndromic forms of obesity. The medical community and the caregivers of those patients are struggling to find a solution that can alleviate their suffering and save their life. As with all morbidly obese children and adolescents, children with monogenic and syndromic forms of obesity must undergo assessment and follow-up by a multidisciplinary team of pediatric endocrinologists, medical geneticists, dieticians, nurses, psychologists, health educators, and surgeons.