Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual. Visceral, or smooth, muscle is found inside organs such as the stomach and intestines, as well as in blood vessels. It is called a smooth muscle because, unlike skeletal muscle, it does not have the banded appearance of skeletal or cardiac muscle.
MUSCLES AND MUSCLE TISSUE. Muscle is composed of fibers, nerves and connective tissues and account for over 40% of the body weight. The fibers contract to produce tension on the associated tissues or tendons. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament. There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Muscle tissue provides a) posture and body support b) locomotion and c) heat production. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel
Unlike Skeletal and Cardiac muscle tissue, Smooth muscle is. . Smooth muscle fibers are small and tapered-with the ends reducing in size, in contrast to the cylindrical shape of skeletal muscle. Each smooth muscle fiber has a single centrally located nucleus. To read about other tissue types see the list of on the left. There are 3 types of muscle tissue: 1  Skeletal muscle tissue, 2  Cardiac muscle tissue, and. 3  Smooth muscle tissue.
The basic function of muscle is to generate force. Secondarily, muscles can provide some shape and form to the organism. Anatomically and functionally, muscle can be divided into two types, smooth and striated. Striated or striped muscle can be further divided into skeletal muscle and cardiac (heart) muscle. The shape of muscle is dependent on its general architecture, which in turn helps to define the muscle’s function. Some muscles, such as the gluteal muscles, are quite thick; some, such as the sartorius, are long and relatively slender; and others, such as the extensors of the fingers, have very long tendons.
Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated
The functions of muscle tissues depend on the type of muscle tissues and their locations in the body. Here is an overview of the 3 types of muscle tissues : : Skeletal muscle is called striated because of its appearance consisting of light and dark bands visible using a light microscope. To read about other tissue types see the list of on the left. There are 3 types of muscle tissue: 1  Skeletal muscle tissue, 2  Cardiac muscle tissue, and. 3  Smooth muscle tissue.
The heart's natural pacemaker is made of cardiac muscle that signals other cardiac muscles to contract. Like visceral muscles, cardiac muscle tissue is controlled involuntarily. While hormones and signals from the brain adjust the rate of contraction, cardiac muscle stimulates itself to contract. Visceral, or smooth, muscle is found inside organs such as the stomach and intestines, as well as in blood vessels. It is called a smooth muscle because, unlike skeletal muscle, it does not have the banded appearance of skeletal or cardiac muscle.
Best Answer: Hey Their main function is contraction. As you will notice the heavier the weight you try and lift the more your muscles have to contract...this leads to more muscle mass. Also contraction causes alteration in the sacromeres and cells that make up the muscle causing them to increase in number. 