PESTILENCE. pes'-ti-lens (debher; loimos): Any sudden fatal epidemic is designated by this word, and in its Biblical use it generally indicates that these are divine visitations. The word is most frequently used in the prophetic books, and it occurs 25 times in Jeremiah and Ezekiel, always associated with the sword and famine.
And from the noisome pestilence-The fatal pestilence; the pestilence that spreads death in its march. That is, he can prevent its coming upon you; or, he can save you from its ravages, while others are dying around you. 3. snares … [and] … noisome pestilence—literally, plagues of mischiefs (Ps 5:9; 52:7), are expressive figures for various evils. 3 Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.
• PESTILENCE (noun). The noun PESTILENCE has 3 senses: 1. a serious (sometimes fatal) infection of rodents caused by Yersinia pestis and accidentally transmitted to humans by the bite of a flea that has bitten an infected animal. 2. any epidemic disease with a high death rate. 3. a pernicious and malign influence that is hard to get rid of. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of pestilence): bubonic plague; glandular plague; pestis bubonica (the most common form of the plague in humans; characterized by chills, prostration, delirium and the formation of buboes in the armpits and groin; does not spread from person to person).
Old Testament pestilence: Pestilence refers to a condition or disease that causes massive damage or death. One example of pestilence in the Old Testament of the Bible is … a plague of locusts, such as the one described in Exodus 10. 7 people found this useful. 
Dictionaries-King James Dictionary-Noisome. Bad; foul. And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a NOISOME and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.
plague, pestilence, pest, pestis (noun). a serious (sometimes fatal) infection of rodents caused by Yersinia pestis and accidentally transmitted to humans by the bite of a flea that has bitten an infected animal. plague, pestilence, pest (noun). 
Laughter is the best medicine.. (English proverb). If the thought is good, your place and path are good; if the thought is bad, your place and path are bad. (Bhutanese proverb). With carefulness you realize your opportunity. (Arabic proverb). Well started is half won. (Dutc
It is the translation of hawwah, mischief, calamity (Psalms 91:3, noisome pestilence, the Revised Version (British and American) deadly); of ra`, a common word for evil (Ezekiel 14:15,21), noisome beasts (the Revised Version (British and American) evil). Bad; foul. And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a NOISOME and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.
PESTILENCE [ISBE] PESTILENCE-pes'-ti-lens (debher; loimos): Any sudden fatal epidemic is designated by this word, and in its Biblical use it generally indicates that these are divine visitations. Here the pestilence is called noisome, a shortened form of annoysome, used in the sense of hateful or that which causes trouble or distress. In modern English it has acquired the sense of loathsome.