Also, your pregnant body changes so much after conception that you need to understand those changes before starting an exercise program. While pregnant, your cardiac output increases 40 to 50 percent, which in turn, increases your resting heart rate anywhere from 10 to 20 beats per minute. During pregnancy, you need more oxygen for fetal development. This means that at rest, a typical resting heart rate would be 70 bpm but the same woman (now pregnant) has a resting heart rate of 85 bpm just by being pregnant. Also there are so many other factors that affect heart rate, for example fitness condition. A marathoner may have a resting heart rate of 45 bpm and a sedentary person may have a resting heart rate of 95 bpm -- all due to fitness level. And there are always the exceptions to the rule -- someone who genetically has a high or low resting heart rate naturally.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.
However, a typical resting heart rate for an adult woman is 75 beats per minute; when pregnant, that same woman can expect her resting rate to be approximately 80 beats per minute. Included in those changes may be your pulse rate, which increases during pregnancy. According to Baby Fit, a resting pulse rate is different for every woman, and is based on your level of fitness before pregnancy and your age.
Your normal resting heart rate will be higher during pregnancy. According to KidsHealth, a pregnant woman's heart rate increases during pregnancy to pump more blood. Included in those changes may be your pulse rate, which increases during pregnancy. According to Baby Fit, a resting pulse rate is different for every woman, and is based on your level of fitness before pregnancy and your age.
The Facts. Heart rate is the amount of beats, or contractions, your heart experiences within one minute. The main way to calculate the heart rate is called a pulse. During pregnancy, according to The Merck Manual, “The amount of blood pumped by the heart (cardiac output) increases by 30 to 50%.
you voted. Answer by kdem (551). Your resting heart rate during pregnancy should be just like normal anywhere from 60 beats per minute to 100 beats per minute. Anything more than 100 would be tachycardic and anything below 60 in bradycardic and both of these ailments need medical especially during pregnancy. Answer by DrColbath (103). Your heart rate during pregnancy should be a little higher than your normal heart rate. On average, a woman's heart rate is 70, which may increase to 85-90 during pregnancy.
Baby's Pulse Rate. Besides monitoring the mother's heart rate, your doctor will also monitor the baby's heart rate throughout the entire pregnancy. A fetus' average heart rate is between 140 and 150 beats per min while in the womb. Included in those changes may be your pulse rate, which increases during pregnancy. According to Baby Fit, a resting pulse rate is different for every woman, and is based on your level of fitness before pregnancy and your age.