An alcoholic beverage is a drink which contains a substantial amount of the psychoactive drug ethanol (informally called alcohol). Drinking alcohol plays an important social role in many cultures. Alcohol has potential for abuse and physical dependence. 
An alcoholic is classified as a person whose drinking has a negative impact on their life and still continues to drink. Whether it's a negative impact on you job, family or health doesn't matter. If you can drink every day and not have it affect any other area of your life than technically you aren't an alcoholic. RE: What is considered an alcoholic? I know people who drink alot-but they dont think they are alcoholics. Is drinking every day considered alcoholic behavior or does it depend on how much, or if you&#39;re drunk?
An alcoholic tends to develop an obsession with consuming alcohol. Some people only drink when socializing with friends. Drinking becomes a problem as soon as it negatively affects a person's life and relationships. Someone who drinks to the point of blacking out is often considered an alcoholic. An alcoholic may be someone who drinks steadily, but not in excessive amounts
Women who consume eight or more drinks per week are considered excessive drinkers. And for men, excess is defined as 15 or more drinks a week. (The researchers defined a drink as just 5 ounces of wine, 12 ounces of beer or 1.5 ounces of spirits.). 
An alcoholic is a man or a woman who suffers from alcoholism-they have a distinct physical desire to consume alcohol beyond their capacity to control it, regardless of all rules of common sense. Typically, the last person to be aware that he/she has a serious drinking problem is the alcoholic himself/herself-they are in denial. Some signs and symptoms of alcoholism, as well as alcohol abuse, include: 1  Drinking alone. 2  Drinking in secret. 3  Not being able to limit how much alcohol is consumed. 4  Blacking out-not being able to remember chunks of time. 5  Having rituals and being irritated/annoyed when these rituals are disturbed or commented on
10 most extreme places on Earth. Determining whether or not someone is an alcoholic is not a matter of a simple formula; someone could have one drink a day and have alcoholism, while someone else could drink six glasses of wine in an evening and not be considered an alcoholic. Some people only drink when socializing with friends. Drinking becomes a problem as soon as it negatively affects a person's life and relationships. Someone who drinks to the point of blacking out is often
It totally depends, on 'what' happens when a person drinks! Once an alcoholic starts drinking, they usually don't stop until they are drunk, they can't stop, they have to have a drink...HAVE TO...someone who has to take a drink, just to 'feel' right, or more comfortable...is beginning to have a serious problem. RE: What is considered an alcoholic? I know people who drink alot-but they dont think they are alcoholics. Is drinking every day considered alcoholic behavior or does it depend on how much, or if you&#39;re drunk?
Definition-an alcoholic is a person, while alcoholism is the illness. An alcoholic suffers from alcoholism. Alcoholism is a long-term (chronic) disease. Alcoholics are obsessed with alcohol and cannot control how much they consume, even if it is causing serious problems at home, work, and financially. Typically, the last person to be aware that he/she has a serious drinking problem is the alcoholic himself/herself-they are in denial. Some signs and symptoms of alcoholism, as well as alcohol abuse, include: 1  Drinking alone. 2  Drinking in secret. 3  Not being able to limit how much alcohol is consumed. 4  Blacking out-not being able to remember chunks of time. 5  Having rituals and being irritated/annoyed when these rituals are disturbed or commented on
When someone you know has a drinking problem, you might wonder at what point he or she would be considered an alcoholic or someone with an alcohol addiction. Precisely defining those terms can be difficult. Stephen Gilman, MD, an addiction specialist in New York City, said that alcohol addiction is a broad term. Medically, psychiatrists look at alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence in different ways. In contrast to alcohol abuse, people with alcohol dependence experience physical withdrawal symptoms when they stop drinking.