Again vet checked him out and he was a gelding. He was separated from the herd of mares and kept in the pasture with the other geldings. It is just safer for all involved to keep the sexes separated. Just because they are gelded doesn't mean they do not know they are males. It seems that lots of places can do mixed herds with no problem for years. I don't know how often the gelding attached to mare syndrome (or vice versa) happens, but if it's ever happened to you, you understand why people separate into same sex herds.
Best Answer: That's not true at all, geldings and mares can be turned out together. I've always seen them turned out together and my own mare has often been in the field with geldings and is at the moment when turned out to graze, one of which is my own and the other is a gelding she has been kept with for years. You can put in mares and geldings together and hope they all work it out, but with the cost of vet care, etc. it's just easier to keep them separate during turnout and avoid any injury. However, in your case, I think it was more a dominance thing.
Had the vet out for the mare and had him check the gelding to see if he was really a gelding. He was. However the two are now in separate runs. He is still in love with the mare but he has to do it at a distance now. Turning them out together can cause fights. Or as above. One of my other friends has a 1/2 Freisian gelding and when he was turned out with the herd, he serviced all the mares in the herd. It seems that lots of places can do mixed herds with no problem for years. I don't know how often the gelding attached to mare syndrome (or vice versa) happens, but if it's ever happened to you, you understand why people separate into same sex herds.
Sharing a field with geldings, however, is another matter. Although there are individual mares and geldings that can share a field, it's generally better to keep them in separate fields. Many people do keep mares and gelding separated, for good reasons. Some geldings are very aggressive and will attack and injure mares -- this is one excellent reason for keeping them separated! Another reason is sexual -- many geldings will attempt to mount mares when they come into season, and this is dangerous.
We're going to put a horse in the stall between the mare and the gelding. We're going to put the mare in a pasture with other horses. We're going to put the gelding in the pasture that he used to share with my mare. They had this pasture to themselves, so that means he'll be there alone from approximately 6pm to 8am. I can't turn him out with other mares because he breeds them.
I have one mare and one gelding. They share the same pasture. I have never had a problem with them. My gelding is the alpha horse and bosses my mare around...but all in all it works out great. Before we had two geldings (one of them the same gelding I have now) and one mare in the same pasture. If the gelding can't make it in with the other geldings from being beat up, we put them in with the mares. There are currently 2 geldings in our mare's field, and there isn't a problem. Posted via Mobile Device. palominolover likes this.
Again vet checked him out and he was a gelding. He was separated from the herd of mares and kept in the pasture with the other geldings. It is just safer for all involved to keep the sexes separated. Just because they are gelded doesn't mean they do not know they are males. However the two are now in separate runs. He is still in love with the mare but he has to do it at a distance now. Turning them out together can cause fights. Or as above. One of my other friends has a 1/2 Freisian gelding and when he was turned out with the herd, he serviced all the mares in the herd.
While I agree that mares and geldings do often get along, it depends on the horses, how they were raised and how much space they have. Geldings still have a reaction to mares in season and will fight with other geldings for the mare's attention. I had a 28 year old gelding and a 26 year old mare. I brought in my gelding's best friend (a gelded 30 year old) and you would have thought they were wild stallions! At their age. They finally worked it out, but that's when I learned that you don't want to have more mares than geldings. You can put in mares and geldings together and hope they all work it out, but with the cost of vet care, etc. it's just easier to keep them separate during turnout and avoid any injury. However, in your case, I think it was more a dominance thing.
Geldings frequently get so attached to mares that they become quite a problem as you have seen. That is why generally, geldings and mares are usually kept separately. If the is any way you do not need to keep him with the mare, but rather, with another gelding that will help solve your problem faster. Mares and Geldings Together (good or not good). I have had my gelding for three years (he's seven). He was an only horse until February, when I rescued a mare.
A gelding is a castrated horse or other equine such as a donkey or a mule. Castration, and the elimination of hormonally driven behavior associated with a stallion, allows a male horse to be calmer and better-behaved, making the animal quieter, gentler and potentially more suitable as an everyday working animal. 