Perhaps, if the menu includes fatty fish like salmon or herring fish, walnuts, sugar beets, or beet molasses. Those foods contain substances that had an antidepressant effect in tests on rats, researchers report in the Feb. 15 issue of Biological Psychiatry. The substances are omega-3 fatty acids and uridine. Abundant omega-3 fatty acids are found in certain fish -- especially in fatty fish like salmon and herring -- as well as walnuts and flaxseed. Uridine occurs in sugar beets and molasses made from those beets.
Uridine is a glycosylated pyrimidine-analog containing uracil attached to a ribose ring (or more specifically, a ribofuranose) via a β-N 1 - glycosidic bond. It is one of the five standard nucleosides which make up nucleic acids, the others being adenosine, thymidine, cytidine and guanosine. However, thymidine is more commonly written as 'dT' ('d' represents 'deoxy') as it contains a 2'-deoxyribofuranose moiety rather than the ribofuranose ring found in uridine. This is because thymidine is found in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and not ribonucleic acid (RNA). Conversely, uridine is found in RNA and not DNA.
The five nucleosides are commonly abbreviated to their one letter codes U, A, T, C and G respectively. However, thymidine is more commonly written as 'dT' ('d' represents 'deoxy') as it contains a 2'-deoxyribofuranose moiety rather than the ribofuranose ring found in uridine. This is because thymidine is found in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and not ribonucleic acid (RNA). Conversely, uridine is found in RNA and not DNA.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Uridine is a naturally occurring substance manufactured by the liver and classified as a nucleoside, meaning that it is a compound containing a nucleic acid with a pyrimidine base that has bonded to the alcohol group of a sugar. 
Sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.), a member of the Chenopodiaceae family, is a plant whose root contains a high concentration of sucrose. It is grown commercially for sugar. Beet sugar accounts for 30% of the world's sugar production. In the United States, genetically modified sugar beets resistant to glyphosate, (marketed by Monsanto as Roundup) a herbicide, are slated to be planted for the first time in the spring of 2008.
Sugar beets and other B. vulgaris cultivars, such as beetroot and chard, share a common wild ancestor, the sea beet (Beta vulgaris maritima). In 2011, France, the United States, Germany, Russia, and Ukraine were the world's five largest sugar beet producers by mass, whilst by value Turkey takes the place of Ukraine. The root of the beet contains 75% water, about 20% sugar, and 5% pulp (the exact sugar contents can vary between 12 and 21% sugar, depending on the cultivar and growing conditions).
Cane Sugar vs. Beet Sugar. Sugar (sucrose) is a naturally occurring carbohydrate found in every fruit and vegetable. Most of the sugar in the world comes from two sources: Sugar cane and beets, as it is easily extracted from both and both contain large quantities of sucrose. 99.95% sucrose in fact.
Sugar beet is a hardy biennial plant that can be grown commercially in a wide variety of temperate climates. During its first growing season, it produces a large (1–2 kg) storage root whose dry mass is 15–20% sucrose by weight. Beet sugar accounts for 30% of the world's sugar production. In the United States, genetically modified sugar beets resistant to glyphosate, (marketed by Monsanto as Roundup) a herbicide, are slated to be planted for the first time in the spring of 2008.
Sugar is formed by photosynthesis in the leaves, and is then stored in the root. The root of the beet contains 75% water, about 20% sugar, and 5% pulp (the exact sugar contents can vary between 12 and 21% sugar, depending on the cultivar and growing conditions). Sugar is the primary value of sugar beet as a cash crop