Lining. A cottontail doe lines her nest with whatever soft materials she can find. Grass is typically an important component of the lining and is found in virtually all cottontail nests. The mother may add other things to the lining including leaves, tiny roots and even bits of paper or other trash.
Maine is home to two rabbit-like species, but only one of them -- the New England cottontail (Fig. 1) -- is a true rabbit. The other is the snowshoe hare. Snowshoe hares are larger than New England cottontails, having a larger body, longer ears, and much longer feet.
A cottontail litter will have one to 12 babies; typical litter size is three to six. The young are born deaf, blind and without fur. They are completely helpless as newborns, but they develop quickly, leaving the nest at 2 weeks of age. Cottontails can take care of themselves by the time they are 3 to 4 weeks old.
Rabbits mean different things to different people. For hunters, the cottontail rabbit is an abundant, sporting, and tasty game animal. However, vegetable and flower gardeners, farmers, and homeowners who are suffering damage may have very little to say in favor of cottontails.
Most cottontail rabbits do not survive the first year of life. They fall prey to animals, hunters, disease and injury. In species with high mortality rates, frequent reproduction is vital to the species survival. Mating pairs can produce nearly 40 rabbits a year.
Best Answer: No birds give birth to live young-they all lay eggs, emus included. Here's an image of an emu with an egg: http://www.echidnawalkabout.com.au/emu_e... There are several different species of rabbits and hares. All belong to the order Lagomorpha and the family Leporidae.
Most mammals give birth to live young, while most other animals lay eggs, such as reptiles and fish (some of which are also live-bearers), amphibians and … birds. There are three species of egg-laying mammals, known as monotremes.
Cottontails breed often; a female adult can have as many as seven litters each year if the weather is warm enough and food is adequate. Female cottontail rabbits make new nests for every litter of young, but they don’t put much time or effort into them.
The female eastern cottontail constructs a nest in which to give birth, digging out a small, slanting hole and lining it with grass and leaves, as well as with soft fur plucked from her belly. The eastern cottontail typically gives birth to up to 7 young at a time after a gestation period of 25 to 35 days.