1) A respiratory center within the reticular formation (network) of the medullary pons of the brainstem (with 3 centers as outlined below) 2) Chemoreceptors which send afferent or sensory input to the respiratory centers in the brainstem. There are peripheral and central brainstem chemoreceptors. 
Accurate assessment of respiration is an important component of vital-signs skills. It involves observing the rate, depth, and rhythm of chest-wall movement during inspiration and expiration. During normal breathing, the chest gently rises and falls in a regular rhythm. Expiration is a passive process that involves the diaphragm moving up, the external intercostal muscles relaxing, and the chest cavity returning to its normal resting state. The respiratory center in the medulla of the brain and the level of carbon dioxide in the blood help regulate breathing.
TLC is the maximum amount of air in the lungs after maximum inhalation. In men the average TLC is 6000 ml, and in women it is 4200 ml. FRC is the amount of air left in the lungs after normal exhalation. Men leave about 2400 ml on average while women retain around 1800 ml. RV is amount of air left in the lungs after a forced exhalation. The average RV in men is 1200 ml and women 1100 ml. VC is the maximum amount of air that can be exhaled after a
Intra-alveolar pressure during inspiration & expiration. As the external intercostals & diaphragm contract, the lungs expand. The expansion of the lungs causes the pressure in the lungs (and alveoli) to become slightly negative relative to atmospheric pressure. As a result, air moves from an area of higher pressure (the air) to an area of lower pressure (our lungs & alveoli). 
6000 mL. Resting Tidal Volume (VT): This is the volume of air taken into the lungs when you inhale. Tidal volume increases with exercise or activity. Inspiratory Reserve Volume (IRV): Total lung capacity minus the volume of air in the lung at the end of a normal inspiration.
Expiration during quiet breathing is predominantly a passive phenomenon, as the respiratory muscles are relaxed and the elastic lung and chest wall return passively to their resting volume, the functional residual capacity. Muscles of Respiration. During quiet breathing, the predominant muscle of respiration is the diaphragm. As it contracts, pleural pressure drops, which lowers the alveolar pressure, and draws air in down the pressure gradient from mouth to alveoli.
1 An increased resting respiratory rate can be a sign that a previously diagnosed disease is progressing; for example: if your dog with heart disease has a normal resting rate of 15 breaths a minute, and then the resting rate goes up to 30 while asleep, then doubled rate means it’s time to see the veterinarian. 
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe.
The lungs and chest wall recoil (in opposite directions) to a resting volume, or Functional Residual Capacity (FRC) • FRC is the total amount of gas left in the lungs after a resting expiration • Opposing forces are balanced (Palv = Pao) • Normal FRC is 40% (1200 mL) of total lung capacity (TLC). 