HCl is a strong acid, and dissociates completely in water. It is formed by covalent bonds between hydrogen and chloride ions. HCl has many commercial uses, including use in the production of steel and in the production of medications.
Report Abuse. Sodium chloride --- ionic bond as sodium (Na) is a metal whereas chlorine (Cl) is a non-metal. The Na will give 1 electron to Cl so that a stable electronic configuration is obtained. Hydrogen chloride --- covalent bond as both hydrogen and chlorine are non-metals.
The pair of shared electrons between the chlorine and hydrogen atoms form a single covalent bond. The structural formula of a hydrogen chloride molecule is written. There are no ions present (no + or-charges) in hydrogen chloride gas because the electrons are shared, not transferred from one atom to another.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sodium Na+ chloride CL-therefore ionic bonding Hydrogen chloride (aka hydrochloric acid) covalent bonding The best way to tell what kind of bonding a compound has is: If both atoms are metals then bonding is mettalic. If both atoms are non metals then bonding is covalent.
Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding.
Chlorine and hydrogen are both non-metals. A chlorine atom has 7 electrons in its outer shell. Chlorine is in group 7 of the periodic table. A hydrogen atom has 1 electron in its outer shell. Hydrogen can only form 1 bond. The hydrogen atom will share its 1 electron with chlorine to form one covalent bond and make a hydrogen chloride molecule (HCl). This is a picture of a hydrogen chloride molecule. By sharing the two electrons where the shells touch the hydrogen atom can count 2 electrons in its outer shell and the chlorine atom can count 8
The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons.