The VA pulmonary outpatient rotation includes the workup, evaluation, and management of patients with pulmonary disorders in the outpatient setting. Uncommon pulmonary diseases are also seen. The Veteran patient population typically has a number of medical comorbidities. The fellow VA clinic represents a unique situation where the fellow has “ownership” over a panel of diverse patients for whom he/she is identified as the primary pulmonologist.
Pulmonary Service Line. The Pulmonary Service Line at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center is a clinical and academic program with a strong affiliation with Wayne State University. We put the patient first and provide timely and high quality care to our patients. At the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center, we run 60 outpatient pulmonary clinics a month to accommodate general pulmonary diseases and pulmonary diseases that require specialized physicians.
BACKGROUND: The diffusing capacity of the lung is usually reported as both the diffusing capacity (DLCO) and the diffusing capacity divided by the alveolar volume (DLCO/VA). However, it is unclear which measure to use when interpreting pulmonary gas exchange. 
In fact, the DLCO/VA is the transfer coefficient for the diffusion of CO into the blood, and is an essential part of the equation used to calculate the DLCO. 10 The global diffusing capacity is calculated as the DLCO/VA multiplied by the overall lung volume, VA. The primary reason for this is likely that the DLCO and DLCO/VA are static measures of oxygen diffusing capacity. Yet, the exchange of oxygen under conditions of exercise is very complex, involving alterations in pulmonary blood flow, lung volume and metabolism.
Pulmonary Edema-VHL HealthSheet #40416_VA. Asthma-VHL Video. Asthma is a chronic respiratory condition that causes inflammation of the airways. This inflammation, which can be triggered by a variety of substances, makes the airways much narrower and interferes with breathing. Emphysema is a lung disease that limits the movement of air into and out of your lungs, making it harder to breath. Pulmonary Fibrosis-VHL HealthSheet #87926_VA.
Background. The diffusing capacity of the lung is usually reported as both the diffusing capacity (DLCO) and the diffusing capacity divided by the alveolar volume (DLCO/VA). However, it is unclear which measure to use when interpreting pulmonary gas exchange. The primary reason for this is likely that the DLCO and DLCO/VA are static measures of oxygen diffusing capacity. Yet, the exchange of oxygen under conditions of exercise is very complex, involving alterations in pulmonary blood flow, lung volume and metabolism.
The Sleep Disorders Center at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center is a VA regional center accredited by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM). The center has strong clinical, research and academic programs and trains future sleep physicians. At the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center, we run 60 outpatient pulmonary clinics a month to accommodate general pulmonary diseases and pulmonary diseases that require specialized
The Veteran patient population is a unique patient population. Patients seen during this rotation have a number of common pulmonary diseases, particularly obstructive lung disease, interstitial lung disease, and neoplastic lung disease. Uncommon pulmonary diseases are also seen. The Veteran patient population typically has a number of medical comorbidities. The fellow VA clinic represents a unique situation where the fellow has “ownership” over a panel of diverse patients for whom he/she is identified as the primary pulmonologist.