A TPU is a multi-phase block copolymer that is created when three basic raw materials are com-bined together in a specificway. The individual components required to produce a TPU are:• A polyol or long-chain diol• A chain extender or short-chain diol• A diisocyanate Figure 1.0 depicts the basic chemistry of TPU. The soft block, built out of a polyol and an isocyanate, is responsible for the flexibilityand elastomeric character of a TPU.
Elastomeric materials like TPU are differentiated by hardness. A durometer instrument is used to measure surface hardness for the Shore-A and Shore-D scales, the Shore-A scale being softer and the Shore-D scale being harder. Typically, TPUs are made in the 70A to 75D hardness range. 
Please try again later. CellPig.com explains what a TPU silicone rubber case is and describes all of their benefits. They then throw the phone from a moving vehicle onto the pavement and test to see if the gadget still works. The video finishes up with a slide show of TPU covers that are sold at CellPig.com. 1  Science & Technology.
Then transfer to a troop program unit (TPU). TPU Soldiers are the heart and soul of the Army Reserve. Being part of a TPU in the Army Reserve is more like a part-time job that enables Soldiers to keep their civilian careers while they continue to train near home and serve their country. Many professionals as well as college students are Soldiers in the Army Reserve. Transfers to the TPU. Individual Ready Reserve Soldiers. To enable you to transfer to a TPU, your gaining unit must submit a DA Form 4651-R or 4187 to your reserve center's Army Reserve Career Counselor. HRC-Fort Knox maintains a partial list of select unit vacancies.
The talk page may contain suggestions. (September 2010). Thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) is any of a class of polyurethane plastics with many properties, including elasticity, transparency, and resistance to oil, grease and abrasion. Technically, they are thermoplastic elastomers consisting of linear segmented block copolymers composed of hard and soft segments. TPU has many applications including automotive instrument panels, caster wheels, power tools, sporting goods, medical devices, drive belts, footwear, inflatable rafts, and a variety of extruded film, sheet and profile applications.
Chemistry [edit]. TPU are formed by the reaction of: (1) diisocyanates with short-chain diols (so-called chain extenders) and (2) diisocyanates with long-chain diols. TPU has many applications including automotive instrument panels, caster wheels, power tools, sporting goods, medical devices, drive belts, footwear, inflatable rafts, and a variety of extruded film, sheet and profile applications.
TPU soft characteristics between rubber and plastic, TPU hardness range is wide, by changing the TPU ratio of each reaction component can get different hardness of products, and with the increase of hardness, its products are still keep good elasticity and abrasion resistance. 
TPU or Thermoplastic Polyurethane are a category of plastic created when a polyaddition reaction occurs between diisocyanate and one or more diols. They can be used as a soft engineering plastic or as a replacement for hard rubber. Typical Properties. 1  High elongation and tensile strength. 