Also, the fact that many Aboriginal communities are located near Canada’s principal producing mines and active mineral exploration projects provides an excellent opportunity for Aboriginal people to not only work in this industry but also provide services to the industry. 14 MINING INDUSTRY HUMAN RESOURCES GUIDE for ABORIGINAL COMMUNITIES is planned that each module will alternate with periods of employment such that the entire co-op certificate program can be completed in one to three years. Entrance requirements are completion of grade 10 or higher including math and science.
Apart from the specific financial support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students, you might also be eligible for Commonwealth-supported places, HELP loans and scholarships like other students, and financial assistance from places such as Centrelink. Visit the Help with costs page for more information. Where to go for help. As well as the websites designed specifically to help Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students work out financial matters for higher education, the Indigenous support centres and services that can be found at many institutions are also very useful resources.
Support specifically for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with disability. There are culturally appropriate services and support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with disability, their families, carers and guardians. You or someone you care for may be eligible to receive support and services including: 1  help around the home. 2  equipment. 3  personal care (such as help with showering).
Aboriginal Hostels Limited provides temporary hostel accommodation to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples across Australia. You can find the locations and contact details for hostels in Western Australia on the website or contact the Aboriginal Hostels Limited Perth office on (08) 9349 2548. Derbarl Yerrigan Health Service provides a wide range of health care services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. You can also find general Information about the law on the Legal Aid WA website. Further government and community services providing information for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are listed below. These services are not Legal Aid WA services.
The In-home Support initiative is assisting Aboriginal families to strengthen, support and improve their parenting capacity and so improve the health, development, learning and wellbeing of Aboriginal children aged 0-3 years. This support will be provided in a way that is respectful of their cultural identity and promotes Aboriginal children and family wellbeing. For more information, contact: 1  Aboriginal Early Years team on (03) 9651 3353.
Introduction. Research with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples spans many methodologies and disciplines. There are wide variations in the ways in which Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander individuals, communities or groups are involved in or affected by research to which this chapter applies. Depending on the circumstances, this might require letters of support from Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander community Councils or other organisations accepted by the participating communities (see Chapter 2.1: Risk and benefit and Chapter 2.2: General requirements for consent, especially paragraph 2.2.13).
New data from the National Household Survey (NHS) show that 1,400,685 people had an Aboriginal identity in 2011, representing 4.3% of the total Canadian population. Aboriginal people accounted for 3.8% of the population enumerated in the 2006 Census, 3.3% in the 2001 Census and 2.8% in the 1996 Census. This was the case for 0.4% of non-Aboriginal children aged 14 and under. Additionally, 9.1% of Aboriginal children, or 35,540, lived in multi-generational families, that is, with at least one of their parents and at least one of their grandparents, compared with 3.9% of non-Aboriginal children.
For more information, contact the Perth office of Aboriginal Legal Services on (08) 9265 6666 or 1800 019 900. Aboriginal Health Council of WA provides accredited cross cultural training for people delivering health care service to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. You can also find general Information about the law on the Legal Aid WA website. Further government and community services providing information for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are listed below. These services are not Legal Aid WA services.
Aboriginal children, people and communities have a unique contribution to make to Australian society and to their local community. For the purposes of this Resource Kit, the term Aboriginal will be used to represent people from all Indigenous Australian groups.Land is fundamental to the wellbeing of Aboriginal people. The land is not just soil or rocks or minerals, but a holistic environment that sustains and is sustained by people and culture. In some communities, there are a large number of children and families who do not access either early childhood services or transition-to-school programs, and arrive at school on the first day straight from home.