A nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test determines how quickly electrical signals move through a particular peripheral nerve. It is also sometimes known as a nerve conduction study and is used in the diagnosis of nerve damage or nerve dysfunction. A doctor may use this test if they suspect a pinched nerve. Alternately, they may use it if they wish to check for the presence of a nerve disease. The test is often performed with an electromyography (EMG), which is a test that records electrical signals moving through the muscles.
Test results tell your doctor if there is damage to the nerves leading to the muscle. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This test uses a powerful magnetic field and radio waves to produce detailed views of your body in multiple planes. This test may be used if your doctor suspects you have nerve root compression. Your doctor will ask about your symptoms and conduct a physical examination. If your doctor suspects a pinched nerve, you may undergo some tests. These tests may include: Nerve conduction study. This test measures electrical nerve impulses and functioning in your muscles and nerves. A specialist places electrodes on your ski
1 Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  These problems may include a herniated disc, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or myasthenia gravis (MG). 3  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching. An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
Diagnostic Testing. In order to fully determine the extent of the damage to the nerve, your doctor may order an EMG / NCV, an electrical conduction test to determine the passage of electrical currents through the nerves. These tests are sometimes done during actual surgery while the patient is sedated. 
An electromyogram (EMG) measures the electrical activity of muscles at rest and during contraction. Nerve conduction studies measure how well and how fast the nerves can send electrical signals. Nerves control the muscles in the body with electrical signals called impulses. These impulses make the muscles react in specific ways. Nerve and muscle problems cause the muscles to react in abnormal ways. If you have leg pain or numbness, you may have these tests to find out how much your nerves are being affected. An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  These problems may include a herniated disc, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or myasthenia gravis (MG). An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
Electromyography and Nerve Conduction Tests are ordered to learn more about the health of peripheral nerves. These tests can establish if a nerve is pinched, and give a numeric value to how severely it is pinched and often where it is pinched. The test can last anywhere from a half an hour to an hour. If a muscle doesn't receive adequate signals from a sick nerve, it broadcasts signals, which show the muscle is confused. From the Nerve Conduction Test and the EMG's, the doctor can correlate which nerves are pinched and the seriousness of the condition.
1 Single-fiber EMG is a special type of EMG test. 2  For this test, very small needles are inserted into a muscle to see how a single muscle fiber contracts. 3  It is a useful test for myasthenia gravis, a disease that affects the nerve-muscle (neuromuscular) junctions. When the test is done, the electrodes are removed. Nerve conduction studies are done before an EMG if both tests are being done. Nerve conduction tests may take from 15 minutes to 1 hour or more, depending on how many nerves and muscles are studied.