Structure [edit]. The femur is the only bone in the thigh. The two femurs converge medially toward the knees, where they articulate with the proximal ends of the tibiae. The angle of convergence of the femora is a major factor in determining the femoral-tibial angle. The femur is categorised as a long bone and comprises a diaphysis, the shaft (or body) and two epiphysis or extremities that articulate with adjacent bones in the hip and knee.
The femur (/ˈfiːmər/) (pl. femurs or femora (/ˈfɛmərə/)), or thigh bone, is the most proximal (closest to the center of the body) bone of the leg in tetrapod vertebrates capable of walking or jumping, such as most land mammals, birds, many reptiles such as lizards, and amphibians such as frogs. The femur is categorised as a long bone and comprises a diaphysis, the shaft (or body) and two epiphysis or extremities that articulate with adjacent bones in the hip and knee.
The three long bones are your femur, your tibia and your fibula. The fourth bone is your small patella, which is better known as the kneecap. Your femur, or thighbone, is the largest bone in your body. The head of your femur fits into your hip socket and the bottom end connects to your knee. The two bones beneath your knee that make up your shin are your tibia and fibula. Your upper and lower leg are connected by a hinge joint. 
The femur is the bone in your upper leg, otherwise known as the thigh bone. The femur is the largest and strongest bone in the human … body. If a femur is damaged, by trauma or disease, a femur prosthesis (artifical femur bone) can be implanted. 1 Children can suffer fem…. 2  Recovering After a Femur Injury The femur, or thigh bone, is the largest and strongest bone in your body. 3  Because of its strength, it is not as commonly injured as the other leg bones.
Your thighbone (femur) is the longest and strongest bone in your body. Because the femur is so strong, it usually takes a lot of force to break it. Car crashes, for example, are the number one cause of femur fractures. The long, straight part of the femur is called the femoral shaft. 
Advertisement. One of the body's largest weight-bearing joints, the hip is where the thigh bone meets the pelvis to form a ball-and-socket joint. The hip joint consists of two main parts: • Femoral head – a ball-shaped piece of bone located at the top of your thigh bone, or femur. • Acetabulum – a socket in your pelvis into which the femoral head fits. Bands of tissue, called ligaments, connect the ball to the socket, stabilizing the hip and forming the joint capsule.
Femur. The femur is the only bone located within the human thigh. It is both the longest and the strongest bone in the human body, extending from the hip to the knee. Important features of this bone include the head, medial and lateral condyles, patellar surface, medial and lateral epicondyles, and greater and lesser trochanters. The human femur can resist forces of 1,800 to 2,500 pounds, so it is not easily fractured. A break in this bone can only result from a large amount of force, such as a car accident or a fall from an extreme height. Such an injury can take three to six months to heal.
1 A fractured femur is more likely to occur in a car accident than from any other way. 2  Repairing your broken femur bone 3  …. Right Femur Fractures: Symptoms, Treatment and Recovery The femur, or thigh bone, is the longest bone in the human body. 4  Femurs are strong and resilient bones. 1 Children can suffer fem…. 2  Recovering After a Femur Injury The femur, or thigh bone, is the largest and strongest bone in your body. 3  Because of its strength, it is not as commonly injured as the other leg bones.
Click to read more below. The femur, or thigh bone, is the longest, heaviest, and strongest bone in the entire human body. All of the body’s weight is supported by the femurs during many activities, such as running, jumping, walking, and standing. Extreme forces also act upon the femur thanks to the strength of the muscles of the hip and thigh that act on the femur to move the leg. The femur is classified structurally as a long bone and is a major component of the appendicular skeleton....