Amino acids that have been incorporated into peptides are termed residues due to the release of either a hydrogen ion from the amine end or a hydroxyl ion from the carboxyl end, or both, as a water molecule is released during formation of each amide bond. Peptide fragments refer to fragments of proteins that are used to identify or quantify the source protein. Often these are the products of enzymatic degradation performed in the laboratory on a controlled sample, but can also be forensic or paleontological samples that have been degraded by natural effects.
1 Ceruletide-A specific decapeptide found in the skin of Hyla caerulea, the Australian green tree frog. 2  Ceruletide has very much in common with regards to action and composition to cholecystokinin. 3  It stimulates gastric, biliary, and pancreatic secretion; and certain smooth muscle. 1 Teprotide-A man made nonapeptide (Pyr-Trp-Pro-Arg-Pro-Gln-Ile-Pro-Pro) which is exactly the same as the peptide from the venom of the snake, Bothrops jararaca. 2  It inhibits kininase II and ANGIOTENSIN I and has been proposed as an antihypertensive agent.
Cell-Communicating Ingredients. See palmitoyl hexapeptide-12. A blend of palmitic acid (a fatty acid) with several amino acids, including alanine, arginine, aspartic acid, glycine, histidine, lysine, proline, serine and/or valine. Theoretically, many peptides have cell-communicating ability and can help skin cells function in a more normal, healthy manner. Paula Begoun in the Media. The Paula's Choice Research Team is dedicated to busting beauty myths and helping you solve your skincare frustrations with research-supported expert advice—so you'll have the facts you need to take the best possible care of your skin.
Palmitoyl Oligopeptides – wherein R 1 and R 2 are each a residual amino side chain (eg, hydrogen in the case of glycine or methyl in the case of alanine) and R 3 is one or more amino acid residues (through traditional peptide linkage(s)), or is a hydroxyl group. 5 CARCINOGENICITY Data on the carcinogenicity of palmitoyl oligopeptides were not found in the published literature. SUMMARY The safety of palmitoyl oligopeptides in cosmetics is reviewed in this safety assessment.
Medical Definition of OLIGOPEPTIDE. : a protein fragment or molecule that usually consists of less than 25 amino acid residues linked in a polypeptide chain. What made you want to look up oligopeptide?
Oligopeptide. Definition. noun, plural: oligopeptides. A peptide comprised of relatively small number of amino acid residues (i.e. about two to forty). Supplement. Oligopeptides, which are sometimes simply referred to as peptides, are short chains of amino acid monomers linked via peptide bonds. The term oligopeptide is used to refer to a peptide with fewer members of amino acids as opposed to a polypeptide, which is a peptide comprised of several amino acid residu
Peptides (from Gr. πεπτός, digested, derived from πέσσειν, to digest) are biologically occurring short chains of amino acid monomers linked by peptide (amide) bonds. The covalent chemical bonds are formed when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another. The shortest peptides are dipeptides, consisting of 2 amino acids joined by a single peptide bond, followed by tripeptides, tetrapeptides, etc. Peptide fragments refer to fragments of proteins that are used to identify or quantify the source protein. Often these are the products of enzymatic degradation performed in the laboratory on a controlled sample, but can also be forensic or paleontological samples that have been degraded by natural effects.
© A Dictionary of Food and Nutrition 2005, originally published by Oxford University Press 2005. oligopeptides Polymers of 4 or more amino acids; more than about 20–50 are termed polypeptides, and more than about 100 are considered to be proteins. Book article from: The Columbia Encyclopedia, 6th ed. ...acids, a molecule of water is eliminated. Small peptides with fewer than about ten constituent amino acids are called oligopeptides, and peptides with more than ten amino acids are termed polypeptides. Compounds with molecular weights of more than 10...
An oligopeptide, often just called peptide (oligo- , a few), consists of two to twenty amino acids and can include dipeptides, tripeptides, tetrapeptides, and pentapeptides. 1 Teprotide-A man made nonapeptide (Pyr-Trp-Pro-Arg-Pro-Gln-Ile-Pro-Pro) which is exactly the same as the peptide from the venom of the snake, Bothrops jararaca. 2  It inhibits kininase II and ANGIOTENSIN I and has been proposed as an antihypertensive agent.