Overview. While onions may be welcome in your vegetable garden, they are considered weeds in your lawn. Onion grass, a type of wild onion, often flourishes in yards, particularly in the southeastern region of the U.S. Like most common lawn weeds, onion grass can be eliminated with commercial herbicides and weed killers. Step 2. Cut onion grass very short to prevent flowering. Onion grass reproduces by flowering and seeding. By cutting onion grass to the same height as your lawn grass, you can stop it from spreading.
Killing Onion Weed. Onion Weed is a persistent, perennial bulb-type weed. Easily detected by the pungent onion-like odour that it gives off, especially after mowing, it is a cosmopolitan weed the bane of gardeners’ lives all over the world. One of the most difficult weeds to eradicate, it can in some cases be near impossible to completely kill Onion Weed.
Wild onions have flat leaves while wild garlic has round leaves. Wild onions grow from white bulbs. They will either spread by forming bulblets on their bulbs, creating larger clumps, or by seed, spreading the wild onion plants to other parts of the garden. Do not try to shake excess dirt off back into the hole and do not compost. If you do, this will only respread the wild onion bulblets back into your garden. The next step to kill wild onions is to treat the area with either a non-selective herbicide (like Round-up) or boiling water.
Identification of Wild Onion Plants. Wild onion weeds grow in clumps and are typically found in flower beds or near difficult to mow areas, though they can also grow in lawn. Wild onions can be identified by their thin, waxy spear-like leaves. Wild onion is often confused with its close cousin, wild garlic. Do not try to shake excess dirt off back into the hole and do not compost. If you do, this will only respread the wild onion bulblets back into your garden. The next step to kill wild onions is to treat the area with either a non-selective herbicide (like Round-up) or boiling water.
Step 4. Spray a strong herbicide in the soil where the onion grass was. Look for a herbicide that contains imazaquin, metsulfuron methyl or glyphosate. Do not let the herbicide make contact with the rest of your lawn. Step 5. Continue using herbicide treatments until the onion grass has stopped growing. Spray the area well in late winter/early spring--when the onion grass starts to grow but the lawn is still dormant--and in late fall to prevent the weed from growing the next year.
If you have wild garlic or wild onions growing in your lawn or flower beds, you know how unattractive these weeds can be. If either is growing in your lawn, you also know how offensive they can be to your sense of smell. 
· just now. Report Abuse. My experience with onion grass is either to knife it out or what has worked for me is applying 1 1/2 ounces of round up per gallon directly on the crown of the weed. Mix 1 1/2 ounces of round up into a spray container and hit it without spraying your primary lawn grass. 
Overview. Onion grass is a type of perennial onion species that grows abundantly in the Southeast of the United States. Onion grass is thought of as a distracting weed to lawns and is also considered a flower that is a pink and violet color. Onion grass can spread quickly and damage the surrounding grass. Most commonly the weed is found in pastures, turf and on the side of the road. Step 5. Continue using herbicide treatments until the onion grass has stopped growing. Spray the area well in late winter/early spring--when the onion grass starts to grow but the lawn is still dormant--and in late fall to prevent the weed from growing the next year.
How to Kill Onion Weed. There remains two effective ways to kill onion weed however, the use of a glyphosate based weedkiller, such as Roundup, or covering the area under a sheet of black plastic. The first solution is the most effective and straightforward, if a little time consuming. Easily detected by the pungent onion-like odour that it gives off, especially after mowing, it is a cosmopolitan weed the bane of gardeners’ lives all over the world. One of the most difficult weeds to eradicate, it can in some cases be near impossible to completely k
Step 3. Douse onion grass with undiluted white vinegar. This is effective for onion grass that is growing in hard-to-reach places other than the lawn. This will kill the leaves and make the soil too acidic for it to grow back. Step 2. Cut onion grass very short to prevent flowering. Onion grass reproduces by flowering and seeding. By cutting onion grass to the same height as your lawn grass, you can stop it from spreading.