Synopsis. Robert Plant is a British rock singer and songwriter best known as the vocalist and lyricist for the band Led Zeppelin. Inspired at a young age by Elvis Presley, Plant left school to begin his musical career. 
Geranium robertianum. To support our efforts please browse our store (books with medicinal info & subscriptions). Herb Robert, or what was once known as Saint Robert's Herb, was named after a French monk who lived in 1000 AD, who has cured many people suffering from various diseases using this plant. Leaves: Dark green leaves are palmately divided, about 6 cm long, with light green, purple-edged leaflets. If Herb Robert leaves are picked regularly, this plant will produce a bounty of leaves so long as the growing conditions permit it. Height: Average height of this plant is between 30 and 40 cm. Habitat: Moist shady positions in undergrowth, rocks and walls, hedge banks, and waste places. It grows best in shady areas
In addition, herb Robert is also known as red robin and fox geranium and this is perhaps owing to the reddish flowers borne by the plant. The primary efficacy of herb Robert is in the form of an astringent that is applied topically to skin bruises and exasperations. Herb Robert belongs to the plant family geranium and its name has been derived from the Greek term geranos' denoting crane', since the seedpods of the plant have a resemblance to cranes' bill.
All About Plants Plants are living things that are made up of cells. They need air, water, soil, and sunlight to live. They cannot move from place to place, but their leaves move to catch the sun and their roots move to-wards water. Their seeds can be carried by animals or blown by the wind. 
Description [edit]. It grows as a procumbent to erect annual or biennial plant, up to 50cm high, producing small, pink, five-petalled flowers (8-14 mm in diameter) from April until the autumn. The leaves are deeply dissected, ternate to palmate, and the stems often reddish; the leaves also turn red at the end of the flowering season. Geranium robertianum grows at altitudes from sea level to 710 metres (2,329 ft) in Teesdale, England and above 2,100 metres (6,890 ft) in parts of mainland Europe on calcareous alpine screes.
In effect, herb Robert is an ally of the plant kingdom-the common escort plant. Anywhere herb Robert grows, the plants growing in the vicinity are remarkably more healthy and more robust/ energetic. Herb Robert is commonly propagated by its seeds. Plants of this species flourish well in the shade and moist places. The plant not only grows robustly, but also blooms in abundance and readily self seeds. Provided the leaves are collected on a regular basis, the plant produces an abundance of leaves. Herb Robert belongs to the plant family geranium and its name has been derived from the Greek term geranos' denoting crane', since the seedpods of the plant have a resemblance to cranes' bill.
Robert Plant was the lead singer of Led Zeppelin for twelve years (1968-1980). He created the rock god persona with his stage performance-flamboyant clothing, bare chest, long blonde hair, swooning voice, and his body movements. Early Life Edit. Robert Anthony Plant was born to parents Robert C. Plant (a civil engineer) and Annie Cain Plant on August 20, 1948 in West Bromwich, Staffordshire, England. He grew up in Kidderminster, Worcestershire. At just a young age, Plant began to have an interest in music.
Geranium robertianum, (syn. Robertiella robertiana) commonly known as Herb-Robert, Red Robin, Death come quickly, Storksbill, Dove's Foot, Crow's Foot, or (in North America) Robert Geranium, is a common species of cranesbill native to Europe and parts of Asia, North America, and North Africa. Contents. Geranium robertianum grows at altitudes from sea level to 710 metres (2,329 ft) in Teesdale, England and above 2,100 metres (6,890 ft) in parts of mainland Europe on calcareous alpine screes.