Specifically, naproxen is prescribed for: 1  Pain relief, such as for pain following a medical procedure, from straining a muscle, or because of inflammation in a tendon (tendonitis) or bursa (bursitis). 2  Naproxen can also be used to treat general pain, such as knee pain, back pain, or foot pain. 1 Naproxen can also be used to treat general pain, such as knee pain, back pain, or foot pain. 2  Treatment of arthritis symptoms, including pain, stiffness, and swelling. 3  Naproxen can be used to treat several different types of arthritis. 4  Treatment of painful menstrual periods.
1 Pain relief, such as for pain following a medical procedure, from straining a muscle, or because of inflammation in a tendon (tendonitis) or bursa (bursitis). 2  Naproxen can also be used to treat general pain, such as knee pain, back pain, or foot pain. 1 Naproxen can also be used to treat general pain, such as knee pain, back pain, or foot pain. 2  Treatment of arthritis symptoms, including pain, stiffness, and swelling. 3  Naproxen can be used to treat several different types of arthritis. 4  Treatment of painful menstrual periods.
Specifically, naproxen is prescribed for: 1  Pain relief, such as for pain following a medical procedure, from straining a muscle, or because of inflammation in a tendon (tendonitis) or bursa (bursitis). 2  Treatment of arthritis symptoms, including pain, stiffness, and swelling. 3  Treatment of painful menstrual periods. 1 Naproxen can also be used to treat general pain, such as knee pain, back pain, or foot pain. 2  Treatment of arthritis symptoms, including pain, stiffness, and swelling. 3  Naproxen can be used to treat several different types of arthritis. 4
Naproxen is commonly used for the reduction of pain, fever, inflammation, and stiffness caused by conditions including migraine, osteoarthritis, kidney stones, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, menstrual cramps, tendinitis, and bursitis, among others. 
Naproxen sodium is the generic ingredient in Aleve and several other brands of pain medication. Naproxen is in a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which work by blocking the production of prostaglandins, substances in the body that play a role in pain and inflammation. Naproxen has been used in the United States since 1980. Naproxen is in a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death. This chance increases with longer use of NSAID medicines in people who have heart disease.
1 What Naproxen tablets are and what they are used for. Naproxen belongs to a group of medicines called non-steriodal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which are used to reduce inflammation and pain in joints and muscles. Naproxen tablets are used to treat: 1  diseases of joints such as rheumatoid arthritis (including in children), osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis. 2  Naproxen cannot cure arthritis but is used to give relief of some symptoms such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness and joint pain. 3  attacks of gout. 4  muscle and bone disorders. 
Naproxen is often prescribed for managing mild to moderate pain coming from symptoms of tendonitis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, anklosing spondylitis and acute gout, among other conditions. 500 Milligrams. A dose of 500 milligrams (mg) of Naproxen is usually prescribed to treat pain especially from tendonitis, bursitis, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis in adults.