U.S. factory workers do have one critical advantage over others: They're really productive. In fact, U.S. factory workers produce $73.45 per hour in output, one-third more than German factory workers and twice as much as workers in Taiwan, according to the BLS. CORRECTION: A previous version of this article incorrectly presented the average productivity of Taiwanese and German factory workers as $1.03 per hour and $66.60 per hour, respectively.
The average productivity of Taiwanese factory workers is $34.06 per hour, and the average productivity of German factory workers is $55.21 per hour. CORRECTION: A previous version of this article incorrectly presented the average productivity of Taiwanese and German factory workers as $1.03 per hour and $66.60 per hour, respectively.
People with 10 to 20 years of experience make an average of about $28K in this role. As Factory Assembly Line Workers reach more than two decades on the job, compensation remains commensurate with experience; the average pay in this group is $34K. 
However, wage inflation is rising faster in India as demand for skilled workers for executive roles continues to outstrip the amount of suitable candidates. Salaries rose by an average of 11.5% a year in India in the past five years compared to 7.5% in China. Financial analysts in India earn less than their Chinese peers. Project managers are paid twice as much in China than in India, according to human resources consultants Mercer. Source: Mercer Human Resource Consulting. Accountants earn 4,677 in China compared to 2,956 in India while Chinese sales reps are paid 2,649 compared to 2,464 in India. Even at the lowest end of the pay scale, skilled factory workers in China earn nearly 300 more a year than their Indian counterparts.
The average salary for factory worker jobs is $47,000. Average factory worker salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term factory worker anywhere in the job listing.
Partly, it can be explained by China's cheaper workers: The average hourly wage for Chinese manufacturing workers is less than a tenth that of their average U.S. counterparts, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. CORRECTION: A previous version of this article incorrectly presented the average productivity of Taiwanese and German factory workers as $1.03 per hour and $66.60 per hour, respectively.
Does anyone know what the average wage is for workers in India-factory workers-making clothes? & what is the average daily take home pay? With that average daily take home pay...what can they buy with this? Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It depends which part of india the worker is. For example In Kerala state a bricklayer gets Rs350 a day wheras in the neighbouring state he gets only Rs100. Once again the cost of stuff varies from state to state (and to a certain extent from town to town) .
According to CNN’s online global wage calculator, which uses data from the International Labor Organization, the average annual salary of a worker in China’s private sector was 28,752 yuan (about $4,755) in 2012, or 38% of the global average. That’s roughly the same as a cleaner in Thailand, according to CNN’s data. (It’s also 4% of the average American CEO’s annual pay and only 0.01% of what the Queen of England makes in a year, in case you were wondering.). How the average annual salary of a private-sector worker in China compares with the rest of the world. (CNN Global Wage Calculator).