Share. By Laura Klappenbach. Arthropods (Arthropoda) are a highly-successful group of invertebrate animals that includes centipedes, millipedes, spiders, mites, horseshoe crabs, scorpions, insects and crustaceans. In terms of species diversity, arthropods are second to none. Scientists estimate there may be a staggering 30 million species of arthropods alive today, the vast majority of which are insects. Arthropods evolved more than 500 million years ago and are still going strong.
Arthropods are a group of invertebrates that includes insects, crustaceans, arachnids, sea spiders, horseshoe crabs, and a number of lesser-known groups. There are over 1 million species of arthropods alive today, with the most diverse group being, by far, the insects. 5 Articles in: Arthropods-Animals and Wildlife-About.com. Arthropods are a group of invertebrates that includes insects, spiders, crustaceans, scorpions, centipedes, and many others.
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. 
By Laura Klappenbach. Arthropods (Arthropoda) are a highly-successful group of invertebrate animals that includes centipedes, millipedes, spiders, mites, horseshoe crabs, scorpions, insects and crustaceans. Scientists estimate there may be a staggering 30 million species of arthropods alive today, the vast majority of which are insects. Arthropods evolved more than 500 million years ago and are still going strong.
Confidence votes 23. Some of the animals that are arthropods are lobsters, spiders, insects, millepedes, centipedes, jellyfishes, snails, worms, and sea sponges. An arthropod is an invertebrate (meaning it lacks a backbone) with an external skeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods belong to the Phylum Arthropoda. Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods.   An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appenda
5 Characteristics of an Arthropod. A lobster's exoskeleton, segmented body and jointed appendages are clearly visible. Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Arthropods, members of the phylum Arthropoda, are a diverse group of animals including insects, crustaceans, spiders, scorpions and centipedes. However, the members of this phylum, despite their incredible diversity and sheer numbers, share a number of important distinguishing characteristics. This is called bilateral symmetry. An arthropod shares this symmetry with many other animals such as fish, mice and even humans. Other animals such as the jellyfish and sea star exhibit radial symmetry, while coral and sea sponge are asymmetrical -- exhibiting no pattern at all.
Arthropods. Arthropods are invertebrate animals that have an external, jointed skeleton usually known as a carapace. The phylum includes insects, crustaceans, centipedes, millipedes, spiders, scorpions and horseshoe crab
A very successful animal group. Arthropods is a phylum of animals that includes insects and spiders. They are invertebrates, which means they do not have an internal skeleton and backbone. Instead, they have a hard exoskeleton on the outside, the top layer of which is known as the cuticle. 