The origin of the name Bean: English. People who like the name Bean also like: Max, Muhammad, Ahanu, Dax, Ender, Dean, Chance. Notes: Occupational surname for a bean farmer, derived from the Middle High German name, Bohn. 
Definition of BEAN. 1. a: broad bean b: the seed of any of various erect or climbing plants (as of the genera Phaseolus and Vigna) of the legume family other than the broad bean c: a plant bearing beans d: an immature bean pod used as a vegetable. 2. a: a valueless item. 
This interesting name has three possible origins, the first being derived from an Anglo-Saxon occupational name for a grower or seller of beans, from the Old English pre 7th Century 'bean', beans. The first recording in Scotland is of one Ferchard Bean (1428, Edinburgh). The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ailwardus Bene, which was dated 1166, The Norfolk County Pipe Rolls, during the reign of King Henry 11, 'The Builder of Churches', 1154-1189.
The term bean originally referred to the seed of the broad or fava bean, but was later expanded to include members of the New World genus Phaseolus, such as the common bean and the runner bean, and the related genus Vigna. In the New World, many tribes would grow beans together with maize (corn), and squash. The corn would not be planted in rows as is done by European agriculture, but in a checkerboard/hex fashion across a field, in separate patches of one to six stalks each.
Bean (/ˈbiːn/) is a common name for large plant seeds of several genera of the family Fabaceae (alternately Leguminosae) which are used for human or animal food. In the New World, many tribes would grow beans together with maize (corn), and squash. The corn would not be planted in rows as is done by European agriculture, but in a checkerboard/hex fashion across a field, in separate patches of one to six stalks each.
The word bean, like the word vegetable, is indefinite. It is used to refer to the seeds of many different kinds of plants. Our use of the expression common bean is in accord with the scientific name Phaseolus vulgaris, which means exactly that. It includes our dry, field varieties, such as Navy or Pea Bean, Red Kidney, Pinto, Great Northern, Marrow, and Yellow Eye.
Green beans are the immature pods of the most tender bean varieties. Green beans are fleshy and entirely edible. Green beans are sometimes called snap beans because of the sound their fresh pods make when broken in half. Green beans are called string beans if they have a fibrous string that runs down the side. The seeds of dried beans are sometimes called soup beans. Dry beans are shelled and then usually soaked in water before cooking. Dry beans include the black or turtle bean, Great Northern, kidney, cannellini, navy, pinto, red, and white bean.
A type of P. vulgaris called pea bean has been recorded in Britain since the 16th century. In the US, the name pea bean is also used to describe small white beans, and the same name is used for Vigna unguiculata subsp. sesquipedalis, also called yard-long bean and cowpea. Pinto beans are named for their mottled skin. They are the most common bean in the United States and northwestern Mexico, and are most often eaten whole in broth or mashed and refried. Either whole or mashed, they are a common filling for burritos. The young pods may also be harvested and cooked as green pinto beans.
Phaseolus vulgaris, the common bean (also known as the string bean, field bean, flageolet bean, French bean, garden bean, green bean, haricot bean, pop bean, or snap bean), is a herbaceous annual plant grown worldwide for its edible dry seed (known as just  beans ) or unripe fruit (green beans). Pinto beans are named for their mottled skin. They are the most common bean in the United States and northwestern Mexico, and are most often eaten whole in broth or mashed and refried. Either whole or mashed, they are a common filling for burritos. The young pods may also be harvested and cooked as green pinto beans.