There are numerous types of fat. Your body makes its own fat from taking in excess calories. Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body. Fat is essential to your health because it supports a number of your body's functions. 1 Monounsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found in a variety of foods and oils. 3  Studies show that eating foods rich in monounsaturated fats (MUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease.
Foods from animal sources that are rich in saturated fats include beef, beef fat, veal, lamb, pork, lard, poultry fat, butter, cream, milk, cheeses and other dairy products made from whole and 2 percent milk. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter.
Fatty Fish. The term “fatty fish” may sound unappealing, but actually, these are the healthiest and most delicious foods from the sea. Oily fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, mackerel and trout are full of omega-3 fatty acids—good fats, unlike the bad saturated fat you find in most meats. 
Because our bodies can't make these good fats, you have to get them from food. Aim for 2-3 cups of vegetables every day. Include fish in your diet, too, since fish have a different kind of omega-3 fat that you need. Plants only offer a fraction of the omega-3s that fish do. Seeds. Little pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, and sesame seeds pack a big punch. They have good fats that can lower cholesterol. In general, fats that come from plants are healthier than those from animal products. Bad fats are in foods like fatty cuts of meat, full-fat dairy products, and some packaged foods. Check food labels to see how much fat, and what type, you're getting
Trans fat is double trouble for your heart health. Trans fat raises your LDL (bad) cholesterol and lowers your HDL (good) (HDL) cholesterol. Find out more about trans fat and how to avoid it. Trans fat is considered by many doctors to be the worst type of fat you can eat. Unlike other dietary fats, trans fat — also called trans-fatty acids — both raises your LDL (bad) cholesterol and lowers your HDL (good) cholesterol. 
A diet high in saturated fat -- found in animal products and some vegetable oils -- can lead to heart problems, but eating the right amount of unsaturated fats can protect the heart. Unsaturated fats -- including monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats -- are considered good-for-you fats. Polyunsaturated fats include the famed omega 3 and omega 6 fats, both considered essential fatty acids, because our bodies can't make them on its own. 
These fats are liquid at room temperature and found mainly in fatty fish, nuts, seeds and oils from plants. Examples of foods that contain these fats include salmon, trout, herring, avocados, olives, walnuts and liquid vegetable oils such as soybean, corn, safflower, canola, olive and sunflower. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter.
Foods like margarine, mayonnaise, and some salad dressings that get most of their calories from fat must have half or less than half the fat of the regular version of the food to be called “light.” These foods don’t have to meet the 30% cutoff for number of calories from fat to be considered low-fat. Watching the amount of fat you eat is important: Diets that are high in fat are often high in calories and can lead to weight gain.
Low-Fat Foods. Watching the amount of fat you eat is important: Diets that are high in fat are often high in calories and can lead to weight gain. Ounce for ounce, fats contain more calories than carbohydrates or proteins, but it’s important to keep in mind that just because something is low in fat doesn’t mean it’s low in calorie