In California, where faculty at two-and four-year public institutions are unionized, the average pay is $3,888 per course, according to data reported to the Adjunct Project as of last month. In Texas, by contrast, a state where unions are rare, the reported pay is lower: $2,805 per course. In some departments, adjuncts said anecdotally that pay depends on the degree held. One adjunct professor in history, for example, reported that where he or she works, instructors with Ph.D.'s earned about $800 more than those with master's degrees.
Average adjunct faculty instructor pay varies by community college. A 2006 report by the Modern Language Association noted that community college average adjunct faculty instructor pay ranged from about $1,397 to about $3,000 per course. A community college generally offers both academic and vocational education programs. Many community college instructors are adjunct faculty paid for teaching specific courses. Adjunct faculty pay at community colleges is usually on a per-class or per-semester-hour basis.
Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer Salary. Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer average salary is $66,976, median salary is $68,640 with a salary range from $54,080 to $89,440. Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Adjunct Faculty Pay Rates. The New Adjunct Faculty pay rates apply to adjuncts whose employment with Grand Rapids Community College began after August 28, 2001 and have not completed three academic years. 
Not surprisingly, at community colleges, adjuncts said they are paid much less. At Houston Community College, adjuncts reported earning between $1,200 and $2,200 for a three-credit English course. In some departments, adjuncts said anecdotally that pay depends on the degree held. One adjunct professor in history, for example, reported that where he or she works, instructors with Ph.D.'s earned about $800 more than those with master's degrees.
According to a 2008 article at the Small Steps for Big Change website, adjunct faculty pay at community colleges also depends on the education of the instructor. Generally, the article notes, community college adjunct faculty instructors are paid $2,200 to $3,500 per course. Related Reading: Math Adjunct Jobs. A community college generally offers both academic and vocational education programs. Many community college instructors are adjunct faculty paid for teaching specific courses. Adjunct faculty pay at community colleges is usually on a per-class or per-semester-hour basis.
$67,000. Average Adjunct Faculty salaries for job postings in Columbia, SC are 1% higher than average Adjunct Faculty salaries for job postings nationwide.
Median pay for Adjunct Professors in the United States is around $31K annually, but employers in San Francisco offer the biggest paychecks; average compensation in that city is approximately $98K. Adjunct Professors can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like New York (+91 percent), Los Angeles (+65 percent), Dallas (+54 percent), and Miami (+25 percent). The information for this snapshot was generated by responses to the PayScale salary survey. $12,480 - $72,608.