Cody, Wyoming – Yellowstone’s Eastern Gateway. The closest town to Yellowstone’s East Entrance, Cody is all about history—pioneer history, to be more specific, and Buffalo Bill Cody’s pioneer history, to put an even finer point on it. Read More..
Yellowstone National Park is located in the United States of America on the North American continent. Yellowstone National Park is located in the United States of America, on the continent of North America. Most international travelers to Yellowstone are likely to arrive by airplane to an airport in Salt Lake City, Utah or Denver, Colorado. Yellowstone National Park's closest major international airports are in Denver, Colorado and Salt Lake City, Utah. Denver International Airport — Denver, Colorado (airport code: DEN) is 525 miles from the East Gate of Yellowstone.
The towns near Yellowstone’s five entrances offer convenient access to the park, and each have a unique character, vacation activities, and attractions all their own. The closest town to Yellowstone’s East Entrance, Cody is all about history—pioneer history, to be more specific, and Buffalo Bill Cody’s pioneer history, to put an even finer point on it.
Gateway Towns to Yellowstone National Park. Towns nearest Yellowstone’s five entrances include West Yellowstone, Montana; Jackson Hole, Wyoming; Cody, Wyoming; Cooke City, Montana; and Gardiner, Montana. Each town has its own character and history. Even though the official address is to the state of Wyoming, Yellowstone is actually in three states. The majority of the Park (96%) is in Wyoming. A small section of the Park (3%) to the north and northwest is in Montana. And a small section of the Park (1%) to the west is in Idaho.
Home. Welcome to West Yellowstone, Montana! West Yellowstone was incorporated in 1966 but has existed as a gateway community to Yellowstone National Park since the early 1900s. The most recent census reported that West Yellowstone has a population of approximately 1200 people, but our winters are extreme and that number slides a bit during the colder months.
West Yellowstone is a town in Gallatin County, Montana, adjacent to Yellowstone National Park. The population was 1,271 at the 2010 census. The town is served by Yellowstone Airport. It is part of the Bozeman, MT Micropolitan Statistical Area. The town's name changed several times until West Yellowstone was settled upon in 1920. For many, the town of West Yellowstone is a place to stay while traveling through Yellowstone National Park. The town is separated into two parts, residential and commercial, roughly at the road D Parkway.
This is the largest airport closest to Yellowstone. Jackson Hole-The town of Jackson is 52 miles to the South Entrance of Yellowstone National Park. Jackson Hole Airport is serviced by American Airlines, Delta Airlines, Frontier Airlines, Skywest Airlines, and United Airlines seasonally. 
East Yellowstone, Wyoming. East Yellowstone, Wyoming borders the park at its east entrance. The town extends through the Wapiti Valley and Shoshone National Park before ending just to the west of the next nearest town, Cody. East Yellowstone has links to the famous cowboy Buffalo Bill Cody and has retained much of its Old West atmosphere.
Yellowstone County is a county located in the State of Montana. As of the 2010 census, the population was 147,972, and a 2014 estimate put the population at 155,634. It is the most populous county in Montana. 