In Europe and many other parts of the world, cider is an alcholic drink made from fermented pressed apple juice, whereas in America cider often simply refers to unfermented pressed apple juice, and the alcoholic version is generally called hard cider or draft cider.. 
The juice of any variety of apple can be used to make cider, but cider apples are best. The addition of sugar or extra fruit before a second fermentation increases the alcoholic content of the resulting beverage. Cider is popular in the United Kingdom, especially in the West Country, and widely available. In France, cider must be made solely from apples. In 2014, a study by The Daily Telegraph found that a pint of mass-market cider (Bulmers) contained five teaspoons (20.5 g) of sugar, nearly as much as the WHO recommends as an adult's daily allowance of added sugar, and 5–10 times the amount of sugar in lager or ale.
Cider. Pronounce it: si-der. Cider is an alcoholic beverage made from the fermented juice of apples. Apple orchards were first established by the Romans, however it was the Normans who introduced actual cider making to the British Isles. 
Apple juice and apple cider are both fruit beverages made from apples, but there is a difference between the two. Fresh cider is raw apple juice that has not undergone a filtration process to remove coarse particles of pulp or sediment. It takes about one third of a bushel to make a gallon of cider. To make fresh cider, apples are washed, cut and ground into a mash that is the consistency of applesauce. Layers of mash are wrapped in cloth, and put into wooded racks. A hydraulic press squeezes the layers, and the juice flows into refrigerated tanks. This juice is bottled as apple cider
Cider (/ˈsaɪdər/ SY-dər) is an alcoholic beverage made from the fermented juice of apples. In the US, as well as some parts of Canada,  cider  refers to unfiltered apple juice, traditionally made with a distinct sweet-tart taste, and in these regions the fermented beverage is known as hard cider. In France, cider must be made solely from apples. In 2014, a study by The Daily Telegraph found that a pint of mass-market cider (Bulmers) contained five teaspoons (20.5 g) of sugar, nearly as much as the WHO recommends as an adult's daily allowance of added sugar, and 5–10 times the amount of sugar in lager or ale.
Apple cider (also called sweet cider or soft cider) is the name used in the United States and parts of Canada for an unfiltered, unsweetened, non-alcoholic beverage made from apples. Though typically referred to simply as cider in those areas, it is not to be confused with the alcoholic beverage known as cider throughout most of the world, called hard cider in North America. Once widely pressed at farmsteads and local mills, apple cider is easy and inexpensive to make.
Cider's a weird bird. It's kind of like beer, in that it's bubbly, fermented with yeast, and similar in alcohol content. It's kind of like wine, in that it's made from fruit. Maybe we can think of it as a Archeopteryx -- not quite a dinosaur, not quite a bird, just as cider is not quite a beer, not quite a wine.
Cider in Japan refers to a soft drink similar to Sprite or lemonade. Cidre is a fermented alcoholic beverage made from the unfiltered juice of apples. As 'cidre', the drink is popular in Japan with brands such as Asahi Nikka cidre and Kirin hard cidre being present. It is sometimes called apple sparkling wine. In France, cider must be made solely from apples. In 2014, a study by The Daily Telegraph found that a pint of mass-market cider (Bulmers) contained five teaspoons (20.5 g) of sugar, nearly as much as the WHO recommends as an adult's daily allowance of added sugar, and 5–10 times the amount of sugar in lager or ale.
Apple cider is unfiltered apple juice. Nowadays, most of it is pasteurized, as juice like that on the right is, but authentic untreated sweet cider can still be found. Though typically referred to simply as cider in those areas, it is not to be confused with the alcoholic beverage known as cider throughout most of the world, called hard cider in North America. Once widely pressed at farmsteads and local mills, apple cider is easy and inexpensive to make.