It is endocrine gland producing several important hormones including insulin, glucagon, somatostatin as well as exocrine, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzym … es that pass to small intestine. These enzymes further help in the breakdown of carbohydrates, protein and fats in chyme. On the endocrine side there is insulin and glucagon to regulate our blood sugar levels. On … e the exocrine side the pancreas produces a number of digestive enzymes which empty into the duodenum of the small intestine to chemically digest our ingested foodstuffs.
The pancreas is unique in that it’s both an endocrine and exocrine gland. In other words, the pancreas has the dual function of secreting hormones into blood (endocrine) and secreting enzymes through ducts (exocrine). 
The pancreas also functions as an exocrine gland that assists the digestive system. It secretes pancreatic fluid that contains digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins and lipids (fats) in the chyme. The pancreas /ˈpaeŋkriəs/ ˈpæŋkriəs is a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of. vertebrates
The pancreas is a dual-purpose gland with both digestive and endocrine functions. The bulk of the gland consists of acinar cells, which produce enzymes used in digestion. Scattered among the cells are about one million pancreatic inlets, cell clusters that produce pancreatic hormone. 
Best Answer: Pancreas is known as double gland Or dual function gland as it has two kinds of glandular tissues .One exocrine & the other endocrine in function.The main bulk of pancreas is exocrine that produces the pancreatic juice which help in digestion & is carried by pancreatic duct to the intestine. It is both an endocrine gland producing several important hormones, including insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin, as well as an exocrine gland, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that pass to the small
Pancreas is called dual gland because it secretes both endocrine gland (when it releases insulin into the bloodstream) and exocrine gland (when it releases digestive enzymes such as amylase, lypase and trypsin into the small intestine through pancreatic duct). Posted by Ekansh Taneja (student) on 21/8/13. 
The pancreas is a gland organ in the digestive and endocrine system of vertebrates. It is both an endocrine gland producing several important hormones, including insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin, as well as an exocrine gland, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestine.