Depending on the specific situation, you may pay a live-in caregiver a daily flat rate or pay them by the hour. A daily flat rate for a live-in caregiver typically equals about 9 hours of care. Daily flat rates tend to be anywhere from $150-$250 per day and $700-$3000 a week. If you are paying a live-in caregiver by the hour, the cost will vary. For a private caregiver charging $10 per hour, you will pay them about $80 for 8 hours of care and about $400 a week (not including tax deductions). How Much Care Costs: Live-in Caregivers. If you decide that a live-in caregiver is necessary for you or your loved, there are a few factors to consider when thinking about how much this type of care costs. Although it is great to have a consistent caregiver who is always around, a live-in caregiver will not work a full 24 hours everyday
You are saving about $500 to $700 for the room for a month if you live in my area and that may or may not include utilities. Sometimes you pay a portion of utilities. There is a washer and dryer for your use so no laundromat to eat up dollar after dollar. An anonymous caregiver answered... I am a new, inexperienced live-in caregiver to a 88 year old very sweet, very patient lady with dementia. Her son hired me off of Craigslist. I had been living in a homeless shelter and wanted a better place to live, and have the ability to have my son's visit me there.
Ann Cason answered... Live-in caregivers cost from $700 to $3000 a week. There are many factors such as what part of the country you live in, what the living accommodations are and what See also: How to Pay for In-Home Care See all 153 questions about Sleep Problems hours the person is required to be on duty. An anonymous caregiver asked... I need some basic information as to what the ball park cost would be to have someone or ones come into my home on a 24/7 basis to care for an elderly woman in early middle stage dementia. She used the bathroom three times an hour during the night and gets quite confused.
As a Live-in Caregiver to an 85 year old man, I am paid $100 a WEEK, but my 11 year old son is allowed to stay in the home as well. Months have gone by without me having more than a 5 hour stretch of time away from the home. An anonymous caregiver answered... I am a new, inexperienced live-in caregiver to a 88 year old very sweet, very patient lady with dementia. Her son hired me off of Craigslist. I had been living in a homeless shelter and wanted a better place to live, and have the ability to have my son's visit me there.
The costs of providing care is what comes out of the difference of what is left over from what clients pay and the caregivers wages, taxes and insurance. For instance if the agency charges $20/hr and the caregiver gets paid $10/hr there are additional costs for that employee. An anonymous caregiver answered... I am a new, inexperienced live-in caregiver to a 88 year old very sweet, very patient lady with dementia. Her son hired me off of Craigslist. I had been living in a homeless shelter and wanted a better place to live, and have the ability to have my son's visit me there.
Live-in Caregivers work a few days at a time and are paid a daily salary, not an hourly rate. The Caregiver does not actually “live” with the senior, but will go to their own home between shifts. Typically a team of two Caregivers will rotate days to provide the client with a consistent team. The client is required to provide food for the Caregiver and a place for them to sleep. Usually a food delivery service is used or a family member of Care Manager will provide grocery shopping services. If Hospice is involved in the care, they will work with the live-in Caregiver to provide training.
I use a caregiver in the Massachusetts area and pay around 1500 a month for 24 hour live in (they take the weekend days off). I also have a service: Prime Medical Alert [primemedicalalert.com] that my father uses to supplement the service when the caregiver is gone. An anonymous caregiver asked... I need some basic information as to what the ball park cost would be to have someone or ones come into my home on a 24/7 basis to care for an elderly woman in early middle stage dementia. She used the bathroom three times an hour during the night and gets quite confused.
We still have bills even as a live-in, whether it's 24/7, 24/4, or 24/3 or a different schedule. As you're deciding what to pay a caregiver think about what the help is worth to you and how much you would want to be paid to do what you want the caregiver to do. An anonymous caregiver answered... I am a new, inexperienced live-in caregiver to a 88 year old very sweet, very patient lady with dementia. Her son hired me off of Craigslist. I had been living in a homeless shelter and wanted a better place to live, and have the ability to have my son's visit me there.