health maintenance organization see health maintenance organization. professional review organization (PRO) a program on multiple governmental levels (local, state, and federal) that regulates the quality and cost of federally funded medical care. comprehensive health organization (CHO) a nonprofit health care agency in Canada, formed jointly by representatives of the community and of health care providers. The aim is to provide a variety of health promotion and treatment services and to unify different elements of health care for a defined member population.
Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO). Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) is a type of Managed Care Organization system. It provides a wide range of health insurance services through a network of hospitals, physicians, and other health care providers having a contract with the HMO, for a fixed, prepaid fee. HMO plan members receive health care services from physicians and hospitals involved with the HMO network. Members of this plan choose a primary care physician (PCP) who makes health care decisions and refers patients to in-network specialists who are employees of the HMO or contracted health care providers.
In HMO Plans, you can't get your health care from any doctor, other health care provider, or hospital. You generally must get your care and services from doctors, other health care providers, or hospitals in the plan's network (except emergency care, out-of-area urgent care, or out-of-area dialysis). In some plans, you may be able to go out-of-network for certain services, usually for a higher cost.
A health maintenance organization (HMO) is an organization that provides or arranges managed care for health insurance, self-funded health care benefit plans, individuals, and other entities in the United States and acts as a liaison with health care providers (hospitals, doctors, etc.) on a prepaid basis. Unlike traditional indemnity insurance, an HMO covers care rendered by those doctors and other professionals who have agreed by contract to treat patients in accordance with the HMO's guidelines and restrictions in exchange for a steady stream of customers.
Health benefit plans are sold by either insurance companies or health maintenance organizations (HMOs). HMOs provide health care to their members through networks of doctors and hospitals. HMOs are popular alternatives to health care plans sold by insurance companies because they usually cost less. (En Espanol). Español health benefit plans are sold by either insurance companies or health maintenance (HMOs). HMOs hmos provide health care to their members through networks of doctors and. HMOs hmos are popular alternatives to health care plans sold by insurance companies because they usually cost. less
health maintenance organization (HMO), a type of group health care practice that provides basic and supplemental health maintenance and treatment services to voluntary enrollees who prepay a fixed periodic fee that is set without regard to the amount or kind of services received. comprehensive health organization (CHO) a nonprofit health care agency in Canada, formed jointly by representatives of the community and of health care providers. The aim is to provide a variety of health promotion and treatment services and to unify different elements of health care for a defined member population.
BREAKING DOWN 'Health Maintenance Organization-HMO'. HMO's are believed to have been started in the early 1900s when companies began to offer employees plans of prepaid medical service, and have done very well since. DEFINITION of 'Health Maintenance Organization-HMO'. An organization that provides health coverage with providers under contract. A Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) differs from traditional health insurance by the contracts it has with its providers
Health Maintenance Organization (HMO). A type of health insurance plan that usually limits coverage to care from doctors who work for or contract with the HMO. It generally won't cover out-of-network care except in an emergency. An HMO may require you to live or work in its service area to be eligible for coverage
comments. Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) are managed care organizations that provide health coverage using a network of doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. They are traditionally used by businesses to provide health care for their employees. 