For the outer layer of cells in plants, see Epidermis (botany) . For other uses, see Epidermis (disambiguation) . The epidermis is composed of the outermost layers of cells in the skin, epi in Greek meaning over or upon, which together with the dermis forms the cutis. The epidermis is composed of 4 or 5 layers depending on the region of skin being considered. Those layers in descending order are:
structures formed of epidermal pegs; part of the interdigitating structure between the dermis and the epidermis. Called also epidermal ridges. epidermal limbi. the layer of soft, light-colored horn that covers the outer side of the coronary border and merges with the horn of the hoof. epidermal. pertaining to or emanating from epidermis. epidermal appendage. see hair, claw, hoof, horn, chestnut (1), ergot2, dewclaw, comb, wattle, spur (3), pad, footpad, beak, frontal process, feather (1), cere, scale, fin, antler, bristle (1), wool, mohair, cashmere, angora.
slit-like discontinuities in the epidermis that do not contain fluid. epidermal collarette. a feature of a skin lesion, consisting of an encircling rim of epidermal scale with the free edge toward the central area. May represent the margins of an earlier bulla, vesicle or pustule. Characteristic of bullous pemphigoid. epidermal. pertaining to or emanating from epidermis. epidermal appendage. see hair, claw, hoof, horn, chestnut (1), ergot2, dewclaw, comb, wattle, spur (3), pad, footpad, beak, frontal process, feather (1), cere, scale, fin, antler, bristle (1), wool, mohair, cashmere, angora.
The epidermis is the outermost layer of skin and is composed primarily of a specific cell type called a keratinocyte. One group of epidermal nevi, called keratinocytic or nonorganoid epidermal nevi, includes nevi that involve only keratinocytes. Mutations associated with an epidermal nevus are present only in the cells of the nevus, not in the normal skin cells surrounding it. Because the mutation is found in some of the body's cells but not in others, people with an epidermal nevus are said to be mosaic for the mutation.
Definition of EPIDERMAL. : of, relating to, or arising from the epidermis. See epidermal defined for kids.
Epidural anesthesia is a regional anesthesia that blocks pain in a particular region of the body. The goal of an epidural is to provide analgesia, or pain relief, rather than anesthesia, which leads to total lack of feeling. Epidurals block the nerve impulses from the lower spinal segments. 
Epidermis: The upper or outer layer of the two main layers of cells that make up the skin. The epidermis is mostly made up of flat, scale-like cells called squamous cells. Under the squamous cells are round cells called basal cells. The deepest part of the epidermis also contains melanocytes. These cells produce melanin, which gives the skin its color. The other main layer of the skin is the dermis, the inner layer of skin, that contains blood and lymph vessels, hair follicles, and glands. These glands produce sweat, which helps regulate body temperature, and sebum, an oily substance that helps keep the skin from drying out.
An epidermal nevus (plural: nevi) is an abnormal, noncancerous (benign) patch of skin caused by an overgrowth of skin cells. Epidermal nevi are typically seen at birth or develop in early childhood. They can be flat, tan patches of skin or raised, velvety patches. As the affected individual ages, the nevus can become thicker and darker and develop a wart-like (verrucous) appearance. Mutations associated with an epidermal nevus are present only in the cells of the nevus, not in the normal skin cells surrounding it. Because the mutation is found in some of the body's cells but not in others, people with an epidermal nevus are said to be mosaic for the mutation.
ep·i·der·mis. n. 1. The outer, protective, nonvascular layer of the skin of vertebrates, covering the dermis. 2. An integument or outer layer of various invertebrates. 3. The outermost layer of cells covering the leaves and young parts of a plant. n. 1. The outer, protective, nonvascular layer of the skin of vertebrates, covering the dermis. 2. An integument or outer layer of various invertebrate