So baby let’s take it, take it. [Chorus]. I ain’t gonna do it like a pretty city boy. I’m a fishin’ in the dark nitty gritty boy. So let me love you. [Chorus]. Baby, I wanna love, wanna love, wanna love you like that. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics.
Oye Como Va. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Oye Como Va  is a song written by Latin jazz and mambo musician Tito Puente in 1963 and popularized by Santana 's rendition of the song in 1970 on their album Abraxas, helping to catapult Santana into stardom with the song reaching #13 on the Billboard Hot 100. The song has the classic rhythm and tempo of cha-cha-cha. It has similarities with Chanchullo by Israel Cachao Lopez. López The Latin Beat magazine, Writes'cachao s tumbaos for his 1937 composition Of rareza De (meliton melitón later Changed) to Chanchullo Inspired'tito puente s 'Signature Tune Oye'.. como va
Hit 'Em Up  is a diss song by rap artist Tupac Shakur (2Pac), featuring his group the Outlawz. It is the B-side to the single  How Do U Want It , released on June 4, 1996, from the album All Eyez on Me. Eminem has support from D12 on his version like the Outlawz supported Shakur on the original. Khia used the song's beat and part of the hook in her song Hit 'Em Up , which is a diss to female rappers Trina and Jacki-O.
Misheard Lyrics From… Jack Johnson, Karmin, Phoenix, and 30 Seconds To Mars share some of their most commonly… Originals 5 Love Songs That Are Actually Creepy A list of love songs are actually kinda creepy when you think about it. Interviews Up Down (Do This All Day) feat. She got a donk. I'm 'bout to have yo' head gone. And I ain't doin' nothin' wrong. But we can make love to a rap song. Me and you, yo mama and yo cousin. Baby, we can make love to a rap song. A milli, a milli, a milli, a muthafucka, I'm ill.
[Verse 1 — Usher:]. Up in the club with my homies, tryna get a lil' V-I, but keep it down on the low key (low key), 'cause you know how it feels. I saw shorty she was checkin' up on me, from the game she was spittin' in my ear you would think that she knew me. So we decided to chill. [Verse 2 — Usher:]. So she's all up in my head now, got me thinking that it might be a good idea to take her with me, 'Cause she's ready to leave (ready to leave). But I gotta keep it real now, 'cause on a one to ten she's a certified twenty, but that just ain't me.
Yeah! [Verse 2 — Usher:]. So she's all up in my head now, got me thinking that it might be a good idea to take her with me, 'Cause she's ready to leave (ready to leave). But I gotta keep it real now, 'cause on a one to ten she's a certified twenty, but that just ain't me. Hey. [Verse 2 — Usher:]. So she's all up in my head now, got me thinking that it might be a good idea to take her with me, 'Cause she's ready to leave (ready to leave). But I gotta keep it real now, 'cause on a one to ten she's a certified twenty, but that just ain't me.
Bulletboys singing Smooth up in ya at Rocklahoma 2007 in Pryor, OK. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. Bulletboys singing Smooth up in ya at Rocklahoma 2007 in Pryor, OK. Category. License.
Make you feel some type of way (some type of way). Heard she wanna fuck me. Know you feel some type of way (some type of way). Mr. CEO is what my title say (Rich Homie baby!). Rich Homie Quan. My niggas been hustlin' trying to make him something. Ain't no telling what he'll do for the paper. (Ain't no tellin'!). Souffle, Soufflé'i m, Straight i stake my, Plate, Sade'i m a smooth. (Operator I Drop The Top Of My Whip!). baby
Type Of Way was written by Williams, Robert / Carter, Lionel / Lamar, Dequantes Devontay / Jenkins, Jay. Type Of Way was written by Williams, Robert / Carter, Lionel / Lamar, Dequantes Devontay / Jenkins, Jay. Rich Homie Quan. My niggas been hustlin' trying to make him something. Ain't no telling what he'll do for the paper. (Ain't no tellin'!). Souffle, Soufflé'i m, Straight i stake my, Plate, Sade'i m a smooth. (Operator I Drop The Top Of My Whip!). baby