1 Sprinkle the chops with half of the garlic salt and celery seed on each side. 2  Grill or broil on medium to medium-high heat for 5-7 minutes per side for thin chops or 8-10 minutes per side for thicker chops OR until medium-well or well-done, according to personal preference. 1 Grill or broil on medium to medium-high heat for 5-7 minutes per side for thin chops or 8-10 minutes per side for thicker chops OR until medium-well or well-done, according to personal preference. 2  Do not overcook or they will be dry.
1 Bake pork chops 30 minutes in the preheated oven. 2  Turn, and spread with remaining sauce. 3  Continue baking 30 minutes, or until internal temperature of the chops has reached 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 1 Place pork chops in a medium baking dish, and spread with 1/2 the sauce. 2  Bake pork chops 30 minutes in the preheated oven. 3
Let the broiler heat up for at least 10 minutes. Once the broiler is up to heat, put the pork chops in and close the door. Let the pork chops broil for about 8 minutes before checking them. There will be some smoke coming from the oven. If you have a vent fan, turn it on. Open a window if you don't. You may want to temporarily disable the smoke detectors. 
Before you put the pork chops in the oven, brown them first to seal in the juices and improve flavor. Coat a 12-inch skillet with cooking spray. Heat the skillet on medium high, then add the pork chops. Cook the chops on each side for 4 to 5 minutes until the outsides are golden brown. Transfer the chops to a baking dish along with any juices, then bake them
1 Brush both sides of the chops with sauce. 2  Place chops on broiling pan rack. 3  Broil about 4 inches from the heat for 4 minutes on each side. 4  Brush with more sauce. 5  Continue broiling, turning and basting every 3 to 4 minutes, until juices run clear. 6  Serve with reserved sauce. 1 Preheat broiler. 2  Brush both sides of the chops with sauce. 3  Place chops on broiling pan rack. 4  Broil about 4 inches from the heat for 4 minutes on each side. 5  Brush with more sauce. 6  Continue broiling, turning and basting every 3 to 4 minutes, until juices run clear. 7
Place the pork chops in a shallow dish and pour the brine over top. The brine should cover the chops — if not, add additional water and salt (1 cup water to 1 tablespoon salt) until the chops are submerged. Cover the dish and refrigerate for 30 minutes or up to 4 hours. Heat the oven and skillet: Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 400°F. Place the skillet in the oven to preheat as well. Season the pork chops: While the oven heats, prepare the pork chops.
Bake uncovered in pan w/less than 1 sides in 425 degree oven for about 15 minutes. GRILLING MADE EASY. Pork Plain or Seasoned w/salt, pepper, spices: Grill over direct medium-high heat 4 minutes per side with lid down. If chops are thicker (1 1/2), grill for about 10 minutes per side. Can brush with sauce in last few minutes of grilling. Any type of cooking of pork chops... The idea would be to get the internal temperature of the pork to be around 160 degrees. The juices need to run clear or very very light pink. 
Report Abuse. Thin pork chops should be pan fried...throw a little flour on a dish with some seasoning...rinse chops and dredge through the flour...Fry for 2 or 3 minutes and then flip and cook 1 or 2 minutes... Happy Cooking !!! califgirlinva · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.