The median expected salary for a typical Hyperbaric Technician in the United States is $42,873. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. 
This chart outlines the average annual salary of a Certified Hyperbaric Technician from the past 5 years. In 2015 the average annual salary was $39305 while in 2007 it was just $36450.77. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with under 1 year of experience. These are the highest paying states for a Certified Hyperbaric Technician. These numbers are based off the median annual salary as of 2015.
Certified Hyperbaric Technologist Salary. Certified Hyperbaric Technologist average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Certified Hyperbaric Technologist salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
The lowest salary reported was $28737. These figures will vary on a state to state basis as these are averages across all 50 states. Median hourly wage for a Certified Hyperbaric Technician is $19.55 based on statistics in the U.S. as of 2015. The highest hourly rate recorded was $25.31. The lowest hourly rate recorded was $14.29. These figures will vary on a state to state basis as these are averages across all 50 states. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with under 1 year of experience. These are the highest paying states for a Certified Hyperbaric Technician. These numbers are based off the median annual salary
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Hyperbaric Technician in the United States is $44,928, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Hyperbaric Technician in the United States are expected to make less than $44,928. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Hyperbaric Technician that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Hyperbaric Technician are expected to make less than the median
(United States). A Certified Hyperbaric Technologist earns an average wage of $18.22 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare)
Bonuses for a Certified Hyperbaric Technician are based on the years of experience using statistics from the U.S. as of 2015. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with 15+ years of experience. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with under 1 year of experience. These are the highest paying states for a Certified Hyperbaric Technician. These numbers are based off the median annual salary as of 2015.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Hyperbaric Technician may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Hyperbaric Technician that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Hyperbaric Technician are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.