Charlotte became a major U.S. financial center. Consequently, many of the largest financial institutions, such Bank of America and Wachovia, are proud to call the city home. Multiple factors have helped Charlotte to become a banking giant that has progressively made Charlotte outgrow other banking cities. Similarly, New York is a city of grandeur, and it is no surprise in why both these cities have grown to become major banking cities. An appealing city will never cease to attract new markets that create niches in the financial world. Charlotte’s economy is largely based on the financial industries.
The banking and finance industry in North Carolina has experienced a skyrocketing growth rate in the last decade, growing by 25.5% since 2002 and at an average of more than 9% per year since 1997. An indication of North Carolina’s growing role in this industry is the growth in the number of firms and employees. Since 1998, the number of banking offices has increased from just over 5,000 to more than 8,200, while employment has grown from just under 75,000 to nearly 104,000.
Economy. North Carolina leads the nation in the production of tobacco and is a major producer of textiles and furniture. It grows 40% of all U.S. tobacco, but the continuing trend is toward diversification. Broilers, hogs, turkeys, greenhouse products, sweet potatoes, corn, soybeans, peanuts, and eggs are important. 1 North Carolina: Economy-Economy North Carolina leads the nation in the production of tobacco and is a major producer of ...
North Carolina’s banking and finance industry is competitive with most other states in the country—the only states that have more workers and a higher number of physical sites are those that also have a higher overall population. Establishments, Workers & Wages. The banking and finance industry remains a significant component of North Carolina’s economy, posting consistent growth in the number of establishments, employment and wage figures from 1992 to 2002 and then from 2002 to 2012.
Geography of banking and finance in North Carolina. Geographically, North Carolina contains four major financial clusters, centered on the Asheville, Charlotte, Triad (Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point), and Triangle (Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill) metro areas. Each of these clusters contains the headquarters of several North Carolina banks. An indication of North Carolina’s growing role in this industry is the growth in the number of firms and employees. Since 1998, the number of banking offices has increased from just over 5,000 to more than 8,200, while employment has grown from just under 75,000 to nearly 104,000.
History. North Carolina has a rich history in the financial industry, with banks such as First Union, Wachovia and North Carolina National Bank serving as the forerunners for current leading firms Wells Fargo and Bank of America. Establishments, Workers & Wages. The banking and finance industry remains a significant component of North Carolina’s economy, posting consistent growth in the number of establishments, employment and wage figures from 1992 to 2002 and then from 2002 to 2012.
North Carolina, with its unique mix of industries, from information technology, biotech, and banking, to the traditional sectors of textiles & apparel, furniture, tobacco, and hog farming, is a microcosm of trends observed elsewhere in the United States. Establishments, Workers & Wages. The banking and finance industry remains a significant component of North Carolina’s economy, posting consistent growth in the number of establishments, employment and wage figures from 1992 to 2002 and then from 2002 to 2012.
North Carolina has become a major player in the national banking field. Of the 52 banks licensed to operate in the state, 24 are headquartered here, including several major national and regional players like Wachovia, Bank of America and BB&T. An indication of North Carolina’s growing role in this industry is the growth in the number of firms and employees. Since 1998, the number of banking offices has increased from just over 5,000 to more than 8,200, while employment has grown from just under 75,000 to nearly 104,000.
Now covering 20 years of data: 1992 - 2012. North Carolina, with its unique mix of industries, from information technology, biotech, and banking, to the traditional sectors of textiles & apparel, furniture, tobacco, and hog farming, is a microcosm of trends observed elsewhere in the United States. 