1 The whooping cough booster is a combination vaccine with tetanus and diphtheria. 2  The vaccine is called Tdap. 3  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 1 All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 2  Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months.
1 FACT: A booster vaccine for adolescents and adults, known as Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis), protects against pertussis or “whooping cough.”. 2  FACT: The CDC recommends that adults receive a single dose of Tdap in place of one Td (tetanus-diphtheria) booster, which is recommended every 10 years for adults. Prevention. Whooping cough is most contagious before the coughing starts, so the most effective way to prevent it is through immunization. The whooping cough booster vaccine for adults (and adolescents) is called Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis). Younger children get a different formulation, called DTaP. Both protect against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussi
Published and unpublished data from clinical trials of Boostrix (N = 1,104) and Adacel (N = 1,170) on the safety and immunogenicity of Tdap in adults aged 65 years and older who received vaccine were provided by GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi Pasteur. In July 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved expanding the age indication for Boostrix (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) to aged 65 years and older (4). In February 2012, ACIP recommended Tdap for all adults aged 65 years and older.
1 Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 2  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 1 All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 2  Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months.
Td is a tetanus-diphtheria vaccine given to adolescents and adults as a booster shot every 10 years, or after an exposure to tetanus under some circumstances. Tdap is similar to Td but also containing protection against pertussis. Adolescents 11 through 18 years of age (preferably at age 11-12 years) should receive a single dose of Tdap. One dose of Tdap is also recommended for adults 19 years of age and older who did not get Tdap as an adolescent. Expectant mothers should receive Tdap during each pregnancy, preferably at 27 through 36 weeks. In the U.S., DTaP, Tdap, and Td vaccines are most commonly used. One of these (DTaP) is given to children younger than 7 years of age, and two (Tdap and Td) are given to older children and adults.
Unpublished data from trials for Adacel (N = 1,170) and Boostrix (N = 1,104) on the safety and immunogenicity of Tdap in adults aged 65 years and older who received vaccine were provided to ACIP by Sanofi Pasteur and GlaxoSmithKline. Safety. For both Tdap vaccines, the frequency and severity of adverse events in persons aged 65 years and older were comparable to those in persons aged less than 65 years.
1 Acosta A. Cost-effectiveness of Tdap substitution for Td in prevention of pertussis in adults 65 years and older. 2  Presented to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), February 22, 2012. 3  Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2012. In July 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved expanding the age indication for Boostrix (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) to aged 65 years and older (4). In February 2012, ACIP recommended Tdap for all adults aged
1 The vaccine is called Tdap. 2  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 3  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 1 All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 2  Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months.
1 Vaccination of pregnant women with Tdap is especially important to help protect infants. 2  Pregnant women should get the vaccine late in the second trimester or in the third trimester for each pregancy. 3  All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 1 All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 2  Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months.