James Madison was from Virginia and lived his life there. He was born March 16, 1751 in Port Conway, King George County Virginia and died at his Montpelier estate in Virginia … . James Madison was born on March 16, 1751 (O.S.) in Port Conway, Virginia Colony at the home of his parents.
U.S. Presidents James Madison. James Madison, fourth president of the U.S. Born: March 16, 1751 (March 5, Old Style), in Port Conway, Virginia Died: June 28, 1836, in Montpelier, Virginia James Madison, the fourth president of the United States (1809-1817), is recognized as the Father of the Constitution.. 
James Madison would be 257 years old this year. BIOGRAPHY. James Madison was the fourth President of USA 1809-1817 and one of the founding fathers of the country. Born in Port Conway, King George, Virginia, Madison’s childhood was spent in Orange County in Virginia. He was the eldest among a dozen siblings of whom only seven survived.
Early Years. James Madison was born on March 16, 1751, in Port Conway, Virginia, to James Madison Sr. and Nellie Conway Madison. The oldest of 12 children, Madison was raised on the family plantation, Montpelier, in Orange County, Virginia
“Father of the Constitution” is born. On this day in 1751, James Madison, drafter of the Constitution, recorder of the Constitutional Convention, author of the Federalist Papers and fourth president of the United States, is born on a plantation in Virginia. Publisher. A+E Networks. Future President James Madison is born on this day in 1751 in Port Conway, Virginia. Madison, one of the key drafters of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights, became America’s fourth president in 1809.
Early Life. Madison was born in Virginia to Colonel James Madison, Senior and Eleanor Rose Conway. His parents were tobacco plantation owners in Virginia, where James spent much of his childhood. In 1769 James ventured to Princeton University, then called the College of New Jersey, finishing his degree in two years. James Madison was born on March 16, 1751. He was the co-author, along with John Jay and Alexander Hamilton of the Federalist Papers and is viewed by many as the ‘father of the Constitution’.
James & Dolley Madison. Born on March 16, 1751 at his grandmother’s home in Port Conway, Virginia, James Madison was the eldest of the twelve children of James Madison Sr. and Nelly Conway Madison. His early years were spent at Mount Pleasant, the first house built on the Montpelier plantation.
- James Madison. James Madison, Jr. was born on March 16, 1751 at Belle Grove Plantation near Port Conway, Virginia of King George County. His great-great-grandfather, the 1st immigrant ancestor and progenitor of the early American Madison family, was Captain Isaac Madison who was born in 1590 in London, England. 