Both men and women can have high blood pressure. Some other characteristics that you cannot control—like your age, race, or ethnicity—can affect your risk for high blood pressure. 1  Age. 2  Because your blood pressure tends to rise as you get older, your risk for high blood pressure increases with age. The risk for high blood pressure can increase even more when heredity combines with unhealthy lifestyle choices, such as smoking cigarettes and eating an unhealthy diet.
Hypertension (HTN or HT), also known as high blood pressure or arterial hypertension, is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is persistently elevated. Kidney disease is the most common secondary cause of hypertension. Hypertension can also be caused by endocrine conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, acromegaly, Conn's syndrome or hyperaldosteronism, hyperparathyroidism and pheochromocytoma.
1 Family history. 2  Height, hair and eye color runs in families --- so can high blood pressure. 3  If your parents or close blood relatives have had HBP, you are more likely to develop it, too. 4  You might also pass that risk factor on to your children. 1 Smoking temporarily raises blood pressure and increases your risk of damaged arteries. 2  The use of tobacco can be devastating to your health, especially if you're already at risk for high blood pressure. 3  Secondhand smoke --- exposure to other people's smoke --- increases the risk of heart disease for nonsmokers.
Genetics and Family History. When members of a family pass traits from one generation to another through genes, that process is called heredity. Genetic factors likely play some role in high blood pressure, heart disease, and other related conditions. However, it is also likely that people with a family history of high blood pressure share common environments and other potential factors that increase their risk. The risk for high blood pressure can increase even more when heredity combines with unhealthy lifestyle choices, such as smoking cigarettes and eating an unhealthy diet.
1 Height, hair and eye color runs in families --- so can high blood pressure. 2  If your parents or close blood relatives have had HBP, you are more likely to develop it, too. 3  You might also pass that risk factor on to your children. 1 Smoking temporarily raises blood pressure and increases your risk of damaged arteries. 2  The use of tobacco can be devastating to your health, especially if you're already at risk for high blood pressure. 3  Secondhand smoke --- exposure to other people's smoke --- increases the risk of heart disease for nonsmokers.
Risk factors for developing high blood pressure, also called hypertension: 1  Family history. 2  Height, hair and eye color runs in families --- so can high blood pressure. 3  If your parents or close blood relatives have had HBP, you are more likely to develop it, too. 1 Smoking temporarily raises blood pressure and increases your risk of damaged arteries. 2  The use of tobacco can be devastating to your health, especially if you're already at risk for high blood pressure. 3  Secondhand smoke --- exposure to other people's smoke --- increases the risk of heart disease for nonsmokers.
Genetic epidemiological studies have suggested that several genetic variants increase the risk for hypertension. It is likely that a number of genes rather than a single gene account for the heritability of this complex disorder. Hypertension (elevated blood pressure levels exceeding 140/90 mmHg according to WHO criteria) is a common complex disorder, which affects 15–20% of adult population in Western societies. It is classified as primary (essential) or secondary
1 Physical activity is good for your heart and circulatory system. 2  An inactive lifestyle increases the chance of high blood pressure, heart disease, blood vessel disease and stroke. 3  Inactivity also makes it easier to become overweight or obese. 1 Smoking temporarily raises blood pressure and increases your risk of damaged arteries. 2  The use of tobacco can be devastating to your health, especially if you're already at risk for high blood pressure. 3  Secondhand smoke --- exposure to other people's smoke --- increases the risk of heart disease for nonsmokers.
May 11, 2009 - A group of genes may raise the risks associated with high blood pressure, such as heart attack and stroke. Researchers found that 10 genetic variants individually explained about 1% of blood pressure variation after accounting for other risk factors, like age, gender, and excess weight. The prevalence of high blood pressure among the participants also increased as the number of implicated genetic variants increased. Researchers found that people who had very few of the associated blood pressure genes had blood pressure levels that were several mmHg lower than those with multiple variants.