A tourist mecca, the Dolomites are famous for skiing in the winter months and mountain climbing, hiking, cycling, and Base Jumping, as well as paragliding and hang gliding in summer and late spring/early autumn. A number of long distance footpaths run across the Dolomites, which are called alte vie (i.e., high paths). Such long trails, which are numbered from 1 to 8, require at least a week to be walked through and are served by numerous Rifugi (huts).
The northern and southern borders are defined by the Puster Valley and the Sugana Valley (Italian: Valsugana). The Dolomites are nearly equally shared between the provinces of Belluno, South Tyrol and Trentino. A number of long distance footpaths run across the Dolomites, which are called alte vie (i.e., high paths). Such long trails, which are numbered from 1 to 8, require at least a week to be walked through and are served by numerous Rifugi (huts).
Photography in the Italian Alps: An Artistic Journey into the Heart of the Dolomites – 8 days. Come indulge your senses, while photographing one of the world’s most scenic regions – the Dolomite Mountains – crown jewel of the Alps. The Alta Via N.1, one of the famous “high routes” of the Dolomites, is an incredible trail running tour. Run 87 kilometers in 5 days, moving from hut-to-hut through some of the most breathtaking scenery in the Italian Alps!
World’s Best Trip: Veneto, Italy. The Trip Stretching from the Dolomites to Lake Garda, the Veneto—known for its art, cuisine, and iconic cities such as Venice and Verona—is a microcosm of the best of Italy. Hotel Villa Cipriani, in the walled town of Asolo, makes an ideal base.
Dolomites-A View. The Dolomites in Italy consist of a mountain range in the northern Alps. Eighteen peaks in all, which are located at an altitude of over 3,000 meters and that cover an area of 141,903 hectares. History of the Dolomites. At the time of the First World War, the border between the Hungarian-Austro and Italian troops ran through the area of the Dolomites. There are several open-air war museums at the Five Towers known as Cinque Torri and Mount Lagazuoi, which gives a glimpse into the history of the area.
The Landscape. The Dolomites are a part of the mountain range of the Italian Alps. They are mostly spread in the province of Belluno and to a lesser degree in the provinces of Trento and Bolzano-Bozen, all of which are located in north eastern part of Italy. History of the Dolomites. At the time of the First World War, the border between the Hungarian-Austro and Italian troops ran through the area of the Dolomites. There are several open-air war museums at the Five Towers known as Cinque Torri and Mount Lagazuoi, which gives a glimpse into the history of the area.
The Dolomites take their name from a French geologist and intellectual, Dieudonn (or D odat) de Dolomieu, who is commemorated with a monument in Cortina. He was the first to examine and describe the particular kind of limestone which characterises these mountains, chemically different from other limestones. 
Dolomites. Italy's dramatic rocky rooftop, the Dolomites, offers some of the best mountain thrills in Europe. The bold, light-gray cliffs and spires flecked with snow, above green meadows and beneath a blue sky, offer a powerful, unique, and memorable mountain experience. 
Advertisement. Where the traditional mountain cuisine of the Dolomites is hearty and no-frills, its wine is precise but somewhat characterless, owing to the cooperatives that predominate in Alto Adige. Mr. Gojer’s winery, Pranzegg (named after his family’s 455-year-old property), represents a welcome break. Set in a valley with staggering views of the Dolomites, this refined but relaxed wellness resort opened a year ago and is already an old pro at hospitality. All-inclusive packages start at 604 euros, or $650 at $1.07 to the euro, per person for a minimum three-night stay. A square in Bolzano.
During the First World War, the line between the Italian and Austro-Hungarian forces ran through the Dolomites. There are now open-air war museums at Cinque Torri (Five Towers) and Mount Lagazuoi. Many people visit the Dolomites to climb the vie ferrate, protected paths created during the First World War. A number of long distance footpaths run across the Dolomites, which are called alte vie (i.e., high paths). Such long trails, which are numbered from 1 to 8, require at least a week to be walked through and are served by numerous Rifugi (huts).