Females have two copies of the X chromosome, while males have one X and one Y chromosome. The 22 autosomes are numbered by size. The other two chromosomes, X and Y, are the sex chromosomes. This picture of the human chromosomes lined up in pairs is called a karyotype. In humans, each cell normally contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46. Twenty-two of these pairs, called autosomes, look the same in both males and females. The 23rd pair, the sex chromosomes, differ between males and females
Figure 9: Supercoiled eukaryotic DNA. Figure 10: This karyotype depicts all 23 pairs of chromosomes in a human cell, including the sex-determining X and Y chromosomes that together make up the twenty-third set (lower right). 
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Nucleotides are arranged in two long strands that form a spiral called a double helix. The structure of the double helix is somewhat like a ladder, with the base pairs forming the ladder’s rungs and the sugar and phosphate molecules forming the vertical sidepieces of the ladder.
Compaction of the duplicated chromosomes during cell division (mitosis or meiosis) results either in a four-arm structure (pictured to the right) if the centromere is located in the middle of the chromosome or a two-arm structure if the centromere is located near one of the ends. A chromosome (chromo- + -some) is a packaged and organized structure containing most of the DNA of a living organism.
A chromosome is made of a very long strand of DNA and contains many genes (hundreds to thousands). The genes on each chromosome are arranged in a particular sequence, and each gene has a particular location on the chromosome (called its locus). In addition to DNA, chromosomes contain other chemical components that influence gene function. Every human cell contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46 chromosomes. A trait is any gene-determined characteristic and is often determined by more than one gene. Some traits are caused by abnormal genes that are inherited or that are the result of a new mutation.
Human cells have 23 pairs of chromosomes (22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes), giving a total of 46 per cell. In addition to these, human cells have many hundreds of copies of the mitochondrial genome. A chromosome (chromo- + -some) is a packaged and organized structure containing most of the DNA of a living organism.
Chromosomes are made from DNA. Genes are short sections of DNA. Genetically identical cells are produced by a type of cell division called mitosis. In sexual reproduction, a male gamete fuses with a female gamete to produce a new cell. This is called fertilisation. 
The name DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid. By breaking down the name, we can understand the structure of the molecule. DNA is a long string of nucleotide units attached to one another. In a single nucleotide there are three components: 1) a sugar molecule, 2) a phosphate group, and 3) a nitrogenous base. (See Figure B-2.) In DNA, the sugar molecule happens to called deoxyribose, hence the name deoxyribonucleic acid. The nitrogenous bases are what make DNA variable. There are 4 different types of bases in DNA: adenine, guanine, thymine, and cytosine. Biologists commonly abbreviate these bases as the letters A, G, T, and C, respectively.
Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. Human beings have 23 pairs of chromosomes in every cell, which makes 46 chromosomes in total. A photograph of a person's chromosomes, arranged according to size, is called a karyotype.