Ashkenazi Jews and Genetic Disease: Why testing for genetic disorders is important if you have Jewish ancestry. Ashkenazi Jewish Carrier Rate 43%. 43%. General Population Carrier Rate 24%. 24%. We detect nearly two times as many carriers in people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent compared with the general population. Reasons for Genetic Testing: Why It Matters. 80% of babies with genetic diseases are born to parents with no known family history of that disease. Early genetic screening is an important step in planning for a healthy family, and allows you to take control and make choices about your future.
1 In the United States, all states require that newborns be tested for certain gene abnormalities that cause specific conditions. 2  This type of genetic testing is important because if results show there's a disorder such as congenital hypothyroidism or phenylketonuria (PKU), care and treatment can begin right away. 1 Examples of disorders for which genetic testing may be used to confirm a diagnosis include adult polycystic kidney disease, iron overload (hemochromatosis) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. 2  Presymptomatic and predictive testing.
1 If you are pregnant, tests are available that can detect some types of abnormalities in your baby's genes. 2  Down syndrome and trisomy 18 are two genetic disorders that are often screened for as part of prenatal genetic testing. 3  Newborn screening. 4  This is the most common type of genetic testing. 1 Examples of disorders for which genetic testing may be used to confirm a diagnosis include adult polycystic kidney disease, iron overload (hemochromatosis) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. 2  Presymptomatic and predictive testing.
Prevalence: The alpha and beta thalassaemias are the most common inherited single-gene disorders in the world with the highest prevalence in areas where malaria was or still is endemic. The burden of this disorder in many regions is of such a magnitude that it represents a major public health concern. Monogenic diseases are responsible for a heavy loss of life. The global prevalence of all single gene diseases at birth is approximately 10/1000. In Canada, it has been estimated that taken together, monogenic diseases may account for upto 40% of the work of hospital based paediatric practice (Scriver, 1995).
1 Ashkenazi Jews have a higher carrier frequency for Tay-Sachs and 16 other genetic diseases. 2  The Ashkenazi panel was developed to screen for all these disorders with one blood test. ( 3 90% of American Jews are Ashkenazi.). Cystic Fibrosis, Spinal Muscular Atrophy and Fragile X syndrome are three genetic disorders that occur more frequently in the general population. It is recommended that carrier screening for these disorders be offered to all prospective parents.
DNA tests are available to help a couple determine if they are carriers of the same recessive disease trait and are at risk for having children with that recessive condition. Some diseases occur more often in certain ethnic groups. 
1 If you have a family history of a genetic disorder — such as sickle cell anemia or cystic fibrosis — or you are in an ethnic group that has a high risk of a particular genetic disorder, you may choose to have genetic testing before you have children. 1 Examples of disorders for which genetic testing may be used to confirm a diagnosis include adult polycystic kidney disease, iron overload (hemochromatosis) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. 2  Presymptomatic and predictive testing.
Screening for birth defects begins by assessing your risk factors, such as whether you have a genetic disorder, whether you have a child with a genetic disorder, or whether there is a family history of a genetic disorder. Some genetic disorders are more common in certain ethnic groups. Screening tests assess the risk that a baby will be born with a specific birth defect or genetic disorder. Diagnostic tests can detect if a specific birth defect or genetic disorder is present in the fetus.
1 Prenatal testing. 2  If you are pregnant, tests are available that can detect some types of abnormalities in your baby's genes. 3  Down syndrome and trisomy 18 are two genetic disorders that are often screened for as part of prenatal genetic testing. 4  Newborn screening. 1 Examples of disorders for which genetic testing may be used to confirm a diagnosis include adult polycystic kidney disease, iron overload (hemochromatosis) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. 2  Presymptomatic and predictive testing.