Tetracycline hydrochloride is a prescription antibiotic used to treat a wide range of infections. It's effective against a broad spectrum of bacteria, as well as other organisms, including some protozoan parasites. A: Tetracycline is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. It can be used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others.
Tetracycline has commonly been used to treat acne and other skin infections; respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia; genital and urinary infections; and Helicobacter pylori (the bacteria that can lead to stomach ulcers). A: Tetracycline is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. It can be used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others.
Tetracyclines are used to treat infections and to help control acne. Demeclocycline, doxycycline, and minocycline also may be used for other problems as determined by your doctor. Tetracyclines will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. Tetracyclines are available only with your doctor's prescription. Once a medicine has been approved for marketing for a certain use, experience may show that it is also useful for other medical problems.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Tetracycline is a broad spectrum antibiotic, that is, it is active against many different types of bacteria. It is effective against Hemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia psittaci, Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and many others. 
Tetracycline (brand names Sumycin, Terramycin, Tetracyn and Panmycin) is a broad-spectrum polyketide antibiotic. It is used against many bacterial infections. Tetracycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. TETRACYCLINE (Achromycin®, Sumycin®) is an antibiotic. It kills certain bacteria that cause infection, or stops their growth. Tetracycline treats many kinds of infections of the skin, bone, stomach, respiratory tract, sinuses, ear, and urinary tract. It also treats certain sexually transmitted diseases.
Last reviewed on RxList 9/18/2015. Sumycin (tetracycline hydrochloride) is an antibiotic used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Sumycin is available in generic form. 
Tetracyclines are a group of broad-spectrum antibiotics whose general usefulness has been reduced with the onset of antibiotic resistance. Despite this, they remain the treatment of choice for some specific indications. They are so named for their four (“tetra-”) hydrocarbon rings (“-cycl-”) derivation (“-ine”). For this same reason, tetracyclines are contraindicated for use in children under 8 years of age. Some adults also experience teeth discoloration (mild grey hue) after use. They are, however, safe to use in the first 18 weeks of pregnancy.
Uses. Tetracycline is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including acne. It is an antibiotic that works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu). Before taking tetracycline, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other tetracyclines (e.g., doxycycline, minocycline), or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Tetracycline (INN) /ˌtɛtrəˈsaɪkliːn/ is a broad-spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the Streptomyces genus of Actinobacteria, indicated for use against many bacterial infections. It is commonly used to treat acne today, and, more recently, rosacea, and is historically important in reducing the number of deaths from cholera. Tetracycline is marketed under the brand names Sumycin, Tetracyn, Lymecycline, and Panmycin, among others.