The definition of second is the next in order after the first. An example of someone who is second is the person who finished the race just after the winner. Second is defined as a repeat of something you’ve already done. An example of second is the next trip taken to the buffet. The definition of a second is a small bit of time, with 60 seconds making up one minute. An example of a second is the time it takes you to say Mississippi. To second is to support someone’s nomination or idea
Full Definition of SECOND. 1. f: being the forward gear or speed next higher than first in a motor vehicle. 2. : relating to or having a part typically subordinate to and lower in pitch than the first part in concerted or ensemble music. — second or sec·ond·ly adverb. See second defined for English-language learners. Word Root of SECOND. The Latin word sequī, meaning “ to follow, ” and its form secutus give us the roots sequ and sec. Words from the Latin sequī have something to do with following. Something sec ond follows what came first.
The second is also the base unit of time in other systems of measurement: the centimetre-gram-second, metre-kilogram-second, metre-tonne-second, and foot-pound-second systems of units. In 1956, the second was redefined in terms of a year (the period of the Earth 's revolution around the Sun) for a particular epoch because, by then, it had become recognized that the Earth's rotation on its own axis was not sufficiently uniform as a standard of time.
The use of the word second in English began in the late 16th century. The definition remained unchanged (and still applies in some astronomical and legal contexts) from 1000 until 1960, at which time it was defined as the period of the Earth's orbit around the sun in the year 1900. In 1956, the second was redefined in terms of a year (the period of the Earth 's revolution around the Sun) for a particular epoch because, by then, it had become recognized that the Earth's rotation on its own axis was not sufficiently uniform as a standard of time.
Abbreviations: CGPM, CIPM, BIPM. The unit of time, the second, was defined originally as the fraction 1/86 400 of the mean solar day. The exact definition of mean solar day was left to astronomical theories. 
secondly. adv. 1. another word for second, usually used to precede the second item in a list of topics. Adv. 1. secondly-in the second place; second, we must consider the economy.
My attention was caught firstly by a bicycle lying carelessly on the turf, and secondly and lastly by a graceful woman's figure, recumbent and evidently sleeping against the turf bank, well tucked in among the afternoon shadows. Adv. 1. secondly-in the second place; second, we must consider the economy.
The second was thus defined as: the fraction 1⁄31,556,925.9747 of the tropical year for 1900 January 0 at 12 hours ephemeris time. This definition was ratified by the Eleventh General Conference on Weights and Measures in 1960, which also established the International System of Units. In 1956, the second was redefined in terms of a year (the period of the Earth 's revolution around the Sun) for a particular epoch because, by then, it had become recognized that the Earth's rotation on its own axis was not sufficiently uniform as a standard of time.
Secund.]. Second. The second is the base unit of time in the International System of Units and is also a unit of time in other systems of measurement it is the second division of the hour by sixty, the first division by 60 being the minute. Between 1000 and 1960 the second was defined as 1/86,400 of a mean solar day