A prion (/ˈpriːɒn/) is a protein that can fold in multiple, structurally distinct ways, at least one of which is transmissible to other prion proteins. It is this form of replication that leads to disease that is similar to viral infection. These refolded prions can then go on to convert more proteins themselves, leading to a chain reaction resulting in large amounts of the prion form. All known prions induce the formation of an amyloid fold, in which the protein polymerises into an aggregate consisting of tightly packed beta sheets.
These misfolded proteins induce other prions to misfold. Then these misfolded prions build up in the brain and cause the infected brain cells to die. When the infected cells die, prions are released into normal tissue and go on to infect more cells without any reaction from the immune system. 
Prions may cause disease by attacking certain areas of the body, the myelin sheaths of the nerves, they seem to be the significant factor in CJD (the human form of 'mad cow' disease). The original cause may be organo-phosphates. I don't think they are particularly well understood as a causative agent. 
Prion diseases are caused by misfolded forms of the prion protein, also known as PrP. These diseases affect a lot of different mammals in addition to humans – for instance, there is scrapie in sheep, mad cow disease in cows, and chronic wasting disease in deer. 
Prions and Prion disease. Prion diseases, also known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE's) are a group of progressive neurodegenerative conditions. These illnesses exist in both animals and humans. Scrapie, a disease affecting sheep and goats, was the first prion disease to be identified in the 1730s. In more recent years other prion diseases have been seen in animals, the most common of which is bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).
All known prion diseases in mammals affect the structure of the brain or other neural tissue and all are currently untreatable and universally fatal. Prions are not considered living organisms because they are misfolded protein molecules which may propagate by transmitting a misfolded protein state. If a prion enters a healthy organism, it induces existing, properly folded proteins to convert into the misfolded prion form. These refolded prions can then go on to convert more proteins themselves, leading to a chain reaction resulting in large amounts of the prion form. All known prions induce the formation of an amyloid fold, in which the protein polymerises into an aggregate consisting of tightly packed beta sheets.
Primary Cause of Prion diseases. The primary cause of Prion diseases is the result: 1  of transmission from another person under rare circumstances, such as immunocompromised people or during surgery with contaminated surgical tools, or according to rare circumstances as noted from reputable sources. To research the causes of Prion diseases, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Prion diseases: 1  Spongioform encephalopathies. 2  Creutzfeldt Jakob disease. 3  Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. 4  Gerstmann Straussler Scheinker syndrome. 5  Fatal familial insomnia. 6  Kuru.
Prions A prion is an infectious protein that is misfolded. These proteins can aggregate in the brain and other neural tissue, forming amyloids. Diseases associated with prions … include bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease), scrapie, kuru, chronic wasting disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Prions are still poorly understood by researchers, and prion diseases (transmissible spongiform encephalopathies) remain untreatable. A prion is a misfolded protein that is considered an infectious agent because they cause properly folded proteins to convert into the misfolded, prion form. In humans, prions … cause Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseas
Several conditions fall under the term prion diseases. A prion is a type of protein that can trigger normal proteins in the brain to fold abnormally. Prion diseases can affect both humans and animals and are sometimes transmitted to humans by infected meat products. The most common form of prion disease that affects humans is Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).