The verb EMULSIFY has 2 senses: 1. cause to become an emulsion; make into an emulsion. 2. form into or become an emulsion. Familiarity information: EMULSIFY used as a verb is rare. 
Share to: 1  Examining the Definition of the Word Emulsifier An emulsifier is a chemistry term used to indicate a chemical that allows the suspension of one liquid in another. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. An example of this is the lecithin in egg yolk, which is used to allow the oil and vinegar to mix together to form an emulsion. Normally, without the lecithin, oil and vinegar would separate, and would never mix.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Graciigirliie. Confidence votes 53. an emulsifier is a substance that bonds oil and water. one and of the emulsifier is hydrophobic, one end is hydrophilic. this means that through the emulsifier, the oil and water are able to bond. An emulsion is usually a mixture of two products such as oil and water that do not mix together … or that are also referred to as immiscible. By adding an emulsifying agent to the mixture, they cause the oil to be broken down into smaller pieces that can then be dispersed throughout then water.
Whether an emulsion of oil and water turns into a water-in-oil emulsion or an oil-in-water emulsion depends on the volume fraction of both phases and the type of emulsifier (surfactant) (see Emulsifier, below) present. Note 4: An emulsion is termed an oil/water (o/w) emulsion if the. dispersed phase is an organic material and the continuous phase is. water or an aqueous solution and is termed water/oil (w/o) if the dispersed. phase is water or an aqueous solution and the continuous phase is an. organic liquid (an oil).
an emulsifier is a substance that bonds oil and water. one and of the emulsifier is hydrophobic, one end is hydrophilic. this means that through the emulsifier, the oil and wa … ter are able to bond. examples of emulsifiers are egg yolk, milk, detergent, washing up liquid, mayonnaise, vinegar and mustard. An example of this is the lecithin in egg yolk, which is used to allow the oil and vinegar to mix together to form an emulsion. Normally, without the lecithin, oil and vinegar would separate, and would never mix.
Without the addition of emulsifying wax, they too would separate back into water and oils. Adding emulsifying wax to your recipe will keep the oil and water from separating by creating an emulsion between the oil and water. An emulsion is a system consisting of a liquid dispersed in an immiscible liquid. Immiscible means not compatible: not able to mix together to make a solution. 
An emulsifier allows for miscibility between two substances that do not normally mix together. An example of this is the lecithin in egg yolk, which is used to allow the oil and vinegar to mix together to form an emulsion. Normally, without the lecithin, oil and vinegar would separate, and would never mix.
Full Definition of EMULSIFY. transitive verb. : to disperse (as an oil) in an emulsion; also: to convert (two or more immiscible liquids) into an emulsion. — emul·si·fi·able \i-ˈməl-sə-ˌfī-ə-bəl\ adjective. — emul·si·fi·ca·tion \i-ˌməl-sə-fə-ˈkā-shən\ noun. See emulsify defined for English-language learners. 
to disperse a liquid into another liquid with which it is immiscible, making a colloidal suspension. Soaps and detergents emulsify by surrounding small globules of fat, preventing them from settling out. Bile acts as an emulsifying agent in the digestive tract by dispersing ingested fats into small globules. 