Thus: 3 chickens will lay 1 egg in 1/2 of a day. Then it follows that 3 chickens will lay 2 eggs in 1 day. Now, if we allow those 3 chickens three times as long (3 days), they will produce 6 eggs. 3 chickens will lay 6 eggs in 3 days. One chicken will lay 1/3 of that number of eggs (1/3 * 6 = 2 eggs) in 3 days. 1 chicken will lay 2 eggs in 3 days. Now, if we want 1 chicken to lay 12 eggs, it will take 6 of these lengths of time. 6 * 3 = 18 days.
Hen usually start laying at about 5 to 7 months old and reach peak egg production at 11 months old. The number of eggs laid will drop at about 18 to 24 months old but some birds will continue to lay up to a year after that. Egg production will also drop when the hen molts or if nutritional needs are not met. 3 chickens will lay 6 eggs in 3 days. One chicken will lay 1/3 of that number of eggs (1/3 * 6 = 2 eggs) in 3 days. 1 chicken will lay 2 eggs in 3 days. Now, if we want 1 chicken to lay 12 eggs, it will take 6 of these lengths of time. 6 * 3 = 18 days.
For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Fall is a normal time of year. Fall is a normal time of year for chickens to stop laying eggs as the sunlight decreases and they molt, but 7 months is a long time. She's not that old. Another common reason is dietary, though it sounds as if your other chicken is laying. When depends on the chicken. Most of ours went “off lay” as the days grew shorter. They laid fewer and fewer eggs until one day they simply stopped. One or two continued to lay sporadically throughout the cold, dark days of winter, although most of those eggs froze and cracked before we got out to collect them.
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
Chickens are individuals as much as any other animal. Some will lay for two years, then decide to retire. Some will keep laying up to 5 years, then slow down/stop. And some will just slowly decline steadily over the years. Older hens lay just fine, some of them very nicely. As for how many years, perhaps some long-time chicken lovers can chime in and let us know how their old biddies are doing. ....waiting waiting waiting for the day when my eggs aren't costing me $500 a dozen.... Reply.
Chickens never lay more than one egg per day. As a rule, chickens lay in the morning, but each day a little later. Sometimes the last egg of a series is produced in the early afternoon. When it gets too late, they take the next day off. My five commercial hybrids will sometimes lay for a series of 30 days or more. 