Why: Fluorine is more electronegative than sulfur, so the bond dipoles point toward fluorine. The six S-F bonds are arranged octahedrally around the central sulfur. F F. \ /. F-S-F. / \. F F Because the octahedral geometry is symmetrical, the bond dipoles cancel, and the molecule is nonpolar, meaning that µ = 0. Source: Straight from Chemistry: The Central Science. 11e.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. No sulfur hexafluoride is NOT polar. Even though it may be assumption that since fluoride is very electronegative between each S-F bond, the structure of the compound is octahedral. 1 Sulfur Hexafluoride Many scientist use the periodic table just as bakers use flour, sugar, and eggs. 2  If they mix a little of this and a little of that, they can come up with countless combinatio…. 3  Sulfur: A Natural Remedy for Acne Sulfur is one of the oldest treatments for acne.
Sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6) is an inorganic, colorless, odorless, non-flammable, extremely potent greenhouse gas which is an excellent electrical insulator. SF 6 has an octahedral geometry, consisting of six fluorine atoms attached to a central sulfur atom. It is a hypervalent molecule. Typical for a nonpolar gas, it is poorly soluble in water but soluble in nonpolar organic solvents. It is generally transported as a liquefied compressed gas. SF 6 is used as a contrast agent for ultrasound imaging. Sulfur hexafluoride microbubbles are administered in solution through injection into a peripheral vein. These microbubbles enhance the visibility of blood vessels to ultrasound.
Background Colour: Sulfur hexafluoride has 12 electrons around the central sulfur atom. This means there are six electron pairs arranged in an octahedral shape with 90° F-S-F bond angles. 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Sulfur hexafluoride is a non-toxic, invisible gas that you can use to perform interesting chemistry demonstrations. Breathe it in and make your voice much deeper when you talk. Pour it into a container and float an airplane or a ship on 'nothing'. 1 It is heavier than air, so it will sink. 2  You can float light objects on the invisible gas, such as a paper airplane or a boat made from aluminum foil. 3  If you use a cup to scoop up some of the sulfur hexafluoride and dump it into a foil boat, you can sink it.
1 The Formula for Sulfur Hexafluoride Sulfur hexafluoride is a chemical compound that is used in many different applications. 2  Its formula is simple, compared to other compound formulas, and is only made up of onl…. 3  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 1 Sulfur Hexafluoride Many scientist use the periodic table just as bakers use flour, sugar, and eggs. 2  If they mix a little of this and a little of that, they can come up with countless combinatio…. 3  Sulfur: A Natural Remedy for Acne Sulfur is one of the oldest treatments for acne.
Sulfur hexafluoride is a non-toxic, invisible gas that you can use to perform interesting chemistry demonstrations. Breathe it in and make your voice much deeper when you talk. 1 It is heavier than air, so it will sink. 2  You can float light objects on the invisible gas, such as a paper airplane or a boat made from aluminum foil. 3  If you use a cup to scoop up some of the sulfur hexafluoride and dump it into a foil boat, you can sink it.
Answers. Best Answer: CH3Br, SF4 CH3Br would require the Br to be dropped and replaced with a proton to make CH4, a nonpolar molecule. SF6 is sulfur hexafluoride, an extremely stable and nonpolar gas phase molecule at STP. The polarity of SF4 is induced by its asymmetrical structure. 