Once your avocado has ripened, it’s time to either use it or place it in the refrigerator. The ripening process will stop once your avocado is placed in the fridge. The hydrator drawer of the fridge is a great place for avocados. See our page on avocados for more on how long avocados last. 1 (never use plastic). 2  Some suggest that to quickly ripen an avocado you can wrap it tightly in tin foil and then place it in a warm (200°) oven for 10-15 minutes.
Report Abuse. It really depends on the ripeness of the avocado as it comes from the store. Some stores put a sign on avocados that are ripe and ready to use. Gently press the bottom of the fruit and if it yields, its ripe. Rock-hard avocados can take anywhere from 2-3 days to ripen. Putting them in a bowl with other fruit, or in a paper bag, will hasten the process. mtngigi · 6 years ago.
1 If your avocado took a while to ripen but finally did, it should produce slices that will do well in salads and salsas. 2  The firm slices will look beautiful on your dishes! 3  If you have a bunch of ripe avocados, turn 'em all into something cream-based. 
On the Countertop. Avocados that are left out on your kitchen counter can take one week to ripen. They should be kept at a temperature of 65 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit, or room temperature. As the fruit is undergoing the ripening process on your counter, set it in a location that is away from directly sunlight. In a Brown Bag with an Apple or Banana. Unripe avocados will ripen faster when placed in a brown bag with either a banana or an apple. This method will cause the fruit to ripen within two to three days. The addition of a banana or apple hastens the ripening process because the additional fruit produces ethylene gases.
1 Bananas and Avocados together in a paper bag will both ripen faster. ( 2 never use plastic). 3  Some suggest that to quickly ripen an avocado you can wrap it tightly in tin foil and then place it in a warm (200°) oven for 10-15 minutes. 1 (never use plastic). 2
An avocado does not ripen on the tree the ripen after they are picked at a mature size, then it will take a few days to ripen.It will ripen faster if placed with other fruit like bananas. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avocado#Har... forever1990 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. 
In a Brown Bag. When placed in a brown bag, avocados will take approximately two to five days to ripen. For this method, put the avocado in a clean, brown paper bag and fold over the top to close. Leave the bag on your counter or in another location that is room temperature. In a Brown Bag with an Apple or Banana. Unripe avocados will ripen faster when placed in a brown bag with either a banana or an apple. This method will cause the fruit to ripen within two to three days. The addition of a banana or apple hastens the ripening process because the additional fruit produces ethylene gases.
When placed in a brown bag, avocados will take approximately two to five days to ripen. For this method, put the avocado in a clean, brown paper bag and fold over the top to close. In a Brown Bag with an Apple or Banana. Unripe avocados will ripen faster when placed in a brown bag with either a banana or an apple. This method will cause the fruit to ripen within two to three days. The addition of a banana or apple hastens the ripening process because the additional fruit produces ethylene gases.
Speed up the ripening process. You can speed up the ripening process by putting your avocados in a brown paper bag — placing an apple in the bag will help hurry things along even more. This will usually cut down the ripening time to 1 to 3 days. (3) Store fully ripe avocados in the refrigerator. If you've got fully ripe avocados that you do not want to use right away, place them in the fridge in a plastic bag. There, they'll usually keep well for another three to five days. (4) Keep cut-up avocados tightly wrapped. 