Halāl (Arabic: حلال ‎ ḥalāl, 'permissible'), also spelled hallal or halaal is any object or an action which is permissible to use or engage in, according to Islamic law. The term covers and designates not only food and drink but also all matters of daily life.
The word ‘Halal’ (حلال) is an Arabic word which literally means permissible. And in translation it is usually used as lawful/allowed/acceptable and it’s a term which is applied to all aspects of life and covers not only food and drink, but also all matters of daily life.
Islam is an Arabic word that means submission and surrender to God. The root of the Arabic word is 'Salem that means 'to be in peace'. Accordingly Islam means submission to A … llah (God in English) and hence being in peace between your self and God and all the surrounding.
AnswerIslam is a word derived from Arabic, which means Peace Islam is a way of life!   Answer: Islam is derived from the Arabic root Salema in general this means peace, purity, submission and obedience. In the religious sense, Islam means submission to the will of God and obedience to His law.
Halal is an Arabic word meaning lawful or permitted. In reference to food, it is the dietary standard, as prescribed in the Qur'an (the Muslim scripture). The opposite of halal is haram, which means unlawful or prohibited. Halal and haram are universal terms that apply to all facets of life.
{319} 362-0480. Halal is an all encompassing Arabic word that literally means permissible. The Holy Quran and Sunnah of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) provide guidelines on what is considered permissible, and therefore Halal and what is considered forbidden or Haram.
Confidence votes 1.5K. Islam is an Arabic word that means submission and surrender to God. The root of the Arabic word is 'Salem that means 'to be in peace'. Accordingly Islam means submission to Allah (God in English) and hence being in peace between your self and God and all the surrounding.
Halal is an Arabic word that means permissible.. In terms of food, it means food that is permissible according to Islamic law. For a meat to be certified halal, it cannot be a forbidden cut (such as meat from hindquarters) or animal (such as pork.).
Halal is an Arabic word, meaning lawful, and is the Islamic dietary law that identifies food permitted for Muslims. Non-halal is also referred to in Arabic as Haram (meaning not permissible). For meat and poultry to be Halal, it must be slaughtered according to Islamic guidelines, with prayers said to God (Allah) during the process.