I love popping zits. There, I said it. Don't worry: I'm not into your zits, unless you're me or my husband, who asked me to keep him out of this article because gross.. He’s right, of course: Zits are gross. If that image makes your inner Darwin alarm go off, I’m way ahead of you. Of course! Zit popping is fun because we’re apes and we love social grooming with the other members of our tribe. It is like trust-building exercises at summer camp, only with more pus.
Zit Obsessed. yes I love to Pop zits also, I see someone with it and if they are a stranger I think they need to pop that. They only person other than myself I try to pop is my husband's. Like right now he is sleeping and I noticed one on his elbow and really wanted to pop it. Why do we like it, I want to know. But there is something about that pop sound and seeing that whitish stuff come out. Hopefully others will join but I'd love to talk a bit with blackberry about this. I'm 30 and I have cystic acne. Most of the time it's under the skin and no one can see it. But I can usually feel it.
Safari. yes I love to Pop zits also, I see someone with it and if they are a stranger I think they need to pop that. They only person other than myself I try to pop is my husband's. Like right now he is sleeping and I noticed one on his elbow and really wanted to pop it. But there is something about that pop sound and seeing that whitish stuff come out. Hopefully others will join but I'd love to talk a bit with blackberry about this. I'm 30 and I have cystic acne. Most of the time it's under the skin and no one can see it. But I can usually feel it.
You are right Mike, but I have no idea why I am so obsessed with popping zits. The way I see zits is like they're intruders of the body and once I pop them, I feel really free. Go on... Yeah, it's like popping them and taking in some freedom, it's hard to explain. I feel like I'm a kid and someone gave me a candy. That's a bit of a sick way to put things, since you're talking about popping zits. Do you have an obsession with pimple popping? Hey there Mike, do you have a minute? I want to talk to you about something that just happened this morning and kind of messed me up, as you can see. Whoa, what happened to you Lea?
Ten years ago, the term “popping” was nothing more than a harmless verb which referred to making a soft explosive sound. Today, innocently typing “popping” into YouTube will lead to a plethora of videos featuring various extractions of pus and bodily fluids from large blackheads, pimples, and of course, cysts. Popping has truly become a cultural phenomenon with millions of fans worldwide. The Science Of Disgust. Whether you would rather go blind than have to watch someone pop a cyst or you’ve bookmarked your favorite pimple-popping clips, you can agree on one thing: Popping is pretty gross. But it’s this exact factor that makes it so irresistible to som
I tried to track down some of the creators of the most popular popping (or in some cases, tweezing) videos and, perhaps not surprisingly, found it incredibly hard to do. In most cases, the people who upload these have very common names or they're fake names to begin with, so tracking them down is basically impossible. Videos where someone pops a million-year-old pimple, the pus splashing on the camera lens, or removes a mile-long ingrown hair from their face have probably been littering your feed for weeks now. But you click on them. And you watch them.
Manually extracting, or popping pimples, can lead to increased inflammation, scarring and the spread of bacteria under the skin. This can cause even more blemishes, thus perpetuating the cycle. (Read: The MB acne spot treatment cheat sheet). Some tips to break the cycle: 1  Treat existing breakouts with acne products. 2  For example, the Drying Lotion was designed to help dry up existing whiteheads while the Drying Cream is excellent at combating those under-the-surface bumps and pimples. 3  Don’t spend unnecessary time in front of the mirror.
3. You cause flare-ups to become worse. Sometimes you don’t have to search for acne because it appears on its own. When this happens, your pimple popping obsession goes into overdrive and you attack. Often times, what started out as a small blackhead, whitehead or cyst turns into an eruption that may or may not scar. Some tips to break the cycle: 1  Treat existing breakouts with acne products. 2  For example, the Drying Lotion was designed to help dry up existing whiteheads while the Drying Cream is excellent at combating those under-the-surface bumps and pimples. 3  Don’t spend unnecessary time in front of the mirror.
Another reason for the obsession with pimple-popping videos has more to do with the thrill of the footage rather than the disgust factor. The Guardian reported that, according to many “popping” fans, the videos give them a sort of rush without the fear of danger, sort of like riding a roller coaster. The Science Of Disgust. Whether you would rather go blind than have to watch someone pop a cyst or you’ve bookmarked your favorite pimple-popping clips, you can agree on one thing: Popping is pretty gross. But it’s this exact factor that makes it so irresistible to some