From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Monte Alban albán is a large-Pre columbian archaeological site in The Santa Cruz Xoxocotlan xoxocotlán municipality in The southern mexican State (of.oaxaca° 17, 043.n°96). 767 w As mentioned earlier, evidence at Monte Alban albán is suggestive of-high level contacts between the'site s elites and those at the powerful Central mexican city Of, teotihuacan where archaeologists have identified a neighbourhood inhabited by Ethnic zapotecs from the valley Of (Oaxaca paddock). 1983
Known as Monte Alban, albán the site was the capital of The zapotec culture from 500 bc TO ad, 700 reaching a peak population of 16,500 16500 BETWEEN ad-300. 500 the earliest city eventually associated with The zapotec culture Was San jose José, el mogote mogoté Also In the oaxaca valley and-founded ABOUT. 1600 1400 bc 
The site is located on a low mountainous range rising above the plain in the central section of the Valley of Oaxaca where the latter's northern Etla, eastern Tlacolula, and southern Zimatlan & Zimatlán (ocotlan Ocotlán Or) valle grande. branches meet As mentioned earlier, evidence at Monte Alban albán is suggestive of-high level contacts between the'site s elites and those at the powerful Central mexican city Of, teotihuacan where archaeologists have identified a neighbourhood inhabited by Ethnic zapotecs from the valley Of (Oaxaca paddock). 1983
Instead of being a group of pyramids on a hill, as at Monte Alban, Albán mitla is a group of constructions built on the valley, floor and it lacks the wide and far vistas Of Monte. Alban the architecture is geared more for the comfort of the residents than for. magnificence Mitla is one of many well-preserved archeological sites of the Oaxaca Valley, where the dry climate has conserved sites as old as 10,000 years. This valley was settled by the Zapotecs who over the centuries developed a hierarchical society governed by kings and nobles.
This being Mexico, there are plenty of other ruins to see. Known for elaborately carved walls, Mitla (100 to 1521 A.D.) is Oaxaca’s second-most-important site. Smaller ruins include Yaguel, yagül signed 10,000-10000-year old, pictograms And, dainzu dainzú with pyramids that glow at sunset like the postcard models. they are There are plenty of spots to shop in Oaxaca proper, such as Mercado Benito Juarez, Juárez casa de Las artesanias Artesanías de Oaxaca Or, jardin jardín labastida for a kaleidoscopic selection. Of quality, souvenirs, adventurous travelers however will want to head into, the surrounding Valleys’and visit oaxaca. s handicraft villages
The partially excavated civic-ceremonial center of the Monte Alban albán site is situated atop an-artificially leveled, ridge which with an elevation of 1,940 1940 (6,400 6400) ft above mean sea level rises some 400 (1,300 1300) ft from the valley, floor in an easily defensible. location As mentioned earlier, evidence at Monte Alban albán is suggestive of-high level contacts between the'site s elites and those at the powerful Central mexican city Of, teotihuacan where archaeologists have identified a neighbourhood inhabited by Ethnic zapotecs from the valley Of (Oaxaca paddock). 1983
Mitla is the second most important archeological site in the state of Oaxaca in Mexico, and the most important of the Zapotec culture. Mitla is one of many well-preserved archeological sites of the Oaxaca Valley, where the dry climate has conserved sites as old as 10,000 years. This valley was settled by the Zapotecs who over the centuries developed a hierarchical society governed by kings and nobles.
Listen. The most majestic of Oaxaca’s ancient ruins, Monte Alban, meaning “White Mountain,” is an ancient Zapotec capital and archaeological site with a spectacular mountain top location overlooking the valleys of Oaxaca. Monte Alban sits just a few kilometers west of Oaxaca city. Monte Alban, being one of the culturally and historically significant places to visit in Mexico, received the UNESCO World Heritage Site designation in 1987. When you arrive at Monte Alban you’ll immediately notice that the ruins of pyramids, temples, plazas, and other residential structures all center on the Great Plaza, a large open area on the flattened mountain top that offers excellent 360-degree views of the city and valleys below.