College level  algebra is all you need to know, unless you want to become an  engineer. Also, remember that most union electricians are not  licensed electricians, and particularly in Chicago, you need to  know and work for a licensed electrician to get an electricians  license. Basically buddy... You need to know someone. 1 Best Electrician Resumes If you are an electrician and you find yourself in the market for a new job, you will need a resume that shows your certifications and competencies. 2  Getting everything on pap…. 3  Electrician Resume Templates Knowing how to write a proper standard resume can be overwhelming for many people.
During their electricians training they will need to become familiar with electrical circuity theory. Luckily, electrical circuity theory is a part of most high school Physics courses. This makes taking at least one physics course during high school an excellent idea for potential electricians. The electrical industry is an exciting and rapidly expanding career that offers steady employment, excellent pay, and rewarding work. Qualified and experienced electricians are highly sought after and the need will continue to increase over the next 5-10 years as more and more tradespeople retire.
To become an electrician you will need to earn a high school diploma, complete classroom instruction, accumulate a certain number of on-the-job training hours and obtain a state license. Most states require that electricians acquire a license. You should contact your state's local building official for licensing requirements. In a majority of instances you need to pass exams on the National Electrical Code and common electrical knowledge and theory.
I am now in secondary school an i am thinking of being an electrician and i want to know what subject do i need to become one. Update: plus i also want to know how much do they get paid a year. Report Abuse. You will need to go for a training course of whatever kind of electrician you want to be, if you want to become a fridge electrician you will need to apply for a course that teaches you that exactly. Mike Fox · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0
To go to University you need to pass 4 subjects reasonably well and these must include Mathematics, Geometry, Science and a language. Universities and Universities of Technology require Mathematics and Physical Science as compulsory subjects for entry into their Electrical Engineering courses. In your grade 12 year you need to decide whether you want to attend University, University of Technology or FET College to further your studies. This choice will depend on your aim whether to become an Artisan, Technician, Technologist or Engineer in the Electrical Engineering field.
This entry was posted in Q&A and tagged apprentice electricians, apprenticeconnect australia, apprenticeship advice, electrical, electrical advisors, electrical apprenticeship advice blog, electrical industry, electrical mentors, electricians, master electricians association. Bookmark the permalink. 
To become an electrical engineer, you would normally need to complete a foundation degree, HNC, HND or degree in electrical or electronic engineering or related subject, for example building services engineering. With a degree in a relevant subject, you may be able to join a company's graduate trainee scheme. You will need colour-normal vision for this type of work. You may also be able to get into this career starting off as an electrical technician apprentice with an engineering or electrical company.
Answer by SummerMaple. Confidence votes 30.3K. Basic chemistry and physics would be the only specific subjects; otherwise, an electrical technician is mostly taught the regulations, building codes, identification conventions and how to work safely on the job in an apprenticeship or through a trade school. 
In your grade 9 year you need to choose the subjects and you need to decide which field of study you want to follow after matriculating. To enter into further studies for a career in Electrical Engineering you need to pass Mathematics, Physical Science and a Language. In your grade 12 year you need to decide whether you want to attend University, University of Technology or FET College to further your studies. This choice will depend on your aim whether to become an Artisan, Technician, Technologist or Engineer in the Electrical Engineering field.