The viability of sperm varies as well, which means intercourse three to five days prior to ovulation may result in conception. Ultrasound dating of conception is not reliable for determining paternity because the ultrasound can be off by at least 5-7 days in early pregnancy. You may have an ultrasound between 18 to 20 weeks to evaluate dates, a multiples pregnancy, placenta location or complications. It may also be possible to determine the gender of your baby during this ultrasound. Several factors, such as the stage of pregnancy and position of fetus, will influence the accuracy of the gender prediction. To be 100% sure you will have an anxious wait until the birth!
Detecting a Gestational Sac on Ultrasound. The gestational sac is seen earlier than a fetus can be detected on an ultrasound. A gestational sac can be seen as early as the fifth week of pregnancy or three weeks after conception. If no gestational sac is seen, it could mean that the expectant mother ovulated late. If no gestational sac or fetus is seen on an early ultrasound, many doctors will choose to do another ultrasound in a few days to a week. If an expectant mother ovulated late, a fetus would not be visible during the time frame when it would be expected.
1 Confirming the presence of your baby’s heartbeat. 2  You may have gone to your doctor with vaginal bleeding or you may be anxious because of problems in a previous pregnancy (such as miscarriage). 3  This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. 1 This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. 2  Confirming the correct dates of your pregnancy. 3  Some women are uncertain of their last menstrual period (LMP) or have irregular menstrual cycles, making it difficult for their doctor to correctly estimate when the baby is due.
Early Scan. When is it carried out: If you have experienced some problems such as bleeding in the first weeks of your pregnancy or you have previously suffered a miscarriage, you may be recommended to take an early scan. An early scan takes placebetween 6 weeks and 10 weeks of pregnancy. Your midwife can refer you for an early scan if she thinks that there is need to. Many hospitals have early pregnancy clinics, which are open daily. It may be necessary to use a vaginal probe if you want to have an ultrasound in the early stages of pregnancy. This allows the technologist to view your uterus through the cervix. This method can also be used to locate if your placenta is over the cervix later on in your
(Ultrasound waves are also used in the handheld instrument called a Doppler that your practitioner uses during your prenatal visits to listen to your baby's heartbeat .). You may have an early ultrasound at your practitioner's office at 6 to 10 weeks to confirm and date the pregnancy. Or you may not have one until the standard midpregnancy ultrasound between 16 and 20 weeks. 
While it may be possible to detect a pregnancy as early as 5 1/2 weeks. Because the tiny sac containing the baby and its heart is so tiny, an ultrasound may not be able to detect pregnancy at this stage. If the baby can be seen at 6 to 7 weeks, their heart beat may even be detected. Between 7 and 8 weeks, the baby and their heart beat can both be detected relatively easily. After the 8th week of pregnancy the heart beat and the baby can be clearly seen. An ultrasound may be repeated a week or so after this point to check the baby’s progress and growth. A newer type of ultrasound known as a Transvaginal ultrasound is a technique used mainly to visualize the woman’s reproductive organs. This type of ultrasound has a better chance of detecting an early pregnancy.
A fetus can be detected as early as the sixth week of pregnancy. Many ultrasound technicians prefer to wait until at least that point in the pregnancy to do an ultrasound and many prefer waiting until the eighth week of pregnancy when more of the development of the fetus can be seen. If no gestational sac or fetus is seen on an early ultrasound, many doctors will choose to do another ultrasound in a few days to a week. If an expectant mother ovulated late, a fetus would not be visible during the time frame when it would be expected.
During this ultrasound, the doctor will confirm that the placenta is healthy and that your baby is growing properly in the uterus. The baby's heartbeat and movement of its body, arms and legs can also be seen on the ultrasound. If you wish to know the gender of your baby, it can usually be determined by 20 weeks. 
Early ultrasound. If you've experienced problems, such as a previous miscarriage or bleeding in the first weeks of this pregnancy, your doctor or midwife may recommend an early ultrasound. This takes place when you're between six weeks and 10 weeks pregnant. The first will be your dating ultrasound which is booked between 10 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of your pregnancy. During your dating ultrasound, the sonographer will put gel on your belly and move a hand-held device, called a transducer, over your skin. You'll then be able to see a view of your baby.