Click on a circle in the chart to view Klaas birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find out when most of the Klaas families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
It consists of 5 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Klaas. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Klaas Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Klaas has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Klaas to other names. Klaas is a diminutive (nickname) of Nikolaas.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Klaas families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Klaas families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
klaa (s), kl-a- as ] The baby boy name Klaas is pronounced KL AA-S in Dutch and German †. Klaas' origin is Old Greek, and its use, Dutch and German. Klaas is a derivative (Dutch and German) of the Dutch, German, Scandinavian, and English Claus. Klaas is also a short form (Dutch and German) of the German Nikolaus and a derivative (Dutch and German) of the English and French Nicholas. Klaas is rare as a baby boy name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. In 2012, within the family of boy names directly linked to Klaas, Nicholas was the most widely used. 
Klaas is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent last name for all people (#20711 out of 150436, Top 14%). (2000 U.S. Census). These boy names were at the peak of their popularity during the years 1900-1909 (usage of 0.3933%) and are somewhat less popular today (usage 0.3143%, down 20.1%). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Klaas and related names. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).
Klaas /klaas/ [1 syll.] as a name for boys is of Greek derivation, and the meaning of the name Klaas is people of victory. Klaas is an alternate spelling of Klaus: transcription of Claus. Klaas is also a form of Nicholas (Greek). Kreatif forms: Klaascee, Klaassi. These boy names were at the peak of their popularity during the years 1900-1909 (usage of 0.3933%) and are somewhat less popular today (usage 0.3143%, down 20.1%). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Klaas and related names. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).
*To note: : It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic... Thanks to the numerology, we propose you daily a horoscope personalized for your first name. Love, money, Shape: discover what waits for you for today. In Bonus every day find your daily lucky figure ..
Look up Klaas in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Klaas is a Dutch male given and surname. It is the Dutch short form of Nicholas, a Greek name ultimately meaning victory of the people. Its female variants is Klaas(s)ien(a). As a surname is mainly exists as Klaasen, and Klaas, both meaning  Son of Klaas 