Are you aware of what do polar bears eat? The polar bears are carnivorous by nature and the most flesh-eating animal in the bear family. Most of the polar bears predominantly eat ringed and bearded seals. For the reason that polar bears inhabits all throughout Arctic regions where millions of seals reside, they do not find it hard to prey such animals. Polar bears also feed on reindeer, rodents, shellfish, crabs, wild foods, muskox, birds’ eggs, and other polar bears. Their diet is supplemented by some fruits and plants including berries, kelp and roots. Although rare, they also come into conflict with humans.
Answer: The preferred prey for polar bears are seals-the species they prey upon most often are ringed seals and bearded seals, two species that are members of the group of seals known as ice seals, because of their need for ice for giving birth, nursing, resting and finding prey. Polar bears are one of the largest bear species (many sources say they are the largest). They can grow to 8-11 feet in height and about 8 feet in length. Polar bears weigh about 500-1,700 pounds, and they live the cold Arctic-in parts of Alaska, Canada, Denmark/Greenland, Norway and Russia.
Ice is a must. Both polar bears and ringed seals depend on it. 1  Polar bears' lives are a cycle of feasting and fasting. 2  When hunting is good and a polar bear is in good body condition, the bear will eat only the seal's blubber and skin. 3  A polar bear can eat 100 pounds of blubber in a single sitting!
1 When hunting is good and a polar bear is in good body condition, the bear will eat only the seal's blubber and skin. 2  A polar bear can eat 100 pounds of blubber in a single sitting! 3  Other bears devour the remains, as do arctic foxes, gulls, and even ravens. Both polar bears and ringed seals depend on it. 1  Polar bears' lives are a cycle of feasting and fasting. 2  When hunting is good and a polar bear is in good body condition, the bear will eat only the seal's blubber and skin. 3
The polar bear is carnivorous, which means it is a meat eater. The favorite prey of the polar bear are the many variates of ice dwelling seals. Some of their favorite are the Bearded Seal and the Ringed Seal. What a polar bear eats depends on what region of the Arctic lives in. Where available the polar bear will also eat Harp Seals, and they have even been seen successfully hunting beluga whales. Polar bears are opportunistic and would never pass up a carcass such as a Walrus, Bowhead Whale, or Grey Whale.
Polar bears largely eat ringed and bearded seals, but depending upon their location, they may eat harp, hooded and ribbon seal. A 121-pound seal can provide 8 days worth of energy-but the bear needs to eat much more in order to store up reserves. Food can be hard to come by for polar bears for much of the year. The bear puts on most of its yearly fat reserves between late April and mid-July to maintain its weight in the lean seasons.
1 Polar bears' lives are a cycle of feasting and fasting. 2  When hunting is good and a polar bear is in good body condition, the bear will eat only the seal's blubber and skin. 3  A polar bear can eat 100 pounds of blubber in a single sitting! 4  Other bears devour the remains, as do arctic foxes, gulls, and even ravens. Both polar bears and ringed seals depend on it. 1 
Other foods. While polar bears have evolved as a highly specialized predator of ice seals, they are always alert to other food sources—including vegetation, geese, bird eggs, and even the occasional small mammal. Both polar bears and ringed seals depend on it. 1  Polar bears' lives are a cycle of feasting and fasting. 2  When hunting is good and a polar bear is in good body condition, the bear will eat only the seal's blubber and skin. 3  A polar bear can eat 100 pounds of blubber in a single sitting!
Seals are the preferred diet/prey for Polar Bears. Most of its diet consists of ringed or bearded seals. They are also known to hunt and kill adult Walruses and even Beluga Wh … ales. Mature/Adult bears tend to eat only the calorie rich skin and blubber of the seal, whereas youngsters consume the meat as well. When other food is unavailable, polar bears sometimes eat muskox, reindeer, small rodents, seabirds, shellfish, fish, eggs, kelp, berries, and human garbage (the garbage dump in Churchill, Canada, had to be closed and moved because of this activity). 1 person found this useful.
Polar bears, like other bears are both herbivores and carnivores, they are omivores. Which means they eat both plants and meat. During the summer months, polar bears come ashore. During this time they forge for berries and eat plants. The eat the berry that is named for them bearberries.. There are three different species of bearberries. Polar bears like them all! Bearberries are described as having small leathery leaves, white or pinkish urn-shaped flowers, and red berrylike fruits.