Intensity of shaking is measured on the modified Mercalli scale. The shallower an earthquake, the more damage to structures it causes, all else being equal. At the Earth's surface, earthquakes manifest themselves by shaking and sometimes displacement of the ground. When the epicenter of a large earthquake is located offshore, the seabed may be displaced sufficiently to cause a tsunami. Earthquakes can also trigger landslides, and occasionally volcanic activity. 
Earthquake, shaking of the earth's surface caused by rapid movement of the earth's rocky outer layer. Earthquakes occur when energy stored within the earth, usually in the form of strain in rocks, suddenly releases. This energy is transmitted to the surface of the earth by earthquake waves. The sudden movement of rocks along a fault causes vibrations that transmit energy through the earth in the form of waves. Waves that travel in the rocks below the surface of the earth are called body waves, and there are two types of body waves: primary, or P, waves, and secondary, or S, waves.
In Earthquakes. it affects the earths crust because that's where earthquakes occur or start The earth is a hot liquid in the middle and the gases have to ex scape to the outside.So to do tha … t it pushes through rock and dirt making mountains and cracks are made along stress lines making the earth shake. 6 people found this useful.
Tectonic Earthquakes. Tectonic earthquakes are triggered when the crust becomes subjected to strain, and eventually moves. The theory of plate tectonics explains how the crust of the Earth is made of several plates, large areas of crust which float on the Mantle. The same events occur in an earthquake. There is a sudden movement within the crust or mantle, and concentric shock waves move out from that point. Geologists and Geographers call the origin of the earthquake the focus.
Copyright © 2012 K12reader.com. All Rights Reserved. Free for educational use at home or in classrooms. www.k12reader.com Earthquakes: Movement of the Earth’s Crust Word Meanings Earthquakes are the shaking and moving of the ground when energy is released in waves. These waves are called seismic waves. These waves are similar to ocean waves, which move through water. Seismic waves, however, move through the ground.Most earthquakes are caused by the movement of large sections of the Earth’s crust, called plates. The place where two plates meet is called a fault. Faults look like large cracks in the ground
Types of movement of crustal blocks that can occur along faults during an earthquake: ©Redrawn from University of Otago (Richard Sibson). 1. Where the crust is being pulled apart, normal faulting occurs, in which the overlying (hanging-wall) block moves down with respect to the lower (foot wall) block. 
The movement of the plates, and the activity inside the Earth, is called plate tectonics. Plate tectonics cause earthquakes and volcanoes. The point where two plates meet is called a plate boundary. Earthquakes and volcanoes are most likely to occur either on or near plate boundaries. The map shows the world's tectonic plates and the distribution of earthquakes and volcanoes.
The Causes Of Earthquakes. An Earthquake is a sudden tremor or movement of the earth's crust, which originates naturally at or below the surface. The word natural is important here, since it excludes shock waves caused by nuclear tests, man made explosions and landslides caused by building work. There are two main causes of earthquakes. The same events occur in an earthquake. There is a sudden movement within the crust or mantle, and concentric shock waves move out from that point. Geologists and Geographers call the origin of the earthquake the focus.
People can measure motion from large tectonic earthquakes. TYPES OF EARTHQUAKES. There are four different types of earthquakes such as Tectonic, Volcanic and Explosion. The type of earthquakes usually depends on the area where is occurs and the type of land in the region. TYPES OF EARTHQUAKES. There are four different types of earthquakes such as Tectonic, Volcanic and Explosion. The type of earthquakes usually depends on the area where is occurs and the type of land in the region. The most common earthquakes are Tectonic.. They occur when the rocks in the Earth crust break or crack because the lands forces made up by the movement of tectonic plates. TYPES OF EARTHQUAKES. There are four different types of earthquakes such as Tectonic, Volcanic and Explosion. 