Effects of hurricanes. The effects of hurricanes can be grouped into two: weather and economic. Impact on the weather Storm Surge Hurricanes bring about storm surges. The powerful spiral wind action carries water a couple of feet high and lashes it ashore. This can destroy structures and items very close to the shore.
The effects of hurricanes can be grouped into two: weather and economic. Impact on the weather Storm Surge Hurricanes bring about storm surges. The powerful spiral wind action carries water a couple of feet high and lashes it ashore. This can destroy structures and items very close to the shore.
1 Tornadoes --This is probably the least thought of effect of a hurricane, but they do occur. 2  Tornadoes occur in a hurricane as a result of the tremendous energy and instability created when a hurricane makes landfall. 3  Most tornadoes that occur in hurricanes are only minimal in strength.
Perhaps the only positive effect of hurricanes is that they are heat dumps. They develop when the energy of condensation piles up on top of already warm tropical waters. Were this mechanical process not to exist, global warming and climate change would unarguably become an issue that no one could ever debate.
Another effect of hurricanes is heavy flooding that can stretch for hundreds of miles. Often the most devastating effect of a hurricane is the storm surge, which is an abnormal rise in the level of water that reaches land that is associated with a hurricane. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
HURRICANE EFFECTS can create major problems. The maximum effects of a hurricane are usually felt within the right-front quadrant. Here the winds are usually the strongest, storm surge is highest, and the possibility of tornadoes is greatest.
The effects of hurricanes listed here are both directly and indirectly caused by it. Firstly, a hurricane is made up of a low-pressure core with rain and wind clouds surroun … ding it. The low-pressure core may bring in lots of water from the sea or ocean, called a storm surge.
1 Storm surge and tidal flooding --This is the most devastating and notable effect from a hurricane. 2  Storm surge is the rising wall of water the comes ashore with a landfalling hurricane, and is responsible for 90 percent of all hurricane related deaths.
Below, are some of the common effects from a hurricane. 1  Storm surge and tidal flooding --This is the most devastating and notable effect from a hurricane. 2  Storm surge is the rising wall of water the comes ashore with a landfalling hurricane, and is responsible for 90 percent of all hurricane related deaths.