If one of the colliding plates is topped with oceanic crust, it is forced down into the mantle where it begins to melt. Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed. Two plates sliding past each other forms a transform plate boundary. Natural or human-made structures that cross a transform boundary are offset—split into pieces and carried in opposite directions. 
In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plates or fragments of the lithosphere move toward one another and collide. Descriptions [edit]. The nature of a convergent boundary depends on the type of plates that are colliding. Where a dense oceanic plate collides with a less-dense continental plate, the oceanic plate is typically thrust underneath because of the greater buoyancy of the continental lithosphere, forming a subduction zone.
Convergent boundary. In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary, is an actively deforming region where two tectonic plates or fragments of lithosphere move toward one another and collide. In a subduction zone, the subducting plate, which is normally a plate with oceanic crust, moves beneath the other plate, which can be made of either oceanic or continental crust. During collisions between two continental plates, large mountain ranges, such as the Himalayas are formed.
con·ver·gent plate boundary. A tectonic boundary where two plates are moving toward each other. If the two plates are of equal density, they usually push up against each other to form a mountain chain. If they are of unequal density, one plate usually sinks (subducts) beneath the other. Also called collision zone. 
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. 
What is the definition for convergent boundaries? In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plat … es or fragments of lithosphere move toward one another and collide. A convergent boundary with no subduction is a continental-continental boundary. Because oceanic crust is denser than continental crust, it is always the subducting plate in a … oceanic-continental boundary. In an oceanic-oceanic boundary, one of the plates will subduct, depending on several factors.
As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved. Descriptions [edit]. The nature of a convergent boundary depends on the type of plates that are colliding. Where a dense oceanic plate collides with a less-dense continental plate, the oceanic plate is typically thrust underneath because of the greater buoyancy of the continental lithosphere, forming a subduction zone.
A subduction zone is formed at a convergent plate boundary when one or both of the tectonic plates is composed of oceanic crust. The denser plate, made of oceanic crust, is subducted underneath the less dense plate, which can be either continental or oceanic crust. Descriptions [edit]. The nature of a convergent boundary depends on the type of plates that are colliding. Where a dense oceanic plate collides with a less-dense continental plate, the oceanic plate is typically thrust underneath because of the greater buoyancy of the continental lithosphere, forming a subduction zone.
A convergent boundary (or destructive boundary) is where two plates are moving towards each other -- where they're colliding. The pressure and friction is great enough at these boundaries that the material in the Earth's mantle can melt, and both earthquakes and volcanoes happen nearby. In this lesson, you will learn the meaning of the term 'convergent boundary' in the context of plate tectonics. A number of features and examples of convergent boundaries will be introduced. A short quiz will follow.