(Sunan Abu Dawood Book 15, No. 2830) The condition of the animal for aqiqah The condition of the animals in Aqiqah is the same as the conditions for the animals in Qurbani. The animals to be slaughtered must be a goats, cows or camels. There are many benefits in the performance of Aqiqah. One is the announcing the birth of the baby. Being bestowed a child is a great blessing from the Creator. Another purpose is inviting family members, neighbors, and friends to celebrate the blessed occasion.
The condition of the animals in Aqiqah is the same as the conditions for the animals in Qurbani. The animals to be slaughtered must be a goats, cows or camels. For camels, it must be older than 6 years, for cows the age must be older than 3 years and for goats, it must be older than 2 years. There is no religious consequence for not holding an aqiqah; it is a sunnah tradition but is not required. The aqiqah is always hosted by the parents or extended family of the newborn child. In order to provide a community meal, the family slaughters one or two sheep or goats.
The condition of the animals in Aqiqah is the same as the conditions for the animals in Qurbani. The animals to be slaughtered must be a goats, cows or camels. For camels, it must be older than 6 years, for cows the age must be older than 3 years and for goats, it must be older than 2 years. Aqiqah, an Islamic terminology, is defined as the animal that is slaughtered on the occasion of child birth. For the child there should be aqiqah, on behalf of the child make sacrifice and remove the hair.
Aqiqah, in Islamic terminology is defined as the animal that is slaughtered on the occasion of child birth. The performance of Aqiqah is highly encouraged as it is a great act of Sunnah. It is to be performed by the parents or the guardians of the child. The condition of the animals in Aqiqah is the same as the conditions for the animals in Qurbani. The animals to be slaughtered must be either goat, cow or sheep. For goats, it must be a minimum of two years old.
Aqiqah In Definition. AQIQAH. Aqiqah literally means cut and it is often used for the hair of a new born baby that is cut or shaved. Aqiqah is defined as the animal that is slaughtered on the occasion when the hair of a new born is shaved. The animal is called aqiqah and it is also encouraged for the animal to be called nasikah or zhabihah.
`Aqīqah, Aqeeqa, Aqeeqah or Akika (Arabic: عقيقة) is the Islamic tradition of the sacrifice of an animal on the occasion of a child's birth. It is widely performed by Muslims and it is considered sunnah to slaughter one sheep for the baby girl and two sheep for the baby boy. Aqiqah is a Sunnat al Mu'akkadah (confirmed sunnah). If the guardian of the child is capable of slaughtering two sheep for a baby boy and one sheep for a female child, he should do it.
The Aqiqah is to slaughter an animal; one goat for a baby girl and two goats for a baby boy and it has to be slaughtered in the seventh day if not possible, then in the fourteenth, if not, in the twenty fourth, if not, then at anytime. We have to count the days according to the lunar calendar, not the solar. 
The aqiqah is traditionally held on the seventh day after the child's birth, but may also be postponed until later. The aqiqah is the Islamic alternative to the baby shower, which in many cultures is held before the child's birth. The aqiqah is an optional event designed to celebrate the child's birth and welcome him or her to the community. There is no religious consequence for not holding an aqiqah; it is a sunnah tradition but is not required. The aqiqah is always hosted by the parents or extended family of the newborn child.
The condition of the animal for aqiqah. The condition of the animals in Aqiqah is the same as the conditions for the animals in Qurbani. The animals to be slaughtered must be either goat, cow or sheep. For goats, it must be a minimum of two years old. For cows, it must be a minimum of 3 years old
The Islamic alternative is the aqiqah, which is held after the child is born. After the birth of a child, Muslim parents often host the aqiqah, or welcoming celebration, at their home or a community center. The aqiqah is an optional event designed to celebrate the child's birth and welcome him or her to the community. There is no religious consequence for not holding an aqiqah; it is a sunnah tradition but is not required. The aqiqah is always hosted by the parents or extended family of the newborn child. In order to provide a community meal, the family slaughters one or two sheep or goats.