The length of time the information remains on your report depends upon how it was reported in the first place: collection accounts stay for seven years, and public records last on your report for ten years. The bureaus hire investigators to collect public record filings from county and state court offices. These data are reported to the bureaus, and appear on your credit report. Public record accounts of your medical debt remain on your report for ten years before aging off your file.
Typically, if you have a higher credit score, a negative item will hurt more than if you had a lower credit score. The injury to your credit score will lessen over time, but the item will stay on your credit report for seven years. Federal law requires negative items to drop off credit reports within that time. (The only exception is bankruptcy, which can stay on a report for 10 years.). 1  Share this story. 2  LinkedIn. 3  Delicious. 4  Reddit. Medical debt is the most common type of collection account, representing nearly half of all reported collections. Almost 1 in 6 credit reports contain a medical debt collection, according to the Federal Reserve. And about 2 in 5 Americans reported a lower credit rating last year due to unpaid medical bills.
1 Your payment history is one factor that plays into your credit score. 2  Not paying your bills on time could deter lenders from lending you money in the future. 3  Unpaid medical bills could stay on your credit report up to seven years. 
1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Adverse accounts, whether medical or not, will go away automatically after seven years. When you apply for credit, your creditor does not get the details of the medical collection, like the name of the company, just the fact that it is a medical collection. They usually stay on there for about 5 years, however if you pay the bill off and get your credit maintained you can have the company take the bad credit report off you record in about 3 years.
An unpaid collection account will remain on your credit report for  7 years from the date the account was reported by the collection  agency. Keep in mind that any new activ … ity regarding the account  (for example, if you decide to pay it off) will reset the time  limit. Leaving it unpaid means that 7 years from Jan. 2000, it must  legally be removed from your report.   The previous answer is incorrect. Paying on a collection account  does NOT re-set the time limit.   The Fair Credit Reporting Act establishes a method by which the  reporting period is timed at 7 years.