Chances are he just used fractionation, an “underground” seduction technique that is said to be the quickest and most intense form of seduction ever developed. Keep reading to learn more about this mysterious theory. Fractionation is similar to the tactic used by soap operas: likable, easy to identify with characters are exposed to heart-wrenching drama in order to get the audience emotionally invested in the show.
Fractionation is a very powerful technique that men have been using for years to get women to rely on them. The following paragraphs will outline some fractionation seduction tips. Using these tips can yield wonderful results as long as you pay attention to the process. 
Blood fractionation refers generally to the process of separation using a centrifuge (centrifugation), after which three major components can be visualized: plasma, buffy coat and erythrocytes. Fractionation makes it possible to isolate more than two components in a mixture in a single run. This property sets it apart from other separation techniques.
What’s amazing about the fractionation technique is that it is said to be one of the few “ forbidden patterns ” which provides the ultimate shortcut to seduction success. Needless to say, it has become one of the most sought after techniques in the seduction world. So what’s the big deal about fractionation? Well, for starters, there have been reports that master seducers have been using the technique to bed women successfully in 15 minutes – from start till finish. Nobody can really verify this of course, but there is a certain mystique around the technique
Differential centrifugation. Fractionation is a separation process in which a certain quantity of a mixture (gas, solid, liquid, suspension or isotope) is divided during a phase transition, into a number of smaller quantities (fractions) in which the composition varies according to a gradient. Fractionation makes it possible to isolate more than two components in a mixture in a single run. This property sets it apart from other separation techniques.
This short article is about this dating technique called Fractionation Seduction. Originated by master hypnotists such as Richard Bandler and popularized by Derek Rake, this technique has been known to be one of the few “seduction patterns” which are reputed to give men attraction superpowers. Fractionation seduction, to summarize, refers to the usage of hypnosis to produce deep, emotional rapport with women. This is done in a subtle way so that women fall for you (often in a subconscious manner). Now I want you imagine seeing someone you like – with a cute face and a killer body.
Fractionation Technique Examples. Here’s a simple summary of what the technique does. In short, fractionation adopts hypnosis and Neuro Linguistic Programming routines and “triggers” to develop strong emotional rapport with women. This is performed covertly so that the woman does not consciously “reject” the attempt. A particularly famous variation of fractionation is known as the October Man Sequence (which was made famous from Neil Strauss ‘ New York Times bestseller The Game). The most basic form of the technique is actually composed from a couple of NLP routines called the “ Rising Sun ” and the “ Hospital Pattern “.
Fractionation is an advanced conversational seduction technique which should only be attempted by the ethical! Normally, part of Fractionation Seduction is the use of body language and the use of hypnosis to subtly form an emotional connection with a woman. Fractionation Seduction makes it easy for you to create this emotional bond, allowing her to open up to you in the process, and eventually make her want you in the end. The developers of Fractionation knew the powerful effects of this method. Because it involves hypnosis in order to infiltrate a woman’s source of desires, the originators actually issued a word of warning and actually discouraged the use of 
Not a lot of guys have heard of the art of fractionation yet, but it has been used by great pickup artists to win girls over in less than 20 minutes. Fortunately, you can learn how to use this technique yourself and pick up your own dream girl within that short time frame with ease. 