So it really should be used in all calves castrated with a Burdizzo or using surgery. Injecting 2 mL into and around the spermatic cord will significantly reduce the pain of castration. You can also inject it into the scrotal skin before you make a cut. 
Burdizzo castration. see burdizzo emasculatome. closed castration. see covered castration (below). covered castration. the covering of the scrotal sac is incised and the testicle released still enclosed in its tunica vaginalis. The cord is ligatured and the testicle and its enveloping tunic removed in toto.
burdizzo. n. 1. (Veterinary Science) vet science a surgical instrument used to castrate animals. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
The burdizzo is used primarily on farm animals such as cattle and sheep. For example, pampered cattle, used for Kobe beef, are often castrated by this method because of the reduced risk of bleeding and infection. L0040408 Leaflet selling the Burdizzo, a castration machine. The closed jaws of a nine-inch Burdizzo. When the device is used the operator crushes the spermatic cords one at a time, leaving a space in between in order to maintain an interruption of blood-flow to the scrotum. A nine-inch Burdizzo, used primarily on goats, small calves, and sometimes on humans.
an instrument designed for bloodless emasculation in all species but most adaptable to ruminants because of the extended scrotal neck in these species. The spermatic cord is crushed percutaneously by a double actioned forcing together of blunt blades which also have rounded edges so that the skin is not damaged. 
To use, you need one animal (preferably young) and a Burdizzo of the rightsize. While the 9” and 12” models are good for rabbits, goats and sheep, for cattle and horses you’re going to want the bigger sizes. Make sure that the Burdizzo is working properly before you begin. There is also something called an elastrator, a tool that positions a rubber band tightly around the scrotum of the animal. Not long after the band is applied, the testicles will dry up and you are all set. Yes, there are other tools, but by the far the best one is the Burdizzo Emasculatone. It is relatively painless and it lessens the possibility of infection since there is no open wound for parasites to move into
The Burdizzo Emasculatone is an elegant little tool especially suited to crushing the spermatic cords of a variety of male mammals. It really helps to make a neat job of what would otherwise be an unpleasantly messy endeavor, and the Burdizzo achieves the goal of bloodless castration admirably. There is also something called an elastrator, a tool that positions a rubber band tightly around the scrotum of the animal. Not long after the band is applied, the testicles will dry up and you are all set. Yes, there are other tools, but by the far the best one is the Burdizzo Emasculatone. It is relatively painless and it lessens the possibility of infection since there is no open wound for parasites to move into
The Burdizzo is a castration device which employs a large clamp designed to break the blood vessels leading into the testicles. Once the blood supply to the testicles is lost, testicular necrosis occurs, and the testicles shrink, soften, and eventually deteriorate completely. When the device is used the operator crushes the spermatic cords one at a time, leaving a space in between in order to maintain an interruption of blood-flow to the scrotum. A nine-inch Burdizzo, used primarily on goats, small calves, and sometimes on humans.