Posted on. by HAW. Adventitia vs Serosa. Serosa is different from adventitia because serosa is for lubrication where as adventitia is to bind structures together. 
tunica. pl. tunicae [L.] a covering or coat; a membranous covering of an organ or a distinct layer of the wall of a hollow structure, as a blood vessel. See also tunic. tunica adventitia. the outer coat of various organs, blood vessels and other structures, usually made up of loose connective tissue. tunica albuginea. a dense, white, fibrous sheath enclosing a part or organ, such as is present on the testis. tunica albuginea ovarii. see tunica ovarii (below)
adventitia. n. 1. (Anatomy) the outermost covering of an organ or part, esp the outer coat of a blood vessel. adventitia-an enveloping or covering membrane or layer of body tissue. tunic, tunica. tissue layer, membrane-a pliable sheet of tissue that covers or lines or connects the organs or cells of animals or plants.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Adventitia is a type of connective tissue found on the outermost layer of some organs and structures in the body. Others may be covered with serosa, a membrane that produces serous fluids for lubrication. 
More Answers. The tunica externa, also known as the tunica adventitia, is the outermost layer of a blood vessel, surrounding the tunica media. It is mainly composed of collagen and is supported by external elastic lamina. The collagen serves to anchor the blood vessel to nearby organs, giving it stability. Tunica externa or tunica adventitia is the outer most layer of the blood vessels. It is mostly composed of collagen which helps to anchor the blood vessel with nearly organ. The second or middle layer of blood vessel is
adventitia. n. 1. (Anatomy) the outermost covering of an organ or part, esp the outer coat of a blood vessel. [C19: New Latin, from the neuter plural of Latin adventīcius; see adventitious]. 
ad·ven·ti·tia. n. The membranous outer covering of an organ or a blood vessel. adventitia-an enveloping or covering membrane or layer of body tissue. tunic, tunica. tissue layer, membrane-a pliable sheet of tissue that covers or lines or connects the organs or cells of animals or plants.
Medical Definition of ADVENTITIA. : the outer layer that makes up a tubular organ or structure and especially a blood vessel, is composed of collagenous and elastic fibers, and is not covered with peritoneum—called also tunica adventitia, tunica externa. 
Transversely cut skeletal muscle cell-Outer longitudinal layer Longitudinally cut mix of smooth and skeletal muscle-Inner circular layer Muscularis externa. This is from the upper oesophagus. 
• ADVENTITIA (noun). The noun ADVENTITIA has 1 sense: 1. an enveloping or covering membrane or layer of body tissue. Familiarity information: ADVENTITIA used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: An enveloping or covering membrane or layer of body tissue. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Synonyms: adventitia; tunic; tunica. Hypernyms (adventitia is a kind of...): membrane; tissue layer (a pliable sheet of tissue that covers or lines or connects organs or cells of animals).