You can find out where the majority of the Minette families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Minette birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
You can find out when most of the Minette families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Minette birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Minette is also a diminutive form of the name Mine (German and Scandinavian) in the German and French languages as well as a variant of the name Wilhelmina (Dutch, English, German, and Polish) in the French language. Minette is also a diminutive form of the name Mine (German and Scandinavian) in the German and French languages as well as a variant of Mina in the German language.
French Meaning: The name Minette is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Minette is: Form of Williamina. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details. 
Minette /mi-net-te/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin, German and Old German origin, and the name Minette means star of the sea; love; determined protector. Minette is an alternate form of Mary (Latin). Minette is also a derivative of Mina (German). Minette is also used as a derivative of Minna (Old German). Minette is a rare first name for females but a very popular last name for all people (#56826 out of 150436, Top 38%).
French: from Minet, a pet form of a personal name such as Dominique, Jacquemine or Guillemine. Also a pet nickname from Old French minet ‘very small’. DEB The-ette ending is a standard variation in North American French of-et; it does not necessarily indicate derivation from a feminine personal name. Click on a circle in the chart to view Minette birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Meaning of Minette. French name. In French, the name Minette means-form of williamina.The name Minette originated as an French name. The name Minette is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-form of williamina. Origin-Franc
German, from French, oolitic iron ore, from French mine ore, mine + -ette — more at mine. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. Definition of MINETTE. 1. : a dark igneous rock composed chiefly of biotite and orthoclase that occurs usually in narrow dikes and sheets and that constitutes one of the lamprophyres.
Minette is a variant of the name Mary (English). Minette is also a diminutive form of the name Mine (German and Scandinavian) in the German and French languages as well as a variant of Mina in the German language. Minette is also a variant of the name Minerva (English and German) in the French language