Nikola Tesla did file for the first patent of inventing the radio in 1897, which was granted to him in the United States in 1900. Marconi too filed for a patent in USA in the same year (1900), as the first inventor of the radio. The question as to who invented the radio does not have a specific answer. There have been numerous theories and patents filed for credits. In case of the discovery of the radio, one fine understanding is that many theories and principles went into a completed circuit
Marconi went on to introduce short wave transmission in 1922. Marconi was not the first to invent the radio, however. Four years before Marconi started experimenting with wireless telegraph, Nikola Tesla, a Serb who moved to the USA in 1884, invented the theoretical model for radio. The next year Marconi opened the first radio factory in Chelmsford, Essex and established a radio link between Britain and France. A link with the USA was established in 1901. In 1909 Marconi shared the Nobel prize in physics for his wireless telegraph. Marconi became a wealthy man.
Voice in radio came in the 1921. Soon after, in 1922, he introduced short wave transmissions. Marconi however was not the first one to invent radio. Nikola Tesla who moved to US in 1884, launched radio’s theoretical model prior to Marconi. In 1915, Tesla tried to acquire court’s injunction against Marconi. And in year 1943, Supreme Court US reviewed decision. 
In 1895, he sent out the first radio signal, which consisted of the single letter 'S'. With this, he was granted the world's first patent for the radio. However, with time, it was proved that many theories used in the making of a radio were actually first patented by Nikola Tesla. Therefore, in 1943, the government authorized the patent for the radio invention to Tesla. The question as to who invented the radio does not have a specific answer. There have been numerous theories and patents filed for credits. In case of the discovery of the radio, one fine understanding is that many theories and principles went into a completed circuit of
Reginald Fessenden was a Canadian inventor reputed for his achievements in early radio. The first audio transmission by radio in 1900, the first two-way transatlantic radio transmission in 1906, and the first radio broadcast of entertainment and music in 1906, were his three significant milestones. The question as to who invented the radio does not have a specific answer. There have been numerous theories and patents filed for credits. In case of the discovery of the radio, one fine understanding is that many theories and principles went into a completed circuit of the radio.
After Hertz's work many people were involved in further development of the electronic components and methods to improve the transmission and detection of electromagnetic waves. Around the turn of the 20th century Guglielmo Marconi, developed the first apparatus for long distance radio communication. Reginald A. Fessenden became the first to send audio (wireless telephony) by means of electromagnetic waves in 1907. By 1910 these systems had come to be referred to by the common name radio. Marconi's demonstrations of the use of radio for wireless communications, equipping ships with life saving wireless communications, establishing the first transatlantic radio service, and building the first stations for the British shortwave service, have marked his place in history.
Italian inventor and radio pioneer Guglielmo Marconi in front of a telegraph in the laboratory aboard his yacht Electra, circa 1935. Tesla's radio patents gave him ownership over one of the key necessities in radio communications. That same year, on Nov. 10, Marconi filed patent No. 7777, for tuned telegraphy. At first the patent office denied Marconi's applications on the grounds that his work relied on the use of Tesla coils [source: PBS ].
Twenty years after the telephone was invented and music was first sent down a telephone line, Guglielmo Marconi sent radio signals. Marconi (1874-1937) was born in Italy and studied at the University of Bologna. The next year Marconi opened the first radio factory in Chelmsford, Essex and established a radio link between Britain and France. A link with the USA was established in 1901. In 1909 Marconi shared the Nobel prize in physics for his wireless telegraph. Marconi became a wealthy man.
Meanwhile, Marconi had been conducting his own experiments and in 1896, sent and received Morse code-based radio signals at distances spanning nearly 4 miles (6 kilometers) in England. That same year, he applied for, and was granted, the world's first patent in wireless telegraphy in England [source: Nobel Prize ]. Tesla's radio patents gave him ownership over one of the key necessities in radio communications. That same year, on Nov. 10, Marconi filed patent No. 7777, for tuned telegraphy. At first the patent office denied Marconi's applications on the grounds that his work relied on the use of Tesla coils [source: PBS ].
Loomis was able to make a meter connected to one kite cause another one to move, marking the first known instance of wireless aerial communication. Guglielmo Marconi: an Italian inventor, proved the feasibility of radio communication. He sent and received his first radio signal in Italy in 1895. By 1899 he flashed the first wireless signal across the English Channel and two years later received the letter S, telegraphed from England to Newfoundland. This was the first successful transatlantic radiotelegraph message in 1902.