Arbitration is a procedure in which a dispute is submitted, by agreement of the parties, to one or more arbitrators who make a binding decision on the dispute. In choosing arbitration, the parties opt for a private dispute resolution procedure instead of going to court. Its principal characteristics are: 
by FreeAdvice staff. In the arbitration process one or more arbitrators hear evidence from the parties to a dispute and then issue an award that declares who gets what. In some instances, the arbitrator may also write an opinion explaining the reasoning that led to the award. The award and opinion cannot be reviewed by a court, and there is no appeal. Arbitration is a substitute for a trial and review of a trial court’s decision by appellate courts. It is different from mediation
Arbitration. The submission of a dispute to an unbiased third person designated by the parties to the controversy, who agree in advance to comply with the award—a decision to be issued after a hearing at which both parties have an opportunity to be heard. Most arbitration is considered binding: parties who agree to arbitration are bound to that agreement and also bound to satisfy any award determined by the arbitrator. Courts in most jurisdictions enforce awards.
Arbitration, a form of alternative dispute resolution (ADR), is a technique for the resolution of disputes outside the courts. The parties to a dispute refer it to arbitration by one or more persons (the arbitrators, arbiters or  arbitral tribunal ), and agree to be bound by the arbitration decision (the  award ).
Arbitration Law & Legal Definition. Arbitration is an alternative means of settling a dispute by impartial persons without proceeding to a court trial. It is sometimes preferred as a means of settling a matter in order to avoid the expense, delay, and acrimony of litigation. There is no discovery and there are simplified rules of evidence in arbitration. 
Definition. Settlement of a dispute (whether of fact, law, or procedure) between parties to a contract by a neutral third party (the arbitrator) without resorting to court action. Arbitration is usually voluntary but sometimes it is required by law
By one definition arbitration is binding and so non-binding arbitration is technically not arbitration. Arbitration is a proceeding in which a dispute is resolved by an impartial adjudicator whose decision the parties to the dispute have agreed, or legislation has decreed, will be final and binding. There are limited rights of review and appeal of arbitration awards. Arbitration is not the same as: The parties to a dispute refer it to arbitration by one or more persons (the arbitrators, arbiters or  arbitral tribunal ), and agree to be bound by the arbitration decision (the  award ).
The Federal Arbitration Act requires that where the parties have agreed to arbitrate, they must do so in lieu of going to court. Once an award is entered by an arbitrator or arbitration panel, it must be confirmed in a court of law. 
arbitration. Settlement of a dispute (whether of fact, law, or procedure) between parties to a contract by a neutral third party (the arbitrator) without resorting to court action. Arbitration is usually voluntary but sometimes it is required by law