About the Traditional IRA. A traditional IRA, or Individual Retirement Arrangement (Account), is a savings account into which you can make tax deductible contributions towards your retirement. Earnings from the account aren’t taxed until you withdraw them. There is, however, one thing you can still do (until you file your taxes) that can significantly reduce the amount of taxes you owe for last year: contribute to a traditional IRA. I’ve done this in years past with great success. The traditional IRA is what got me started with retirement savings.
Because your contributions to a traditional IRA are tax deductible, they reduce the amount of taxable income for the year in which you’re contributing. Therefore, you can simply designate that your contributions, made prior to April 15th or your filing date, be attributed to the previous year. There is, however, one thing you can still do (until you file your taxes) that can significantly reduce the amount of taxes you owe for last year: contribute to a traditional IRA. I’ve done this in years past with great success. The traditional IRA is what got me started with retirement savings.
Maximize your deduction. You can contribute up to $5,500 to an IRA in tax-year 2014, or $6,500 if you are age 50 or older. If a worker in the 25 percent tax bracket contributes $5,500 to an IRA, he will save $1,375 on his 2014 tax bill. Those in the 15 percent tax bracket will save $825 on the same contribution, while those in the 28 percent bracket will save $1,540. A worker in his 50s or 60s who maxes out his IRA could reduce his tax bill by $1,620 if he’s in the 25 percent tax bracket.
If you qualify, making a contribution to a Traditional IRA can help you lower your taxes. You could save anywhere from $500 to $3,000 on your federal income taxes! You could also save on your state or local income taxes depending on how they’re calculated. 
Anyone with earned income can make a contribution to a Traditional IRA, but depending on the retirement package your employer offers and your income, your deduction may not be tax deductible. If it's not tax deductible, then it's really not worth investigating for the purposes of reducing your taxes. If you're one of the few people who will owe this year and want to soften the blow a little bit, here's one of the few things you can do to reduce your tax liability—make a contribution to a Traditional IRA. [In Pictures: 10 Smart Ways to Improve Your Budget .]. How much you save will depend on your tax bracket
By now most of us know that an IRA is a good investment for retirement, but it also saves a big chunk of money on your tax bill. Emily Brandon, writing for US News, explains: Workers can contribute up to $5,000 to an IRA in 2012, or $6,000 if they are age 50 or older. The tax savings from making an IRA contribution in April can be enormous. If an employee who is in the 25 percent tax bracket contributes $5,000 to a traditional IRA, he will save $1,250 on his current tax bill. He is able to defer paying income on that $5,000 until the money is withdrawn. If you paid those taxes today, that $1,250 is gone. 
As mentioned above, pre-tax contributions that you make to an employer-sponsored retirement plan such as a 401(k) reduce your income tax, but they do not reduce your Social Security tax. The same goes for traditional IRA contributions, as well as contributions to a SEP or SIMPLE IRA. And because they have no effect on the amount of your income that’s subject to Social Security taxes, pre-tax contributions to an IRA, 401(k), 403(b), etc. do not reduce the Social Security benefits that you will eventually receive.