Ankle sprains The most common basketball injury is the ankle sprain. This injury often occurs when a player lands on another player's foot or the ankle rolls too far outward. When this happens, the ligaments connecting bones and supporting the ankle are stretched and torn. The ligaments can tear partially or completely.
Some of the most common basketball injuries are suffered in the area of the knee, ankle, foot and back. The injury can be a a sprain, torn or partially torn ligament and tendon or muscle strain. In worst cases fractures can occur, especially in the leg and ankle.
Common Basketball Injuries Keep Your Guard Up! Basketball is one of the most popular sports in the United States and throughout the world. Millions of people participate in the sport at all levels of competition. Whether you are playing for the neighborhood championship or the NBA title, you can get injured.
Types of Injuries. Of injuries suffered by high school basketball players, the NATA study found that the most common were: 1  Sprains (a partial or complete tear of a ligaments around a joint -- wrist, finger, knee, ankle, toe)(44.6% boys, 44.2% girls). 2  General trauma (26.5% boys; 19.6% girls).
1 Basketball is the fourth leading cause of injury in both unorganized settings and organized community team sports. 2  Injuries to basketball players are usually minor, mostly sprains and strains. 3  The ankle and knee are the most common sites of injury, followed by the lower back, hand, and wrist.
1 The ankle and knee are the most common sites of injury, followed by the lower back, hand, and wrist. 2  Eye injuries are frequent, usually as a result of being hit with fingers or elbows. 3  Along with baseball, basketball is one of the leading causes of sports-related eye injuries in children.
1 Basketball is the fourth leading cause of injury in both unorganized settings and organized community team sports. 2  Injuries to basketball players are usually minor, mostly sprains and strains. 3  The ankle and knee are the most common sites of injury, followed by the lower back, hand, and wrist.