It spawned radio hits like No One Knows and Go With The Flow, and was also acclaimed for featuring former Nirvana member Dave Grohl playing drums. Ever since, Josh and his band have released three more albums, all being featured in the top 20 of the Billboard 200, as well as fronting Queens Of The Stone Ages. Josh was also creating albums with other bands such as Eagles Of Death Metal, Kyuss and Them Crooked Vultures. In addition to the above, he also made a name for himself as a producer. One of his most notable works when it comes to producing albums for other bands was the album Humbug by Arctic Monkeys.
Joshua Michael Homme is the full name of the rock star, he is born on May 17, 1973 in United States in Joshua Tree, California. He get’s some other nick names like “Baby Duck, Carlo Von Sexron and J.Ho”. He is married in 2007 with female singer named “Brody Dalle” , they both have 2 two kids whom they look-after “Camille Harley Joan Homme, Orrin Ryder Homme”. There are number of music group with whom he worked and did some associated acts such as “Them Crooked Vultures Foo Fighters Nine Inch Nails Biffy Clyro U.N.K.L.E Goon Moon Mark Lanegan Band and Wellwater Conspiracy” .
In 1987, when he was 14 years old, Homme formed a punk rock influenced heavy metal band with schoolmates John Garcia and Brant Bjork in Palm Desert called Katzenjammer; he was the band's guitarist. Homme was formerly a guitarist and founder of the influential stoner rock band Kyuss. He co-founded and occasionally performs with Eagles of Death Metal, playing drums for their studio recordings, and produces a musical improv series with other musicians, mostly from the Palm Desert Scene, known as The Desert Sessions.
His net worth is about $40million. he is on there.. $25 million. How does phil anselmo, frontman of one of the most legendary bands of all time, have only 8 million dollars, while these cheap excuses for musicians from blink182 have 60 million dollars a piece. None of those hold a candle to Gene Simmons, who pulls in a cool $300 million. What's interesting is this list claims that Bruce Dickinson is worth $115 million, meanwhile Ozzy Osbourne is only worth $90 million.
Josh Homme Net Worth: Josh Homme is an American rock musician, multi-instrumentalist and record producer who has a net worth of $10 million dollars. Josh was also creating albums with other bands such as Eagles Of Death Metal, Kyuss and Them Crooked Vultures. In addition to the above, he also made a name for himself as a producer. One of his most notable works when it comes to producing albums for other bands was the album Humbug by Arctic Monkeys.
Joshua Michael  Josh  Homme (/ˈhɒm.i/ HOM-ee; born May 17, 1973) is an American musician, singer, songwriter, record producer, and actor. He is the founder and only continuous member of the rock band Queens of the Stone Age, in which he sings and plays guitar, as well as occasionally playing piano, drums, and bass. Homme was formerly a guitarist and founder of the influential stoner rock band Kyuss. He co-founded and occasionally performs with Eagles of Death Metal, playing drums for their studio recordings, and produces a musical improv series with other musicians, mostly from the Palm Desert Scene, known as The Desert Sessions.
About Josh Homme. Josh Homme is an American musician with a net worth of $7 million. He is most famous for being the rhythm guitarist and lead singer for the American rock band Queens Of The Stone Age. Releasing albums “Queens Of The Stone Age” and “Rated R”, the band broke through onto the mainstream rock scene in America with the album “Songs Of The Deaf”. The album featured radio hits such as “No One Knows” and “Go With The Flow” and was also noted for featuring former Nirvana member Dave Grohl playing drums. Since then, Josh and the band have released three more albums which all featured in the top 20 of the Billboard 200, as well as fronting Queens Of The Stone Ages, Josh has also made albums with bands such as Eagles Of Death Metal, Kyuss and Them Crooked Vultures.
After the release of their debut eponymous album in 1998 and the sophomore Rated R in 2000, the rock combo broke onto the mainstream rock scene in America with the 2002 album Songs Of The Deaf. Josh was also creating albums with other bands such as Eagles Of Death Metal, Kyuss and Them Crooked Vultures. In addition to the above, he also made a name for himself as a producer. One of his most notable works when it comes to producing albums for other bands was the album Humbug by Arctic Monkeys.