Tramadol (brand name: Ultram) is an opioid analgesic (painkiller) . It is prescribed to treat moderate to moderately severe pain and is considered a safer alternative to other narcotic analgesics like hydrocodone (Vicodin, Lortab) and methadone.
Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed.
Tramadol Addiction. Tramadol is a central-acting synthetic opiate agonist used similarly to codeine to treat moderate to moderately severe pain in adults. Tramadol addiction is a serious medical and social problem. The drug is available in tablet form under the name Ultram or tramadol.
Home » Tramadol Uses, Warnings and Treatment. Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed.
Tramadol is considered to be opiate like because it plays on the same opiate receptors on the brain as a true opioid does.. I would imagine that under the pain contract you were not allowed to take narcotics either. All opioid are narcotic but not all narcotics are opioid.
A Tramadol addiction can be hard to reverse without the proper, medically-supervised treatment program. The prescription painkiller is a narcotic-like medication, used in the management of moderate to severe pain. The extended-release version is meant for moderate to severe chronic pain that persists around the clock.
Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol is used to treat moderate to severe pain. Tramadol extended-release is used to treat moderate to severe chronic pain when treatment is needed around the clock. Tramadol may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Tramadol is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol extended-release tablets and capsules are only used by people who are expected to need medication to relieve pain around-the-clock. Tramadol is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics.