Step 1. Wash the affected area daily using a tablespoon of a moisturizing body wash that contains no fragrance. Use small circular motions and a washcloth to massage the skin gently. Avoid bar soaps or any body wash that contains sulfates, which will dry the skin out further and make the bumps worse.
3.) Shaving in a warm Shower to Get Rid Of Razor Bumps on Bikini Area. Take a warm shower before shaving, ensure you wash the area well and apply a moisturizer containing alpha hydroxy or glycolic acids. Instead, you can also lay a wet and warm washcloth over the area for about five minutes before shaving.
Proper shaving techniques are the key to getting rid of razor bumps. Here are some rules to follow. Always apply shaving cream (a good one) to the skin before shaving and allow the shaving cream to sit on your face for a couple of minutes before shaving to help it soften the skin and hair.
Bumps that have formed under your skin and will not break through are called cysts. Cysts are not harmful, and may go away on their own. Some may pop and drain on their own, but they can be removed at home by draining them. Cysts are formed from an infection, foreign bodies or clogged oil glands.
Treatment for keratosis pilaris (KP), or skin bumps, is all about smoothing away the bumps. Therapy can eliminate the bumps, improve the texture, eliminate acne-causing plugs and improve the overall appearance. Chemical exfoliation needn't be fraught with irritation, redness or discomfort.
Check all around your body for bumps. If they're near stubble on your legs or face, change your razor blade and use a more skin-sensitive shaving cream. Wash the bumpy area regularly with a mild cleanser for two or three days. If the bumps go away quickly, they could have been bug bites. Clean your bedding and clothes.
Step 2. Squeeze out a tablespoon of a mild exfoliating cream that contains glycolic and lactic acids. Massage the cream over the bumpy areas with your fingers, making small circular motions to help remove the dead, dry skin. Continue massaging for 30 to 60 seconds, then rinse the scrub off well using warm water.
Softening your hair with warm water will help you get a better shave and get rid of razor bumps. Because razor bumps are sometimes caused by an angular cut from a razor, it is a good idea to soften the hair to ensure a more even cut through the hair.