We can't live on air and sunshine alone. The human body needs food and water to survive. A human can go for more than three weeks without food (Mahatma Gandhi survived 21 days of complete starvation), but water is a different story. At least 60% of the adult body is made of it and every living cell in the body needs it to keep functioning
You can live 3 minutes without air, though we don't recommend trying. In a harsh environment — it's snowing, say — you have 3 hours to survive without shelter. After 3 days, you need water or you'll perish. You can make it 3 weeks without food, though we promise you that won't be fun. Despite this possibly helpful rule, some people have survived 8 to 10 days without water. Again, leave such shenanigans to the truly desperate.
Generally, it appears as though humans can survive without any food for 30-40 days, as long as they are properly hydrated. Severe symptoms of starvation begin around 35-40 days, and as highlighted by the hunger strikers of the Maze Prison in Belfast in the 1980s, death can occur at around 45­ to 61 days. 
The body will use its fat and protein stores (muscles) to help it survive. If a person has a lot of fat stores (is very heavy), they will live longer than a person who has very little fat (very thin), so how long a person can survive depends a lot of the person. Of course, if you go without food for a few weeks, you will be very weak since you have been using your own muscles for energy. Water is a different story. A person will die within 3-4 days without water. The size of the person really doesn't make much difference. 
A person can survive only three to five days without water, in some cases people have survived for an average of one week. It is not recommended that anyone try this at home. Once the body is deprived of fluids the cells and organs in the body begin to deteriorate. 
This must be a very intense time for you. The length of time someone can live without eating depends on their weight (or amount of body fat), health, and, many See also: After losing the ability to swallow, how long can my mom last? believe, attitude. Medical experts usually say the average person can live for 4 to 6 weeks without food. The amount of time someone can go without water is much shorter, roughly a week (or less)
In moderate temperatures, and with very little exercise, a person can survive an average of 3-5days without water. You can live without food for a lot longer-you begin to … starve after 3 days-when your body begins to produce ketone bodies. 
The duration of survival without food is greatly influenced by factors such as body weight, genetic variation, other health considerations and, most importantly, the presence or absence of dehydration. For total starvation in healthy individuals receiving adequate hydration, reliable data on survival are hard to obtain. 
Shares & Saves. Save. The human body cannot survive without food and water for long periods of time. In fact, according to SurvivalTopics.com, the longest a person can go without water is 10 days--without food, it's four to six weeks. However, due to certain other variables, these numbers can vary. 
The question of how long you can go without food depends on a lot of factors. Will and determination definitely play a part. Political prisoners on hunger strikes and fasting religious leaders have been known to go for weeks at a time without any food. Gandhi fasted for 21 days while in his 70s. 