Osteoarthritis (AH-stee-oh-ar-THREYE-tis) is the most common type of arthritis and is seen especially among older people. Sometimes it is called degenerative joint disease. Osteoarthritis mostly affects cartilage (KAR-til-uj), the hard but slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones where they meet to form a joint.
People with osteoarthritis usually have joint pain and stiffness. Unlike some other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis affects only joint function. It does not affect skin tissue, the lungs, the eyes, or the blood vessels.
Osteoarthritis is common — the most frequent cause of joint pain. For some, it starts in our twenties, and by our seventies, osteoarthritis is virtually certain. Regardless of your level of exercise, the passage of time means the classic osteoarthritis symptoms — joint pain and morning stiffness, that worsens over time.
Osteo arthritis is the most common chronic arthritis and accounts for half of all cases. Inflammation may occur, but OA is generally considered a non-inflammatory type of arthritis-referred to as degenerative joint disease or wear-and-tear arthritis.
1 Research on the effects of collagen type II in people with RA shows conflicting results. 2  Some research shows that taking collagen type II by mouth for 3 months reduces joint pain, swelling, and time to walk 15 meters in people with RA.
For this reason, the idea that collagen supplementation can be an effective treatment for joint pain, osteoarthritis, or any other condition, is highly implausible, if not impossible in principle. But about that proof …. The company links to a press release with its scientific evidence for Genacol.
1 Rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 2  Research on the effects of collagen type II in people with RA shows conflicting results. 3  Some research shows that taking collagen type II by mouth for 3 months reduces joint pain, swelling, and time to walk 15 meters in people with RA.
Collagen is a protein that is part of cartilage, bone, and other tissues in animals and humans. People use collagen from chickens for medicine. Chicken collagen is used to treat joint pain associated with many types of arthritis and surgery, as well as back pain, neck pain, and pain following injury.