Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells, so they have several features in common, such as the presence of a cell membrane, and cell organelles, like the nucleus, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum. Plant cells have a rigid cell wall that surrounds the cell membrane. Animal cells do not have a cell wall. When looking under a microscope, the cell wall is an easy way to distinguish plant cells.
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. 
The function of the mitochondria in a plant cell is to support the  function of the cell and the structure. The mitochondria usually  has a membrane which has folds that are … stretched to provide a  wider surface area for cellular activities. Mitochondria derive energy for all cells, plant or animal, in which they reside. They are the aerobic energy-derivers of eukaryotic cells. Plants require energy for multitudin … ous cellular processes just like animals and that is what the mitochondria are for. 5 people found this useful.
In animal cells, energy is produced from food (glucose) via the process of cellular respiration. Cellular respiration occurs in mitochondria on animal cells, which are structurally somewhat analogous to chloroplasts, and also perform the function of producing energy. However, plant cells also contain mitochondria. Plant cells have a rigid cell wall that surrounds the cell membrane. Animal cells do not have a cell wall. When looking under a microscope, the cell wall is an easy way to distinguish plant cells.
There are mitochondria in all plant and animal Cells; otherwise the Cells would not be able to respire aerobically-during the Nighttime - , and they would obtain very little Atp from each glucose molecule. It is also found in the animal Cell, as well. Mitochondria derive energy for all cells, plant or animal, in which they reside. They are the aerobic energy-derivers of eukaryotic cells. Plants require energy for multitudin … ous cellular processes just like animals and that is what the mitochondria are for. 5 people found this useful.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Plant cells contain chloroplasts as well as mitochondria. You're correct that photosynthesis occurs in the chloroplasts. Chloroplasts are present in order to produce glucose via energy from sunlight. The glucose is then transferred to the mitochondria where aerobic respiration takes place. Chloroplasts generate ATP, but not enough to keep the cell functioning. The reason that you'll find mitochondria in plant cells is because mitochondria generates most of the ATP required for the cell to function. The fact that plants contain mitochondria does not mean that indoor plants don't contain chloroplasts
SUMMARY. Mitochondria are large organelles found in the cytoplasm of all plant and animal cells. They are though to have originated as a result of a cell engulfing a small bacterium and then the two units living in a symbiotic relationship. The mitochondria reproduce within the host cell. 