The length of the esthetics training program depends on how many hours your state requires to get licensed (see above.) How long it takes to become a esthetician depends on whether you are completing your training as a full-or part-time student, as well as how many training hours your state requires. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (2015), esthetician salaries average $28,640 per year, but salaries depend on a number of factors. Many estheticians choose to work part-time instead of full time, and salary has the potential to grow with experience, growing clientele, and increasing hours worked.
Best Answer: Hi. Congratulations on beginning your Esthetician career.The length of time it takes to complete beauty school depends on three factors: which beauty program you enroll in, your state's required hours for that program, and whether you enroll in cosmetology school on a part-time or full-time basis. 
1 Enrolling to a training course is a must to become a certified medical esthetician. 2  Most commonly training takes an average of 300 hours, lasting about nine months. 3  A 1200 hour training program will help students learn everything about this field, becoming even more specialized. Salaries offered when it comes to medical esthetician jobs also vary from one state to another, and naturally from one employer to another. In the United States, typical salary for this job will range from $32,000 up to $52,000. Yearly salary can be higher or lower, depending on a series of factors.
The 600-Hour Esthetician Licensure Program can be completed in Six months. We have three different options for the program: Weekends (6 months), Weekday Immersion (5 weeks + Clinic hours), or Weekday Morning Classes (4 months + Clinic hours). Go to Top. The 600-Hour Esthetician Licensure program will prepare you to take the state board exams, to become licensed in Esthetics, and to become an amazing asset to the professional community.
To become a medical esthetician, you should first look at taking a program at an esthetics school. One should expect to devote at least 300 hours to this pursuit, depending on your state, but some states, such as Kansas, require up t0 1000 hours for a standard esthetician license. A typical esthetics training program lasts 6 to 12 months depending on your state’s requirements. For those who are interested in becoming medical estheticians, this may be a good fit for your needs. Salary & Career Opportunities for Medical Estheticians. The median salary for medical estheticians is typically between $25,000 and $52,000 annually, depending on the length of time they’ve been working in the field.
Source The salary of a medical esthetician depends on many things, but esthetician salaries average $28,920 per year. Many can increase their income by working full-time instead of part-time. Nonetheless, salary grows with experience, growing clientele and increasing hours worked. Salaries offered when it comes to medical esthetician jobs also vary from one state to another, and naturally from one employer to another. In the United States, typical salary for this job will range from $32,000 up to $52,000. Yearly salary can be higher or lower, depending on a series of factors.
Shares & Saves. Save. Generally, an individual who completes the requirements of full time enrollment in an esthetician program can become licensed in as few as four months while a part time enrollee might take nine months or longer to become licensed. Other People Are Reading. 
In majority of U.S. states, an esthetician program averages about 600 hours, although some may be shorter while others, longer depending on the school and the type of training offered. Students, however, should be aware that in order to qualify for a license, they should complete a minimum number of training hours. 
Training to become an esthetician takes an average of 600 hours in most states, but this does vary from state to state. Some states require as many as 1,000 hours and some require as few as 250 hours. Look at our state's 2015 license requirements page to find out how many hours your state requires. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (2015), esthetician salaries average $28,640 per year, but salaries depend on a number of factors. Many estheticians choose to work part-time instead of full time, and salary has the potential to grow with experience, growing clientele, and increasing hours worked.