A noncorporate business whose owners actively participate in the organization's management and are protected against personal liability for the organization's debts and obligations. The limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity that has both the characteristics of a corporation and of a partnership. An LLC provides its owners with corporate-like protection against personal liability. It is, however, usually treated as a noncorporate business organization for tax purposes. 
Best Answer: Limited liability means that the owners (cause it has to be more than one individual) is not responsibile for the debts of the organisation, but rather they are only responsible for the capital they put into it in the beginning, or anytime during the operation of the company. 
Definition. Liability is money owed. Limited liability refers to a business structure that limits the members' personal liability for the company's actions. Creditors and others suing the business are limited to collecting from company assets; they cannot go after the members' personal assets. Limited liability protects your personal assets from your business liability. A limited liability company is easier to set up than a corporation but offers the owners legal protection similar to what corporate stockholders have. Such a company can be a limited liability corporation or limited liability partnership.
LLC-The name limited liability company clearly points out the compelling benefit of this business structure. LLCs were developed to offer individual owners or a small number of owner-members an opportunity to create a business with less personal risk. Shares & Saves. Save. Limited liability refers to the relatively low personal financial risk taken on by an operator or a business. Corporations and limited liabilities companies are two structures that protects the personal assets of owners in case of business losses.
A limited liability company, or LLC, is a hybrid business form created by state statute. The LLC combines the corporate feature of limited liability with the flexibility and tax status of a traditional partnership. It is the preferred business form for small business owners who do not intend their business to grow significantly, according to Entrepreneur magazine.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. For limited liability companies in the United Kingdom, see Limited company. For a general discussion of entities with limited liability, see Corporation. A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private l
Benefits. Under LLC statutes, a company automatically qualifies for a tax pass-through.. Tax pass-through means that the company does not pay taxes on net profits; the owners pay taxes on income from the business that's shown on their personal tax returns. Company image by Yuriy Rozanov from Fotolia.com. A limited liability company (LLC) is a type of business in which the owners, called members, have much less liability for company actions and debts than a company like a corporation, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In a limited company, the liability of members or subscribers of the company is limited to what they have invested or guaranteed to the company. Limited companies may be limited by shares or by guarantee. 