Causes of cardiovascular disease. While cardiovascular disease can refer to different heart or blood vessel problems, the term is often used to mean damage to your heart or blood vessels by atherosclerosis (ath-ur-o-skluh-ROE-sis), a buildup of fatty plaques in your arteries.
Heart disease, or cardiovascular disease, is a general name for a wide variety of diseases, disorders and conditions that affect the heart and blood vessels. Heart disease is the number one cause of death in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Source: CDC).
Research suggests that coronary heart disease (CHD) begins with damage to the lining and inner layers of the coronary (heart) arteries. Several factors contribute to this damage. They include: 1  Smoking, including secondhand smoke. 2  High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood.
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States and can be attributed to the lifestyle factors that increase the risk of atherosclerosis or narrowing of arteries.
Cardiovascular diseases include illnesses that involve the blood vessels (veins, arteries and capillaries) or the heart, or both-diseases that affect the cardiovascular system. The cardiovascular system, also called the circulatory system, is the system that moves blood throughout the human body. It is composed of the heart, arteries, veins, and capillaries. It transports oxygenated blood from the lungs and heart throughout the whole body through the arteries.
Cardiovascular disease is a general name for a wide variety of diseases, disorders and conditions that affect the heart and sometimes the blood vessels as well. Cardiovascular disease is the number one killer of women and men in the United States, according to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood institute.
The causes of cardiovascular disease depend on the specific cardiovascular disease in question. This may seem confusing, but cardiovascular disease is not actually one disease -- rather, it is a name used to describe any disease that affects the heart or blood vessels.