Notification. Once a buyer pays for an item through PayPal, you'll receive notification at the primary e-mail listed on your PayPal account. If the buyer is paying with an e-check, PayPal may inform you that the payment is pending. It is best to wait until payment clears before shipping items. 
To sell or bid on items, you need a registered account with eBay. Registration is free and requires your name and email address, along with a password. Once registered, you have the option of connecting a PayPal account for fast payments. Some sellers only accept payment through PayPal. New Seller Payments. If you are a new eBay seller, expect a hold on PayPal payments. PayPal may hold the funds received from the buyer anywhere from 3 to 21 days after the buyer receives the item.
EBay is an online auction site allowing users to buy and sell items. Almost any item can be sold on eBay, whether it is new or used. Sellers set the terms of the auction, including the shipment options, payment methods and return policy. New Seller Payments. If you are a new eBay seller, expect a hold on PayPal payments. PayPal may hold the funds received from the buyer anywhere from 3 to 21 days after the buyer receives the item.
Receive payment: Before you ship your item, make sure the buyer has paid you, and that the payment has been accepted and credited to your account. If you listed in a category that lets you accept checks, make sure the check has cleared the bank. Ship the item to the buyer safely and on time: Pack your item as securely as possible. Package your item carefully. Make sure the shipment information is correct and includes your return address. You can create your shipping label and packing slip on eBay. Manage your listing. When you have your listing up and running, you can check to see if anyone's bid on or bought it by going to the Sell section of My eBay. You can also revise your listing. It's good customer service to answer any questions you receive from potential buyers about your item.
Learn about the fees for selling on eBay Motors. Fees for eBay Stores For a monthly subscription fee, you get an online Store and qualify for additional free listings and lower listing fees. Fees for Classified Ads Find out what it costs to place an ad for an item, service, or property. Fees for Real Estate. Paying your fees. Paying your seller fees Find out how to pay your fees and when payments are due. Looking at your seller account activity See your current balance, along with any fees, credits, or payments applied to your account. Reviewing your invoice Understand your invoice and find out how to get more detail.
Listings. Sellers create listings for the items they want to sell. Anyone with an eBay account can sell items on the site. You do need to confirm your address and telephone number and set up an automatic payment method for fees before selling. The “Sell” link at the top of each eBay page takes the user to the listing creation template. New Seller Payments. If you are a new eBay seller, expect a hold on PayPal payments. PayPal may hold the funds received from the buyer anywhere from 3 to 21 days after the buyer receives the item.
eBay-Seller fees & invoices. The basic cost of selling an item is the insertion fee plus the final value fee, plus fees for any optional features and services you may use. Learn more about how fees are calculated, the cost of listing and selling an item, and our standard selling fees. Paying your fees. Paying your seller fees Find out how to pay your fees and when payments are due. Looking at your seller account activity See your current balance, along with any fees, credits, or payments applied to your account. Reviewing your invoice Understand your invoice and find out how to get more detail.
For Sellers. Here's how bidding works on the site, from the seller's perspective. Any seller must first open an account with the site to be able to sell items. A PayPal account will also be necessary to make reception of payments possible.
Wrap up with your buyer. Whether you're starting a business or just want to make some extra cash, selling on eBay is a fun way to do it. You can set up a seller account in advance, or when you list your first item. To create a listing, just click Sell at the top of most eBay pages. Once you've got your listing up and running, you can check it to see how bidding is going. You do this from the Sell section of My eBay, which comes up when you sign into your eBay account.
How Does eBay Work. If you are clueless about how the online auction giant, eBay works, this article will be a revelation. Read to know all about it, from the buyer's and seller's perspective. Here's how bidding works on the site, from the seller's perspective. Any seller must first open an account with the site to be able to sell items. A PayPal account will also be necessary to make reception of payments possible.