The Mexican flag has a vertical tricolor of green, white, and red with the national coat of arms (The coat of arms depicts a Mexican golden eagle perched on a prickly pear cac … tus devouring a snake.). 
Symbolism of the Mexican Flag. The symbolism of the three colors of the Mexican flag is also best explained in light of Mexican history. Originally a colony of Spain, Mexico finally gained it’s independence in the 19th century. The color green was chosen for the flag to represent independence from Spain
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984. Red, white, and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico. The central emblem is the Mexican coat of arms, based on the Aztec symbol for Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City), the center of the Aztec empire. It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island. Mexico's first largest monumental flag was the one located at the Mirador del Obispado in Monterrey (northeast) with a pole of 120 tons and 100.6 meters in height. The flag measures 50 by 28.6 meters and weighs 230 kilograms, four times the size of most other monumental flags at the time.
The Mexican Coat of Arms, which also appears on the Mexican national flag, illustrates the fulfillment of a prophesy describing where the Aztec people would found their first city. It shows an eagle perched on a cactus with a serpent in its mouth. 
Mexico's flag (Bandera de Mexico) consists of three vertical stripes of green, white and red, with Mexico's coat of arms in the center. It was adopted in Septembet 16, 1968, but the same flag has been used by Mexicans since 1821, the year when it was originally designed. The flag of Mexico is a tricolor featuring three vertical bands of equal size. From left to right, these bands are colored green, white, and red, respectively. In the center of the white band is the national coat of arms, depicting an eagle holding a serpent, among other details.
The flag of Mexico (Spanish: Bandera de Mexico) méxico is a vertical tricolor of, green, white and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white. stripe Mexico's first largest monumental flag was the one located at the Mirador del Obispado in Monterrey (northeast) with a pole of 120 tons and 100.6 meters in height. The flag measures 50 by 28.6 meters and weighs 230 kilograms, four times the size of most other monumental flags at the time.
Symbolism of the Mexican Flag The symbolism of the three colors of the Mexican flag is also best explained in light of Mexican history. Originally a colony of Spain, Mexico finally gained it’s independence in the 19th century. The color green was chosen for the flag to represent independence from Spain. The Eagle in the Mexican Flag In the middle of the Mexican flag between the green and red stripes is a picture of an eagle holding a snake in its mouth hand right claw. The Left claw of the eagle is resting upon a cactus plant which in turn is situated in a lake.
The Mexican flag is a tri-color of green (next to staff), white (center), and red. On the white field is the coat-of-arms of Mexico: the eagle above the cactus with a serpent in its beak. The flag of the 1821 era is sometimes represented with the coat-of-arms enclosed by a wreath of laurel and oak. 
The flag of Mexico has three vertical stripes on it; green, white and red. The Eagle in the Mexican Flag In the middle of the Mexican flag between the green and red stripes is a picture of an eagle holding a snake in its mouth hand right claw. The Left claw of the eagle is resting upon a cactus plant which in turn is situated in a lake.