A meat thermometer is a unit which will measure core temperature of meats while cooking. It will have a metal probe with a sharp point which is pushed into the meat, and a dial or digital display. A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
You Say Rare, I Say Raw. Rare roast beef is red and cool, but not cold, which is extra-rare -- also known as blue or essentially raw -- in the center. The internal temperature of rare roast beef is approximately 120 to 130 degrees Fahrenheit. Medium rare is 130 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit. The current minimum required temperature for cooked beef, as set by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, is 145 degrees Fahrenheit. A rare roast beef attains an internal temperature of only 130 degrees.
For beef, lamb, or veal insert the meat thermometer away from bone, fat, or cartilage. The meat should reach a temperature of between 63 °C (145 °F) for medium-rare, and 77 °C (170 °F) for well done. A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
For hamburgers you should insert the thermometer probe through the side of the patty, all the way to the middle. Make sure to check each piece of meat or patty because heat can be uneven. Temperature should be 71 °C (160 °F) for beef, lamb, veal, or pork and 74 °C (165 °F) for poultry. A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
Red Meats. For beef, lamb, bison and game meats rest roast at cool room temperature if possible, 30-60 minutes for small roasts and 60-90 minutes for larger roasts. Estimate roasting time. Allow 15 minutes per pound of roast for rare, 20 minutes per pound for medium rare to medium. 
If you are cooking at high temps, carryover can be up to 10°F. If you are cooking at low temps, it might not go up the full 5°F. But 5°F is a good rule of thumb for most roasts. Medium rare is the best temp for beef, lamb, venison steaks, roasts, and duck breasts. Food scientists have equipment to measure tenderness and juiciness. But at that temp, it takes at least two hours to kill them to 7D. The time gets lower as the temperature goes higher. So beef at 140°F degrees will get to a 7D kill rate in just 12 minutes, while at 160°F degrees, pathogens are destroyed in just 7.3 seconds, hence the USDA guidelines for the consumer.
1 Digital probe thermometers have a thin sensor that probes the beef or lamb and remains in the roast during cooking. 2  The sensor is attached to a wire that runs out of the oven door to a small unit that gives constant updates on the internal temperature of the meat. That is the beauty of the meat thermometer as it is an accurate way of measuring that internal temperature of the meat during cooking. How to tell when your beef, lamb, veal or goat is done. When your meat is done (be it a steak or a roast), the internal temperature of the meat will be: 1  Rare 60ºC. 2  Medium rare 60-65ºC. 3  Medium 65-70ºC. 4  Medium well done 70ºC. 5  Well done 75ºC
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 