A wicking bed is a garden bed with a waterproof lining that holds a reservoir of water at the bottom from which water is draw upwards like a wick to the surface of the bed via natural soil osmosis or through the roots of plants in the bed. Basically it works like large Decor self-watering pot. 
Capillary action (sometimes capillarity, capillary motion, or wicking) is the ability of a liquid to flow in narrow spaces without the assistance of, and in opposition to, external forces like gravity. Wicking is the absorption of a liquid by a material in the manner of a candle wick. Paper towels absorb liquid through capillary action, allowing a fluid to be transferred from a surface to the towel.
Wicking is the upward motion of water and cleaning solution during drying from the base of a tuft to its tip carrying with it any remaining soil and contamination, which is then deposited on the tips of the tuft. The biggest cause of soil wicking is overwetting due to technician error. Soil wicking can be caused by slow drying, overwetting, overuse of pre-spray, and heavy accumulation of soil at the base of yarns.
Some clothing made of wicking material is waterproof as well, keeping outside moisture from precipitation, etc. away from the body. The general idea behind wicking-type material is to keep the skin dry and comfortable to avoid chafing and swings in body temperature. I used to get so hot and sweaty before I discovered wicking material. The idea is that the fabric on the inside wicks moisture away from your skin and draws it to the outside of the fabric, where it evaporates.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Moisture wicking fabric is a kind of fabric that is commonly used in workout clothing and sportswear because the material is designed to pull moisture away from the skin. As such, the fabric draws sweat and perspiration off of the skin and out to the exterior of the fabric. When moisture wicking fabric pulls the sweat to the surface of the material, this problem is largely avoided. There are many different kinds of garments that are made out of moisture wicking fabric.
Wicking Clothing is clothing made with polyester microfiber formulations and blends designed so that sweat and water on your skin is sucked (wicked away), to the outer surface of the fabric, where it quickly evaporates. Normal fabrics like Cotton allow the sweat to be retained in the fabric. Washing. Do not use fabric softeners, or dryer sheets. The best way to keep the wicking function in the sleepwear is to wash the garments without softener and then let it hang dry. They will dry quickly on a hanger. If you by accident use fabric softener then wash the items again without softener.
Since cotton holds water, wicking material is typically composed of a synthetic fabric such as polyester or a combination of polyester and cotton. Since wicking fabric is so technical, it does in fact cost more than standard t-shirts. In fact this ‘wicking’ ability is what the term wicking tee is derived from. The fabric literally wicks sweat and moisture away from the body to keep the person’s skin dry. Wicking is defined by Wikipedia as the flow of liquids through porous media.
Ad. Clothing made of wicking material is typically, though not exclusively, used in a layering system. For example, when participating in winter sports, many people will wear a base layer — a layer of clothing closest to the skin — to wick moisture away from the skin. I used to get so hot and sweaty before I discovered wicking material. The idea is that the fabric on the inside wicks moisture away from your skin and draws it to the outside of the fabric, where it evaporates.
Summer athletes use clothing made from wicking material as well, either with layers or by itself. Thin wicking material can be used to make sports bras, shorts, athletic t-shirts, and socks, which can all be used in conjunction with other layers or simply worn alone in warmer conditions. I used to get so hot and sweaty before I discovered wicking material. The idea is that the fabric on the inside wicks moisture away from your skin and draws it to the outside of the fabric, where it evaporates.