Yesterday, my stool color was bright green. Stool comes in a range of colors. All shades of brown and even green are considered normal. Only rarely does stool color indicate a potentially serious intestinal condition. Stool color is generally influenced by what you eat as well as by the amount of bile — a yellow-green fluid that digests fats — in your stool. As bile pigments travel through your gastrointestinal tract, they are chemically altered by enzymes — changing the pigments from green to brown. 
Human feces (or faeces in British English; Latin: faex) fæx are the (feces solid waste) products of the human digestive, system including. Bacteria they vary significantly in (appearance.i. e, size, colour), texture according to the state of the digestive, system diet and general. health They vary significantly in appearance (i.e. size, colour, texture), according to the state of the digestive system, diet and general health. Normally stool is semisolid, with a mucus coating. Small pieces of harder, less moist feces can sometimes be seen impacted on the distal (leading) end. This is a normal occurrence when a prior bowel movement is incomplete, and feces are returned from the rectum to the intestine, where water is absorbed.
This is usually the result of bad absorption. Stool that is red or bloody may be a sign of colon disease, internal hemorrhoids, or intestinal parasites. Eating certain foods that are red in color, such as beets, may also add color to stools and urine. Dark stools are usually the result of a diet that is high in iron from foods such as dark greens, iron supplements, or meat. Yet these stools may be indicative of an underlying dysfunction in the colon. Stool shape and color may provide a better guide to the health of the intestines. Read on to learn more about what your stool shape, form, and color may be saying about your health….
1 Changes in stool color may be due to diarrhea; bleeding in the intestine; diseases of the intestines, liver, or pancreas; and medications. 2  Diagnosis when stool color changes depends on what process is suspected of causing the change, for example, gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy if bleeding is supsected. In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines
Stool that is pale or grey may be caused by insufficient bile output due to conditions such as cholecystitis, gallstones, giardia parasitic infection, hepatitis, chronic pancreatitis, or cirrhosis. Bile salts from the liver give stool its brownish color. If there is decreased bile output, stool is much lighter in color. They vary significantly in appearance (i.e. size, colour, texture), according to the state of the digestive system, diet and general health. Normally stool is semisolid, with a mucus coating. Small pieces of harder, less moist feces can sometimes be seen impacted on the distal (leading) end. This is a normal occurrence when a prior bowel movement is incomplete, and feces are returned from the rectum to the intestine, where water is absorbed
Report Abuse. Brown. Feces are mostly shades of brown or yellow because they are also made up of an orange-yellow substance called bilirubin that is present throughout the body and particularly in the intestine. When iron combines with bilirubin, it gives it a brown color. 
When it comes to frequency, color, shape, and size, a general rule of thumb is that normal bowel movements are defined as what’s comfortable for you. But being knowledgeable about your digestive process can help you identify when normal goes awry. Color can be a red flag when it’s a drastic change, Aserkoff says. “If stool is black, it can mean that you are bleeding internally, possibly as a result of an ulcer or cancer ,” he says. Stool that is black due to bleeding is also sticky (tarry) and smells bad.
Color : “Bowel movements are generally brown in color because of bile, which is produced in the liver and important to the digestion process,” Aserkoff tells WebMD. The food you eat typically takes three days from the time you eat it until it finishes its journey in your toilet, Aserkoff says. Color can be a red flag when it’s a drastic change, Aserkoff says. “If stool is black, it can mean that you are bleeding internally, possibly as a result of an ulcer or cancer ,” he says. Stool that is black due to bleeding is also sticky (tarry) and smells bad.