Spondylolysis is the most common cause of isthmic spondylolisthesis, in which one vertebral body is slipped forward over another. Isthmic spondylolisthesis is the most common cause of back pain in adolescents; however, most adolescents with spondylolisthesis do not actually experience any symptoms or pain. Cases of either neurological deficits or paralysis are exceedingly rare, and for the most part it is not a dangerous condition. Importantly, spondylolysis only refers to the separation of the pars interarticularis (a small bony arch in the back of the spine between the facet joints), whereas spondylolisthesis refers to anterior slippage of one vertebra over another (in the front of the spine).
Definition. Spondylolisthesis is generally defined as an anterior or posterior slipping or displacement of one vertebra on another. A unilateral or bilateral defect (lesion or fracture) of the pars interarticularis without displacement of the vertebra is known as Spondylolysis. The pars interarticularis is the posterior plate of bone that connects the superior and inferior articular facets of a vertebral body
Spondylolisthesis is a slipping of vertebra that occurs, in most cases, at the base of the spine. Spondylolysis, which is a defect or fracture of one or both wing-shaped parts of a vertebra, can result in vertebrae slipping backward, forward, or over a bone below. Causes of Spondylolisthesis. There are many causes for spondylolisthesis. A vertebra might be defective from the time a person is born, or a vertebra may be broken by trauma or a stress fracture. In addition, vertebrae can be broken down by infection or disease.
Spondylolytic Spondylolisthesis. In spondylolysis, a fracture often occurs at the pars interarticularis. One of the bones in your lower back can break and this can cause a vertebra to slip forward. The break most often occurs in the area of your lumbar spine called the pars interarticularis. Adult Spondylolisthesis in the Low Back. In spondylolisthesis, one of the bones in your spine — called a vertebra — slips forward and out of place. This may occur anywhere along the spine, but is most common in the lower back (lumbar spine). In some people, this causes no symptoms at all. Others may have back and leg pain that ranges from mild to severe
Spondylolisthesis is a condition in which one bone in your back (vertebra) slides forward over the bone below it. It most often occurs in the lower spine (lumbosacral area). In some cases, this may lead to your spinal cord or nerve roots being squeezed. Spondylolisthesis is caused by a problem with one or more of these small joints that allows one bone to move out of line. Spondylolisthesis may be caused by any of a number of problems with the small joints in your back. You could have: 1  A defective joint that you've had since birth (congenital).
With the condition of spondylolisthesis, the pars interarticularis defect can be on one side of the spine only (unilateral) or both sides (bilateral). The most common level it is found is at L5-S1, although spondylolisthesis can occur at L4-5 and rarely at a higher level. Importantly, spondylolysis only refers to the separation of the pars interarticularis (a small bony arch in the back of the spine between the facet joints), whereas spondylolisthesis refers to anterior slippage of one vertebra over another (in the front of the spine).
Spondylolysis is a breakdown or fracture of the narrow bridge between the upper and lower facets, called the pars interarticularis. It can occur on one side (unilateral) or both sides (bilateral) and at any level of the spine, but most often at the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra (Fig. 2). Most believe it is due to a genetic weakness of the pars interarticularis. Both spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis can be present at birth or occur through injury. Repeated stress fractures caused by hyperextension of the back (as in gymnastics and football) and traumatic fractures are also causes.
Isthmic spondylolisthesis is caused by a defect in a part of the vertebra called the pars interarticularis. This defect can cause the vertebra to slip forward. The most common symptom of spondylolisthesis is lower back pain. Sometimes, a person can develop the lesion (spondylolysis) at a younger age and not have any symptoms until they are 35 years old, when a sudden twisting or lifting motion will cause an acute episode of back and leg pain.
In either case, the result is a stress fracture on one or both sides of the vertebra. 1  In many people, spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis are present, but without any obvious symptoms. 2  Pain usually spreads across the lower back and may feel like a muscle strain. 