Best Answer: Your refrigerator water filter is almost certainly using a carbon filter and possibly another form of filtration. Although different manufacturers will have different guidelines for how long the filter will last, it's very common for an in-line filtration media to last 6 months. I purchased a new refrigerator a little over a year ago that has an ice maker and water dispenser on the front door. There is a filter indicator on the inside that counts down when it's time to change the water filter.
by Jamin Arvig on. If your refrigerator dispenses water, chances are it uses a water filter. And if it’s been a long time since you’ve replaced it, the inside of it may be clogged with some of the gunk you see in the picture to your left. And the crusty ice cubes below are likely an all too familiar image. Changing your refrigerator water filter is the kind of routine maintenance that can be easily put off, but just like the batteries in your smoke alarm or the oil in your car, it’s important to keep a regular schedule.
The filter Indicator will be Red when you have used your water filter for 6 months. If you change the filter, press the Ice Type / Filter Change button for 3 seconds to reset the filter schedule. When you do not want to use the water filter, press the Ice Type button for more than 5 seconds, the Filter Indicator and the Filter Change display will be switched off. To give you time to get a new filter the red light comes on just before the capacity of the current filter runs out. Follow these steps to change the water filter. 1. Shut off the water supply. Then turn the water filter (1) about 1/4 turn anti-clockwise. 2. Pull the water filter (1) from the case filter (2).
THE RIGHT TIME TO CHANGE. 1  Your filter performance will depend on how much you use it and on the water source quality, but a good rule of thumb is that it should be changed sometime between 3 and 6 months, at the most, or as specified by the manufacturer. STEP-BY-STEP INSTRUCTIONS FOR LSC27925. When the filter icon turns on, you have to change the water filter. Press the Filter button for 3 seconds to turn the icon off. Please order a replacement LT500P filter from our website before removing your current filter. Then, just follow these steps and you'll do it in no time.
The type of contaminants reduced by a properly functioning filter will appear more and more as your filter ages. And when it gets to the point that you start to notice – whether that’s three months, six months – or even nine months – it’s time to make a change. And the crusty ice cubes below are likely an all too familiar image. Changing your refrigerator water filter is the kind of routine maintenance that can be easily put off, but just like the batteries in your smoke alarm or the oil in your car, it’s important to keep a regular schedule.
In most cases, changing your refrigerator water filter is quite simple. Each manufacturer's refrigerator water filter system is different, and you should consult the owner's manual to locate the filter and follow the directions for removing and replacing it. If you have further questions, or need customer assistance in finding your replacement refrigerator water filter, give our water experts a call at 1.877.335.3339 or click the Chat Now button.
You can avoid drinking unwanted chemicals, particles and bacteria by changing your refrigerator water filter on a regular basis. Manufacturers recommend that you change your filter every 6 months. The life of your water filter depends on the amount of water you use and the quantity of contaminants in your water. 
1 Always change your filter when the indicator reaches 0. 2  If ice and water do not taste good, you may want to change your filter earlier. 3  Keep an eye on the water flow. 4  Lower water flow may indicate that your filter is becoming clogged with particles and it's time to change. STEP-BY-STEP INSTRUCTIONS FOR LSC27925. When the filter icon turns on, you have to change the water filter. Press the Filter button for 3 seconds to turn the icon off. Please order a replacement LT500P filter from our website before removing your current filter. Then, just follow these steps and you'll do it in no time.
Replacement refrigerator water filters vary but on average, changing the filter two times a year will cost roughly $70-$80, even less if multiple filters are bought or the compatible version is chosen. By using two water filters per year, a refrigerator can filter about 3,000 bottles of water. If you have further questions, or need customer assistance in finding your replacement refrigerator water filter, give our water experts a call at 1.877.335.3339 or click the Chat Now button.