The series tells the saga of Ragnar's band of Viking brothers and his family as he rises to become King of the Viking tribes. Reviews: 168 user | 46 critic. The world of the Vikings is brought to life through the journey of Ragnar Lothbrok, the first Viking to emerge from Norse legend and onto the pages of history-a man on the edge of myth.
How to Get a Raven’s Eye View of the Set! January 25, 2014 in Ireland, Irish Film & Television, Traveling in Ireland | 7 comments. Vikings, the History Channel’s entertaining rival to Game of Thrones, returns to our screens in late February. This is another show filmed in Ireland and displaying the country to good affect. Perhaps surprisingly, both seasons of Vikings have been almost entirely shot in Ireland. (Photo: AFlvuncok/Flickr) Click through for high-res image showing two Vikings sets. In the summer of 2013, the production company built an extensive set on the shore of Lough Tay, including several Viking houses and a long boat skeleton.
Morgan O’Sullivan, Managing Director of World 2000 Productions. Historical drama Vikings has been given a third series and will continue to film on location in County Wicklow, Ireland, with a base at Ashford Studios outside Dublin. The show was History Channel’s first scripted series and tells the story of the infamous Nordic race. Vikings occupies all the stages at Ashford (below) and uses standing sets for the drama’s historic settings. Around 40% of the series is filmed on location and a Viking village set has been built nearby on a private estate owned by the studio’s founder Joe O’Connell.
Set to premiere in 2013, the series will be filmed in Ireland and throughout picturesque locations in Northern Europe. Shaw Media will be the broadcast partner in Canada, airing the show on HISTORY Television in Canada. “There is no better way to introduce the world to the new MGM Television Studios than with a powerful and epic drama like VIKINGS ,” said Roma Khanna, President Television Group and Digital, MGM Studios Inc. “We are thrilled to be able to bring HISTORY their first scripted series.
The third season of Vikings premiered on 19 February 2015, and the series was renewed for a fourth season on 26 March 2015. The show portrays Ragnar as a former farmer who rises to fame by successful raids into England, and eventually becomes king of Denmark, with the support of his family and fellow warriors: his brother Rollo, his son Bjorn Ironside, and his wives—the shieldmaiden Lagertha and the princess Aslaug.
The series will be filmed at Ashford Studios, a newly built studio facility in Ireland. Ireland has been home not only to such acclaimed recent TV dramas as The Tudors and Camelot, but also to treasured feature films such as Braveheart, My Left Foot, Excalibur, Barry Lyndon and The Spy Who Came in From the Cold. “There is no better way to introduce the world to the new MGM Television Studios than with a powerful and epic drama like VIKINGS ,” said Roma Khanna, President Television Group and Digital, MGM Studios Inc. “We are thrilled to be able to bring HISTORY their first scripted series.
For the 2012 BBC Documentary series, see Vikings (TV documentary series) . Vikings is an Irish-Canadian historical drama television series written and created by Michael Hirst for the television channel History. Filmed in Ireland, it premiered on 3 March 2013 in the United States and Canada. Vikings is inspired by the sagas of Viking Ragnar Lothbrok, one of the best-known legendary Norse heroes and notorious as the scourge of England and France. The show portrays Ragnar as a former farmer who rises to fame by successful raids into England, and eventually becomes king of Denmark, with the support of his family and fellow warriors: his brother Rollo, his son Bjorn Ironside, and his wives—the shieldmaiden Lagertha and the princess Aslaug.
27 Mar 2015 by Nick Goundry. History Channel’s scripted drama Vikings will film a fourth season on location in Ireland this spring. The show is based at Ashford Studios outside Dublin and tells the story of the Nordic race
The series is mostly filmed on the standing sets at Ashford Studios, and in a Viking village built nearby. Earlier this year Ireland boosted its filming incentive programme from 28% to 32% and expanded financial support to be applicable to the salaries of stars coming from outside the European Union. History Channel’s scripted drama Vikings will film a fourth season on location in Ireland this spring. The show is based at Ashford Studios outside Dublin and tells the story of the Nordic race