This helps the engine and the fan circulate air quicker, getting cool air and coolant to the engine and helping you remove some heat from the car. If you're in stop/start traffic, this could be a great way to keep the engine moving when the car can't. 5. Add water to the radiator if you are out of coolant. Add warm water to your radiator, but only after the engine has cooled. Cool water can cause a crack in your engine block due to the extreme change in temperature. 6. Drive for short stretches, turn the car off, and repeat if you need to keep moving.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes, a Turbo requires a cooling down time. How long a time really depends on how hard the car was driven prior to wanting to turn it off. A turbo requires oil to circulate through it in order to keep it cool and lubricated. 
(2,000 mile on 05 MCS). The owner advises I will need to leave the car because he won't change the oil with the engine hot. How long a period of time for the engine to cool down for a safe oil change ? Never heard of this before. I guess the Jiffy Lubes would be out of business if they waited for the engine heat to cool down on cars they service. 
Report Abuse. too many variables to that formula. i can drive from my house to the corner and get an engine pretty hot in the right conditions even at that temperature outside. as for the hood, since it covers a source of heat, that will take some time also. i would have to say about 2-3 hours really. Open up the hood and it will cool almost twice as fast. I'd give it at least 2 hours to be able to touch the engine without getting burned. I've used a leave blower to cool my engine before when I needed to work on it right after driving it. Boring · 5 years ago.
He says if you drive your car around and then park it in the garage, it won't get as cold as if you kept it outside. Henein: When you stop the engine, the engine is hot. It takes a long time for the internal components of the engine to cool down. It can take up to 8 or to 12 hours. That's because there's no wind to carry the heat away. So even if it feels cold in your garage, the engine may still be warm. 
The question is always asked, how long should it take to cool the car down after it's been sitting under the sun all day? Well, the answer depends on how hot the car is to start with, in what condition is your car's Air conditioning system and what process you use to cool it down after you start the car. If your car is parked under the sun all day, the temperatures are most likely well over a 120 degrees Fahrenheit. Presuming that your A/C system is working properly, here is the quickest way to get your car's interior to cool down.
Knowing how to cool an overheated engine is an important skill for any licensed driver. Being able to diagnose and fix your own issues can get you back on the road quickly, prevent costly mechanical issues, and help you learn when to seek professional help. Add warm water to your radiator, but only after the engine has cooled. Cool water can cause a crack in your engine block due to the extreme change in temperature. 6. Drive for short stretches, turn the car off, and repeat if you need to keep moving.
All that can greatly change how long it takes before you could put your hand on the engine block and it would feel cool. You could easily go a several hours before the engine block is cool to the touch. The hood can get hot just from the sun, and isn't necessarily a good measure of the engine cool down. On the other hand, a small engine with lots of empty space and air flow in the engine bay will become cool much faster. Open up the hood and it will cool almost twice as fast. I'd give it at least 2 hours to be able to touch the engine without getting burned. I've used a leave blower to cool my engine before when I needed to work on it right after driving it. Boring · 5 years ago.
Report Abuse. You want to wait long enough so that when you remove the radiator cap, you don't get a blast of steam in your face or on your hands. The 1 hr time is recommended because some cars take only 15 minutes, others take an hour. Smaller engines cool down quicker than big V8 engines. They don't want to face a civil liability suit because someone didn't use common sense. It has nothing to do with damaging the engine or cooling system.