The reason that milk products cause acne is because milk contains hormones that turn on oil glands. The cows that give the milk are pregnant and milking most of their lives.
If it has milk in it, it’s likely to give you acne. Okay, I know that isn’t easy, especially if you love dairy products and food that includes dairy products (like pizza, or my childhood favorite, toasted sesame bagels with cream cheese).
1 Dairy causes your skin to produce excess sebum (oil), leading to – you guessed it! – more clogged pores, more acne, and a breeding ground for P. acnes bacteria, which feed on your sebum and spew out inflammatory by-products.
Because the lactose is typically not what causes acne. (It may cause diarrhea, but not acne!) It’s typically other ingredients found in milk, suach as whey, casein, IGF-1, and growth hormone (GH), that cause acne, not the lactose. (Geek note: Lactase is an enzyme that breaks down lactose, the primary sugar in milk.
Drinking more milk may lead to more acne. If you live in the United States or Canada, you get bombarded with two kinds of information about milk and dairy products.
DAIRY PRODUCTS AND SUGAR CAUSE ACNE. As our sugar and dairy consumption has increased over the last 100 years so has the number of people with acne. We now have over 17 million acne sufferers, costing our health care system $1 billion a year. Eighty to ninety percent of teenagers suffer acne to varying degrees.
It's confirmed. Dairy products and sugar cause acne. As our sugar and dairy consumption has increased over the last 100 years so has the number of people with acne. We now have over 17 million acne sufferers, costing our health care system $1 billion a year, and 80-90 percent of teenagers suffer acne to varying degrees.
No. Lactose intolerance has nothing to do with acne. But if you have acne and are found to be lactose intolerant and you stop your milk, your acne will often improve or clear. The real cause for the improvement is the lack of the hormones and growth factors in the milk.