1 If you want the look of a tall, tiered wedding cake without the price, ask your baker to put one tier of real cake, which you will cut into, on top of fake tiers made of Styrofoam and icing; then have a sheet cake waiting in the back to be cut. 1 Decorations make a big difference in the per-slice cost. 2  Fresh flowers are one of the easiest and least expensive ways to decorate a cake. 3  Fondant, which can cover a cake in a smooth, satiny shell, is one of the most expensive; it can add $1 or more per slice. 4  Elaborate fondant decorations increase the price even more
Pricing Wedding cakes: Wedding cakes are a different beast. Wedding cakes are normally priced based on the number of guest at the wedding. The individual price per slice is totally up to you and based on time and expertise. Wedding / Specialty cakes start from $2.50-$8.50 a slice. 
1 The average cost of a wedding cake is $543, according to The Bridal Association of America. 2  For wedding cakes, most bakeries and pastry chefs charge by the slice. 3  A low-end option would be a smaller tiered cake in chocolate or vanilla paired with a sheet cake for cutting for around $1.50 a slice. 1 Decorations make a big difference in the per-slice cost. 2  Fresh flowers are one of the easiest and least expensive ways to decorate a cake. 3  Fondant, which can cover a cake in a smooth, satiny shell, is one of the most expensive; it can add $1 or more per slice. 4  Elaborate fondant decorations increase the price even mor
Fondant average starting price is $3.75 per guest. Delivery and set up charge is usually $50. Fully serviced wedding cakes start at $300. Our average wedding cake price in 2013 was $545; with prices ranging from $250 to $1024. Number of guests is the greatest factor in the price of a wedding cake. It is best to pick out a cake you love & then let us size it for you. The biggest parties we have done recently have used kitchen cakes to help keep the cost down. Icing choice will also affect the price of your cake. The average buttercream wedding cake costs approximately $2.50 per guest; while fondant wedding cake costs approximately $3.50 per guest. Fondant cakes are more expensive due to the cost of the fondant itself & the fact that all of our fondant cakes are also covered in buttercream
1 have a budget in mind. 2  A budget is a guideline for the bakery to keep your appointment on track and help you choose something that is appropriate for you. 3  Most wedding cakes fall between $4.00 and $6.00 per serving, a price similar to buying a piece of cake at a restaurant. 
1. The wedding cake icing or frosting: as a bride-to-be you have the choice of rolled fondant icing, marzipan, white chocolate, milk chocolate or dark chocolate frosting, royal icing, chocolate ganache and flavoured buttercream. For the purpose of pricing a wedding cake, we are setting our example below on a buttercream covered wedding cake decorated with flowers. Below you will find approximate serving sizes and approximate wedding cake prices for: 1. A tiered wedding cake.
It's important to know though, that most of a the wedding cakes cost will be in the creating of your wedding cake and the least cost is in the actual ingredients. This is were the costs come in: your choice of icing or frosting and how the cake is decorated ie: simple swirls or intricate artwork. For the purpose of pricing a wedding cake, we are setting our example below on a buttercream covered wedding cake decorated with flowers. Below you will find approximate serving sizes and approximate wedding cake prices for: 1. A tiered wedding cake.
A: Wedding cake is usually priced by the slice, and the range is wide—anywhere from $1.50 to $12 a slice. The more complicated the wedding cake, the more you'll pay. Fondant icing is generally more expensive than buttercream, and if you want elaborate molded shapes, vibrant colors, and/or handmade sugar-flower detailing, you'll pay for the cake designer's time and labor. (People always leave slices half-eaten on the table anyway.) Or, have the wedding cake of your dreams made on a small scale for a price you can comfortably afford, and then order sheet cakes of the same flavor to be cut in the kitchen.