Q: When will my child's baby teeth start to fall out? A: There's a huge range of normal when it comes to losing baby teeth. Although most children lose their first tooth at 5 or 6, some start as young as 4, and others won't get to meet the Tooth Fairy until 7. Your child will usually be the first to know when a tooth is loose because she can feel it moving.
Most children lose their baby teeth in this order: Baby teeth ordinarily are shed first at about age 6 when the incisors, the middle teeth in front, become loose. Molars, in the back, are usually shed between ages 10 and 12, and are replaced with permanent teeth by about age 13. Children usually wiggle their teeth loose with their tongues or fingers, eager to hide them under their pillow for the tooth fairy..
The first baby teeth to fall out are typically the two bottom front teeth (lower central incisors) and the two top front teeth (upper central incisors), followed by the lateral incisors, molars and canines. Molars typically fall out between ages 9 and 12 and are replaced by permanent teeth by about age 13. When your child starts to lose his or her baby teeth, reinforce the importance of proper dental care. For example: 1  Remind your child to brush his or her teeth at least twice a day. 2  Supervise and offer assistance as needed. 3  Help your child floss his or her teeth daily.
At age six or seven, the first adult (or permanent) teeth come in. They are known as the first molars, or the six-year molars.. They come in at the back of the mouth, behind the last baby (or primary) teeth. They do not replace any primary teeth. Also at around age six, children start to lose their primary teeth. The roots slowly get weak, and the tooth falls out. Children lose primary teeth until they are about 12 years old. It's okay for children to wiggle their primary teeth if they are loose. 
The following chart shows when your child's primary teeth (also called baby teeth or deciduous teeth) should erupt and shed. Eruption times vary from child to child. As seen from the chart, the first teeth begin to break through the gums at about 6 months of age. Usually, the first two teeth to erupt are the two bottom central incisors (the two bottom front teeth). Next, the top four front teeth emerge.
This can crowd permanent teeth and cause them to come in crooked. Some children are excited to lose their baby teeth, while others are nervous about this childhood milestone. If your child wants you to pull out a loose tooth, grasp it firmly with a tissue or piece of gauze and remove it with a quick twist. When your child starts to lose his or her baby teeth, reinforce the importance of proper dental care. For example: 1  Remind your child to brush his or her teeth at least twice a day. 2  Supervise and offer assistance as needed. 3  Help your child floss his or her teeth daily.
Babies' teeth begin to develop before they are born, but in most cases don't come through until they're between 6 and 12 months old. Most children have a full set of 20 milk or baby teeth by the time they're three years old. When they reach five or six, these teeth will start to fall out, making way for adult teeth. Adult teeth. By the age of 12 to 14, most children have lost all their baby teeth and have their adult teeth. There are 32 adult teeth in total, 12 more than in the baby set. The last four of these, called wisdom teeth, usually emerge later than the others, generally between the ages of 17 and 21.
Some children lose their first tooth as early as 4 or as late as 7. Generally, the younger the child was when the teeth came in, the earlier they fall out. It's possible for kids to lose a baby tooth too early, before the permanent tooth is ready to erupt, because of an accident or dental disease. First in, first out. A child's 20 baby teeth, which typically come in by age 3, usually fall out in the order in which they came in. That means the lower center teeth (lower center incisors) are usually the first to go, around age 5 or 6.
The complete set of primary teeth is in the mouth from the age of 2 ½ to 3 years of age to 6 to 7 years of age. Other primary tooth eruption facts: 1  A general rule of thumb is that for every 6 months of life, approximately 4 teeth will erupt. Eruption times vary from child to child. As seen from the chart, the first teeth begin to break through the gums at about 6 months of age. Usually, the first two teeth to erupt are the two bottom central incisors (the two bottom front teeth). Next, the top four front teeth emerge.