1 Understand that hepatitis B vaccination-induced protective antibodies can last for up to 15 years, but appear to fall off over time. 2  Patients who were vaccinated 10 to 15 years ago, especially those who were vaccinated as children, may not be adequately protected.
For infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers, postvaccination testing should be performed 1–2 months after completion of ≥3 doses of a licensed hepatitis B vaccine series (i.e., at age 9–18 months, generally at the next well-child visit).
Subjects received three doses of plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine appropriate for their age, and were tested annually for antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) and HBV infection markers for the first 11 years.
1 Understand that hepatitis B vaccination-induced protective antibodies can last for up to 15 years, but appear to fall off over time.
A. I took the Hep A vaccine and then six months later took a booster and it supposedly lasts for life. But you have to get the booster. I read that Hep B vaccine is similar. Here's some more info that I pulled out of an article: Both the vaccines for hepatitis A and the vaccines for hepatitis B are highly effective.
It depends on the schedule and manufacturer of the vaccine that you are using. For children age 11 through 15 years, the 2-dose Recombivax HB volume is 1.0 mL or 10 micrograms. Otherwise the 3-dose schedule of Recombivax HB is 0.5 mL or 5 micrograms and of Engerix-B is 0.5
Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver, most often caused by a viral infection. There are three common types of hepatitis caused by viruses: hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. Vaccines have been developed that protect people from contracting hepatitis A and B. There is no vaccine for
Results are similar for the hepatitis B vaccine, and experts estimate that both vaccines will give immunity for up to 20 or 30 years and possibly for life. As with all medications, there is the potential for side effects. But the safety record of both vaccines is outstanding.
When necessary, postvaccination testing for antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) should generally be performed 1–2 months after completion of the vaccine series.
by Angelo DePalma PhD. The duration of immunity to hepatitis B virus (HBV) from plasma-derived vaccine was generally believed to be around 10 years. However, rigorous determination of the upper time limit for immunity has not been carried out.