This fruit, known as loquat in English or nispero in Spanish, has soft orange flesh and usually three to five almond-sized seeds. It is native to Asia, but grows in Mexico and the Southern United States as well as Central and South America. Photo Credit: &copy 2006 Suzanne Barbezat, licensed to About. Gallery. 
Loquats are unusual among fruit trees in that the flowers appear in the autumn or early winter, and the fruits are ripe in late winter or early spring. The flowers are 2 cm (1 in) in diameter, white, with five petals, and produced in stiff panicles of three to ten flowers. In the US, the loquat tree is hardy only in USDA zones 8 and above, and will flower only where winter temperatures do not fall below 30 °F (−1 °C). In such areas, the tree flowers in autumn and the fruit ripens in late winter.
The loquat has a high sugar, acid, and pectin content. It is eaten as a fresh fruit and mixes well with other fruits in fresh fruit salads or fruit cups. The fruits are also commonly used to make jam, jelly, and chutney, and are often served poached in light syrup. In the US, the loquat tree is hardy only in USDA zones 8 and above, and will flower only where winter temperatures do not fall below 30 °F (−1 °C). In such areas, the tree flowers in autumn and the fruit ripens in late winter.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In English, the nispero is called a loquat and its a tree found commonly in China. They are sweetest when soft and orange and grow on a tree. The loquat is similar to the apple as it has a high sugar, acid and pectin content. It is eaten as a fresh fruit and goes well with other fruits in fruit salads or fruit cups. Firm, slightly immature fruits are best for making pies or tarts.
In English it is called a loquat. If you eat them while they are ripe they taste similar to a peach but not exactly… Anyhow they are SUPER good. My favorite is to eat them just before they turn orange and they are a little bit tart. SOOOO good. After MO confirmed the spelling for Misperos which Nadia had used in reference to this yellow fruit known in the English language as naseberry or sapodilla, I became curious and next time I went to the market I asked a few people selling it.
1. A small evergreen tree (Eriobotrya japonica) in the rose family, native to China and Japan, having fragrant white flowers and pear-shaped yellow fruit with large seeds. 2. The edible fruit of this plant. n. 1. (Plants) an ornamental evergreen rosaceous tree, Eriobotrya japonica, of China and Japan, having reddish woolly branches, white flowers, and small yellow edible plumlike fruits. 2. (Plants) the fruit of this tree. [C19: from Chinese (Cantonese) lō kwat, literally: rush orange].
Nispero, níspero nipero and mespel are terms referring to certain-fruit bearing, trees or to their fruit in: particular Nispero, níspero nipero and mespel are terms referring to certain-fruit bearing, trees or to their fruit in: 1  Particular Common (Medlar mespilus), germanica the origin of the (term Called mispel in Many germanic, languages mispeli In, finnish nespolo In, italian.).  etc
The loquat (Eriobotrya japonica) is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae, native to south-central China. It is a large evergreen shrub or small tree, grown commercially for its yellow fruit, and also cultivated as an ornamental plant. In the US, the loquat tree is hardy only in USDA zones 8 and above, and will flower only where winter temperatures do not fall below 30 °F (−1 °C). In such areas, the tree flowers in autumn and the fruit ripens in late winter.