The Graphic Method Of Recording Muscle Contraction. In order to study the details of the contraction of muscle, the graphic method of recording the motion is applied. The curve may be drawn on an ordinary cylinder moving sufficiently rapidly. The rate of motion is registered by a tracing drawn by a tuning fork of known rate of vibration. In order that the muscle-nerve preparation may not be injured by the tissues becoming too dry, it is placed in a small glass box, the air of which is kept moist by a damp sponge.
The detection, amplification, and recording of changes in skin voltage produced by underlying skeletal muscle contraction is called electromyography, and the recording thus obtained is called an electromyogram (EMG). Power is defined as the amount of work done per unit of time. Mechanical work, in the physical sense, refers to the application of a force that results in the movement of an object. Skeletal muscle performs mechanical work when the muscle contracts and an object is moved, as in lifting a weight.
As a result, stimulation of a single motor unit causes weak contraction of the entire muscle Muscle Twitch Three phases:A muscle twitch is the response of a muscle to a single action potential of its motor neuron. The fibers contract quickly and then relax. 
electromyogram (EMG). Recording of electrical activity of a muscle associated with contraction and relaxation. This is obtained by placing a microelectrode within a muscle. The recording process is called electro-myography. See Sherrington's law of reciprocal innervation. A diagnostic test that records the electrical activity of muscles. In the test, small electrodes are placed on or in the skin; the patterns of electrical activity are projected on a screen or over a loudspeaker. This procedure is used to test for muscle disorders, including muscular dystrophy. Mentioned in: Myopathies.
Electromyogram (EMG). A diagnostic test that records the electrical activity of muscles. In the test, small electrodes are placed on or in the skin; the patterns of electrical activity are projected on a screen or over a loudspeaker. This procedure is used to test for muscle disorders, including muscular dystrophy. Mentioned in: Myopathies.
Electrocardiography is a commonly used, noninvasive procedure for recording electrical changes in the heart. The record, which is called an electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG), shows the series of waves that relate to the electrical impulses which occur during each beat of the heart. /elec·tro·car·di·og·ra·phy/ (-kahr″de-og´rah-fe) the making of graphic records of the variations in electrical potential caused by electrical activity of the heart muscle and detected at the body surface, as a method for studying the action of the heart muscle.
electrocardiography. the graphic recording from the body surface of the electric potential of currents generated by the heart, as a means of studying the action of the heart muscle. adj., adj electrocardiograph´ic. /elec·tro·car·di·og·ra·phy/ (-kahr″de-og´rah-fe) the making of graphic records of the variations in electrical potential caused by electrical activity of the heart muscle and detected at the body surface, as a method for
The curves given in the following woodcuts are drawn with the Pendulum Myograph. Du Bois-Reymond draws muscle curves on the smoked surface of a small glass plate contained in a frame, which is shot by the force of a spiral spring along tense wires, and on its way breaks the contact. The rate of motion is registered by a tracing drawn by a tuning fork of known rate of vibration. In order that the muscle-nerve preparation may not be injured by the tissues becoming too dry, it is placed in a small glass box, the air of which is kept moist by a damp sponge.
An electrocardiogram, or ECG, is a record of the electrical activity of the myocardium, or heart muscle. The ECG is recording the summed action potentials occurring in the hea … rt. Electrocardiography is the process of making this record. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An electromyogram (EMG) is a test that is used to record the electrical activity of muscles. When muscles are active, they produce an electrical current. This current is usually proportional to the level of the muscle activity. An EMG is also referred to as a myogram. The procedure is quite painful as the technician has to stick a needle connected to a meter that reads and conducts electrical current