The family system. According to Bowen, a family is a system in which each member had a role to play and rules to respect. Members of the system are expected to respond to each other in a certain way according to their role, which is determined by relationship agreements. Within the boundaries of the system, patterns develop as certain family member's behavior is caused by and causes other family member's behaviors in predictable ways.
The term 'family' can have different definitions, such as a family of a mother, father, and children to family units that consist of extended family members and friends. This lesson will define the family systems theory and explore various types of families, models of influence, and changing family trends. To one person, family may mean a mother, a father, and children. To another person, family may mean a father, grandmother, aunts, uncles, cousins, brothers, and sisters. There is no right or wrong way to define family, and all of these various makeups influence the interaction of each person within the family.
Family Systems Theory. The family systems theory is a theory introduced by Dr. Murray Bowen that suggests that individuals cannot be understood in isolation from one another, but rather as a part of their family, as the family is an emotional unit. Members of the system are expected to respond to each other in a certain way according to their role, which is determined by relationship agreements. Within the boundaries of the system, patterns develop as certain family member's behavior is caused by and causes other family member's behaviors in predictable ways.
Bowen family systems theory is a theory of human behavior that views the family as an emotional unit and uses systems thinking to describe the complex interactions in the unit. It is the nature of a family that its members are intensely connected emotionally. 
The family systems theory conceptualizes the family as a system. That is, the family consists of interrelated parts, each impacting the other and contributing to the growth (or detriment) of the other. Further, the family is always changing, self-organizing, and adapting to its members and the outside environment. To one person, family may mean a mother, a father, and children. To another person, family may mean a father, grandmother, aunts, uncles, cousins, brothers, and sisters. There is no right or wrong way to define family, and all of these various makeups influence the interaction of each person within the family.
Family therapy, also referred to as couple and family therapy, marriage and family therapy, family systems therapy, and family counseling, is a branch of psychotherapy that works with families and couples in intimate relationships to nurture change and development. From those groups that were most strongly influenced by cybernetics and systems theory, there came MRI Brief Therapy, and slightly later, strategic therapy, Salvador Minuchin 's Structural Family Therapy and the Milan systems model.
Family systems psychology. Family systems psychology is a more general name for the subfield of family therapists. E.g. Murray Bowen, Michael E. Kerr, and Baard and researchers have begun to theoretize a psychology of the family as a system. Organismic-systems psychology. Systems psychology is a branch of both theoretical psychology and applied psychology that studies human behaviour and experience in complex systems. It is inspired by systems theory and systems thinking, and based on the theoretical work of Roger Barker, Gregory Bateson, Humberto Maturana and others
Presents an overview of family systems perspectives as they relate to the functioning of the school psychologist, reviews briefly current available levels of family intervention, and presents guidelines for training school psychologists in family dynamics and family therapy. 
Family Systems Theory Defined. To one person, family may mean a mother, a father, and children. To another person, family may mean a father, grandmother, aunts, uncles, cousins, brothers, and sisters. There is no right or wrong way to define family, and all of these various makeups influence the interaction of each person within the family.