The color of urine can vary from almost colorless to black. Normal urine may show color variation ranging from pale yellow to deep amber. Urine color is typically a result of the degradation of the heme molecule into a urinary pigment called urochrome. 
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. An unusual urine color can be a sign of disease. For instance, deep red to brown urine is an identifying characteristic of porphyria, a rare, inherited disorder of red blood cells. 1  Symptoms.
When you know what causes the regular tint, it will be easier to understand the conditions that lead to the passing of dark yellow, orange or even cloudy excretion. So, before we go into the causes behind it, let us understand what we mean by normal urine. Usually, it appears pale or light yellow. The yellow tint of the pee is due to presence of the substance called urobilin. Urobilin, is a waste product that is formed after the breakdown of heme in the hemoglobin. This occurs during the destruction of old blood cells within the body. Thus, urobilin is the reason behind the regular yellow
From the bladder, the pee is excreted out of the body through a process called urination. It passes through the urethra from the bladder outside the body. The waste passed is rich in nitrogen that is removed from the bloodstream as a by-product. Usually, it appears pale or light yellow. The yellow tint of the pee is due to presence of the substance called urobilin. Urobilin, is a waste product that is formed after the breakdown of heme in the hemoglobin. This occurs during the destruction of old blood cells within the body. Thus, urobilin is the reason behind the regular yellow urine
What is Normal Urine. It is always a good idea to keep a tab when you pee. Normal one indicates that all is well with the body. Any underlying conditions like an infection, proteinuria, diabetes or hypertension can be indicated by the appearance of your pee. Usually, it appears pale or light yellow. The yellow tint of the pee is due to presence of the substance called urobilin. Urobilin, is a waste product that is formed after the breakdown of heme in the hemoglobin. This occurs during the destruction of old blood cells within the body. Thus, urobilin is the reason behind the regular yellow urin
The waste products that make urine yellow are called urobilins. These are products of the break down of bilirubin, … a pigment found in bile. In fact, this has come from the break down of the better known pigment found in blood, haemoglobin. Basically It's due to excretion of urochrome, a blood pigment. Urochrome is a yellow-colored pigment that gives the color to urine.
the normal yellow color is due to urochrome, a pigment metabolite arising from the body's destruction of hemoglobin. In fact, this has come from the break down of the better known pigment found in blood, haemoglobin. Basically It's due to excretion of urochrome, a blood pigment. Urochrome is a yellow-colored pigment that gives the color to urine.
Normal urine color results from a pigment called urochrome. The actual tint will depend on the concentration or dilution of the urine. The color of urine may not always be nor … mal; B vitamins, for example, turn urine green, and carrot juice can turn it orange. In fact, this has come from the break down of the better known pigment found in blood, haemoglobin. Basically It's due to excretion of urochrome, a blood pigment. Urochrome is a yellow-colored pigment that gives the color to urine.
Urine varies in appearance, depending principally upon a body's level of hydration, as well as other factors. Normal urine is a transparent solution ranging from colorless to amber but is usually a pale yellow. In the urine of a healthy individual the color comes primarily from the presence of urobilin. Urobilin in turn is a final waste product resulting from the breakdown of heme from hemoglobin during the destruction of aging blood cells. 1 Reddish or brown urine may be caused by porphyria (not to be confused with the harmless, temporary pink or reddish tint caused by beeturia). 2  Blue urine can be caused by the ingestion of methylene blue (e.g., in medications) or foods or beverages with blue dyes. 3  Blue urine stains can be caused by blue diaper syndrome.