1 Dissolve beef bouillon cube in boiling water in a large bowl. 2  Stir soy sauce, cornstarch, teriyaki sauce, and sugar into the water. 3  Lay beef strips into the soy sauce mixture; stir to coat beef entirely. 4  Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 5  Cook and stir vegetables in hot oil briefly, about 1 minute.
1 Melt butter in skillet, add minced onions and cook 1-2 minutes. 2  Mix flour, paprika, & grill seasoning together and place on a plate. 3  Season steak with salt and pepper then dredge through flour mixture making sure not to coat the meat too heavily. 4  Cook for 3-5 minutes on each side depending on size of meat.
1 In a small bowl, combine flour, broth, sugar, and soy sauce. 2  Stir until sugar and flour are dissolved. 3  In a large skillet or wok over high heat, cook and stir beef 2 to 4 minutes, or until browned. 4  Stir in broth mixture, ginger, garlic, and broccoli. 5  Bring to a boil, then reduce heat.
1 While the broccoli is cooking, combine sauce ingredients – 1/3 cup soy sauce, brown sugar, ginger, and 1 tablespoon corn starch. 2  Mix well. 3  Add beef back into the pan with the broccoli, onions, and garlic. 4  Reduce heat, and stir in sauce. 5  Simmer for a few minutes, until it has thickened. 6  Stir in chopped fresh cilantro.
1 slice cube steaks into strips sautee steak with garlic for about 7 minutes or until steak is browned on both sides. 2  Add ginger, sesame oil and soy sauce, cook several more minutes until steak is well cooked and tender.
In a bowl, mix together the soy sauce, cornstarch, sherry, brown sugar, ginger and garlic. Pour half the liquid over the sliced meat in a bowl and toss with your hands. Reserve the other half of the liquid and set aside. Heat the oil in a heavy skillet (iron is best) or wok over high heat.
1 Add another tablespoon of oil to the pan, if needed, and stir fry onion, and broccoli for a few minutes. 2  Add in garlic and cook a minute or two longer. 3  While the broccoli is cooking, combine sauce ingredients – 1/3 cup soy sauce, brown sugar, ginger, and 1 tablespoon corn starch. 4  Mix well.
1 Add ginger, sesame oil and soy sauce, cook several more minutes until steak is well cooked and tender. 2  add broccoli, cook until broccoli is done-- around 5-8 min for frozen broccoli. 3  add flour to thicken sauce, cook until sauce coats the back of a spoon. 4  If the gravy is too salty simply add water to dilute it.