Southeast Asia is a subregion of Asia, roughly be described as geographically situated east of the Indian subcontinent, south of China and north of Australia, between the Indian Ocean (in west) and the Pacific Ocean (in east). Regions in South-East Asia. Countries and regions on the fringe of Southeast Asia: Bhutan, Hong Kong, Indian States and Union Territories, Macau, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Tibet. You are free to use this map for educational purposes, please refer to the Nations Online Project.
What country is not in southeast Asia of countries in Asia? South East Asia is often defined by ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations), including 10 countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Bur … ma, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. Asia Minor (Turkey) is at the extreme west of what is considered to be Asia proper. It has no connection with Southeast Asia whatsoever, which is made up of the countries of V … ietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, etc. + 2 others found this useful.
In Continents. South East Asia is often defined by ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations), including 10 countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Bur … ma, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. Asia Minor (Turkey) is at the extreme west of what is considered to be Asia proper. It has no connection with Southeast Asia whatsoever, which is made up of the countries of V … ietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, etc. + 2 others found this useful.
The culture in Southeast Asia is very diverse: on mainland Southeast Asia, the culture is a mix of Indochinese (Burma, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand) and Chinese (The Philippines,Singapore and Vietnam). Indonesia is the largest country in Southeast Asia and it also the largest archipelago in the world by size (according to the CIA World Factbook). Geologically, the Indonesian Archipelago is one of the most volcanically active regions in the world.
21 Southeast Asia Between China and the United States Munir Majid T he new geopolitics of Southeast Asia is dominated by the emerging regional rivalry between China and the United States. There is a new contest for influence in Southeast Asia.The pivot is taking place in the context of deepening Chinese regional relationships. China’s economic rise and success not only won the admiration of Southeast Asian countries, but also helped Beijing establish strong trade and financial ties with them.
Gulf of the Ganges left, Southeast Asian peninsula in the centre, China Sea right, with Sinae (China). The history of Southeast Asia has been characterised as interaction between regional players and foreign powers. Each country was intertwined with all the others as depicted in the Southeast Asian political model. For instance, the Malay empires of Srivijaya and Malacca covered modern day Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Singapore while the Burmese, Vietnamese and Khmer peoples governed much of Indochina.
Countries that are located near the Asian continent could be considered an Asian country such as Philippines, Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia, etc. However Hawaii, Australia, and New Zealand are examples of countries that would not be considered as Asian countries even though Australia is one of Indonesia's closest neighbor. There are 47 countries in asia. I will name some of them.   Japan, china, philipines, north korea, south korea, mongolia, singapore, indonesia, malaysia, taiwan, bang … ladesh, pakistan, laos, india.
Southeast Asia or Southeastern Asia is a subregion of Asia, consisting of the countries that are geographically south of China, east of India, west of New Guinea and north of Australia. The region lies near the intersection of geological plates, with heavy seismic and volcanic activity. Indonesia is the largest country in Southeast Asia and it also the largest archipelago in the world by size (according to the CIA World Factbook). Geologically, the Indonesian Archipelago is one of the most volcanically active regions in the world.
Intro: Malaysia (coupled with Singapore) is one of the most pleasant, hassle-free countries to visit in South-East Asia. It can be described as buoyant and wealthy with a cultural infusion of Malay, Chinese, Indian and indigenous groups that you just don't get in Thailand. Others like Indonesia simply because it is not Thailand and has a greater sense of adventure attached to it. Nevertheless this is still South-East Asia and has the same flavours and same kind of travellers as elsewhere in the region. Some will love it, others will be slightly disappointed.