Automatic Call Sequencer will answer up to 12 in-bound lines promptly with a clear, digitally-recorded voice announcement informing the caller that their call will be taken by the first available representative. The call is then placed on hold. In addition, two TMS-12A's can be cascaded to support up to 24 lines.
The data show that at 2:25:36, with the horn sequencer still activated, the throttle was moved from position 8 to position 7. This action would have reset the alerter timing cycle. And for the next 2 minutes 16 seconds, the horn continued sounding the grade-crossing cadence.
Based on examination of the Lococam data and the operating characteristics of the horn sequencer, we determined that the southbound train’s horn sequencer was active for a 4-minute 6-second period before the accident.
The collision occurred at 2:28:38. Horn Sequencer The lead locomotive in the southbound train, UP 9707, was equipped with a horn sequencer that is designed to sound the “long, long, short, long” highway-rail grade-crossing horn cadence.
An airhorn, is a warning device used primarily on diesel locomotives, and also on electric locomotives Airhorns are often a single horn, or a combined set of horns known as bells on what is called a 'mani-fold', which supports a set of horns.
In the latter case the extended range of the horn provides the composer or arranger with more possibilities, sonically, registrally, contrapuntally. Due to the heroic quality of its sound, the French Horn is often used in film music, solo or in ensemble, even playing in unison.
The power of this simple concept is mighty, though. Consider that a sequencer is capable of recording multiple performances, with different sounds, and then playing them all back at once. In simple terms again, a sequencer is a series of tracks. Depending on your instrument you can have from 1 or 2 to 32 tracks.
The sequencer that is a feature on almost every keyboard manufactured is often overlooked. Mostly because if you are unfamiliar with the concept and try to read about it in the owner's manual, you'll bail. Immediately. It almost reads like a foreign language.
The TMS-12A Automatic Call Sequencer will answer up to 12 in-bound lines promptly with a clear, digitally-recorded voice announcement informing the caller that their call will be taken by the first available representative. The call is then placed on hold. In addition, two TMS-12A's can be cascaded Learn More.