Quality Assurance Operations Specialist. YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and direct marketing.... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all YP jobs in Glendale, CA-Glendale jobs. The YP Advantage:. YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and... 13 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all YP jobs in Metairie, LA-Metairie jobs. 2  Salary Search: Digital Sales Executive S Louisana salaries in Metairie, LA.
Company Overview. YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the US dedicated to helping local businesses and communities grow. Formerly AT&T Interactive and AT&T Advertising Solutions, YP launched in May 2012, bringing the two companies together. YP’s flagship consumer brands include the popular YP℠ app and YP.com, which are used by more than 70 million visitors each month in the U.S. and The Real Yellow Pages® directory. Connecting consumers with businesses when they’re ready to buy is what YP is all about, and we’ve been doing this for over 100 years. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising, direct marketing, and print directory advertising
Depending on your search engine marketing needs, YP℠ offers different solutions to help you drive local online and mobile leads to your business. Email. Depending on your search engine marketing needs, YP℠ offers different solutions to help you drive local online and mobile leads to your business. We use a variety of lead sources, such as Google, YP, Yahoo!, and Bing to help maximize results.
General Info: Connecting consumers with businesses when they’re ready to buy is what YP is all about, and we’ve been doing this for over 100 years. YP Marketing Solutions includes online presence, local search, display advertising and direct marketing. We’re backed by thousands of media consultants and customer service professionals in local markets across the U.S. with relationships spanning more than half a million advertisers. 
YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and... 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all YP jobs in Colorado Springs, CO-Colorado Springs jobs. 2  Salary Search: Digital Sales Executive salaries in Colorado Springs, CO. The YP Advantage:. YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and... 13 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all YP jobs in Metairie, LA-Metairie jobs. 2  Salary Search: Digital Sales Executive S Louisana salaries in Metairie, LA.
It's free! YP℠ is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. dedicated to helping local businesses and communities grow. YP’s flagship consumer brands include the popular YP app and YP.com, which are used by 70 million visitors each month in the U.S. (Internal Data, January 2015). YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and direct marketing. YP solutions and services are backed by thousands of media consultants and customer service professionals in local markets across the U.S. with relationships spanning more than half a million advertisers. Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. YP℠ is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. dedicated to helping local businesses and communities grow.
YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and direct marketing.... 2 days ago-save job-email-more... The YP Advantage:. YP is a leading local marketing solutions provider in the U.S. YP solutions include online presence, local search, display advertising and... 13 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all YP jobs in Metairie, LA-Metairie jobs. 2  Salary Search: Digital Sales Executive S Louisana salaries in Metairie, LA.