trochanteric fossa. Definitions: 1. a depression at the root of the neck of the femur beneath the curved tip of the great trochanter; it gives attachment to the tendon of the obturator externus. Synonyms: fossa trochanterica, digital fossa1. The definition information for trochanteric fossa is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical student
Ansari Moein CM, Gerrits PD, ten Duis HJ. Piriform fossa, trochanteric fossa and greater trochanteric tip have each been described as entry points for antegrade femoral nailing. However, the terminology used for these entry points is confusing
trochanteric fossa. At the proximal end of the femur, an irregular recess along the upper inner (proximal medial) surface of the great trochanter, where the medial edge of the greater trochanter overhangs the neck of the femur. See also: fossa. temporal fossa. an area on the side of the cranium bounded by the temporal line and the zygomatic arch, lodging the temporal muscle. trochanteric fossa. the deep fossa at the proximal end of the femur between the greater and lesser trochanters.
In mammals including humans, the medial surface of the greater trochanter has at its base a deep depression bounded posteriorly by the intertrochanteric crest, called the trochanteric fossa. This fossa is the point of insertion of four muscles. Moving from the inferior-most to the superior-most, they are: the tendon of the obturator externus muscle, the obturator internus, the superior gemellus and inferior gemellus. The width and depth of the trochanteric fossa varies taxonomically. In reptiliomorphs such as Seymouria or Diadectes and basal reptiles such as Pareiasaurus, the trochanteric fossa (also known as the intertrochanteric fossa) is a very large depression on the ventral/posterior side of the femur
The trochanteric fossa, a deep depression at the base of the femoral neck is indicated as 'piriform fossa' in the vast majority of the publications. Other publications indicate the insertion site of the tendon of the piriformis muscle on the greater trochanteric tip as 'piriform fossa'. Piriform fossa, trochanteric fossa and greater trochanteric tip have each been described as entry points for antegrade femoral nailing.
Medical Definition of TROCHANTERIC FOSSA. : a depression at the base of the internal surface of the greater trochanter of the femur for the attachment of the tendon of the obturator externus. What made you want to look up trochanteric fossa? Tweet. : a depression at the base of the internal surface of the greater trochanter of the femur for the attachment of the tendon of the obturator externus.
The fossa, the largest predator of the island of Madagascar, has a massive body with relatively long, thick extremities and semiretractile claws. It somewhat resembles a cat, but the head is longer. The fur is short, smooth, and reddish brown. fossa. carnivorous mammal, Cryptoprocta ferox, of Madagascar. The island's largest carnivore, the fossa resembles a puma pumaor cougar, New World member of the cat family, Puma concolor. Also known as mountain lion, catamount, panther, and painter, it ranges from S British Columbia to the southern tip of South America.
An uncommonly used term for a jagged furrow medial to the intertrochanteric crest of the femur and continuous with the trochanteric fossa superiorly. 