Perseus was the son of the mortal Danae danaë and the God. Zeus he was also the great grandfather Of, heracles also a son Of. zeus Because of the obscurity of the name Perseus and the legendary character of its bearer, most etymologists pass it by, on the presumption that it might be pre-Greek; however, the name of Perseus’ native city was Greek and so were the names of his wife and relatives.
Perseus /per-seus/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Greek origin. Mythology: the son of Zeus and Danae. He killed the Medusa and rescued Andromeda from a sea monster, and later married her. 
Perseus was the son of Danae and Zeus, who came to Danae in the form of a golden spring. It was foretold to Danae's father, Acrisius the King of Argos, that Danae's son would kill him. So Acrisius locked his daughter away in a bronze chamber, but Zeus transformed into a shower of gold and impregnated her anyway. 
Perseus is the son of Danae and Zeus. He was the slayer of Medusa, and rescuer of Andromeda from the sea dragon. Perseus was a hero in Greek mythology. He was the son of Zeu … s, king of the gods, and the mortal Danae. Upon hearing the oracle's prophecy that his grandson would kill him one day, Acrisius locked his beautiful daughter, Danae, and her infant son, Perseus, in a wooden chest and cast it into the sea. Yes, Zeus had a son named Perseus, Poseidon did not. In the fictional series 'Percy Jackson and the Olympians', the antagonist is a boy named Percy who is the son of Zeus.
Perseus is the son of Danae and Zeus. He was the slayer of Medusa, and rescuer of Andromeda from the sea dragon. Perseus was a hero in Greek mythology. He was the son of Zeu … s, king of the gods, and the mortal Danae. Yes, Zeus had a son named Perseus, Poseidon did not. In the fictional series 'Percy Jackson and the Olympians', the antagonist is a boy named Percy who is the son of Zeus.
Perseus is the Greek hero known as the Champion  who slew the monster Medusa with a sword. The word Champion, is from Latin campus, field (of combat). The French and German word for mushroom is champignon, from Late Latin campaneus, 'pertaining to the fields', from Latin campus, field. Perseus founded Mycenae and called the city so because on its site the cap (myces) fell from his scabbard, and he regarded this as a sign to found a city. It is also said that Perseus, being thirsty, picked up a mushroom (myces), and drinking the water that flowed from it, named the site [ 3 ].
Ancient Greek Gods for Kids. Perseus was a famous Greek hero. Like Hercules, he was part god and part man. Like Hercules, his father was the mighty Zeus, king of all the gods. His mother was a princess. She lived in the city-state of Argos. Perseus was famous for many thing
Perseus was the son of Zeus and Danae, danaë the daughter Of, Acrisius king Of. Argos disappointed by his lack of luck in having a, Son acrisius consulted the oracle At, delphi who warned him that he would one day be killed by his'daughter s son With. zeus Because of the obscurity of the name Perseus and the legendary character of its bearer, most etymologists pass it by, on the presumption that it might be pre-Greek; however, the name of Perseus’ native city was Greek and so were the names of his wife and relatives.
In Greek mythology Perseus was a hero who was said to have founded the ancient city of Mycenae. He killed Medusa, who was so ugly that anyone who gazed upon her was turned to stone, by looking at her in the reflection of his shield and slaying her in her sleep. 
The Romans only changed the names of the gods, not the heroes. So Perseus' Roman name is still Perseus. Yes, Zeus had a son named Perseus, Poseidon did not. In the fictional series 'Percy Jackson and the Olympians', the antagonist is a boy named Percy who is the son of Zeus.