1 5 to 8 Years-This is the max age bearded dragons get in the wild and is generally how long a dragon will live if their owner just does the basics and doesn't pay any attention to their bearded dragon's diet Learn about the bearded dragon's health and diet. or health. The size and length of a bearded dragon depends on a couple of factors including: Sometimes you may get a bearded dragon and not know how old he/she is. Fortunately, there are a few tricks you can use to get a general estimate of how old a bearded dragon is. Bearded dragons are normally very healthy and hardy lizards.
The bearded dragon's scientific name is Pogona Vitticeps and they are medium sized lizards which are generally 12-24 inches in length from their head to the tip of their tail. The size and length of a bearded dragon depends on a couple of factors including: Sometimes you may get a bearded dragon and not know how old he/she is. Fortunately, there are a few tricks you can use to get a general estimate of how old a bearded dragon is. Bearded dragons are normally very healthy and hardy lizards.
You can expect captive dragons realistically to grow to about 10% less than these maximums. All lengths are measured from tip to tip and ranked in size descending order for a full grown Bearded Dragon: 1  Pogona Vitticeps (Central) : 60cm/ 24 inches. 2  Pogona Barbata (Eastern) : 60cm/ 24 inches. 3  Pogona Minor Mitchelli (Mitchells) : 45cm/ 18 inches. The biggest claim for a dragon so far has been 26 inches, but this has yet to be conclusively proven e.g. tape measure and photo. Typically the male will grow larger than the female. You can measure them in 2 ways, either by body length or from tip of the tail to the tip of their mouth – as done below.
Genus/species: Pogona vitticeps. Description. Inland bearded dragons are 13 to 24 inches (33 to 61 cm) long, including the tail. They are appropriately named bearded dragons because of their beard, an expandable dewlap with spiky scales. They have a broad, triangular head, round bodies, stout legs, and robust tail
The chart below shows the max size based on the type of bearded dragon, but keep in mind that most dragons will not grow to be as big as their max size. 1  Pogona Vitticeps - 24 Inches. 2  Pogona Barbata - 24 Inches. 3  Pogona Minor Mitchelli - 18 Inches. 4  Pogona Minor Minor - 14 to 18 Inches. 5  Pogona Nullabor - 14 Inches. The size and length of a bearded dragon depends on a couple of factors including: Sometimes you may get a bearded dragon and not know how old he/she is. Fortunately, there are a few tricks you can use to get a general estimate of how old a bearded dragon is. Bearded dragons are normally very healthy and hardy lizards.
The length/ size of a Bearded Dragon depends on a few things; the species, the environment and their diet/ health. Typically the male will grow larger than the female. You can measure them in 2 ways, either by body length or from tip of the tail to the tip of their mouth – as done below. The biggest claim for a dragon so far has been 26 inches, but this has yet to be conclusively proven e.g. tape measure and photo
Confidence votes 136. The average adult bearded dragon gets 18 inches long (1 1/2 feet) . There are different species of bearded dragon that can get up to 24 inches (2 feet). I have 5 adult dragons. The smallest is about 14 inches, the largest is about 22 inches. 
Adult bearded dragons are a average of 15 to 24 inches in length, while hatchlings are between 3 to 4 inches at birth. Bearded Dragons Eastern Bearded Dragons (the most common type of bearded dragon) can grow to 55cm total length.
The average adult bearded dragon gets 18 inches long (1 1/2 feet) . There are different species of bearded dragon that can get up to 24 inches (2 feet).   I have 5 adult dr … agons. The smallest is about 14 inches, the largest is about 22 inches. Ones that have some German Giant genes tend to get larger but you really can't tell until they are full grown. Bearded Dragons Eastern Bearded Dragons (the most common type of bearded dragon) can grow to 55cm total length.