A National Academy of Sports Medicine answered. Lats is the abbreviated term for the latissimus dorsi, a large muscle located on the back side of the body. The lats get their name based on their location, which is the lateral (side) and dorsal (back) part of the human body. The lats attach to the pelvis, lower and mid back, and inside of the upper arm. A Dr. Mike Clark, DPT, Fitness, answered. Located at the low back, the latissimus dorsi muscle runs from the low back and hips to the top of the upper arm (humerus). It helps internally rotate the arm, extend the shoulder, and bring the upper arm down to the side.
Your surgeon will take a flap from your latissimus dorsi muscle (located on your back), with or without attached skin. The flap is elevated off of the back and brought around under the skin under your arm to the front of the chest wall. 
Save as Favorite. Your latissimus dorsi muscle is located in your back, just below your shoulder and behind your armpit. It's the muscle that helps you do twisting movements, such as swinging a racquet or golf club. In a latissimus dorsi flap procedure, an oval flap of skin, fat, muscle, and blood vessels from your upper back is used to reconstruct the breast. This flap is moved under your skin around to your chest to rebuild your breast. The blood vessels (artery and vein) of the flap are left attached to their original blood supply in your back. Because the flap contains a significant amount of muscle, a latissimus dorsi flap is considered a muscle-transfer type of flap.
The latissimus dorsi is responsible for extension, adduction, transverse extension also known as horizontal abduction, flexion from an extended position, and (medial) internal rotation of the shoulder joint. It also has a synergistic role in extension and lateral flexion of the lumbar spine. 
The Latissimus Dorsi Muscle (also referred to in short as the Lats) is one of the largest surface muscle located on the back on either side of the back bone. Recognized for it’s large flat V shape it is a very powerful muscle that is chiefly responsible for the the movement of the shoulders even though it is located on the back of the torso. When flexed the Latissimus Dorsi Muscle achieves movement of the arm in three different ways;
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Hollisterlover101. Confidence votes 4. The Latissimus Dorsi is located around the sides of your back.It is a muscle in your body. 
Latissimus dorsi. The latissimus dorsi muscle is one of the largest muscles in the back. There muscle is divided into two segments, which are configured symmetrically along the backbone. The muscle is located in the middle of the back, and it is partially covered by the trapezius. It originates along the seventh thoracic vertebra (T7) region of the spine and extends to its insertion point on the humerus. The muscle also covers the lower tip of the scapula, or shoulder blade.