Pregnancy, also known as gravidity or gestation, is the time during which one or more offspring develops inside a woman. A multiple pregnancy involves more than one offspring, such as with twins. Pregnancy can occur by sexual intercourse or assisted reproductive technology. It usually lasts around 40 weeks from the last menstrual period (LMP) and ends in childbirth. This is just over 9 lunar months, where each month is about 29½ days.
Weeks 37-40: 1  By the end of 37 weeks, your baby is considered full term. 2  As you near your due date, your baby may turn into a head-down position for birth. 3  At birth, your baby may weigh somewhere between 6 pounds 2 ounces and 9 pounds 2 ounces and be 19 to 21 inches long. 1 By the end of 37 weeks, your baby is considered full term. 2  Your baby's organs are ready to function on their own. 3
Weight that is lower than what is considered as healthy for a given height is described as underweight. 1. At an individual level, BMI can be used as a screening tool but is not diagnostic of the body fatness or health of an individual. 
A balanced, nutritious diet is an important aspect of a healthy pregnancy. Eating a healthy diet, balancing carbohydrates, fat, and proteins, and eating a variety of fruits and vegetables, usually ensures good nutrition. A multiple pregnancy involves more than one offspring, such as with twins. Pregnancy can occur by sexual intercourse or assisted reproductive technology. It usually lasts around 40 weeks from the last menstrual period (LMP) and ends in childbirth. This is just over 9 lunar months, where each month is about 29½ days.
Light bleeding, or spotting, during pregnancy is common, especially during the first trimester. Usually this is no cause for alarm. It is considered spotting when you notice a few drops of blood occasionally in your underwear. There is not even enough blood to cover a panty liner. Bleeding is a heavier flow of blood. 
In light of recent research showing that each week of gestation affects newborn health, a leading doctors' group is redefining when a pregnancy is considered term.. Previously, a pregnancy was considered full term any time between 37 and 42 weeks of gestation. On average, a single-fetus pregnancy lasts 40 weeks from the date of the woman's last menstrual period. Fewer moms having C-sections before 39 weeks.
Blood pressure is the amount of force exerted by the blood against the walls of the arteries. A person's blood pressure is considered high when the readings are greater than 140 mm Hg systolic (the top number in the blood pressure reading) or 90 mm Hg diastolic (the bottom number). Taking steps to control your blood pressure before and during pregnancy-and getting regular prenatal care-go a long way toward ensuring your well-being and your baby's health. Before becoming pregnant: 1  Be sure your blood pressure is under control.
Understand the risks of obesity during pregnancy — plus steps to promote a healthy pregnancy. Being obese during pregnancy can have a major impact on your health and your baby's health. Find out about the possible complications, recommendations for weight gain and what you can do to promote a healthy pregnancy. 1 Preeclampsia. 2  Women who are obese are at increased risk of developing a pregnancy complication characterized by high blood pressure and signs of damage to another organ system, often the kidneys (preeclampsia). 3  Infection. 4  Women who are obese during pregnancy are at increased risk of urinary tract infections.
Preconception care can improve your chances of getting pregnant, having a healthy pregnancy, and having a healthy baby. If you are sexually active, talk to your doctor about your preconception health now. Preconception care should begin at least three months before you get pregnant. 
Most of the time having a baby is a natural process. After a full-term pregnancy, a woman goes into labor on or near her due date and gives birth to a healthy baby. A day or two later she leaves the hospital to begin day-to-day life with her growing family. But not all pregnancies go smoothly. Some women experience what doctors refer to as a high-risk pregnancy. A pregnancy is considered high-risk when there are potential complications that could affect the mother, the baby, or both. High-risk pregnancies require management by a specialist to help ensure the best outcome for the mother and baby. 