The scientific name of the killer whale is Orcinus orca, which is the source of their other common name, orca. The name killer whale causes many misconceptions about this noble beast. First, killer whales are not whales at all. They are, in fact, dolphins (the largest dolphins, actually). Second, they are not particularly violent creatures. Some are hunters, and prey on a variety of creatures, such as squid, shark, otters, sea lions, penguins, birds, octopii, dolphins, and salmon. 
Killer whales are one of the top predators in the sea. They tend to eat almost anything that they come across, their diet depending on exactly what is living in their home waters. They are known to eat fish, squid, seals, sea lions, penguins, and even other whales, such as sperm whales. There are no reports of whale attacks on humans in the wild, although some have be known to happen in captive situations.
The killer whale (Orcinus orca), also referred to as the orca whale or orca, and less commonly as the blackfish or grampus, is a toothed whale belonging to the oceanic dolphin family, of which it is the largest member. English-speaking scientists most often use the term killer whale, although the term orca is increasingly used. Killer whale advocates point out it has a long heritage. Indeed, the genus name Orcinus means of the kingdom of the dead, or belonging to Orcus .
The killer whale, (Orcinus orca), is the largest member of the group of marine mammals known as dolphins (family Delphinidae). They are called killer whales because they attac … k and consume whales or other large prey such as seals and sea lions. They are known to eat fish, squid, seals, sea lions, penguins, and even other whales, such as sperm whales. There are no reports of whale attacks on humans in the wild, although some have be known to happen in captive situations.
Orcas are called killer whales due to the fact that they are the top predator in the ocean. They are the hunters, not the hunted. They eat almost anything and everything they … can find including other whales. They are known to eat fish, squid, seals, sea lions, penguins, and even other whales, such as sperm whales. There are no reports of whale attacks on humans in the wild, although some have be known to happen in captive situations.
As a result, the name 'killer whale', instead of whale killer, got associated with orcas. It is not clearly understood whether it was an error in translation or the name was accepted as it is. The Spanish sailors called them killer whales because these creatures preyed on different kinds of whales. They didn't even spare the bigger whale species. Killer whales are known to prey on different kinds of sea creatures, irrespective of their size and type. Here is more on their hunting skills and efficiency. Carousel fishing, echolocation, hunting in pods, etc., are some of the techniques used by killer whales for hunting
For centuries, orcas have instilled fear in the hearts of mankind. In all their ferociousness, they've been dubbed wolves of the sea, whale killers, killing demons and fish tigers, to name a few [source: National Geographic, PBS ]. There are plenty of depictions of people-friendly orcas, such as the movie Free Willy and SeaWorld's Shamu. So what did the orca do to get this frightening name? If you've ever seen the 1970s movie Orca, the Killer Whale starring Richard Harris and Bo Derek, you may already have an idea.
Orcas are amongst the world's most feared predators. These marine creatures belong to the Delphinidae family, which comprises different kinds of oceanic dolphins. In fact, the orca is the biggest member of this group. Some of the others include the Pygmy Killer Whale, False Killer Whale, and the Melon-headed Whale. The Spanish sailors called them killer whales because these creatures preyed on different kinds of whales. They didn't even spare the bigger whale species. Killer whales are known to prey on different kinds of sea creatures, irrespective of their size and type.
To find out whether orcas live up to the name killer whale, we need to get a few things straight. Orcas aren't classified as whales. Rather, Orcinus orca belongs to the dolphin family (Delphinidae) and is the largest of all dolphins. Something else may surprise you -- killer whales don't hunt humans. In fact, whalers working in Twofold Bay, near Australia, claimed that killer whales helped them hunt other whales [source: PBS ]. 
Orcas (formerly known as killer whales), Orcinus orca (Linnaeus, 1758), are actually dolphins. And they are the largest of the dolphin family (Family Delphinidae ~ 32 species, including what we normally consider dolphins, pygmy killer whales, Feresa attenuata, and false killer whales, Pseudorca crassiddens). And, as their common name implies, the remains of other orcas have also been found in the stomachs of these killer whales.. It is uncertain why these animals are cannibalistic. The diets of orcas vary from one region to another. In the Antarctic, orcas eat about 67% fishes, 27% marine mammals and 6% squid.