Most species grow as filamentous, microscopic structures called hyphae. Many interconnected hyphae form a mycelium, which—when visible to the naked eye (macroscopic)—is commonly called mold (or, in botanical terminology, thallus). During sexual reproduction, many Ascomycota typically produce large numbers of asci. Previously placed in the Deuteromycota along with asexual species from other fungal taxa, asexual (or anamorphic) ascomycetes are now identified and classified based on morphological or physiological similarities to ascus-bearing taxa, and by phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences.
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi. The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction. Approximately 1050 species are known. They are mostly terrestrial in habitat, living in soil or on decaying plant or animal material. 
Like basidiomycota, most ascomycota sprout from spores into hapliod mycelia. These mycelia can produce two types of reproductive structures. First, they can produce conidiophores for asexual reproduction. Conidiaphores may simply branch off from the mycelia or they may be formed in fruiting bodies. There are 2000 identified genera and 30,000 species of Ascomycota. The unifying characteristic among these diverse groups is the presence of a reproductive structure known as the ascus, though in some cases it has a reduced role in the life cycle.
All members of the Ascomycota produce an ascus that contains ascospores. The class includes the largest group and most successful of all fungi, with over 44,000 known species. The group has existed for many millions of years and there is some evidence that they took their origin from Zygomycotous forms. 
Ascomycetes are 'spore shooters'. They are fungi which produce microscopic spores inside special, elongated cells or sacs, known as 'asci', which give the group its name. As the spores mature within an ascus, increasing fluid pressure builds up inside until eventually the top bursts off, rapidly releasing the spores. 
Types of Fungi. The 100,000 identified species of organisms commonly classed together as fungi are customarily divided into four phyla, or divisions: Zygomycota, Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, and Deuteromycota. Ascomycota includes yeasts, the powdery mildews, the black and blue-green molds, edible types such as the morel and the truffle, and species that cause such diseases of plants as Dutch elm disease, chestnut blight, apple scab, and ergot. There are over 50,000 species, about 25,000 of which occur only in lichens
Ascomycota. Ascomycota are the sac fungi group, named for the cases (often sac-shaped) where they produce their spores. The group includes such fungi as yeasts, truffles, morels. There are 32,000 known living species of ascomycota fungi, comprising the biggest phylum of fungi. Ascomycota account for 75% of all described fungi. As with all true fungi, ascomycota can reproduce by both sexual and asexual means, the latter being more common for the development of the mycelium. Ascomycota produce ascospores form inside ascus (sac, asci for plural) and release them into the air, water, or onto other organisms for dispersal when they are disturbed.
Many species of Ascomycota also (or exclusively) produce spores through an asexual or mitotic process; these spores, called conidia, exhibit a wide range of size, shape, color and septation among the different fungi in which they are formed. No one knows for sure how many species of fungi there are on our planet at this point in time, but what is known is that at least 99,000 species of fungi have been described, and new species are described at the rate of approximately 1200 per year (Blackwell 2011; Kirk et al.
Ascomycota is a division or phylum of the kingdom Fungi that, together with the Basidiomycota, form the subkingdom Dikarya. Its members are commonly known as the sac fungi or ascomycetes. Previously placed in the Deuteromycota along with asexual species from other fungal taxa, asexual (or anamorphic) ascomycetes are now identified and classified based on morphological or physiological similarities to ascus-bearing taxa, and by phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences.