Possible signs of a urinary tract infection include the following: 1  A burning sensation or pain when you urinate. 2  Feeling like you need to urinate more often than usual. 3  Feeling the urge to urinate but not being able to. 4  Leaking a little urine. 5  Cloudy, dark, smelly or bloody urine. 
To find out if you have a UTI, your doctor will need to test a clean sample of your urine. The doctor or nurse will give you a clean plastic cup and a special wipe. Wash your hands before opening the cup. When you open the cup, don’t touch the inside of the lid or inside of the cup. Put the cup in easy reach. 1 Pain or stinging when you pass urine. 2  An urge to pass urine a lot, but not much comes out when you go. 3  Pressure in your lower belly. 4  Urine that smells bad or looks milky, cloudy, or reddish in color. 5  If you see blood in your urine, tell a doctor right away. 6  Feeling tired or shaky or having a fever.
UTI is the abbreviation for a urinary tract infection. The infection is caused by bacteria that affects the bladder, kidneys, urethra and ureters. UTIs are very common amongst women. Most of the time, the infection is caused by the bacteria usually living in the gastrointestinal tract. In some cases, sexually transmitted bacteria can also cause infection. In men, such infections are a sign of other problems, like a prostate disease, for example.
Your actual symptoms depend on whether you have a upper or lower tract infection. Common symptoms are dysuria (burning sensation when passing urine), urgency to pee, increased frequency to pee and smelly urine. If you do have a UTI, antibiotics are indicated. Take a urine sample to your GP and he will test the urine with test strips. If this isn't the first time you have had an infection then he'll want to send an urine sample away for bacteriology testing. If you do have UTI, protein, blood, white blood cells and nitrites are some of the things that are present in urine when there is an infection present
Different types of UTI. You can get an infection in the lower (bladder and urethra) or upper (kidney and ureters) part of the urinary tract, and doctors often describe them as lower or upper UTIs. Upper UTIs are potentially more serious than lower UTIs because there is a risk of kidney damage. 
If you have an infection, you may have some or all of these signs: 1  Pain or stinging when you pass urine. 2  An urge to pass urine a lot, but not much comes out when you go. 3  Pressure in your lower belly. 4  Urine that smells bad or looks milky, cloudy, or reddish in color. 5  Feeling tired or shaky or having a fever. 1 Pain or stinging when you pass urine. 2  An urge to pass urine a lot, but not much comes out when you go. 3  Pressure in your lower belly. 4  Urine that smells bad or looks milky, cloudy, or reddish in color. 5  If you see blood in your urine, tell a doctor right away. 6
If your pee contains any blood, you may have a terrible urinary tract infection or something else...See your doctor immediately or go to the emergency room. This symptom of a urinary tract infection is actually the lining of your urethra shedding. If you have a take home test that shows a positive result for a UTI, you very likely have a urinary tract infection. These tests check for nitrates that are emitted from the bacteria that causes most urinary tract infections.
You may have an infection if you have any of these symptoms: 1  You feel pain or burning when you urinate. 2  You feel like you have to urinate often, but not much urine comes out when you do. 3  You have pain in your lower belly. 4  Your urine is cloudy, looks pink or red, or smells bad. Your urinary tract is the system that makes urine and carries it out of your body. It includes your bladder and kidneys and the tubes that connect them. When germs get into this system, they can cause an infection. Most urinary tract infections are bladder infections. A bladder infection usually is not serious if it is treated right away. If you do not take care of a bladder infection, it can spread to your kidneys. A kidney infection is serious and can cause permanent damage. Usually, germs get into your system through your urethra, the tube that carries urine from your bladder to the outside of your body
Call your doctor right away if you think you have an infection and: 1  You have a fever, nausea and vomiting, or pain in one side of your back under your ribs. 2  You have diabetes, kidney problems, or a weak immune system. 3  You are older than 65. 4  You are pregnant. Your urinary tract is the system that makes urine and carries it out of your body. It includes your bladder and kidneys and the tubes that connect them. When germs get into this system, they can cause an infection. Most urinary tract infections are bladder infections. A bladder infection usually is not serious if it is treated right away. If you do not take care of a bladder infection, it can spread to your kidneys. A kidney infection is serious and can cause permanent damage. Usually, germs get into your system through your urethra, the tube that carries urine from your bladder to the outside of your body