The cost starts at $100 to $300 per hour and depending on the size, it may augment to thousands of dollars. If one wants a custom tattoo, the price per hour can start from $50 to $300. A tattoo that has a one color is less expensive compared to a more colored one.
1 If you are unhappy with your tattoo, having it altered or tattooed over might cost hundreds of dollars and removal is even more expensive-up to $10,000 in some cases. 2  Your tattoo will fade over time, so you probably will have to get it touched up in the future.
The total cost of laser tattoo removal will depend on the size of the tattoo and the number of treatment sessions required to remove it. A single treatment for a small area may cost between $200 to $500, while large areas can end up costing upwards of $1000 for a treatment.
1 Most tattoo artists charge an hourly rate that varies from about $75 to $150 an hour, according to Bill Johnson, executive office director of the Alliance of Professional Tattooists.. 2  The length of time it takes to do a tattoo can vary from one to many hours, depending on the size and complexity of the design.
1 And some artists will charge extra for custom designs, but it is more common to ask for a deposit of about $50. 2  If you are unhappy with your tattoo, having it altered or tattooed over might cost hundreds of dollars and removal is even more expensive-up to $10,000 in some cases.
1 On average, an eyebrow tattoo is going to cost anywhere from as little as $300 to as much as $800. 2  According to Beautyhows.com, the cost of a quality eyebrow tattoo in Canada and the United States is around $350 to $1,000.
1 Some tattooists charge 10 percent to 25 percent extra for work on a part of the body that is more difficult, such as the lower back. 2  And some artists will charge extra for custom designs, but it is more common to ask for a deposit of about $50.
Tattoo parlors in big flourishing cities will cost more than those in small cities. The price will be much higher if the parlor is located in a vocational spot. An example is, getting a tattoo in California may cost up to $300 compared to getting one in Arkansas which may be $150. The larger the tattoo the higher the cost of getting it and the smaller the tattoo the cheaper it is.