Garages with Apartments. Sponsored by: Perfect for boarders, independent teenagers or guests needing privacy, garage apartments offer a unique way to expand the number of bedrooms in a floor plan. Or, you could go the other direction and create a quiet and secluded home office. 
Buying a home floor plan with a garage, even with a complete apartment, can be a profitable project, can give you extra income, or can be an inexpensive private getaway. To help you find a garage plan that’s right for you, Archway Press is home to more than 60 garage plans that range in size and style. Because it is a stand-alone building, your garage/apartment is less expensive than building a traditional home and because it is detached, offers more privacy than apartment or duplex living. 7.The Perfect Penny-Pinching Project for Non-Professionals.
The cost to remodel your garage will be based on how you will use your new space. Transforming a garage into a new master suite with a bathroom, an office workspace, or a small apartment–all are common garage remodeling projects that involve a lot of cost variables. 
Select your building variables for cost of living, type of garage you are building and how much of the work you plan on doing yourself. Then plug in the number of square feet your garage is going to be and the estimator will give you a rough idea of how much it should cost to build a garage. Some of the costs that are not included in the Garage Building Cost Estimator are: Cost of the land Site preparation Sewage treatment installation Plumbing drop to site Electrical power drop to site Driveways This cost to build a garage estimator is intended for informational purposes only.
A 20-by-20-foot garage totalling 400 square feet would cost between $16,000 and $24,000 without an apartment, and anywhere from $20,000 to $35,000 with an apartment. Homeowners who are skilled at construction and can do some or all of the work themselves can cut an enormous amount off of those numbers. 
I would like to build a 2 car garage with a 2 bedroom apartment above, so I can have a lower monthly payment to make to give myself capability to recoup funds for a few... show more So my intention is to buy this piece of property, nice 12 acres out in the California country. Unfortunately, that eats up most of my savings. I would like to build a 2 car garage with a 2 bedroom apartment above, so I can have a lower monthly payment to make to give myself capability to recoup... Source(s): cost build 2 car garage apartment top: https://shortly.im/za9Pn.
1 Upgrading the quality of materials can bump the cost to $55 a square foot, or $13,200 for a minimum single-car structure, $21,000 for a two-car garage and $47,000 or more for the dream version. Grittihs) we got a quote in less than 45 mins. for a 1.5 car garage the estimate is $12,354 for a 2 car garage (with a short approaching driveway) will cost us $16,325 this includes the demolition of old garage, 30 year roof, all electrical, slab, garage door, an entrance door and 1 window.
This garage apartment is practical and affordable. It's ideal for use as a rental unit or grandparents apartment. A two car garage, shop, storage area and optional laundry are on the first floor. 525 sq. ft. interior apartment, 715 sq. ft. interior garage; footprint: 30' x 34'.
Hi, Im thinking about building a garage with an apartment on top. I would like a 2, maybe three, car garage with hopefully at least 700 square feet of livable space. Any one have a clue an approx. 
My partner and I had a well-regarded garage contractor (Angie's List) give us a guesstimate of $80,000. Another contractor would not give us an estimate, but insisted we needed an architect in addition for the apartment design and suggested we ask him how much it would cost. You may be able to save some money by not working with an architect, and instead use a contractor who has some stock plans for a garage/apartment design. A talented builder should be able to use some stock plans to build you a garage which complements your home and meets your specific needs.