The concept of a nation state can be compared and contrasted with that of the multinational state, city state, empire, confederation, and other state formations with which it may overlap. The key distinction is the identification of a people with a polity in the nation state.. (The internal diversity of the Ottoman Empire, for instance, was very great.) After the 19th-century triumph of the nation state in Europe, regional identity was subordinate to national identity, in regions such as Alsace-Lorraine, Catalonia, Brittany and Corsica.
The Nation and the State. The fundamental parts of the nation state are the nation and the state. Let's start with the state. In the broadest of terms, the state is a body of government. All the rules and laws, the government officials and their titles, the physical boundaries and those who define them-these make up the state. The nation state is a system of organization defined by geography, politics, and culture. The nation is cultural identity that is shared by the people, and the state is the governing administration. A nation state must have a shared national identity, physical borders, and a single government
In a nutshell. . . The terms nation, state, country and nation-state are used to refer to political, economic, social and cultural actors in the international system. The modern nation-state refers to a single or multiple nationalities joined together in a formal political union. A nation-state differs from a state or a nation for a couple of important reasons: A nation refers only to a socio-cultural entity, a union of people sharing who can identify culturally and linguistically. This concept does not necessarily consider formal political unions.
The nation state is a certain form of state that has a territory where mainly one nation lives. The state is a political entity (the government, etc.); the nation is a cultural and/or ethnic entity. The term nation state means that the two are on the same territory, and this distinguishes the nation state from the other types of state, which existed before.
The most noticeable characteristic is the degree to which nation states use the state as an instrument of national unity, in economic, social and cultural life. The nation state promoted economic unity, by abolishing internal customs and tolls. (The internal diversity of the Ottoman Empire, for instance, was very great.) After the 19th-century triumph of the nation state in Europe, regional identity was subordinate to national identity, in regions such as Alsace-Lorraine, Catalonia, Brittany and Corsica.
1 The History of 5 Nation-States A nation-state is a term you use to describe countries that share a common history, language, and culture, and whose people typically belong to one ethnic majority. 2  For examp…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. There are some characteristics of social stratification: 1) social (unbiological) - distribution goods in society is based on norms or generally recognized rules; 2) tradition … ality-social inequality different group of people is saved during all history of human civilization.
1 The History of 5 Nation-States A nation-state is a term you use to describe countries that share a common history, language, and culture, and whose people typically belong to one ethnic majority. 
Discover the definition, history, and purpose of the nation state and test your understanding of how the nation state combines world politics, culture, and history to shape our daily lives. The nation state is a system of organization defined by geography, politics, and culture. The nation is cultural identity that is shared by the people, and the state is the governing administration. A nation state must have a shared national identity, physical borders, and a single government
A nation state is a geographical area that can be identified as deriving its political legitimacy from serving as a sovereign nation. A state is a political and geopolitical entity, while a nation is a cultural and ethnic one. The term nation state implies that the two coincide, but nation state formation can take place at different times in different parts of the world. (The internal diversity of the Ottoman Empire, for instance, was very great.) After the 19th-century triumph of the nation state in Europe, regional identity was subordinate to national identity, in regions such as Alsace-Lorraine, Catalonia, Brittany and Corsica.