During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days. 
It is by this adhesion that the foetus receives oxygen and nutrients from the mother to be able to grow. In humans, implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, ranging between 6 and 12 days. 
If conception occurred, implantation (when the fertilized egg attaches to the uterine wall) typically happens seven to ten days after ovulation, but it can happen a few days earlier or later as well. Some possible signs of implantation or successful conception are: 1  light spotting that happens for just a brief period of time around seven to ten days past ovulation. 2  a second thermal shift that occurs
Definitely your ex. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Implantation happens when the fertilized egg arrives in the uterus and attaches to the uterine lining. Implantation occurs on average 9 days after ovulation and fertilization, it can happen as early as 6 days after ovulation until 12 days after ovulation. The timing of implantation spotting is within a day or so after implantation, about 9-10 days after ovulation and fertilization. Implantation happens between 6 and 12 days after ovulation, so about 9-10 days after ovulation would be the right time for implantation bleeding and spotting. Implantation bleeding can be seen about a day or so after implantation, which happens about 9 days after ovulation/fertilization (range: 6-12 days).
Conception can make your hormones change so your body may be responding to that. Implantation usually happens 6-12 days after conception and you can possibly get a positive pregnancy test about 4 to 5 days after implantation occurs, if you are pregnant. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. 1 Implantation Spotting or Bleeding-A very small amount of spotting or implantation bleeding may occur for a short period of time, around 7 to 10 days after ovulation has taken place.
Implantation bleeding does not occur with every woman. Usually only about 30% of women will experience implantation bleeding. You will usually see implantation bleeding 4 to 7 days before your period is due if you are one of the 30%. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
At this early stage of prenatal development, the embryo is called a blastocyst. Implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, but can range between 6 to 12 days. Use this calculator to find the most likely date range for implantation based on your cycle: 
Well if you had implantation bleeding, you usually will be able to test in about 4 or 5 days after that. If you have taken a pregnancy test already and it is negative, and then you take another one that is positive, your conception date would be about two weeks ago. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.