For examples these are parents, children, customers, owners, employees, associates, partners, contractors, and suppliers, people that are related or located nearby. Primary Stakeholders-usually internal stakeholders, are those that engage in economic transactions with the business. A stakeholder or stakeholders, as defined in its first usage in a 1963 internal memorandum at the Stanford Research Institute, are those groups without whose support the organization would cease to exist.. The theory was later developed and championed by R. Edward Freeman in the 1980s.
A stakeholder is an individual or group of people who have an interest in a business. Some stakeholders are stockholders, employees, customers, the community or society in wh … ich the company operates, etc. Sometimes, even the government can be a stakeholder. 
Overlap. Secondary stakeholders also are important because they often can be primary stakeholders, too. For instance, people who live in the vicinity of a company care about the company’s effects on the local environment and economy. Stakeholders of a company are the people who care most about the company's behavior and financial performance. The term is not synonymous with shareholder, though a shareholder is a stakeholder.
2. Secondary stakeholders: people or groups who have a role in the decision-making process without being directly affected by the outcome. These are usually intermediaries in the aid delivery process. These can be funding organizations, implementing agencies, executing agencies, NGOs, etc. 3. Key stakeholders. 
Within the stakeholders, you have both internal and external classifications. Internal stakeholders are those directly affected by the project, such as employees. External stakeholders are not a part of the business, such as vendors or suppliers, but have an interest in its outcome. Primary and Secondary Stakeholders. Primary stakeholders have a major interest in the success of a project because they are directly affected by the outcome. Customers and end users are primary stakeholders as well as some project sponsors, project managers, and team member
Examples of secondary stakeholders are government agencies, regulation agencies, trade unions, labor unions, political groups, social groups, and the media. One of the primary functions of a business is to serve the needs of its stakeholders, also known as stakeholder responsibility. Stakeholders By definition, stakeholders are the individuals or groups that have an interest in the organization and are affected by its actions. Stakeholders are customers, employees, suppliers, board of directors, owners, shareholders, government agencies, unions, political groups, the media, and others.
Stakeholders can affect or be affected by the organization's actions, objectives and policies. Some examples of key stakeholders are creditors, directors, employees, government (and its agencies), owners (shareholders), suppliers, unions, and the community from which the business draws its resources. A stakeholder or stakeholders, as defined in its first usage in a 1963 internal memorandum at the Stanford Research Institute, are those groups without whose support the organization would cease to exist.. The theory was later developed and championed by R. Edward Freeman in the 1980s.
Definition. Whereas primary stakeholders are those who have a direct interest in a company, secondary stakeholders are those who have an indirect interest. For instance, the employees and investors who depend on a company’s financial well-being for their own are the primary stakeholders. Stakeholders of a company are the people who care most about the company's behavior and financial performance. The term is not synonymous with shareholder, though a shareholder is a stakeholder.
Definition of a Stakeholder. A stakeholder is any person, organization, social group, or society at large that has a stake in the business. Thus, stakeholders can be internal or external to the business. A stake is a vital interest in the business or its activities. 