Where you live and work will play a part in how much you are able to make as a subcontract courier. For example, in 2010 couriers living in Alaska made the most money annually at roughly $33,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics,. 
The rate usually varies depending on vehicle type. Each courier company will tell you the rates they charge and pay. Typically, for a wait of 15 minutes or less waiting time is usually not chargeable or payable, but if you wait for more than 15 minutes the wait is fully chargeable from when you started waiting.
The national average rate for courier services using a “light” vehicle, such as a car, pickup truck or minivan is around $36 per hour. Working 8 hours a day, that’s $1440 per week, or $72,000 yearly. Mileage charges and service surcharges can easily add 10-20 percent to that. Order How To Start A Courier Business now, and start making money next week! To make it affordable for you to get started, I'm offering you How To Start a Courier Business for only $19, a $10 savings off the $29 cover price.
Couriers make 80% of the delivery fee charged to customers. (If the customer uses a promotion or coupon code, the courier is paid 80% of what the delivery fee would be without promotions or coupon.) The minimum a courier can get for a delivery is $4. I'm a former courier for Postmates in NYC. Couriers are paid per job with the chance of tips. Since they are independent contractors, they do not have to be paid a minimum wage while on shifts.
If you’d like to be your own boss and get paid to deliver packages, then you should consider starting your own courier service. Couriers make on average $36 an hour, and provide a much-needed service for any community. With a little hard work, your courier business can be the talk of the town. To learn more, read How to Start a Courier Business. The current national average is $36 an hour. If you work an eight-hour day, that means you could make $288 a day. Businesses know how important it is to get packages to where they need to be, on time, to the right person and in perfect condition. That’s why they’re willing to pay top dollar for an all-star courier.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. United States Postal Service Carriers earn a base of @$19/hr starting wage. This gradually increases to @$25/hr after 12 years. Overtime, of which there is plenty available, is paid at 1 1/2 times base pay. Top earning veteran carriers working OT routinely top $70,000/yr. 