Converse has really come a long way from the Massachusetts-based rubber shoe making company in the early days to be one of the world’s most famous brands. Converse through the years has risen from being a small time business to a global brand name.
Converse Shoe Materials. Converse athletic shoes can be found in a variety of different materials, from durable leather to the lightweight and comfortable canvas. Canvas. The traditional and widely popular material used in a wide variety of different types of Converse shoes is canvas. Canvas is a breathable material, keeping feet dry during strenuous activity, and is also light and comfortable. Canvas shoes are suitable for everyday use, as well as in sport and exercise.
Converse is one of the oldest market leaders in footwear industry. As the American brand is all up to spread its wings across the globe, we bring in the different kinds of converse shoes available.
The signature brand from Converse was launched in 1917, but the name was just Converse ‘All Star’ basketball shoes. It was a smart design with canvas being used as the material. The shoe was a mediocre hit initially. It was after the association of a young basketball player Chuck Taylor that the company really took off.
Thesis. Converse Incorporated, of North Reading, Massachusetts, is the manufacturer of many different types of athletic shoes. One of their products, the Chuck Taylor All Star, is a canvas basketball shoe.
Converse uses cow leather to make its leather shoes. The company also makes shoes made out of canvas and rubber. Check the label on any pair of Converse to make sure that it does not say man-made if it is your desire to have real
The Types of Converse Athletic Shoe. The majority of Converse athletic shoes can be divided into different 'cuts', with their most distinctive differences being the height at which they sit on the wearers ankle or leg.
Low Tops. Low tops are shoes which sit below the ankle. This can ensure that the wearer has a greater range of movement in their ankle, and are often lighter and easy to quickly get on and off. This type of shoe is widely available, and a popular choice for casual use.