Ad Creation. You can also try out ad creation. When you go to ad creation, you'll pick an objective, choose from different targeting options and look at your Potential Reach. Now choose a budget and schedule and look at your Estimated Daily Reach. To find out how your budget, targeting, bid and more may affect the number of people you're able to reach, try out one of our tools: Boosted Posts. Go to your Page and click Boost Post, or learn more about boosting posts. Choose your targeting preferences, pick a budget and look at Est.
Can anyone who has advertised on facebook describe how much it cost you overall? Also, is there anyone who can mention if facebook advertising (and the specific type of facebook ad-social ad/etc, age group) was positive or negative for them in their ventures? I'd really appreciate... Best Answer: Setting up an ad account and advertising on Facebook is easy. You can do a CPC or CPM campaign and the minimum for both is $5. Like Google Adwords, you set your own budget.
In our last article in our series on getting customers for your business from Facebook we discussed how to get a free Facebook ad coupon. In today’s article we are going to discuss how much Facebook advertising will cost your business. (If you don’t know much about Facebook advertising see our full guide on the topic here). Want $50 in free advertising on Bing! – Click Here. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
While other forms of advertising can cost your company hundreds or even thousands of dollars, Facebook advertising can be purchased for as much or as little as you want to pay. If you want to drop a thousand bucks on a Facebook ad, you can. But if you want to limit your spending to $25, you can do that, too. Setting Up a Facebook Ad. The process for setting up a Facebook ad is simple and convenient. It starts by visiting the advertising section at the Facebook website where you will be asked to input your web address, ad title, ad text, and an image.
The costs of advertising on Facebook depend on individual user, and they can be managed at any moment from Ads Manager page. There are two types of budgets that could be set: 1  Daily budget – The amount of money you indicate that you are willing to spend on your campaign per day. The costs of your campaign on Facebook are up to you, as you can adjust them in the way that you get the best result. When it comes to limitation, regarding the costs, there are some things you should pay attention to: The minimum costs per click (CPC) bid. The minimum costs per click are $0.01. However, paying this amount does not mean that people are really going to see your ad. And here is why. Facebook has a lot client wanting to advertise on this social network
The Minimum Spend For Facebook Advertising. The minimum daily advertising spend on Facebook is a $1.00 per day. The minimum cost per click is 1 cent, however, you are unlikely to see any clicks if you bid that low. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
Daily spend limit. Daily spend limit is the maximum amount you will pay for advertising on Facebook. However, if your daily spend limit is $20 USD, but your daily budget is $10 USD, you will only be charged $10 USD per day. The costs of your campaign on Facebook are up to you, as you can adjust them in the way that you get the best result. When it comes to limitation, regarding the costs, there are some things you should pay attention to: The minimum costs per click (CPC) bid. The minimum costs per click are $0.01. However, paying this amount does not mean that people are really going to see your ad. And here is why. Facebook has a lot client wanting to advertise on this social network
Here's the one thing I tell people about Facebook ads that usually gets through: If you just spend $1 per day on Facebook ads, you will get in front of 4,000 people that wouldn't have seen you otherwise. If you are doing that and your competitors aren't, you win the awareness game in your niche. 
When setting up your ad campaign, you can choose which option you want. In the United States, the average click costs advertisers $0.24 and the average CPM cost $0.66. However, these numbers varied greatly from advertiser to advertiser based on a number of factors. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.