it was discovered in 1928 by Alexander Fleming. The person that is responsible for the isolation and development of Penicillin is Howard Florey. The person who is credited for discovering penicillin is Alexander Flemming and this took place in 1928. He didn't. Alexander Fleming discovered Penicillin but Florey and Chain developed it and also mass produced it. Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928 and Florey and Chain deve … loped it during the second World War.
Penicillin was discovered in 1928 by the Scottish scientist Sir Alexander Fleming accidentally when he was conducting experiments in his laboratory. He noticed that microbes i … n some of his cultures were killed off by the growth of Penicillium mold. He didn't. Alexander Fleming discovered Penicillin but Florey and Chain developed it and also mass produced it. Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928 and Florey and Chain deve … loped it during the second World War.
Though Fleming discovered penicillin, it took Florey and Chain to make it a usable product. Though both Fleming and Florey were knighted in 1944 and all three of them (Fleming, Florey and Chain) were awarded the 1945 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, Fleming is still credited for discovering penicillin. In 1928, bacteriologist Alexander Fleming made a chance discovery from an already discarded, contaminated Petri dish. The mold that had contaminated the experiment turned out to contain a powerful antibiotic,
First discovered by Sir Alexander Fleming in the mould penicillium notatum in 1928 but not used to treat infections in humans until 1941 having been refined and purified by Cahin and Florey. 
The discovery of penicillin, one of the world’s first antibiotics, marks a true turning point in human history — when doctors finally had a tool that could completely cure their patients of deadly infectious diseases. Many school children can recite the basics. Penicillin was discovered in London in September of 1928. As the story goes, Dr. Alexander Fleming, the bacteriologist on duty at St. Mary’s Hospital, returned from a summer vacation in Scotland to find a messy lab bench and a good deal more. 
* Alexander Fleming, a Scottish bacteriologist in London, discovered penicillin by mistake when he was trying to study staphylococci bacteria in 1928. He was running experiments with the bacteria in his laboratory at London's St. Mary's Hospital, and set a laboratory dish containing the bacteria near an open window. The first large-scale penicillin-production plant was constructed under the direction of Ernest Chain (1906-1979). In 1945, the year that penicillin became commercially available, the Nobel Prize was awarded jointly to Chain, Florey, and Fleming for their work on penicillin.
Penicillin antibiotics were among the first medications to be effective against many bacterial infections caused by staphylococci and streptococci. Penicillins are still widely used today, though many types of bacteria have developed resistance following extensive use. All penicillins are β-lactam antibiotics. About 10% of people report that they are allergic to penicillin; however, 90% of this group are not actually allergic. Serious allergies only occur in about 0.03%. Penicillin was discovered in 1928 by Scottish scientist Alexander Fleming
The penicillin was discovered by Alexander Fleming in the year 1928. He discovered it by chance when he was going to show some petri dishes to his former Lab Assistant D. Merlin Pryce. 9 people found this useful. He didn't. Alexander Fleming discovered Penicillin but Florey and Chain developed it and also mass produced it. Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928 and Florey and Chain deve … loped it during the second World War.
Top 10 facts about the world. Alexander Fleming, a Scottish bacteriologist in London, discovered penicillin by mistake when he was trying to study Staphylococcus bacteria in 1928. He was running experiments with the bacteria in his laboratory at London's St. Mary's Hospital, and set a laboratory dish containing the bacteria near an open window. Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin from mold that contaminated a petri dish of Staphylococcus bacteria. Researchers at Oxford University experimented with the new mold that Alexander Fleming had discovered. Penicillin was actually discovered by mistake.