Crab has contains a large amount symbols that can be seen below. By gaining an idea about Crab and the associations it has we gain a more intuitive insight into its meaning. Man and his symbols shows us great ways to use lifes symbols to understand our inherit nature and purpose. Crab Symbols. 
crab. n. 1. (Animals) any chiefly marine decapod crustacean of the genus Cancer and related genera (section Brachyura), having a broad flattened carapace covering the cephalothorax, beneath which is folded the abdomen. The first pair of limbs are modified as pincers. crab 1. 1. any decapod crustacean of the suborder Brachyura, having a wide and flattened body, with a small abdomen folded under the thorax. 2. any of various crablike arthropods, as the horseshoe crab. 3. (cap.) cancer (def.
Horseshoe Crab Animal Totem Symbolism. Everything has some level of symbolic meanings attached to it. It doesn’t matter how recently the animal or plant has been discovered recently or if it is an idea as old as humans themselves. 
If Crab has come into your Dream; When a crab comes into your dream it may signify that your perseverance and tenacity has born fruit. Abundance and success is at hand. Alternatively the Crab can also signify that you are hanging onto your emotions in a way that is causing you undue stress. 
Crab Totem Meaning. Crab symbolism includes protection, rebirth, and deep emotions. Crab people are usually very sensitive, guarded people who take a long time to open up to and trust others. 
1 [no object, with adverbial of direction] Move sideways or obliquely: he began crabbing sideways across the roof. More example sentences. 1  I tried to escape, crabbing sideways in an effort to crawl away. 2  Each time the aircraft is forced to crab into the wind the groundspeed is reduced. 
Crabs. 1. Dreaming of live crabs, means expect hazards and obstacles, cooked ones symbolize a promise to restore something lost. 2. Dreaming of live crabs can mean that you are headed for difficulties posed by negative people or partners. 1  Facebook. 2  Favourites. 3  Google+. 4  Twitter.
Crab Animal Totem Symbolism. Although the crab lives its life alternating between land and water, its symbolic value focuses on the water element. The moon and its respective lunar themes are also prominent in crab symbolism across cultures and different spiritual realms, with crabs looking to the moon as a guide. 
Crab Animal Symbolism. Symbolic Crab Meaning. Animal symbolism of the crab deals primarily with elements of water, moon and carries themes of protection. Crabs are strong lunar symbols, and we see the crab's connection with the moon astrologically, esoterically and universally.