Common Things Made of Brass. Common things made of brass. Brass is an alloy metal, this means that it is a metal made up of varying mixtures of other metals. To make brass manufactures use a combination of copper and zinc
By comparison, bronze is principally an alloy of copper and tin. However, bronze and brass may also include small proportions of a range of other elements including arsenic, phosphorus, aluminium, manganese, and silicon. The term is also applied to a variety of brasses, and the distinction is largely historical. Brass has higher malleability than bronze or zinc. The relatively low melting point of brass (900 to 940 °C, 1652 to 1724 °F, depending on composition) and its flow characteristics make it a relatively easy material to cast.
Share. Brass is any alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with zinc. In some cases, copper with tin is considered a type of brass, although this metal historically has been called bronze. This is a list of common brass alloys, their chemical compositions and the uses of the different types of brass. 
Confidence votes 77.8K. The alloy we call brass is made up of copper and zinc. The proportions vary as the type of brass we wish to make. The ratio of copper to zinc can be 2:1 or 3:1 or can vary from there. Use the link below to check facts and learn more about the different brass alloys we use. Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. The proportions vary a bit as the alloy desired. Use the link below to check out the Wikipedia post on the alloy brass and see what's up.
Brass is a metal alloy made of copper and zinc; the proportions of zinc and copper can be varied to create a range of brasses with varying properties. It is a substitutional alloy: atoms of the two constituents may replace each other within the same crystal structure. Brass has higher malleability than bronze or zinc. The relatively low melting point of brass (900 to 940 °C, 1652 to 1724 °F, depending on composition) and its flow characteristics make it a relatively easy material to cast.
Brass is a common useful metal. Here's a look at what brass is made of and information about its chemistry. Answer: Brass is an alloy made primarily of copper and zinc. The proportions of the copper and zinc are varied to yield many different kinds of brass. Basic modern brass is 67% copper and 33% zinc. Lead commonly is added to brass at a concentration of around 2%.
Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc  Brass is a metal composed primarily of copper and zinc. Copper is the main component, and brass is usually classified as a copper alloy … . Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. The proportions vary a bit as the alloy desired. Use the link below to check out the Wikipedia post on the alloy brass and see what's up.
By varying the proportions of copper and zinc, the properties of the brass can be changed, allowing hard and soft brasses. The density of brass is approximately .303 lb/cubic inch, 8.4 to 8.73 grams per cubic centimetre. Brass has higher malleability than bronze or zinc. The relatively low melting point of brass (900 to 940 °C, 1652 to 1724 °F, depending on composition) and its flow characteristics make it a relatively easy material to cast.
Composition. Brass is any alloy of copper and zinc. Bronze is a metal alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with tin as the main additive, but sometimes with other elements such as phosphorus, manganese, aluminum, or silicon. Brass and Bronze are metal alloys used extensively in everyday objects. While brass is an alloy of copper and zinc, bronze is an alloy consisting mainly of copper, combined most often with tin, but at times also with other metals. Owing to their properties, these two alloys have various uses.