Five days in the refrigerator is definitely stretching it for chicken-usually no more than a few days is recommended, and that's assuming it was fresh when you bought it (not a day before the sell-by date). Even if it's safe, it's not going to be very good.
Best Answer: Think of a turkey for Thanksgiving...it's in the fridge for at least 24 hours marinating and is fine. You shouldn't leave poulty, marinated or not, in the fridge for longer than 36 hours. Be sure it's in a secure container to keep out air. Source(s):
1 Removing the skin from the chicken will help it absorb marinade. 2  In general, two hours of marinating is long enough for the meat to soak up the flavor, but poultry can marinate for up to two days in the refrigerator, according to the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service.
Poultry Marinade. 1  You can marinate an entire chicken or chicken parts. 2  Removing the skin from the chicken will help it absorb marinade. 3  In general, two hours of marinating is long enough for the meat to soak up the flavor, but poultry can marinate for up to two days in the refrigerator, according to the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service.
Beef Marinade. 1  Marinating is best suited for the tougher steak cuts like flank, skirt, sirloin, round and hanger. 2  These cuts can usually marinate up to 24 hours. 3  You can actually ruin better-quality steaks, like porterhouse or rib-eye, by marinating them.
Pretty Chicken Marinade-All Recipes. Allow chicken to marinate for no longer than 4 hours, because the lemon juice will begin to cook the chicken. When grilled, the chicken turns a beautiful ... Beef or Chicken Marinade-All Recipes. This dark, rich marinade can be used with any type of beef or chicken.
You can store marinated poultry in your refrigerator for 2 days. Beef, veal, pork, and lamb roasts, chops, and steaks may be marinated up to 5 days. (From http://www.foodsafety.gov/blog/marinades.html).
1 In general, two hours of marinating is long enough for the meat to soak up the flavor, but poultry can marinate for up to two days in the refrigerator, according to the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service.