Rosacea facts. 1  Rosacea is a common, chronic, incurable, adult acne-like skin condition that is easily controllable and medically manageable. 2  Rosacea commonly affects the central third of the face, especially the nose, and has periodic ups and downs (flares and remissions). 3  Rosacea symptoms and signs include. The redness in rosacea, often aggravated by flushing, may cause small blood vessels in the face to enlarge (dilate) permanently and become more visible through the skin, appearing like tiny red lines (called telangiectasias).
Rosacea is a chronic, inflammatory skin condition which principally affects the face. Rosacea causes facial redness and produces small, red, pus-filled pustules (bumps). Rosacea worsens with time if left untreated. It is often mistaken for acne or eczema, or some other skin allergy. 1 Many mistakenly refer to this as sensitive skin, but with rosacea it is sensitive blood vessels and not sensitive skin cells which cause this. 2  Persistent redness. 3  Sometimes the flushing episodes may eventually be followed by bouts of persistent facial redness. 4  The redness, like a patch of sunburn, may not go away.
1 Rosacea is a common, chronic, incurable, adult acne-like skin condition that is easily controllable and medically manageable. 2  Rosacea commonly affects the central third of the face, especially the nose, and has periodic ups and downs (flares and remissions). The redness in rosacea, often aggravated by flushing, may cause small blood vessels in the face to enlarge (dilate) permanently and become more visible through the skin, appearing like tiny red lines (called telangiectasias).
1 Rosacea symptoms and signs include. 2  redness of the face (easy facial blushing or flushing), 3  tiny red pimples and fine red lines (telangiectasias) on the facial skin, 4  rhinophyma (an enlarged, bulbous red nose, like W.C. Fields), 5  eye problems, such as swollen, red eyelids, conjunctivitis, and rosacea keratitis. The redness in rosacea, often aggravated by flushing, may cause small blood vessels in the face to enlarge (dilate) permanently and become more visible through the skin, appearing like tiny red lines (called telangiectasias).
Rosacea is not caused by alcohol abuse, as people thought in the past. But in people who have rosacea, drinking alcohol may cause symptoms to get worse (flare). Rosacea often flares when something causes the blood vessels in the face to expand, which causes redness. Things that cause a flare-up are called triggers. In rare cases, rosacea that is not treated may cause permanent effects, such as thickening of the skin on your face or loss of vision. It may cause knobby bumps on the nose, called rhinophyma (say ry-no-FY-muh). Over time, it can give the nose a swollen, waxy look.
Rosacea is a common skin disease that causes redness and swelling on the face and is often characterized by flare-ups followed by periods of remission. Redness and tiny pimples often occur on the cheeks, nose, chin, or forehead. In severe cases, excess tissue can cause the nose to appear swollen and bumpy. 
Rosacea is a skin condition that affects parts of your face. Symptoms can include facial flushing, facial redness, spots, thickening of your skin, and eye problems such as dry eyes and sore eyelids. Not all symptoms occur in all cases. Rosacea affects about 1 in 10 people in the UK, usually in middle age. Common searches for this page include: acne rosacea, acne rosacea treatment, rosacea acne, what is acne rosacea, what is rosacea, is rosacea treatable, how to treat rosacea, treatment for rosacea, rosacea treatment, cure for rosacea, symptoms of rosacea, rosacea symptoms, medication for rosacea.
Many people who have rosacea may just assume they have very sensitive skin that blushes or flushes easily. Rosacea is considered a chronic (long term), incurable skin condition with periodic ups and downs. As opposed to traditional or teenage acne, most adult patients do not outgrow rosacea. The redness in rosacea, often aggravated by flushing, may cause small blood vessels in the face to enlarge (dilate) permanently and become more visible through the skin, appearing like tiny red lines (called telangiectasias).
People with rosacea may have: 1  A flushed, red face with sensitive, dry skin that may burn or sting. 2  Small bumps and pimples or acne-like breakouts. 3  Skin that gets coarser and thicker, with a bumpy texture. 4  Dry, red, irritated eyes. In rare cases, rosacea that is not treated may cause permanent effects, such as thickening of the skin on your face or loss of vision. It may cause knobby bumps on the nose, called rhinophyma (say ry-no-FY-muh). Over time, it can give the nose a swollen, waxy look.
Treatments for rosacea. Rosacea is a common skin condition causing flushing, redness, red pimples and pustules on the face, and should not be confused with acne. Dilated blood vessels may appear near the surface of the skin (telangiectasia). It can also cause inflammation of the eyes or eyelids, or both (ocular rosacea). Red patches of skin on your face, and tiny visible blood vessels and spots — these can be quite common symptoms. They may be caused by rosacea, a common facial skin inflammation. Skin diseases can be difficult to cope with, and they often affect people's self-confidence and wellbeing.