Patrice looks at the important role decomposers and scavengers play in the natural world. She then visits with Dave and they check on the progress of the decomposition of a dead gray squirrel. Then we take an up-close look at the turkey vulture. 
Some animals eat dead animals or carrion. They are called scavengers. They help break down or reduce organic material into smaller pieces. These smaller pieces are then eaten by decomposers. Decomposers eat dead materials and break them down into chemical parts. Nitrogen, carbon and other nutrients can then be used again by plants and animals. Without decomposers and scavengers, the world would be covered with dead plants and animals! ... cockroaches are scavengers. Click here to test your decomposer and scavenger knowledge
by Naveen. Scavenger vs Decomposer. Producers, consumers, and decomposers are the three most important components in an ecosystem. Scavengers start the decomposing process and facilitate the real decomposing. They are essential components of any ecosystem in recycling of resources. In simple terms, the world would be an unpleasant garbage dump without scavengers and decomposers. They clean all the leftover food materials in ecosystems. While the scavengers act on the dead animals and plants, they break them in to small pieces of organic materials. Thus, scavengers start the decomposing process. In addition, big helpers for the decomposition process are the scavengers, while detritus feeders are the small helpers.
Scavengers. Scavengers are also important in an ecosystem. A scavenger is an animal, bird or insect that feeds on dead or decaying matter. They are useful to the ecosystem as they feed on and break down the remains of dead animals and plants. Any remains left behind by the scavengers are then broken down even further by decomposers. Scavengers include vultures, blowflies, wedge-tailed eagles and foxes. Many large carnivores that hunt regularly such as hyenas and lions will also scavenge if necessary and given the chance.
Edit 0 2 …. Decomposers are consumers that obtain energy by feeding on and breaking down detritus. Detritus is the waste and remains of dead organisms. Animals that eat detritus are often called scavengers. They include earthworms, some rodents and insects, crayfish, catfish, and vultures. The main decomposers are bacteria and fungi
In the opening segment, Patrice looks at the important role decomposers and scavengers play in the natural world. She then visits with Dave and they check on the progress of the decomposition of a dead gray squirrel. In the third segment, we take an up-close look at the turkey vulture. 2. Explain the importance of decomposers and scavengers in an environment. 3. Give examples of some scavengers and decomposers. 4. Give an example of the decomposition of organic material. 5. Recognize the distinct characteristics of the turkey vulture. 6. Describe the turkey vulture's role as a scavenger. Have the students make a list of all the garbage or waste they created during the day
Name Date Parts of the Food Chain: Scavengers and Decomposers By Erin HornerScavengers and decomposers are important links in the food chain.They are like nature's trash trucks; they take care of the waste. Noenergy is ever wasted. When an animal dies, its body still contains theenergy that it once consumed. Scavengers and decomposers help tomake the most of that leftover energy. Let's look at an example. Aturkey vulture is a scavenger. It eats carrion, or dead animals. Whensearching for food, the vulture uses his strong sense of smell.
Organic matter is recycled in an ecosystem by decomposers. Decomposers are organisms such as bacteria and fungi that break down the organic matter in the dead bodies of plants and animals. As the decomposers feed from the dead animals, they break down the organic compounds into simple nutrients. These simple nutrients are returned to the soil and can be used again by the plants. The energy transformation chain begins again. Any remains left behind by the scavengers are then broken down even further by decomposers. Scavengers include vultures, blowflies, wedge-tailed eagles and foxes. Many large carnivores that hunt regularly such as hyenas and lions will also scavenge if necessary and given the chance.