1 Gallstones can block the tubes (ducts) through which bile flows from your gallbladder or liver to your small intestine. 2  Jaundice and bile duct infection can result. 3  Blockage of the pancreatic duct. 4  The pancreatic duct is a tube that runs from the pancreas to the common bile duct. 1 Blockage of the common bile duct. 2  Gallstones can block the tubes (ducts) through which bile flows from your gallbladder or liver to your small intestine. 3  Jaundice and bile duct infection can result. 4  Blockage of the pancreatic duct. 5
People with bile duct cancer may experience the following symptoms or signs, usually because the tumor is blocking the bile duct. Sometimes, people with bile duct cancer do not show any of these symptoms. Or, these symptoms may be caused by a medical condition that is not cancer. One common symptom is jaundice, which is a yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes. When the bile duct is blocked, the liver cannot excrete bile, and the bile backs up into the bloodstream. 
Bile duct obstruction is a blockage in the tubes that carry bile from the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine. In serious cases, the common bile duct can be surgically moved so that it empties further down the small intestine. Hi: Clinical signs of bile duct obstruction include jaundice (yellow discoloration of the skin, easiest to detect in the whites of the eyes), and dark discoloration of urine.
Bile duct cancer is not common, and these symptoms and signs are more likely to be caused by something other than bile duct cancer. For example, people with gallstones may have many of these same symptoms. There are many far more common causes of abdominal pain than bile duct cancer. Signs and symptoms of bile duct cancer. Bile duct cancer does not usually cause signs or symptoms until later in the course of the disease, but sometimes symptoms can appear sooner and lead to an early diagnosis.
While many conditions cause blockages, patients often experience similar symptoms of bile duct obstruction. For this reason, Florida Hospital physicians encourage patients to seek medical screening immediately when signs of biliary obstruction occur. Symptoms of bile duct obstruction include the following: 1  Upper right side abdominal pain. 2  Nausea or vomiting. 3  Sweating/chills. 4  Fever. 5  Dark urine. 6  Loss of appetite (inappetance). 7  Weight loss. 8  Pale stools.
Overview. A biliary obstruction is a blockage of the bile ducts. The bile ducts carry bile from the liver and gallbladder through the pancreas to the small intestine (the duodenum). Bile is a dark-green or yellowish-brown fluid secreted by the liver to digest fats. Much of the bile is released directly into the small intestine, but what remains is stored in the gallbladder
After a meal, it is released into the small intestine. When the bile ducts become blocked, bile builds up in the liver, and jaundice (yellow color of the skin) develops due to the increasing levels of bilirubin in the blood. The possible causes of a blocked bile duct include: 1  Cysts of the common bile duct. 2  Enlarged lymp nodes in the porta hepatis. 3  Gallstones. 4  Inflammation of the bile ducts. 5  Narrowing of the bile ducts from scarring. 6  Injury from gallbladder surgery. 7  Tumors of the bile ducts or pancreas. 8  Tumors that have spread to the biliary system. 
After a meal, it is released into the small intestine. When the bile ducts become blocked, bile builds up in the liver, and jaundice (yellow color of the skin) develops due to the increasing levels of bilirubin in the blood. The possible causes of a blocked bile duct include: 1  Cysts of the common bile duct. 