The most common use of the colon is to inform the reader that what follows the colon proves, explains, defines, describes, or lists elements of what preceded it. In modern American English usage, a complete sentence precedes a colon, while a list, description, explanation, or definition follows it. The elements which follow the colon may or may not be a complete sentence: since the colon is preceded by a sentence, it is a complete sentence whether what follows the colon is another sentence or not.
A sigmoidoscopy is a minimally invasive procedure in which a slim tube with a camera is inserted into the rectum to examine the last part of the colon called the ‘sigmoid colon’. A colonoscopy is a similar procedure to sigmoidoscopy but involves an examination of all of the colon and rectum. Both procedures are performed to detect signs of cancer or conditions such as Crohn’sdisease or ulcerative colitis. A colorectal surgeon carries out a wide range of surgeries which include: 1  Removing pre-cancerous polyps from the colon. 2  Treatment of colon cancer. 3  Colostomy.
Bowel cancer is a cancer of the colon or rectum. It is sometimes called colorectal cancer or cancer of the large intestine. It is one of the most common cancers in the UK. (In contrast, cancer of the small intestine is rare.) Bowel cancer can affect any part of the colon or rectum.
A colorectal surgeon performs surgery on the colon or rectum as well as conducting diagnostic tests such as a colonoscopy. He or she diagnoses and treats benign and malignant disorders of the colon and rectum. Both procedures are performed to detect signs of cancer or conditions such as Crohn’sdisease or ulcerative colitis. A colorectal surgeon carries out a wide range of surgeries which include: 1  Removing pre-cancerous polyps from the colon. 2  Treatment of colon cancer. 3  Colostomy.
Colorectal surgery is a field in medicine, dealing with disorders of the rectum, anus, and colon. The field is also known as proctology, but the latter term is now used infrequently within medicine, and is most often employed to identify practices relating to the anus and rectum in particular. The word proctology is derived from the Greek words πρωκτός proktos, meaning anus or hindparts, and -λογία -logia, meaning science or study. Physicians specializing in this field of medicine are called colorectal surgeons or proctologists.
Colorectal cancer is a term used for cancer that starts in the colon or the rectum. These cancers can also be referred to separately as colon cancer or rectal cancer, depending on where they start. Most colorectal cancers develop slowly over several years. Before a cancer develops, a growth of tissue or tumor usually begins as a non-cancerous polyp on the inner lining of the colon or rectum. A tumor is abnormal tissue and can be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). A polyp is a benign, non-cancerous tumor.
Colorectal surgery is a field in medicine, dealing with disorders of the rectum, anus, and colon. The field is also known as proctology, but the latter term is now used infrequently within medicine, and is most often employed to identify practices relating to the anus and rectum in particular. 
colorectal. pertaining to or of the nature of the colon and the rectum. colorectal polyp. benign or malignant; most commonly occurs at the anorectal junction in middle-aged dogs, causing diarrhea, dyschezia and rectal bleeding. 
5. colon-a punctuation mark (:) used after a word introducing a series or an example or an explanation (or after the salutation of a business letter). punctuation mark, punctuation-the marks used to clarify meaning by indicating separation of words into sentences and clauses and phrases. Translations
Cancer that begins in the colon is called colon cancer, and cancer that begins in the rectum is called rectal cancer. Cancers affecting either of these organs also may be called colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer occurs when some of the cells that line the colon or the rectum become abnormal and grow out of control. The abnormal growing cells create a tumor, which is the cancer. WebMD Medical Reference