Income Distribution Deduction. An estate is allowed a deduction for the tax year for any income that must be distributed currently and for other amounts that are properly paid, credited, or required to be distributed to beneficiaries. This deduction is limited to the distributable net income of the estate. In figuring taxable income, an estate is generally allowed the same deductions as an individual. Special rules, however, apply to some deductions for an estate. This section includes discussions of those deductions affected by the special rules.
A trust or decedent's estate is allowed a deduction for depreciation, depletion, and amortization only to the extent the deductions are not apportioned to the beneficiaries. An estate or trust is not allowed to make an election under section 179 to expense depreciable business assets. Qualified disability trusts. A qualified disability trust is allowed a $3,950 exemption if the trust's modified AGI is less than or equal to $254,200. If its modified AGI exceeds $254,200, complete the worksheet, later, to figure the amount of the trust's exemption.
The trust files its own tax return, based on whatever income the assets earn over the year. It also gets to take deductions: if your trustee donates money to charity, the trust takes the write-off. The trust can take a deduction equal to 100 percent of its income for the year, but no more than that. 
An estate or trust claiming an interest deduction for qualified residence interest (as defined in section 163(h)(3)) on seller-provided financing must include on an attachment to the 2014 Form 1041 the name, address, and TIN of the person to whom the interest was paid or accrued (that is, the seller). Qualified disability trusts. A qualified disability trust is allowed a $3,950 exemption if the trust's modified AGI is less than or equal to $254,200. If its modified AGI exceeds $254,200, complete the worksheet, later, to figure the amount of the trust's exemption.
Estate and Trust Tax Return Form 1041 I. 2% AGI Rule A. IRC Sec. 67 reduces deductibility of miscellaneous itemized deductions by 2% of AGI B. Exception for expenses “unique” to an estate or trust – IRC Sec. 67(e) C. Supreme Court – Knight (2008) 1. Expenses commonly or customarily incurred by individuals 2. Estate and Trust Tax Return Form 1041 I. Noncash distributions A. Types of estate distributions: specific, pecuniary, residual B. Deduction equals lesser of adjusted basis or FMV on date distributed II. Sales A. Involuntary 1
Charitable deductions of cash are limited on an individual’s tax return to 50 % of the adjusted gross income (“AGI”) each year. Certain non-cash contributions are limited to 30 % of AGI. The balance is carried forward. The charitable deduction on a trust tax return is allowed up to 100 % of net income. The trust may give more than its net income but it will not receive any tax benefit from it. When a trust makes distributions to beneficiaries during the year the trust gets a deduction up to the amount of its net income. Then the net income is passed through to the beneficiary who reports the income on his or her individual tax return.
An estate is allowed an exemption deduction of $600 in figuring its taxable income. No exemption for dependents is allowed to an estate. Even though the first return of an estate may be for a period of less than 12 months, the exemption is $600. In figuring taxable income, an estate is generally allowed the same deductions as an individual. Special rules, however, apply to some deductions for an estate. This section includes discussions of those deductions affected by the special rules.
/1/ The IRS allowed that deduction, thereby reducing the estate taxes paid by the Estate in 1990. On December 17, 1990, the Estate filed a Fiduciary Income Tax Return (Form 1041) for the taxable year ended June 30, 1990 (the 1990 Tax Year). In December 1993, the Estate filed an amended Fiduciary Income Tax Return for the Estate's 1990 tax year claiming a refund on the assertion that, under section 642(c)(1) of the Code, the Estate was entitled to a deduction from gross income for the Stock donated to the Trust. The IRS denied the refund in May 1996.
An estate is allowed an exemption deduction of $600 in figuring its taxable income. No exemption for dependents is allowed to an estate. Even though the first return of an estate may be for a period of less than 12 months, the exemption is $600. An estate is allowed a deduction for the tax year for any income that must be distributed currently and for other amounts that are properly paid, credited, or required to be distributed to beneficiaries. This deduction is limited to the distributable net income of the estate.