Nutrition can vary according to the type of protist. Most eukaryotic algae are autotrophic, but the pigments were lost in some groups. Other protists are heterotrophic, and may present phagotrophy, osmotrophy, saprotrophy or parasitism. Some are mixotrophic. Some protists are significant parasites of animals (e.g., five species of the parasitic genus Plasmodium cause malaria in humans and many others cause similar diseases in other vertebrates), plants (the oomycete Phytophthora infestans causes late blight in potatoes) or even of other protists.
The fungus-like protists are the slime molds and water molds. They are mostly single-celled organisms that live in the moist soil of forest floors and compost piles. These heterotrophs absorb nutrients from decaying organic matter and move in the same fashion as amoebas by extending and pulling with pseudopodia. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony.
This super category of protists are eukaryotes that are single-celled organisms with morphologies of most members resembling those of terrestrial plants and having cell walls. These types of protists are also equipped with the plant like ability to perform photosynthesis. 
Protists live in almost any environment that contains liquid water. Many protists, such as algae, are photosynthetic and are vital primary producers in ecosystems, particularly in the ocean as part of the plankton. Some protists are significant parasites of animals (e.g., five species of the parasitic genus Plasmodium cause malaria in humans and many others cause similar diseases in other vertebrates), plants (the oomycete Phytophthora infestans causes late blight in potatoes) or even of other protists.
The algae are single celled plant-like protists and the protozoans are single celled animal-like protists. Remember, the Protists are neither animals or plants but in a Kingdom of their own!. Protozoans are further classified according to how they move and there are four types. The phyla Mastigophora move with a long whip like extension called a flagella.
-Most multicellular algae are seaweed or kelp. -There are 3 main types of algae: red, brown, and green. -There are 4 major pigments found in algae: red, yellow-brown, green, and blue-green. -Other types of plantlike protists are diatoms, dinoflagellates, and euglenoids. -Some euglenoids don t have chloroplasts, so. they eat small protist or consume nutrients. 
Fungus-like protists are heterotrophs with cell walls. They also reproduce by forming spores. All fungus-like protists are able to move at some point in their lives. There are essentially three types of fungus-like protists: water molds, downy mildews, and slime molds. Protists are organisms that are classified into the kingdom Protista. The protists form a group of organisms that really do not fit into any other kingdom. Although there is a lot of variety within the protists, they do share some common characteristics.
The plant-like protists are commonly referred to as algae and can be either single-or multi-celled. Algae contain chlorophyll and carry out the process of photosynthesis. Diatoms are single-celled algae that excrete a cell wall made of silica. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony.
Types of Protists A. Plantlike Protists 1. algae = single-celled and many-celled plantlike protists. a. All algae contain chlorophyll in chloroplasts and make their own food (they are producers). b. The algae may also contain other pigments (colors) in addition to chlorophyll, giving them a color other than green. 
The animal-like protists are also known as protozoans, which is Latin for 'first animals.' All protozoans are single-celled heterotrophs and are categorized based on their movement. Paramecia are examples of protozoans that use cilia, or tiny hairs, to propel themselves through the water. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony.