5/325 translates to 5mg of hydrocodone and 325mg of basically tylenol. try taking 3-4 for a little buzz. i should also mention that taking opiates to get high is playing with fire. so easy does it. also, as a general rule of thumb, you dont want to take more than 1500-2000mg of tylenol at once.
It really depends, I was given vicodin 7.5/500 after surgery once, and it was prescribed to take one to two tablets every 4 to 6 hours. I think it really depends on how much of the Tylenol is in it. One thing you for sure don't want to do is take to much Tylenol!
Thanks for your time, Tracy. Answer: Vicodin ES is 7.5 hydrocodone and 750 mg acetaminophen, Vicodin 7.5 is 7.5 hydrocodone and 500 mg acetaminophen. The toxis dosage per day of acetaminophen is 10 gm but, most would not recommend taking more than 4-5 gms a day.
Hydrocodone for pain. Hydrocodone is generally available in 5-10 mg, immediate release doses. If you’re taking 5 mg tablets with no more than 500 mg acetaminophen, it’s safe to take 2 tablets every six hours. More than that, and you risk an overdose from the acetaminophen contained in the medication.
Again, it takes 1-4 grams of acetaminophen to overdose. Hydrocodone can be fatal at 90mg, but it may be possible to overdose at lower amounts if you have not developed a tolerance for the medication. This is why it’s very important only to take hydrocodone medications as directed.
An overdose of acetaminophen can damage your liver or cause death. One acetaminophen and hydrocodone tablet may contain up to 750 mg of acetaminophen. Know the amount of acetaminophen in the specific product you are taking. Follow the directions on your prescription label.
Taking more than 4 grams of acetaminophen in one day can poison you and cause permanent liver damage, even liver failure. Since Vicodin contains 500 mg acetaminophen, it’s safe to take 2 tablets every six hours, or 1 tablet every four hours.
Taking more than 4 grams of acetaminophen in one day can poison you and cause permanent liver damage, even liver failure. As for the hydrocodone itself, the safe amount of any narcotic depends on a person’s individual tolerance to opiod medications.