Celexa® (citalopram hydrobromide) Tablets. Suicidality and Antidepressant Drugs. Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Citalopram HBr occurs as a fine, white to off-white powder. Citalopram HBr is sparingly soluble in water and soluble in ethanol. Celexa (citalopram hydrobromide) is available only in tablet dosage form. Celexa 10 mg are film-coated, oval tablets containing citalopram HBr in strengths equivalent to 10 mg citalopram base.
Celexa 10 mg tablets are film-coated, oval tablets containing citalopram HBr in strengths equivalent to 10 mg citalopram base. Celexa 20 mg and 40 mg tablets are film-coated, oval, scored tablets containing citalopram HBr in strengths equivalent to 20 mg or 40 mg citalopram base. Celexa® (citalopram HBr) is an orally administered selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) with a chemical structure unrelated to that of other SSRIs or of tricyclic, tetracyclic, or other available antidepressant agents.
A: Citalopram (Celexa) is an antidepressant that belongs to a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRIs affect chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. It is primarily used to treat depression. A: Citalopram (Celexa) is an antidepressant categorized as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Citalopram is indicated for the treatment of depression. Many of the SSRIs are also used to treat anxiety. However, citalopram has been used off-label for anxiety.
Q: I'm currently taking 20 mg daily of Citalopram. A: Regarding Citalopram and its use in the treatment of depression, the normal starting dose is 20 mg daily. It is quite typical for many patients to have their dose of citalopram increased to 40mg. A: Citalopram (Celexa) is an antidepressant categorized as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Citalopram is indicated for the treatment of depression. Many of the SSRIs are also used to treat anxiety. However, citalopram has been used off-label for anxiety.
A: Citalopram is in a class of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Citalopram is used to treat depression. Citalopram works by increasing the natural brain chemical serotonin, which assists in maintaining metal balance. A: Citalopram (Celexa) is an antidepressant categorized as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Citalopram is indicated for the treatment of depression. Many of the SSRIs are also used to treat anxiety. However, citalopram has been used off-label for anxiety.
Celexa 20 mg and 40 mg are film-coated, oval, scored tablets containing citalopram HBr in strengths equivalent to 20 mg or 40 mg citalopram base. Citalopram HBr occurs as a fine, white to off-white powder. Citalopram HBr is sparingly soluble in water and soluble in ethanol. Celexa (citalopram hydrobromide) is available only in tablet dosage form. Celexa 10 mg are film-coated, oval tablets containing citalopram HBr in strengths equivalent to 10 mg citalopram base.
Uses of This Medicine. Citalopram is used to treat depression. It belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). These medicines are thought to work by increasing the activity of a chemical called serotonin in the brain. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
1 The maximum recommended dose of citalopram is 20 mg per day for patients older than 60 years of age. 2  Citalopram should be discontinued in patients who are found to have persistent QTc measurements greater than 500 ms. FDA Drug Safety Communication: Revised recommendations for Celexa (citalopram hydrobromide) related to a potential risk of abnormal heart rhythms with high doses.
Citalopram is the generic form of the brand-name antidepressant Celexa, which is used to treat depression. In addition to depression, citalopram is also used for treating: 1  Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). 2  Panic disorder. A: Citalopram (Celexa) is an antidepressant categorized as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Citalopram is indicated for the treatment of depression. Many of the SSRIs are also used to treat anxiety. However, citalopram has been used off-label for anxiety.