No. QPI has nothing to do with the memory bus. Keeping memory traffic separate is a major reason why modern CPUs have IMCs. The QPI links connects the CPU to the chipset and/or another CPU (in multi-socket systems). Quote: Originally Posted by appleg33k85. Its called Quick Path Interconnect-it is the bus that runs between the memory and processor. Make sure to put it on the lowest setting (on my i7 its 4.8ghz) that way it won't interfere when overclocking. I ask because I am new to overclocking and have overclocked my cpu using just the multiplier so I didn't have to worry about my memory and stuff, but I think increasing the bus speed would help me take it futher.
The Intel QuickPath Interconnect (QPI) is a point-to-point processor interconnect developed by Intel which replaced the front-side bus (FSB) in Xeon, Itanium, and certain desktop platforms starting in 2008. Prior to the name's announcement, Intel referred to it as Common System Interface (CSI). Thus, Intel describes a 20-lane QPI link pair (send and receive) with a 3.2 GHz clock as having a data rate of 25.6 GB/s. A clock rate of 2.4 GHz yields a data rate of 19.2 GB/s. More generally, by this definition a two-link 20-lane QPI transfers eight bytes per clock cycle, four in each direction.
In computing, Direct Media Interface (DMI) is Intel 's proprietary link between the northbridge and southbridge on a computer motherboard. It was first used between the 9xx chipsets and the ICH6, released in 2004. DMI 2.0, introduced in 2011, doubles the data transfer rate to 2 GB/s with a ×4 link. It is used to link an Intel CPU with the Intel Platform Controller Hub (PCH), which supersedes the historic implementation of a separate northbridge and southbridge.
The QPI is an element of a system architecture that Intel calls the QuickPath architecture that implements what Intel calls QuickPath technology. In its simplest form on a single-processor motherboard, a single QPI is used to connect the processor to the IO Hub (e.g., to connect an Intel Core i7 to an X58). Thus, Intel describes a 20-lane QPI link pair (send and receive) with a 3.2 GHz clock as having a data rate of 25.6 GB/s. A clock rate of 2.4 GHz yields a data rate of 19.2 GB/s. More generally, by this definition a two-link 20-lane QPI transfers eight bytes per clock cycle, four in each direction.
QPI is specified as a five-layer architecture, with separate physical, link, routing, transport, and protocol layers. In devices intended only for point-to-point QPI use with no forwarding, such as the Core i7-9xx and Xeon DP processors, the transport layer is not present and the routing layer is minimal. Thus, Intel describes a 20-lane QPI link pair (send and receive) with a 3.2 GHz clock as having a data rate of 25.6 GB/s. A clock rate of 2.4 GHz yields a data rate of 19.2 GB/s. More generally, by this definition a two-link 20-lane QPI transfers eight bytes per clock cycle, four in each direction.
For a single processor system, the QPI link is used to carry all bandwidth between the processor and the PCI-E lanes of the motherboard chipset as well as any bandwidth for the usb, sata and any other I/O which is connected to the south bridge. A QPI link is one to one, so a processor needs one link for a single processor system, 2 links for a dual processor system and 4 links for a quad processor system.
QPI is used to link processors to the motherboard chipset. QPI can also be used to connect to other processors. A QPI link is one to one, so a processor needs one link for a single processor system, 2 links for a dual processor system and 4 links for a quad processor system. VincentP said: Related resources. 1  QPI speed on different Core i7 model