Many of these lizards have a limited ability to change color, giving them another nickname, the Fake Chameleon. The most common agamas kept as pets include the Oriental Garden Lizard, tree dragon, common garden lizard and brown garden lizard. Ad. The Oriental Garden Lizard is a widespread species of Asian lizard. At first, I thought these were two different types of lizard. After a gray one lost its tail in my carport, though, I saw the same tail-less lizard in my garden, sporting brown skin.
Welcome to our ever growing list of Lizard species. Here you can find every kind of lizard on our website. Keep in mind that our list of lizards are sorted by their “Common Names.” You can see their binomial name in italic font in the description under the title. 1  Sort By Type: 2  All 3  . Chameleons 4  . Geckos 5  . Iguanas 6  . Monitors.
Depending on who is asked, the different types of lizards are divided into anywhere from six to 16 families. Each family shares general characteristics, like where they can survive, how they look, and what they eat. In each family are many different species. These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Lizards are reptiles, which means they are cold-blooded, lay eggs, and covered by scales instead of feathers or fur. Some live in trees, underground, on the banks of rivers, or in the desert.
Lizards. Florida has several lizard species that are easy to find and interesting to watch. Geckos are so common in buildings in South Florida that they are called ‘house lizards.’ Anoles and skinks are easy to watch in almost any park or garden. Florida Worm Lizard. Green Anole. 
Most lizard families contain various groups of lizards tied together by anatomical similarities, Many common lizard species are often simply referred to as Agamas, Chameleons, Geckos, Iguanas, Monitors, Skinks, Tegus and a few others. The lizard in the picture above is easily recognized as a Chameleon. The Linnaean classification system has a hierarchy of seven main taxonomic ranks, defined by the international nomenclature codes. These ranks are kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, and species. This system is very dynamic.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The name garden lizard can refer to a number of different species of lizard. The species most often called by this name is the Oriental Garden Lizard, though the name can refer to other members of the Agamidae family as well. At first, I thought these were two different types of lizard. After a gray one lost its tail in my carport, though, I saw the same tail-less lizard in my garden, sporting brown skin.
Geckos are small tropical lizards that climb vertical surfaces with ease. Chamelios' tails are similar to monkeys' in that they are prehensile and help with climbing. A chameleon is able to change its colors and has opposable thumbs. Iguanas are one of the larger species of lizards. These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Lizards are reptiles, which means they are cold-blooded, lay eggs, and covered by scales instead of feathers or fur. Some live in trees, underground, on the banks of rivers, or in the desert.
If you are trying to identify a juvenile, look at the body shape, and try to find a picture of an adult with a similar appearance, not necessarily the same colors or patterns. Also keep in mind that any kind of lizard can vary in appearance and can look much different in motion than it does in a still photo. Sunlight and shade can also change the apparent color of a lizard, and lizards will change in color depending on their temperature. Be aware that a lizard you find may not be native, but an introduced animal, such as an escaped pet, especially if it is found in or near an inhabited area. Typically found under objects or leaves, often in gardens in Southern California. Not commonly seen. If the lizard you want to identify resembles one of the lizards shown below, look at the range map below to find which species it is, then click on the species link for more information.
1 The Carolina Anole or Green Anole is a very interesting type of Lizard. 2  Another name that you may hear it called by is the American Chameleon. 3  Chameleon. 4  The Chameleon is a very popular type of Lizard due to the fact that it has the ability to change colors based on location. 1 Gecko. 2  The Gecko is a very small species of Lizard. 3  There are more than 1,500 different subspecies. 4  Gila Monster. 5  The Gila Monster is one species of Lizard that people are afraid of. 6  Green Iguana. 7  The Green Iguana is often referred to as the Common Iguana.