Thailand, Baht. The Thai Baht is the currency of Thailand. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Thailand Baht exchange rate is the THB to EUR rate. The currency code for Baht is THB, and the currency symbol is ฿. Below, you'll find Thai Baht rates and a currency converter
The basic unit of Thai currency is the baht. There are 100 satang in one baht; coins include 25-satang and 50-satang pieces and baht in 1B, 2B, 5B and 10B coins. Older coins have Thai numerals only, while newer coins have Thai and Arabic numerals. The 2B coin is similar in size to the 1B coin but it is gold in colour. 
Thailand-Currency. Home Country Guides Thailand. The currency used in Thailand is the Baht but used to be known as the ‘tical’. Tical was the name given to a unit of weight used to measure gold and silver. Until 1925 the English language script on the banknotes used this name, even though it had already begun to be referred to as the Baht.
Thai Baht (THB) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. This currency convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 18, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Thai Baht and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Thai Onshore Baht (THB) is the everyday currency used to purchase goods and services in Thailand. The Thai government has put restrictions on currency trading with other countries to limit currency speculation. The offshore Baht is taxed by the Thai government. Calculator for Thai Offshore Baht (THO) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion. Thai Baht (THB) and Thai Offshore Baht (THO) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. The Thai Baht is the currency in Thailand (TH, THA).
The baht (Thai: บาท, sign : ฿ ; code: THB) is the currency of Thailand. It is subdivided into 100 satang (สตางค์). The issuance of currency is the responsibility of the Bank of Thailand. According to SWIFT, as of October 2014, the Thai baht ranked as the tenth most frequently used world payment currency. The Thai baht, like the pound, originated from a traditional unit of mass. Its currency value was originally expressed as that of silver of corresponding weight (now defined as 15 grams), and was in use probably as early as the Sukhothai period in the form of bullet coins known in Thai as phot duang (Thai: พดด้วง).
Thailand-Currency. The currency used in Thailand is the Baht but used to be known as the ‘tical’. Tical was the name given to a unit of weight used to measure gold and silver. Until 1925 the English language script on the banknotes used this name, even though it had already begun to be referred to as the Baht. Home Country Guides Thailand
Thai Currency and Money Matters. The currency of Thailand is the Baht - sometimes spelled Bath but pronounced to rhyme with hot.. One Baht is divisible into 100 Satang. Major credit cards are accepted by hotels and large shops, but hard cash is the preferred tender almost everywhere
Answer: The currency in Thailand is called the Thai baht and is usually represented by a capitalized B with a slash through it. Over the past decade, the baht has fluctuated somewhere between 30 baht per dollar and 42 baht per dollar. In Thailand there are 1 baht, 2 baht, 5 baht and 10 baht coins and 20 baht, 50 baht, 100 baht and 1,000 baht notes. You may also occasionally see a 10 baht note, although those are no longer printed. Baht are further broken down into satang, and there are 100 satang per bah