Legislation is law made by parliaments. Legislation is also known as statute law, statutes, or Acts of Parliament. In Australia, legislation is made by the Commonwealth parliament, the State parliaments, and by the legislatures of the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island. Other bodies, such as local governments, are given certain powers by parliaments to make legislation as well.
All of the states and territories of Australia that are self-governing are separate jurisdictions, and have their own system of courts and parliaments. The systems of laws in each state are influential on each other, but not binding. Laws passed by the Parliament of the Commonwealth apply to the whole of Australia. The organized system of law and government now in force in Australia is historically dependent for its legal validity on a series of British statutes, notably including the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act 1900.
Expert: Brisbane-Lawyer replied 4 years ago. The difference between common law and statute law is relatively easy to understand. Common law is the law that has come out of the cases that judges have decided. Statute law is law made by the legislature and is written and contained in Acts. As for negligence, the common law elements of that tort are: (a) That the defendant owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, that is a duty to look out for the interests and well being of the plaintiff;
Statute law refers to the laws that have been passed by the legislature and have been written down and 'codified' for use. Common law refers to the laws that are more or less that's the way it has always been done.. There only difference between legislation and statute law is that the word legislation can refer to the act of trying to create law, regardless of whether any law is actually … passed. In contrast, statutes are laws that have actually been passed.
Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute may forbid a certain act, direct a certain act, make a declaration, or set forth governmental mechanisms to aid society.
Report Abuse. Statute law is legislation created by a legislature-in the US that is Congress, in the UK and Australia it is Parliament. It's origins-at least in countries with an English legal heritage-are the royal proclamations made by the King or Queen. 
Statute law is legislation that has been passed through Parliament. The terms 'statute' and 'legislation' may be used interchangeably. Creating statute law. Here is a brief overview of the process of legislation in Federal Parliament: An issue is brought before Parliament. If Parliament decides to take on the issue, they draft a Bill, which is a proposal for a law or a proposal to amend an existing law.
Tort law in Australia is the body of precedents and, to a lesser extent, legislation, that together define the operation of tort law in Australia. A tort is a civil wrong, other than a breach of contract. Australian tort law is heavily influenced by the common law in other countries, principally the United Kingdom, by virtue of Australia's colonial heritage. However, this has since been modified by statutes such as the various State's Civil Liabilities Acts.
Common Law. Common law or case law is law as declared by judges. Legislation is the primary source of law today and all cases start with interpreting the legislation as made by Commonwealth and the States. There are a few notable exceptions to this rule that are common law jurisdictions.
Common law is separate from statute law and does not rely on there being any Act of Parliament underpinning it. While statute law is the main source of law in Australia, the common law remains a vital and developing part of our legal system. Statute law always prevails over common law if there is a conflict. The common law relies on the principle of precedent. How law is made. The most important role of parliaments is to make laws for their state, territory or the Commonwealth. The parliamentary process of passing of statutes, known as ‘Acts’, deals with regulating various aspects of our society. For a detailed explanation of the process of law making see The Legislature.