Sometimes medication is given instead to mimic exercise’s effect on the heart. Holter monitor (24-hour EKG or ambulatory EKG) involves wearing an electronic EKG recorder for 24 hours. It records the electrical activity of your heart over 24 hours. It helps diagnose arrhythmias (irregular or abnormal heartbeats).
Guide. An electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) is a test that checks for problems with the electrical activity of your heart. An EKG shows the heart 's electrical activity as line tracings on paper. The spikes and dips in the tracings are called waves. The heart is a muscular pump made up of four chambers. 
An ECG can help detect problems with your heart rate or heart rhythm – called arrhythmias. It can help doctors tell if you’re having a heart attack or if you’ve had a heart attack in the past. Sometimes an ECG can indicate if your heart is enlarged or thickened. Exercise ECG or stress test. This is an ECG that is recorded while you are walking on a treadmill or cycling on an exercise bike. The aim of this test is to see how your heart works when you are more active. Find out more about what the exercise stress test involves
An electrocardiogram is used to monitor your heart. Each beat of your heart is triggered by an electrical impulse normally generated from special cells in the upper right chamber of your heart. An electrocardiogram — also called an ECG or EKG — records these electrical signals as they travel through your heart. Your doctor can use an electrocardiogram to look for patterns among these heartbeats and rhythms to diagnose various heart conditions. 
The image shows the standard setup for an EKG. In figure A, a normal heart rhythm recording shows the electrical pattern of a regular heartbeat. In figure B, a patient lies in a bed with EKG electrodes attached to his chest, upper arms, and legs. A nurse monitors the painless procedure. What To Expect During an Electrocardiogram. An electrocardiogram (EKG) is painless and harmless. A nurse or technician will attach soft, sticky patches called electrodes to the skin of your chest, arms, and legs. The patches are about the size of a quarter.
The types of EKG include: Standard (resting) EKG involves measuring your heart’s electrical activity as you relax in a reclining or semi-reclining position. This is the most common type of EKG. Stress test (exercise EKG or treadmill test) involves performing an EKG while you exercise, usually on a treadmill. Holter monitor (24-hour EKG or ambulatory EKG) involves wearing an electronic EKG recorder for 24 hours. It records the electrical activity of your heart over 24 hours. It helps diagnose arrhythmias (irregular or abnormal heartbeats).
An EKG (electrocardiogram, or ECG) is a painless test that records the electrical activity of your heart. An EKG helps your doctor diagnose and monitor many heart problems. These commonly include a heart attack, cardiac arrhythmias (abnormal heartbeats), and coronary artery disease (narrowing of the coronary arteries). Holter monitor (24-hour EKG or ambulatory EKG) involves wearing an electronic EKG recorder for 24 hours. It records the electrical activity of your heart over 24 hours. It helps diagnose arrhythmias (irregular or abnormal heartbeats).
1. The standard 12-lead electrocardiogram is a representation of the heart's electrical activity recorded from electrodes on the body surface. This section describes the basic components of the ECG and the lead system used to record the ECG tracings. Topics for study: 1  ECG Waves and Intervals. 
Electrocardiogram Definition. A recording of the electrical activity of the heart. Abbreviated ECG and EKG. An ECG is a simple, noninvasive procedure. Electrodes are placed on the skin of the chest and connected in a specific order to a machine that, when turned on, measures electrical activity all over the heart.