Best Answer: They are both blood borne parasites. However, Trypanosoma lives in the blood plasma (outside red blood cells) and Plasmodium lives within infected red blood cells. Source(s): Microbiology: Diseases by Taxonomy. Plasmodium is the parasite that causes malaria. In the body, which is were blood cells are, parasites can move around, and their position changes.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Trypanosoma is a parasite that typically infects a host (the person that has the parasite) through an invertebrate that feeds on blood. Plasmodium is the parasite that causes malaria. In the body, which is were blood cells are, parasites can move around, and their position changes.
The chemical composition of two plasma membrane fractions from epimastigote forms of Trypanosoma cruzi is reported. Fraction M, a preparation obtained by conventional methods of cell fractionation is composed of 31% proteins, 34% lipids, 16% carbohydrates and 3% of the lipopeptidophosphoglycan. 
Trypanosoma is found outside the blood cell, in the plasma and Plasmodium is found inside the blood cell. In mammals the mature red blood cells have no nuclei and therefore have no DNA (intact DNA that is) in them. However, the red blood cells of other animals do contain nuclei an … d DNA.
Trypanosoma gambienese is a parasitic form that causes African Sleeping Sickness, which is transmitted by the bite of the tsetse fly. It lives in the blood and nervous s … ystem of its vertebrate host. 1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Chagas disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, which is transmitted to animals and people by insect vectors that are found only in the Americas (mainly, in rural areas of Latin America where poverty is widespread). Chagas disease (T. cruzi infection) is also referred to as American trypanosomiasis. These blood-sucking bugs get infected by biting an infected animal or person. Once infected, the bugs pass T. cruzi parasites in their feces. The bugs are found in houses made from materials such as mud, adobe, straw, and palm thatch.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. in the plasma of blood. found in humans transmitted by the bite of either the assassin bug, tsetse flie, mosquito or sand flie. causes Chagas' disease and African sleeping sickness. 1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Red blood cells (erythrocytes) and white blood cells (leukocytes) are very different. Red blood cells are round, lack a nucleus and function to carry oxygen throughout the bod … y. White blood cells can be many different shapes, have a nucleus and function to detect and destroy invading pathogens. In mammals the mature red blood cells have no nuclei and therefore have no DNA (intact DNA that is) in them. However, the red blood cells of other animals do contain nuclei an … d DNA.
However, Trypanosoma lives in the blood plasma (outside red blood cells) and Plasmodium lives within infected red blood cells. Plasmodium is the parasite that causes malaria. In the body, which is were blood cells are, parasites can move around, and their position changes.
Red blood cells (abbreviated RBCs, also called erythrocytes from erythro = red + cyte = cell) are continually produced in bone marrow and recycled in spleen. In mature form they lack nuclei and most cytoplasmic structures; they are little more than discoid, flexible bags of hemoglobin. Too many neutrophils is called neutrophilia; see example from WebPath. White blood cells (abbreviated WBCs, also called leukocytes from leuko = white + cyte = cell) comprise several distinct cell types, neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes and monocytes.