The cell envelope encases the cytoplasm and all its components. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm. Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids.
Bacterial DNA – a circular chromosome plus plasmids. The DNA of most bacteria is contained in a single circular molecule, called the bacterial chromosome. The chromosome, along with several proteins and RNA molecules, forms an irregularly shaped structure called the nucleoid. This sits in the cytoplasm of the bacterial cell. In addition to the chromosome, bacteria often contain plasmids – small circular DNA molecules.
Prokaryote cell (right) showing the nucleoid in comparison to a eukaryotic cell (left) showing the nucleus. The nucleoid (meaning nucleus-like) is an irregularly-shaped region within the cell of a prokaryote that contains all or most of the genetic material, called genophore. In contrast to the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell, it is not surrounded by a nuclear membrane. The genome of prokaryotic organisms generally is a circular, double-stranded piece of DNA, of which multiple copies may exist at any time. The length of a genome widely varies, but generally is at least a few million base pairs.
Lesson Summary. The nucleoid region is the irregularly-shaped section of a prokaryotic cell where DNA is housed. It lacks the membrane that is found around the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. In addition to DNA, the nucleoid may also contain RNA, proteins, and enzymes that can be used for cellular processes. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid. The nucleoid region may also contain proteins, enzymes, which are biological catalysts, and RNA. These proteins are necessary for several processes that take place in this region.
The nucleoid is the region of a prokaryotic cell that houses the primary DNA. This lesson briefly discusses the nucleoid and its characteristics, and how it compares to the nucleus of the eukaryotic cell. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid. The nucleoid region may also contain proteins, enzymes, which are biological catalysts, and RNA. These proteins are necessary for several processes that take place in this region.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The nucleoid is a region of cytoplasm where the chromosomal DNA is located. It is not a membrane bound nucleus, but simply an area of the cytoplasm where the strands of DNA are found. Most bacteria have a single, circular chromosome that is responsible for replication, although a few species do have two or more. 
Nucleoid: DNA in the bacterial cell is generally confined to this central region. Though it isn't bounded by a membrane, it is visibly distinct (by transmission microscopy) from the rest of the cell interior. Pili, Fimbriae: These hollow, hairlike structures made of protein allow bacteria to attach to other cells. A specialized pilus, the sex pilus, allows the transfer of plasmid DNA from one bacterial cell to another.
Experimental evidence suggests that the nucleoid is largely composed of DNA, about 60%, with a small amount of RNA and protein. The latter two constituents are likely to be mainly messenger RNA and the transcription factor proteins found regulating the bacterial genome. In contrast to the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell, it is not surrounded by a nuclear membrane. The genome of prokaryotic organisms generally is a circular, double-stranded piece of DNA, of which multiple copies may exist at any time. The length of a genome widely varies, but generally is at least a few million base pairs.
Genetic information in bacteria is stored in the sequence of DNA in two forms, that is bacterial chromosome and plasmid. The following are the properties of a bacterial chromosome. 1  Location: Within nucleoid region, not surrounded by nuclear envelope. 2  Number: 1 chromosome each cell. 
1. The genome is the sum of an organism’s genetic material. 2. Bacteria contan a single chromosome of double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). 3. The region of the bacterial cytoplasm where the chromosome is located and visible when viewed with an electron microscope called the nucleoid. 4. Tha bacterial chromosome is typically a physical and genetic circle, becomes supercoiled,and is not surrounded by a nuclear membrane. 5.