1 However, in most cases constipation is just a sign that your diet needs more fiber. 2  The average adult needs between 25 and 30 grams of fiber a day to ward off constipation, far less than most of us typically eat. 3  To avoid bloating and cramping, you'll want to gradually add fiber to your diet. 1 If you have constipation more than occasionally or have severe pain or bleeding, it's important to check-in with your doctor as these symptoms can be a sign of a more serious digestive disorder. 2 
The key is to get a good balance of these fibers. The recommended fiber diet for constipation sufferers, as well as for general health, total fiber intake per day is 25-35 grams, depending on your sex, age and weight. At this level, multiple health benefits occur.
1 Fill Up on Fiber-Rich Foods Chances are you've experienced constipation at one point or another. 2  If you have constipation more than occasionally or have severe pain or bleeding, it's important to check-in with your doctor as these symptoms can be a sign of a more serious digestive disorder. 1 If you have constipation more than occasionally or have severe pain or bleeding, it's important to check-in with your doctor as these symptoms can be a sign of a more serious digestive disorder. 2  However, in most cases constipation is just a sign that your diet needs more fiber.
A high-fiber diet has many benefits, which include: 1  Normalizes bowel movements. 2  Dietary fiber increases the weight and size of your stool and softens it. 3  A bulky stool is easier to pass, decreasing your chance of constipation. 1 Aids in achieving healthy weight. 2  High-fiber foods tend to be more filling than low-fiber foods, so you're likely to eat less and stay satisfied longer. 3  And high-fiber foods tend to take longer to eat and to be less energy dense, which means they have fewer calories for the same volume of food.
Add more fiber-filled foods to your diet and be sure to drink plenty of fluids to help the fiber flow properly through your digestive tract. 1  Pick Berries for a Sweet Treat For a sweet constipation remedy, take your pick of luscious raspberries, blackberries, and strawberries. 1 If you have constipation more than occasionally or have severe pain or bleeding, it's important to check-in with your doctor as these symptoms can be a sign of a more serious digestive disorder. 2  However, in most cases constipation is just a sign that your diet needs more fiber.
Bran from many grains is very rich in dietary fiber. Oat bran is high in soluble fiber, which has been shown to lower blood cholesterol levels. Wheat, corn, and rice bran are high in insoluble fiber, which helps prevent constipation. Bran can be sprinkled into your favorite foods,from hot cereal and pancakes to muffins and cookies. Many popular high-fiber cereals and bars are also packed with bran. 
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 Aids in achieving healthy weight. 2  High-fiber foods tend to be more filling than low-fiber foods, so you're likely to eat less and stay satisfied longer. 3  And high-fiber foods tend to take longer to eat and to be less energy dense, which means they have fewer calories for the same volume of food.