A group of water-soluble vitamins, including thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, pyridoxine, folic acid, and vitamin B 12, that are found in a variety of foods, especially yeast, liver, eggs, cereal grains, legumes, and some vegetables. Also called B complex.ny of a group of related vitamins important for normal cell growth and metabolism. The vitamins of the vitamin B complex include thiamine (vitamin B 1), riboflavin (vitamin B 2), pantothenic acid, niacin, biotin, and folic acid.
The B complex vitamins are essential, for example, for the conversion of simple carbohydrates like glucose and the carbon skeletons of amino acids into energy, and for the metabolism of fats and proteins. Good sources include brewer's yeast, liver, whole grain cereals, nuts, eggs, meats, fish, and vegetables. Because some B complex vitamins are produced by intestinal bacteria, taking antibiotics may destroy these bacteria. Symptoms of vitamin B deficiency include nervousness, depression, insomnia, neuritis, anemia, alopecia, acne or other skin disorders, and hypercholesterolemia. See also specific vitamins.
Other vitamins in the B complex include nicotinic acid, pantothenic acid, biotin, and lipoic acid. See also choline; inositol. vitamin B complex A group of water-soluble vitamins that characteristically serve as components of coenzymes. Plants and many microorganisms can manufacture B vitamins but dietary sources are essential for most animals. Heat and light tend to destroy B vitamins.itamin B n. any one of a group of water-soluble vitamins that are often found together in the same kinds of food, such as liver, yeast, and eggs, and all function as coenzymes. B1 (thiamin, aneurine) a vitamin deficiency of which leads to beriberi. Recommended daily intake: 1 mg.
vitamin B complex. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a large group of water-soluble vitamins occurring esp in liver and yeast: includes thiamine, riboflavin, nicotinic acid, pyridoxine, pantothenic acid, biotin, choline, folic acid, and cyanocobalamin. Sometimes shortened to: B complex.ny of a group of related vitamins important for normal cell growth and metabolism. The vitamins of the vitamin B complex include thiamine (vitamin B 1), riboflavin (vitamin B 2), pantothenic acid, niacin, biotin, and folic acid.
Product Details. Nature Made Super B-Complex is a combination of essential B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, B 6, folic acid, biotin, and pantothenic acid) that help support the production of cellular energy in the body.†. 1  Helps convert food into cellular energy 2  †. Helps support normal function of the nervous system †.he B vitamins, as found in Nature Made Super B Complex with Vitamin C, are found in a variety of food sources including meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cheese, broccoli, spinach, dates, figs, nuts, whole grains and fortified grains and cereals.
The B vitamins in the vitamin B complex include thiamine, riboflavin, niacin (nicotinic acid), niacinamide (nicotinamide), the vitamin B6 group (including pyridoxine, pyridoxal, pyridoxamine), biotin, pantothenic acid, folic acid, and vitamin B12.minobenzoic acid, inositol, and choline are sometimes included as part of the vitamin B complex. The vitamin B complex is water-soluble (can dissolve in water) and is found in yeast, seeds, eggs, liver, meat, and vegetables.
The B vitamins, as found in Nature Made Super B Complex with Vitamin C, are found in a variety of food sources including meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cheese, broccoli, spinach, dates, figs, nuts, whole grains and fortified grains and cereals.
In general, supplements containing all eight are referred to as a vitamin B complex. Individual B vitamin supplements are referred to by the specific name of each vitamin (e.g., B 1, B 2, B 3 etc.). vitamins are a class of water-soluble vitamins that play important roles in cell metabolism. Though these vitamins share similar names, research shows that they are chemically distinct vitamins that often coexist in the same foods.
B vitamin supplement tablets. B vitamins are a class of water-soluble vitamins that play important roles in cell metabolism. Though these vitamins share similar names, research shows that they are chemically distinct vitamins that often coexist in the same foods.
Any of a group of related vitamins important for normal cell growth and metabolism. The vitamins of the vitamin B complex include thiamine (vitamin B 1), riboflavin (vitamin B 2), pantothenic acid, niacin, biotin, and folic acid.♦ The complex also includes vitamin B6 (also called pyridoxine), which is important in protein and fat metabolism and in healthy nerve function.