Medical Definition of DUALISM. 1. : a theory that considers reality to consist of two irreducible elements or modes (as mind and matter). 2. : a theory in hematology holding that the blood cells arise from two kinds of stem cells one of which yields lymphatic elements and the other myeloid elements. — du·al·ist \-ə-ləst\ noun. Full Definition of DUALISM. 1. : a theory that considers reality to consist of two irreducible elements or modes. 2. : the quality or state of being dual or of having a dual nature.
duality. n, pl-ties. 1. the state or quality of being two or in two parts; dichotomy. 2. (General Physics) physics the principle that a wave-particle duality exists in microphysics in which wave theory and corpuscular theory are complementary. The propagation of electromagnetic radiation is analysed using wave theory but its interaction with matter is described in terms of photons. 2. duality - (physics) the property of matter and electromagnetic radiation that is characterized by the fact that some properties can be explained best by wave theory and others by particle theory. wave-particle duality
The theme links all aspects of the literary work with one another and is basically the main subject. The theme can be an enduring pattern or motif throughout the literary work, occurring in a complex, long winding manner or it can be short and succinct and provide a certain insight into the story. 
Contrast is a rhetorical device through which writers identify differences between two subjects, places, persons, things or ideas. Simply, it is a type of opposition between two objects highlighted to emphasize their differences. It comes from a Latin word, contra stare, meaning to stand against. 
Another way to look at a literary analysis is to consider a piece of literature from your own perspective. Rather than thinking about the author’s intentions, you can develop an argument based on any single term (or combination of terms) listed below. 
The prominence of duality as a literary device is important as it was a way for writers to explore many subjects and cultural anxieties, such as repression, transgression, the unpredictability of human nature, morality and urban division that were often regarded as taboo subjects in Victorian England. The term ‘duality’, and certain synonyms of it, is already in use in the contexts of various scientific and philosophical fields of research, including some of the literature relating to the philosophies of Heraclitus and Lao Tzu.
To learn more about how duality relates to literature, refer to the links below: thegothicpages.freeiz.com academia.edu Learn how to study for a test on a literary work in 10 easy steps, shared by enotes.com. Duality is a literary trope that features heavily in Gothic literature at the end of the 19th Century. The term ‘duality’, and certain synonyms of it, is already in use in the contexts of various scientific and philosophical fields of research, including some of the literature relating to the philosophies of Heraclitus and Lao Tzu.
Anthroporphism has a Greek origin from the word 'anthropos', which mean human or person. And as a result, Anthropomorphism is the action of placing human characteristics to a non-human object. Therefore, anthropomorphism can be safely be considered the same literary device as personification. Posted by Anonymous on Thu, 12/01/2011 - 00:40