Paralegals generally provide practical, hands-on assistance in relation to all aspects of legal work. The type of work performed by a paralegal will depend both upon the nature of the organisation and the practice area. However, because paralegals typically gain a high level of experience in a particular practice area, they can offer a high level of services. Under the supervision of a senior lawyer they can run their own files and conduct work which may have otherwise been undertaken by a junior lawyer.
Paralegals play an important role in the provision of legal services. They carry out a broad variety of work in all areas of the law and are a vital resource to an organisation. However, because paralegals typically gain a high level of experience in a particular practice area, they can offer a high level of services. Under the supervision of a senior lawyer they can run their own files and conduct work which may have otherwise been undertaken by a junior lawyer.
A paralegal, like a lawyer, can be employed by a law office or work freelance at a company or law office. Paralegals are not allowed to offer legal services directly to the public on their own and must perform their legal work under an attorney or law firm (except in Ontario Canada). 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.
Working as a Paralegal in Australia. Last year, the Chief Justice of Queensland called for a national ban on the term paralegals to prevent clients being deceived into paying $300 an hour for work done by unqualified clerks and secretaries.
Paralegal Salary. (Australia). A Paralegal earns an average salary of AU$51,435 per year. For the first five to ten years in this position, pay increases sharply, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. AU$36,862 - AU$71,478.
A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.
“Para-” is defined in the oncise Oxford and Websters’ dictionaries as firstly meaning “beside”. A paralegal works beside a lawyer –that makes sense. ut unlike the terms “lawyer” or “legal practitioner” the word “paralegal” is not a “term of art” and has no legally defined meaning. The term paralegals appears to be designed to suggest these people have a qualification and experience that particularly suits them for legal work….as opposed to someone who does administrative or clerical work. It is deceptive to present them under that guise and then charge as if they are somehow qualified”.
However there is no requirement in South Australia for a person working as a paralegal to have any kind of qualification whatever, nor any particular level of experience or skill. Training courses are available at TAFE colleges and elsewhere, but are not a pre-requisite to doing such work. The term paralegals appears to be designed to suggest these people have a qualification and experience that particularly suits them for legal work….as opposed to someone who does administrative or clerical work. It is deceptive to present them under that guise and then charge as if they are somehow qualified”.
While they still may perform administrative tasks, many paralegals assume much of a lawyer’s workload, employing an advanced understanding of the legal system. This frees the lawyer to focus on more detailed work and saves clients money, as paralegal services are not as costly as that of lawyers. In nearly all states, paralegals must work under the direct supervision of an attorney. Paralegals must uphold standards of ethics and confidentiality. They may not offer legal opinions or legal advice, represent clients in court, accept new clients into the practice or set legal fees.
A paralegal is protected under the conduit theory, which means he or she is working as an enhancement of an attorney and what he or she does is due to instruction by the attorney and the attorney is ultimately responsible. Paralegals often have taken a prescribed series of courses in law and legal processes. 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.