att go phone sim card. Follow att go phone sim card to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow att go phone sim card to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following att go phone sim card in your eBay Feed. Email me new items that match this interest.
Use GoPhone from AT&T on your iPhone now! You can pick from 3 different plans! You can even choose pay as you go like 10 cents per minute. Here are some links you will need: Buy Micro Sim Card here: http://amzn.to/OKdiyk. Buy Nano Sim Card here: http://amzn.to/VZ5Pcy. Activate your sim card here: http://bit.ly/PmqdD3. 
1 Tell them you need assistance transferring your old GoPhone plan to a new SIM card. 2  Provide the GoPhone SIM card ICCID number (found on the SIM card) and the new MicroSIM ICCID (from the iPhone 4 About screen or from iTunes). 4. Remove the iPhone SIM card. On the top of the iPhone, next to the earphone socket, is a tiny hole. Insert an unbent paper clip into the hole, and push down: the SIM tray will pop out.
GoPhone: switch to micro sim card. Edited by cielgrue on Dec 27, 2013 at 2:52:27 AM. I got a regular sized sim card when I got my gophone plan, but now I will be using a new phone that needs the mini sim card. Visiting a store will make sure the SIM is working before you even get out. You can get a Micro Sim cutter online for a few bucks and DIY. Award for Community Excellence (A.C.E.) achiever for 2015*. *The views and opinions expressed on this forum are purely my own.
2. Change your SIM card on a Blackberry Passport. This phone uses a nano SIM card with the SIM slot located at the top of the phone, to the left of the camera, if the back of the phone is facing you. 1  With the camera facing you, locate the indent at the top center of the phone, above the camera. Insert your new SIM card. Be sure the new card is activated with your carrier before installing it. 1  Once again, you may have to enter your password to complete activation once the SIM card is in place and you power your phone back on.
Can I use a new AT&T GoPhone sim card on the iPhone? I just got a new AT&T Motorola c168i on pay-as-you go with sim card. The Iphone has a built in sim card that can't be taken out. The iphone also won't work without being activated on the computer where you have to sign a 2 yr contract and get the extra $20 internet service, so they can't be used for prepaid.
1 Provide the GoPhone SIM card ICCID number (found on the SIM card) and the new MicroSIM ICCID (from the iPhone 4 About screen or from iTunes). 2  Provide your iPhone's IMEI number, printed on the Micro SIM's caddy or from the iPhone About screen. 4. Remove the iPhone SIM card. On the top of the iPhone, next to the earphone socket, is a tiny hole. Insert an unbent paper clip into the hole, and push down: the SIM tray will pop out.
Get started. Your new SIM card will be shipped by mail. When you receive it, all you have to do is insert it into your phone and activate your service at att.com/gophone. To check your data balance, buy a data package, add money, reset your password and more, visit att.com/mygophone
1. Change your SIM card on an older Blackberry. If you have a Blackberry phone you can find your SIM card under the battery, or sometimes below the battery slot. With your Blackberry powered off, remove the battery door, and then the battery before you attempt to switch out your SIM card. Insert your new SIM card. Be sure the new card is activated with your carrier before installing it. 1  Once again, you may have to enter your password to complete activation once the SIM card is in place and you power your phone back on.