Dipper is a 12-year-old boy who, along with his twin sister Mabel, is sent to spend his summer vacation in his great uncle's tourist trap, The Mystery Shack. He endeavors to uncover the secrets of the fictional town of Gravity Falls and to find explanations for assorted strange situations. The adventures of Dipper and his sister are inspired by the childhood of series creator Alex Hirsch and his own twin sister, Ariel Hirsch. As a character, Dipper has been critically well received.
Arrival in Gravity Falls. Sometime during the month of June, Dipper and his twin sister Mabel were sent from Piedmont, California to the small town of Gravity Falls, Oregon, to stay with their Great Uncle Grunkle Stan, who runs a tourist trap named the Mystery Shack which doubles as his house. Dipper and his friends trick-or-treating. Dipper and Mabel, like the rest of the town, are ecstatic about celebrating Gravity Falls' summer version of Halloween, Summerween, and plans to trick-or-treat with his sister, Candy, and Grenda.
Dipper Pines is a fictional character and one of the main protagonists of the Disney XD animated series Gravity Falls. The character is voiced by Jason Ritter, and designed by and loosely based on the childhood of series creator, Alex Hirsch. The adventures of Dipper and his sister are inspired by the childhood of series creator Alex Hirsch and his own twin sister, Ariel Hirsch. As a character, Dipper has been critically well received.
Dipper Pines (born August 31st, 1999, 5 minutes after his twin sister Mabel, in Piedmont, California) is a smart, curious, and adventurous 12-year-old spending the summer with his Great Uncle Stan in Gravity Falls, Oregon, where he and his twin sister constantly encounter the town's paranormal side. Dipper and his friends trick-or-treating. Dipper and Mabel, like the rest of the town, are ecstatic about celebrating Gravity Falls' summer version of Halloween, Summerween, and plans to trick-or-treat with his sister, Candy, and Grenda.
Idea #1: The name must be embarrassing enough that he would rather go by Dipper.  1 Mabel is a pretty old-fashioned name. 2  Or maybe their parents wanted to rhyme their names or make them similar, giving Dipper an awkward name. 3  2: One of Dipper's friends, or someone he knows has the same name as him, so he changed it so they wouldn't get confused. 1 Or maybe their parents wanted to rhyme their names or make them similar, giving Dipper an awkward name. ( 2 Glabel)
Dipper is the star of the Gravity Falls series of shorts titled Dipper's Guide to the Unexplained and also appears in the Fixin' it with Soos and Mabel's Guide to Life shorts, usually to correct Mabel's obviously made up information. The adventures of Dipper and his sister are inspired by the childhood of series creator Alex Hirsch and his own twin sister, Ariel Hirsch. As a character, Dipper has been critically well received.
And holy moly here I go! As soon as I found out that Dipper was only a nickname, I immediately assumed that his name might be Stan (named for his Great Uncle, whom his parents must trust to leave their kids with for the whole summer) and that the Stan is not what he seems in the opening may apply to him if this is so. Post: #9. mst3kei Wrote:To be fair, an open-edit, fan-operated wiki shouldn't be considered confirming.. To many, fan run wikis may not seem trustworthy, but as a fan of many fandoms with many wikis, usually fans tend to keep it from having faked trash, but I do understand your mistrust of it.
He remembers reading that Nathaniel Northwest may not be the town founder of Gravity Falls. Dipper and Mabel head to the library to study about the document in 3. Using a projector, they try to see if the symbol in the document is related to Egyptian, numerology, or Alchemist symbols. Dipper and his friends trick-or-treating. Dipper and Mabel, like the rest of the town, are ecstatic about celebrating Gravity Falls' summer version of Halloween, Summerween, and plans to trick-or-treat with his sister, Candy, and Grenda.
Here are some clues as to what the name might be. Idea #1: The name must be embarrassing enough that he would rather go by Dipper.  1 Mabel is a pretty old-fashioned name. 2  Maybe Dipper's name is equally old fashioned, but much weirder (Algernon). 3  Or maybe their parents wanted to rhyme their names or make them similar, giving Dipper an awkward name. ( 4 Glabel). 1 Or maybe their parents wanted to rhyme their names or make them similar, giving Dipper an awkward name. ( 2 Glabel). 3  2: One of Dipper's friends, or someone he knows has the same name as him, so he changed it so they wouldn't get confused.