The field of Health Physics is a subfield of medical physics and are similar to each other in that practitioners rely on the same fundamental science (i.e., radiation physics, biology, etc.) in both fields. Health physicists, however, focus on the evaluation and protection of human health from radiation, whereas medical health physicists and medical physicists use radiation and other physics-based technologies for the diagnosis and treatment of disease.
Definition of a Qualified Medical Physicist. For the purpose of providing clinical professional services, a Qualified Medical Physicist (QMP) is an individual who is competent to independently provide clinical professional services in one or more of the subfields of medical physics. The subfields of medical physics are: 1  Therapeutic Medical Physics. 
Medical physics departments may be found in hospitals or universities. In the case of hospital work the term 'Medical Physicist' is the title of a specific healthcare profession with a specific mission statement (see below). In North America, medical physics training is offered at the master's, doctorate, post-doctorate and/or residency levels. Also, a professional doctorate has been recently introduced as an option.
Health physics or The Physics of Radiation Protection is the science concerned with the recognition, evaluation, and control of health hazards to permit the safe use and application of ionizing radiation. Health physicists, however, focus on the evaluation and protection of human health from radiation, whereas medical health physicists and medical physicists use radiation and other physics-based technologies for the diagnosis and treatment of disease.
Medical Health Physics. Medical Health Physics is one of the four specialty avenues within the field of Medical Physics. Medical Physics is an applied science combining the fields of physics, bioengineering, and electronics. A Medical Health Physicist is responsible for the safety and security of hospital staff using radiation emitting machines. 
Medical physics: The science of human health and radiation exposure. Medical physics, also called health physics, is devoted to radiation safety. The international professional body for health physics, the Health Physics Society, notes that: 
Medical Physics (also called biomedical physics or medical biophysics or applied physics in medicine) is generally speaking the application of physics concepts, theories and methods to medicine or healthcare. In North America, medical physics training is offered at the master's, doctorate, post-doctorate and/or residency levels. Also, a professional doctorate has been recently introduced as an option.
Medical Physics is: 1  Defined as the application of physics to the needs of medicine. 2  Launched by 2 Nobel prizes in physics; subsequently 2 Nobel prizes in Medicine or Physiology. 3  Responsible for the technical foundations of radiology, radiation oncology, and nuclear medicine. For more information, we recommend the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) Public Education Website, which addresses issues like: what is a medical physicist, the role s/he plays in radiation therapy and diagnostic medical imaging, history of medical physics, etc.
ISSN: 0094-2405. Medical Physics is the scientific journal of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine and is an official science journal of the Canadian Organization of Medical Physics, the Canadian College of Physicists in Medicine, and the International Organization for Medical Physics (IOMP). 