ACD. ACD was the first CD from Half Man Half Biscuit. If featured some of the tracks from the previous vinyl album, Back Again in the DHSS. The Best Things In Life D'Ye Ken Ted Moult?. Reasons To Be Miserable Rod Hull Is Alive – Why?.
About ACD Systems International Inc. ACD Systems is one of the largest and most respected independent digital image editing and management companies in the world. The company was founded in 1993 in Texas by technology and imaging visionary Doug Vandekerkhove. 
An Automatic Call Distributor (ACD) is a telephone facility that manages incoming calls and handles them based on the number called and an associated database of handling instructions. 
acid citrate dextrose. ACD solution. an anticoagulant solution used for the collection of blood for purposes of storage and transfusion. The active principle is sodium citrate with citric acid and dextrose. 
An Adjournment in Contemplation of Dismissal is a negotiated settlement that is possible in some misdemeanor cases in New York City. The short-hand term used in New York City is ACD (to be distinguished from the way it is often referred to outside of the City -- ACOD. Keep in mind, however, that if your lawyer is able to negotiate an ACD for you toward the beginning of your case, then your choice will be to accept the ACD now (dismissal six months later) or go to trial approximately six months or longer down the road.
Anticoagulant Citrate Dextrose Solution, Solution A, U.S.P. (ACD-A) is intended for use as an anticoagulant in the extracorporeal blood processing with Autologous Platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP) Systems in production of PRP. ACD-A is not for direct intravenous infusion. 1 ACD-A is the only anticoagulant product approved by the United States Food & Drug Administration for the use in Autologous PRP Systems for the preparation of Platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP).
Originally, the ACD function was internal to the Private Branch Exchange of the company. However, the closed nature of these systems limited their flexibility. A system was then designed to enable common computing devices, such as server PCs, to make routing decisions. The system consists of hardware for the terminals and switches, phone lines, and software for the routing strategy. The routing strategy is a rule-based set of instructions that tells the ACD how calls are handled inside the system. Typically this is an algorithm that determines the best available employee or employees to respond to a given incoming call
ACD systems are often found in offices that handle large volumes of incoming phone calls from callers who have no need to talk to a specific person but who require assistance from any of multiple persons (e.g., customer service representatives) at the earliest opportunity. The system consists of hardware for the terminals and switches, phone lines, and software for the routing strategy. The routing strategy is a rule-based set of instructions that tells the ACD how calls are handled inside the system. Typically this is an algorithm that determines the best available employee or employees to respond to a given incoming call
(DSC) is a leading provider of call center technology including ACD (Automated Call Distribution) phone systems and call routing software. The ACD typically work with DSC's award winning IVR (Interactive Voice Response) software. These products automatically answer incoming phone calls and intelligently process these calls. The IVR in many cases can process the call without the need to transfer to an agent. DSC provides comprehensive ACD services at our call center. These services include the development of call distribution applications such as the following: 1  Virtual Secretary-Automatically answer calls and route to appropriate individual or department.