The catkins of some alder species have a degree of edibility, and may be rich in protein. Reported to have a bitter and unpleasant taste, they are more useful for survival purposes. The wood of certain alder species is often used to smoke various food items such as coffee, salmon and other seafood. Alder bark contains the anti-inflammatory salicin, which is metabolized into salicylic acid in the body. Some Native American cultures use red alder bark (Alnus rubra) to treat poison oak, insect bites, and skin irritations.
The largest species are red alder (A. rubra) on the west coast of North America, and black alder (A. glutinosa), native to most of Europe and widely introduced elsewhere, both reaching over 30 m. By contrast, the widespread Alnus viridis (green alder) is rarely more than a 5-m-tall shrub. Alder bark contains the anti-inflammatory salicin, which is metabolized into salicylic acid in the body. Some Native American cultures use red alder bark (Alnus rubra) to treat poison oak, insect bites, and skin irritations.
Alder is a deciduous tree belonging to the birch family of the genus Alnus. While this genus includes approximately 30 species of trees and shrubs, the alder tree found in Europe may grow up to a height of even 100 feet. 
Bird Lover’s Beware! ~. Here is a list of some of the more common plants that are poisonous to birds, dogs, cats, equine and other domesticated livestock as well. This list is not comprehensive by any means so please use common sense. Plants that are listed as poisonous to humans and other animals. . 
Alnus glutinosa, the common alder, black alder, European alder or just alder, is a species of tree in the family Betulaceae, native to most of Europe, southwest Asia and northern Africa. The common alder is the foodplant of the larvae of a number of different butterflies and moths and is associated with over 140 species of plant-eating insect. The tree is also a host to a variety of mosses and lichens which particularly flourish in the humid moist environment of streamside trees.
If charcoal tablets are at hand they may be given. Alder buckthorn is common in forests in West Estonia and the islands, but occurs in the shrub layer of forests in all Estonia. It grows as a shrub with dark bark, or as a multi-trunked tree, height up to seven metres.
ANIMALS AFFECTED: Documented cases pertain to cattle only. However, this plant is also poisonous to humans as well. May be toxic to goats. In one case of fatal poisoning, a cow ate large quantities of leaves, twigs, and berries of alder buckthorn. The animal quickly became ill and developed symptoms of diarrhea, vomiting, slow pulse, cramps, and slight fever before death. DESCRIPTION: Glycosides Containing Plant-Alder buckthorn (Rhamnus frangula) is a naturalized shrub or small tree that is found in parts of eastern Canada and the Prairie Provinces. This plant is found along fencerows and roadsides and in lightly shaded woodlands.
(Updated 2005). The following poisonous plant index lists common household plants, outdoor greenery, as well as wild varieties of plants, shrubs, trees, leafy fruit, herb plants, etc. While this list is extensive, it is by no means a complete list of known plants toxic to animals