1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG.
Previously, Hepatitis A vaccination was recommended to be administered at least 2–4 weeks before departure to an area with intermediate or high rates of Hepatitis A. Travelers who were departing in less than 2 weeks were recommended to receive receive immune globulin (IG) for short-term protection.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) , booster shots of the Hep B vaccine are not necessary (FYI, Heptavax-B was discontinued in the United States in 1990, but the currently used Hep B vaccine, Energix-B, is considered to be safe and effective).
Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older.
The 2 doses in the series should be administered at least 6 months apart. Children who are not vaccinated by age 2 years can be vaccinated at subsequent visits. States, counties, and communities with existing hepatitis A vaccination programs for children age 2-18 years are encouraged to maintain these programs.
Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver, most often caused by a viral infection. There are three common types of hepatitis caused by viruses: hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. Vaccines have been developed that protect people from contracting hepatitis A and B. There is no vaccine for
Hepatitis A vaccine is not licensed for children younger than 1 year of age. For children, the first dose should be given at 12 through 23 months of age. Children who are not vaccinated by 2 years of age can be vaccinated at later visits. For others at risk, the hepatitis A vaccine series may be started whenever a person wishes to be protected or is at risk of infection.
1 If you have had an allergic reaction to the vaccine or to any of its components in the past. 2  One type of vaccine (Epaxal®) should not be given to anyone who is known to be allergic to eggs. 3  Children under the age of 1 year. 4  The risk of hepatitis A in children under the age of 1 is very low.
A 2-dose schedule of a hepatitis B vaccine is also available as an alternative to the 3-dose schedule for adolescents aged 11 to 15 years. A rapid schedule for a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine is available. This comprises 3 doses given on days 0, 7 and 21, with a booster given at 12 months.