Private halls will usually give you a shorter option of around 41 weeks so you are only paying for when you are actually there. If your tenancy agreement is shorter but you do decide to stay over the summer, some landlords do summer lets and most private halls do as well. 
Rent depends on where you are in the UK, and where you are located in a town. Accommodation in the centre of towns can often cost more. If it is in an area further away from university or college, calculate your weekly travel costs to and from there. Contracts are normally for 12 months, and rent is generally higher than in university-run halls. Privately rented house/flat-you pay rent to a landlord. This could offer a more independent lifestyle. Make sure you understand the extra costs you will pay as well as rent.
You may stay in your room for the full period stated on your accommodation agreement. If you have a catered 32 week contract you do not pay for accommodation over Christmas and Easter vacations and may not reside in them for these periods. If you require accommodation over the vacation periods please contact the Accommodation Office as we may be able to accommodate you in self catered accommodation. If you have paid your £300 deposit you can reduce the second and third terms' accommodation charge by £150. If you wish to pay the whole year in advance remember to deduct the amount of your deposit from your total charges due.
The only instalment plan is the direct debit scheme (or recurring card payment for international students). If you do not have a direct debit in place you will be required to pay the years' accommodation fees in full by 22 October 2015. If you are offered a place in halls, you must pay a deposit of £300 to secure your place, by the closing date in the email you are sent. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of the licence and pay the deposit by the closing date, the room will be offered to another student
In University accommodation the majority of students pay termly and the amount is stated on your accommodation agreement. If you have paid your £300 deposit you can reduce the second and third terms' accommodation charge by £150. If you wish to pay the whole year in advance remember to deduct the amount of your deposit from your total charges due.
The amount of rent you pay per year depends on how many weeks you can have your accommodation for. On average, UK universities charge rent for halls for 41 weeks a year but some may charge for 42-45 weeks. For private accommodation some landlords may ask you to sign a contract for 52 weeks, but the average is 44 weeks. Contracts are normally for 12 months, and rent is generally higher than in university-run halls. Privately rented house/flat-you pay rent to a landlord. This could offer a more independent lifestyle. Make sure you understand the extra costs you will pay as well as rent.
Depending on the family, you may find contracts ranging from 3 weeks to a year. Often, host families will charge a retainer of about £30 per week if the student goes home during the holidays but wants to store their belongings in their room. Students tend to pay for homestay accommodation on a weekly or monthly basis. Contracts are normally for 12 months, and rent is generally higher than in university-run halls. Privately rented house/flat-you pay rent to a landlord. This could offer a more independent lifestyle. Make sure you understand the extra costs you will pay as well as rent.
This section explains how to apply online for accommodation, the collection and return of deposits and the expected terms of rent payment. It also covers what to do if you get into difficulty with rent payments. Types of accommodation. The University has several different types of accommodation on offer to students. They are as follows: 1  Full board – Campus based Halls of Residence with breakfast, lunch and evening meals (term time only – 35 weeks). 