The vocal folds start to weaken eventually because of age, and sopranos suffer the most. During a tenor's high C, his vocal folds close about 500 times a second; for a soprano's high C, the rate is about 1,000 times each second.
The best violinists can play with top orchestras as teenagers, but opera singers take the stage much later. Vocalists spend years mastering their techniques, but physiology also explains why opera singers have to wait. Hormonal changes continue to alter a singer's voice in adulthood, long after the end of puberty.
Lieberman, however, contemplated hanging a big left. Could she, at 25 years old, become a professional opera singer when the competition had seven years on her with training and role experience? She hoped her father's 99-year-old cousin Frances, a voice teacher, could tell her.
Most opera singers begin lessons at age 13 or 14, when the vocal chords are developed enough to start training. Depending on your voice type, an operatic career lasts until your late 40s or 50s.
Usually between 30 and 50 years old. Singers' voices mature anywhere from their 20s to the early 40s, and, in general, voices that are deeper and heavier in tone take longer to develop fully. Coloraturas, or sopranos with light voices, typically reach their peaks earliest, in the mid-20s.
“It’s never too late to start singing opera, it just takes a long time to break into the opera world,” said Gunther in a telephone interview. While starting an operatic career past 50 years old might be unusual, the scenario wouldn't rule out a substantial professional career of some length, according to Greenawald.
9. Practice without a microphone. Unlike other types of singers, opera singers do not use microphones; instead, they learn how to amplify their voice so that it delivers clearly over a large space. 1  Find an acoustically appropriate practice space: a small room may cause you to limit your volume.
Correction, Sept. 14, 2007: The original version of this article stated that a tenor closes his vocal folds 500 times a second for a high C, while for a soprano that rate is 1,300 times a second. Since the soprano's note is one full octave higher, it requires a doubling of the frequency (to about 1,000 hertz).
Zeitels estimates he's performed about 75,000 voice operations, 500-700 of those on singers -- including Adele, The Who's lead singer Roger Daltrey, and Aerosmith's Steven Tyler. Most of the singers he has performed on have been opera singers, because of the substantial demands on their voice.