Described as taking only the best qualities from Otis Redding, Ray LaMontagne, and Ryan Adams, Anderson’s voice is a blend of unique inflection and delivery that creates a sound of its own. East’s full-length album, Flowers of the Broken Hearted, was released September of 2012. Anderson East is currently in the studio with Dave Cobb (Jason Isbell/Shooter Jennings) working on an album slated to be released in 2014. Offering up a heaping helping of alternative rock with a healthy dose of timeless Americana influence, Anderson East is a dynamic artist who fuses modern sound with the rich undertones of his southern roots.
The record's only cover song is Find 'Em, Fool 'Em and Forget 'Em, a relatively unknown song written in the Seventies by George Jackson and FAME Studios owner Rick Hall. East discovered the tune last year, while visiting FAME Studios in Muscle Shoals. There's ghosts in that place, East says of FAME Studios. There's still that spirit there. It's intangible. You don't really know what it is, but it's sacred ground. The place hasn't changed since the Seventies. It kinda smells weird, and they've got that wood siding — that wallpaper wood-type shit.
From Loretta's next album to Faith's new film, we count down the music and events we're most looking forward to over the next 12 months. 1  Ty Herndon's Follow-Up to 'Lies I Told Myself' (TBD). ' 2 Dixieland' (TBD). 3  CMA Music Festival (June 11th-14th). Joey Foley/Getty Images. It's a pretty safe bet to follow the lead of Dave Cobb — after producing two stellar records in a row, for Jason Isbell and Sturgill Simpson, it's hard not to pay attention to anything and anyone he invites into his studio.
Ian Scott Anderson, MBE (born 10 August 1947) is a British musician, singer, songwriter and multi-instrumentalist best known for his work as the lead vocalist, flautist and acoustic guitarist of British rock band Jethro Tull. Anderson plays flute on the Men Without Hats song On Tuesday from their album Pop Goes the World (1987), and on the Blackmore's Night song Play, Minstrel, Play from their debut album Shadow of the Moon (1997). Anderson plays flute on the 1998 Roy Harper album The Dream Society.
(Watch the performance of Find 'Em, Fool 'Em and Forget 'Em above.). There's ghosts in that place, East says of FAME Studios. There's still that spirit there. It's intangible. You don't really know what it is, but it's sacred ground. The place hasn't changed since the Seventies. It kinda smells weird, and they've got that wood siding — that wallpaper wood-type shit.
The current Anderson East project has closed but you can follow Anderson East and be notified when there is a new project. We can talk so I can get a feel for what you like (colors, etc…) Plus a signed copy of the new record on CD and a signed copy of the new album on VINYL.
Anderson East, 'Delilah' (Spring). Joey Foley/Getty Images. It's a pretty safe bet to follow the lead of Dave Cobb — after producing two stellar records in a row, for Jason Isbell and Sturgill Simpson, it's hard not to pay attention to anything and anyone he invites into his studio.
Anderson East. full bio. A singer and songwriter whose music is a potent, heartfelt fusion of soul, rhythm & blues, gospel, early rock & roll, and a dash of country, Anderson East was born in 1988 in Athens, Alabama, a small town not far from Huntsville. Born Michael Anderson, he grew up in a household where gospel music was favored and his grandfather was a Baptist preacher.
A year later, Michael had changed his stage moniker to Anderson East and released an EP, Fire Demos. Anderson traveled to Los Angeles to record his next album, 2012's Flowers of the Broken Hearted, which included backing from studio aces Waddy Wachtel, Rob Wasserman, and Don Heffington. Born Michael Anderson, he grew up in a household where gospel music was favored and his grandfather was a Baptist preacher.
When Cobb launched his own label, Low Country Sound, distributed by Elektra Records, Anderson was brought on board, and his major-label debut, Delilah, was released in July 2015. Born Michael Anderson, he grew up in a household where gospel music was favored and his grandfather was a Baptist preacher.