Definition of LUTEFISK. : dried codfish that has been soaked in a water and lye solution before cooking. ADVERTISEMENT. Norwegian, from lute to wash in lye solution + fisk fish. 
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Lutefisk is a Scandinavian dish which is made from dried stockfish, also called whitefish. Most commonly, the fish of choice is cod, although other white fleshed fish can be used as well. The fish is rehydrated before being soaked in lye and then soaked in fresh water. Lutefisk is associated with Norway, where it is a popular dish. Cod is typically used to make lutefisk. Lutefisk is often served with a creamy bechamel sauce.
Lutefisk—codfish (fisk) preserved in lye (lut)—is both a delicacy and a tradition among Scandinavian-Americans, who serve the chemical-soaked, gelatinous fish with a warm and friendly smile. Lutefisk, or lutfisk in Swedish, is a traditional dish in Norway, Sweden, and parts of Finland. But today, Scandinavians rarely eat lutefisk. Far more lutefisk is consumed in the United States, much of it in church and lodge basements. In fact, the self-proclaimed “lutefisk capital of the world” isn’t in Norway but in Madison, Minnesota, where a fiberglass codfish named “Lou T. Fisk” welcomes visitors to this lye-fish loving town.
Lutefisk is dried whitefish (normally cod, but ling is also used) treated with lye. The first step is soaking the stockfish in cold water for five to six days (with the water changed daily). Lutefisk does not need additional water for the cooking; it is sufficient to place it in a pan, salt it, seal the lid tightly, and let it steam cook under a very low heat for 20–25 minutes. An alternative is to wrap in aluminium foil and bake at 225 °C (435 °F) for 40–50 minutes.
Lutefisk can also be boiled directly in a pan of water. Lutefisk sold in North America may also be cooked in a microwave oven. The average cooking time is 8–10 minutes per whole fish (a package of two fish sides) at high power in a covered glass cooking dish, preferably made of heat resistant glass. Lutefisk does not need additional water for the cooking; it is sufficient to place it in a pan, salt it, seal the lid tightly, and let it steam cook under a very low heat for 20–25 minutes. An alternative is to wrap in aluminium foil and bake at 225 °C (435 °F) for 40–50 minutes.
Olsen Fish Company has positioned itself as the world’s largest Lutefisk producer using only genuine Norwegian stockfish. With many years of experience producing Lutefisk, it is obvious why more customers prefer Olsen’s Flakee White Lutefisk. 
Lutefisk is a traditional dish of the Nordic countries made from stockfish (air-dried whitefish) and soda lye (lut). Its name literally means lye fish, owing to the fact that it is made with caustic soda or potash lye. 
Follow @WhatsCookingUSA. Lutefisk History: Lutefisk (pronounced LEWD-uh-fisk) is dried cod that has been soaked in a lye solution for several days to rehydrate it. It is rinsed with cold water to remove the lye, then boiled or baked, and then served with butter, salt, and pepper. The finished lutefisk usually is the consistency of Jello. Purchase the lutefisk a day before you want to serve it. Take it out of the plastic bag, put it in a large bowl, and cover with ice water. Change this water two to three times (to remove the lye) and keep in the refrigerator until ready to use (if your family will let you). This firms up the fish.
MAIN RECIPE PAGE. LUTEFISK Literally translated as lyefish, lutefisk or lutefish  from the Norwegian lutefisk and the Swedish lutfisk  is an old traditional fish preparation and dish consumed in the Nordic countries of Norway, Sweden and Finland (excluding Denmark and Iceland). 
Lutefisk is a traditional dish of the Nordic countries made from air-dried whitefish and soda lye. In Norway and Sweden, it is called lutfisk, while in Finland it is known as lipeaekala. Lipeäkala its name literally means lye, fish owing to the fact that it is processed with caustic soda or potash. lye It is said that lutefisk was invented because some fumbly person happened to drop lye on a piece of dried, soaked fish and thus discovered that the dry fish re-took its original shape and became white. Whether it was by mistake or not, it must have been a successful discovery in those days.