We often need to give plants a critical head start by germinating and growing seedlings in the warm indoors in early spring. Then when it warms up outdoors in late spring, we can plant out sturdy, well-established seedlings to bear fruit before cold weather sets in.
This is by far the most common and most successful method of germinating marijuana seeds. The fragile root of the new marijuana plant are protected by the soil and of course this is the natural way for marijuana plants to grow.
1 Read the seed packet. 2  Seed packets are full of useful information about when to start plants, how much light and water they need, and so on. 3  If you have seeds you saved, look up instructions for that type of plant online. 4  In addition to water, some seeds need warmth and light.
Indoors. Starting seeds indoors can help vegetables that need a long growing season get a head start. Vegetable plants that handle transplanting without damage to their roots are the best choices for indoor germination using a light seed starting medium or peat pots.
Germination is the process by which a plant grows from a seed. The most common example of germination is the sprouting of a seedling from a seed of an angiosperm or gymnosperm.
3 successful ways to germinate your marijuana seeds. Seed germination is a very important process in which you lay the foundation for your marijuana plants. That’s why you want to make sure your seeds come from a renowned company and that your marijuana plants grow in perfect conditions.
Dry seeds will not germinate. #6 Patiently Wait for Germination Place the germination container in a warm location out of direct sunlight. Light is not needed during the germination process, but will not be harmful as long as high temperatures are avoided.
HOW TO GERMINATE SEED. Your best source of information on the germination of seeds is 'Seed Germination, Theory and Practice' by Norm Deno. It lists 4000 species and gives pretreatments if any, and detailed instructions on the use of GA-3. Two supplements listing additional species have been published.