ANSWER. The genus name for the single-celled parasite which causes malaria is Plasmodium. In the genus, there are five species which infect humans: Plasmodium falciparum (the most deadly kind), P. vivax, P. ovale, P. malariae and P. knowlesi. Filed Under: Malaria Q&A Tagged With: malaria nomenclature, Plasmodium, Plasmodium Falciparum, Plasmodium Knowlesi, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium Ovale, Plasmodium Vivax, scientific name.
Malaria is caused by organisms of the genus Plasmodium, a parasite  that infects human red blood cells.    There are 3 different eukaryotic organisms from the genus  … Plasmodium that are responsible for the contraction of  malaria. Malaria is caused by 1 of the 5 species of the plasmodium parasite. The five types of mosquitoes responsible for malaria are: Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium vivax, Plasmodi … um knowles, Plasmodium ovale and Plasmodium malariae.
Malaria is caused by organisms of the genus Plasmodium, a parasite  that infects human red blood cells.    There are 3 different eukaryotic organisms from the genus  … Plasmodium that are responsible for the contraction of  malaria. Malaria is caused by the Protozoal species, Plasmodium. It is spread by the female mosquito of several species of the Anopheles genus. Male mosquitoes do not take a blood meal … as only the female requires a blood meal in order to support procreation. 3 people found this useful.
Malaria parasites belong to the genus Plasmodium (phylum Apicomplexa). In humans, malaria is caused by P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale, P. vivax and P. knowlesi. Among those infected, P. falciparum is the most common species identified (~75%) followed by P. vivax (~20%). The parasites travel to the liver where they mature and reproduce. Five species of Plasmodium can infect and be spread by humans. Most deaths are caused by P. falciparum because P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria. The species P. knowlesi rarely causes disease in humans.
Plasmodium Falciparum is a protozoan parasite which can infect humans, causing the disease Malaria. It is spread primarily by the bite of infected Anopheles mosquitoes. Malaria causes over 1 Million deaths per year. The disease is most prevalent in Africa, where it kills one child every 30 seconds. Genus---Plasmodium. Species---Plasmodium Falciparum---Four forms of Malaria Plasmodium exist: Plasmodium Falciparum, Vivax, Ovale, and Malariae. Plasmodium Falciparum is by far the most deadly, which also leads to increased research for a vaccine.
ANSWER. Malaria is caused by a single celled parasite of the genus Plasmodium. Five species infect humans, and their scientific names are Plasmodium falciparum (the most severe and deadly kind), P. vivax, P. ovale, P. malariae and P. knowlesi.