In finance, the beta (β) of an investment is a measure of the risk arising from exposure to general market movements as opposed to idiosyncratic factors. The market portfolio of all investable assets has a beta of exactly 1. A beta greater than one generally means that the asset both is volatile and tends to move up and down with the market. An example is a stock in a big technology company. Negative betas are possible for investments that tend to go down when the market goes up, and vice versa.
A beta of less than 1 means that the security will be less volatile than the market. A beta of greater than 1 indicates that the security's price will be more volatile than the market. Want to know more CALL 0800 016 3909 (Toll Free). The process of delivering a beta version to the users is called beta release. Beta level software is between 60% and 70% complete, generally includes all features, but may also include known issues and bugs of a less serious variety.
DEFINITION of 'Beta'. Beta is a measure of the volatility, or systematic risk, of a security or a portfolio in comparison to the market as a whole. Beta is used in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), a model that calculates the expected return of an asset based on its beta and expected market returns. Also known as beta coefficient.. A beta of less than 1 means that the security will be less volatile than the market. A beta of greater than 1 indicates that the security's price will be more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it's theoretically 20% more volatile than the market.
But note carefully: it's a Beta. - hence it's Beta software. By definition Beta software is not finished and is known to have bugs, perhaps even serious ones. By definition Beta software is not finished and is known to have bugs, perhaps even serious ones.. Many Beta tests are private, invitation only.
SEE: Beta: Gauging Price Fluctuations. Here we shed some light on what the measure means for investors. While beta does say something about price risk, it has its limits for investors looking for fundamental risk factors. Beta Beta is a measure of a stock's volatility in relation to the market. By definition, the market has a beta of 1.0, and individual stocks are ranked according to how much they deviate from the market. A stock that swings more than the market over time has a beta above 1.0. 
Full Definition of BETA. 1. : the 2d letter of the Greek alphabet — see alphabet table. 2. : beta particle. 3. : a measure of the risk potential of a stock or an investment portfolio expressed as a ratio of the stock's or portfolio's volatility to the volatility of the market as a whole. 4. 
Beta. A measure of a security's or portfolio's volatility. A beta of 1 means that the security or portfolio is neither more nor less volatile or risky than the wider market. A beta of more than 1 indicates greater volatility and a beta of less than 1 indicates less. For example, Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500) has a beta coefficient (or base) of 1. That means if the S&P 500 moves 2% in either direction, a stock with a beta of 1 would also move 2%.
When used to refer to software, Beta is short for Beta-test - a period where the software is technically feature complete - meaning no new features will be added-and presumably stable enough for most common usages to actually work. By definition Beta software is not finished and is known to have bugs, perhaps even serious ones. By definition Beta software is not finished and is known to have bugs, perhaps even serious ones.. Many Beta tests are private, invitation only.