Turn over thin cuts of meat or thicker cuts you are broiling to rare or medium rare after 7 to 10 minutes, depending on how far away the food is from the burners. Turn over thicker cuts of meat you are broiling to well done after 15 minutes. Replace the broiler pan and close the oven. 
1 Always remove the broiler pan from the broiler compartment as soon as broiler pan cools. 2  Replace broiler pan and tray after cleaning. 3  Broiler pan and tray must be in place for any oven operation. 4  Do Not step on or apply weight to the broiler door when it is open. 5  This could damage the door. Set the oven thermostat at BROIL for a full broil or at any desired setting between BROIL and 350 degrees F for variable broiling (see chart). TO SET AT TEMPERATURES BELOW FULL BROIL, TURN TO BROIL AND THEN BACK TO THE DESIRED SETTING.
Broiling is a cooking process which involves the use of very high heat for a short period of time. In addition to producing food quickly, broiling is also used for low fat cooking. As a general rule of thumb, thinner cuts of meat are more suitable for broiling, to ensure that the meat is cooked all the way through. Meat, poultry, vegetables, and seafood can all be broiled. There are two different types of broiling. One involves cooking the food in an oven which is set to a “broil” setting. The other is called pan broiling, and it takes places on the stovetop using dry, high heat
Broiling is actually a setting on your oven-most ovens have off, bake and broil. With broiling you are heating food by using the top element in your oven to cook. The bake setting instead bakes your food by surrounding the food by an even heat. Normally, you use the broil setting with the oven door open ajar. Broiling is often used for browning the tops of dishes, particularly with cheese such as a lasagna. It can also be used to cook a steak when a barbeque isn't available. If you are broiling anything that drips juices or fat, use a broiling pan. This is a pan that is similar to a rimmed baking dish on the bottom but the top (that you place the food on top of) has slats that allow the fat or juices to drop down to the bottom.
To broil in an oven, most people use an oven with a separate broiler rack, usually located beneath the oven. The food being broiled is inserted, and the oven is turned to “broil.” Broiling directs intense heat at the food from directly above to quickly sear and cook it. In addition to producing food quickly, broiling is also used for low fat cooking. As a general rule of thumb, thinner cuts of meat are more suitable for broiling, to ensure that the meat is cooked all the way through. Meat, poultry, vegetables, and seafood can all be broiled.
Broiling is a fast method for cooking tender cuts of meats, poultry, ham and fish. The broiler compartment is located beneath the oven. Pull the entire broiler compartment forward to the stop position. The broiler compartment door folds down to allow for easy removal of the broiler pan for turning foods. Set the oven thermostat at BROIL for a full broil or at any desired setting between BROIL and 350 degrees F for variable broiling (see chart). TO SET AT TEMPERATURES BELOW FULL BROIL, TURN TO BROIL AND THEN BACK TO THE DESIRED SETTING.
Broiling means to cook food using the direct, dry heat from your oven broiler. Some people think of broiling as grilling's cousin because broiled foods brown on the surface and have a caramelized taste. For fish fillets or steaks, place fish on the greased rack of a broiler pan, adjusting so the fish is about 4 inches from the heat source. For fillets, tuck under any thin edges. Brush fish with olive oil or melted butter. Broil 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness.
Best Answer: I usually broil my steaks. When broiling the heat comes from the top of the oven. Therefore, put the oven rack near the top for best results. The bake setting can be adjusted to different temperatures and the heat comes from the bottom. 
Baking and broiling are completely different ways to cook food. 1  In baking, you are trying to heat food by surrounding the food with hot air. 2  In broiling, you are trying to heat food using infrared radiation. So you put the steak in a broiling pan to catch the juice, and then place the steak very close to the top burner. Normally, you leave the door of the oven slightly open when broiling.
Follow these four easy steps to better broiling. Broiling is a great method for getting grill-like results in the kitchen. Both grilling and broiling are fast and easy, and both use direct, high heat to brown and cook food. Broiling is like grilling, then, only turned on its head. In this video you'll learn how to broil in four easy steps. 