I have a real problem with the kids who use the park behind me. They keep climbing the wall and kicking their footballs over several times a day. They've knocked my two year old son off his slide, ruined plants, and covered my washing in mud from their footballs. But when I ask them to stop they get cheeky and answer me back.
The grease is the way i went to stop adults climbing over my garden wall to retrieve their kids footballs. They thought it was quicker that walking around and knocking on my door..... Was amusing watching one attempt to climb my wall so he could get in the neighbours garden. The problem with grease on a fence or wall is if you have a cat that likes to use it as a thoroughfare, and then make himself a nest on your bed. Trellis would be my preferred option, though I've also got some hawthorn that's growing on my boundary too. MLH. 406 posts.
Report Abuse. Kids will always climb a fence but not a smooth wall that's 10 feet high with barb wire on top like you see in prison camps. If they have something to step on they will climb. A fence is a toy to them, even if you make it 10 feet they will still climb but a wall is different especially if it has barbed wires on top. 
There's no guarantee that such a topping will stop the thief climbing over, especially if the thieves come prepared, but the extra aggravation will buy you a little time and the thief's attempts to remove the topping or climb over it might be heard by you or a neighbour. Take a look at the various suggestions below: The only downside with growing a thorny plant through a trellis structure is what to do when the timber starts to rot, so do use stainless steel or galvanised fixings and make sure you use a timber that has been pressure treated against wood-boring pests and wet and dry rot.
Get some cement, paste it along the top of your wall, then get some thick broken glass and securely fit it in. Make sure you supervise the wall until it's dry and set, because bits could fall into your garden etc. They keep climbing the wall and kicking their footballs over several times a day. They've knocked my two year old son off his slide, ruined plants, and covered my washing in mud from their footballs. But when I ask them to stop they get cheeky and answer me back.
The method you choose to use to keep people from climbing on the block wall will depend on the severity of the threat the climbers pose. If neighborhood children are climbing over the wall or vandalizing the property, place a permanent, non-harming barrier if possible. Instructions. Plant thick and prickly shrubs surrounding the perimeter of the walls to make them less accessible. Good choices include rose and hawthorn bushes. Paint the wall with anti-climbing paint. Check with your local council to determine the legal restrictions of using anti-climbing paint. Anti-climbing paint leaves an oily and slippery surface on the wall that is extremely difficult to climb. Add barbed wire or anti-climbing spikes to the upper ledge of the wall to discourage climbers. Anti-climbing spikes are attached to the top of a wall using cement
thorns image by Jaroslav Machacek from Fotolia.com. Whether you are trying to keep people off your property or place of business, the process of stopping someone from jumping over your fence is essentially the same: you need to make it uncomfortable for them to climb the fence. 
[news]. The problem with grease on a fence or wall is if you have a cat that likes to use it as a thoroughfare, and then make himself a nest on your bed. Trellis would be my preferred option, though I've also got some hawthorn that's growing on my boundary too. MLH. 406 posts.
Timber trellis with thorny climbers. A square shaped timber trellis of 300mm to 600mm in height with battens around 15 - 20mm² can be fixed to the top of a fence to deter climbing, but to be really effective it needs to be used as a support for a prickly shrub. Take a look at the tables in Defensive shrubs and trees for a wide selection of thorny plants. The only downside with growing a thorny plant through a trellis structure is what to do when the timber starts to rot, so do use stainless steel or galvanised fixings and make sure you use a timber that has been pressure treated against wood-boring pests and wet and dry rot.