The main effect people deliberately ingest caffeine for is an energy boost. Caffeine is a stimulant, and in large enough quantities, it can be extremely powerful. One cup (8 oz.) of regularly brewed coffee contains anywhere from 95 mg to 200 mg of caffeine. Too much caffeine, for instance, when a person is dealing with IBS can lead to symptoms of more than the usual bouts of diarrhea, additional cramping, and more pain. Crohn’s sufferers can even experience symptoms of bloody stools from colon irritation and intestinal irritation after taking in too much caffeine.
Preventive Medicine. So common is an inflamed and overworked stomach that we rarely see one that is entirely free from irritation. We use a large variety of common stomach irritants including ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, black pepper, vinegar, alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine drinks—to list a few. 
Caffeine is LIKELY SAFE for most adults when used appropriately. Caffeine is POSSIBLY UNSAFE when taken by mouth for a long time or in fairly high doses. Caffeine can cause insomnia, nervousness and restlessness, stomach irritation, nausea and vomiting, increased heart rate and respiration, and other side effects. Caffeine can make sleep disorders in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) worse. 
Abdominal Pain. Many people attest to the fact that caffeine is a stomach irritant. Even avid coffee drinkers will admit that their beloved beverage causes varying degrees of abdominal pain. Along with coffee, other caffeine sources cause abdominal pain and cramping, even diarrhea. The Mayo Clinic defines moderate caffeine use as consuming 200 to 300 mg per day, or two to four cups of coffee, and heavy caffeine use as consuming 500 mg or more of caffeine per day.
Here are some tips on how to deal with green tea and stomach gastric irritation. Tea is not the only food that causes the stomach to produce acids. Beverages such as coffee, caffeine or carbonated beverages and alcohol have the same effect. Watch out for foods such as raw onions, garlic, black pepper, chili, vinegar, spicy foods, cloves, nutmeg and all fatty foods such as dairy. They, too, irritate the stomach. Avoid cooking food with fat or oil. Boil. 
A diet that avoids stomach irritants is for those patients who suffer from symptoms of peptic ulcer disease or non-ulcer dyspepsia. In peptic ulcer disease, the patient has one or more ulcers in the stomach or duodenum (the first part of the intestine beyond the stomach). 
by Agatha Thrash, M.D. So common is an inflamed and overworked stomach that we rarely see one that is entirely free from irritation. Our society uses a large variety of common stomach irritants including ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, black pepper, vinegar, alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine drinks—to list a few. 
Caffeine is the drug most commonly added to foods and beverages. It naturally occurs in various foods, such as chocolate, tea and coffee. Caffeine also may be found in certain medications and energy drinks. Stomach pain is not a common side effect of using caffeine in moderation. The most common side effects include dizziness, irritability, anxiety, feeling jittery, trouble sleeping, tremors and a fast heart rate. Drugs.com notes that stomach and abdominal bloating are rare side effects of caffeine. Allergic Reaction. Stomach pain may be the result of an allergic reaction to caffeine or an ingredient in a food or beverage that contains caffeine. An allergic reaction is the result of a hypersensitivity of the immune system to a substance it identifies as dangerous.
Some of the negative side effects of ingesting too much caffeine are stomach irritation and acid reflux. Caffeine causes the stomach, in quantities above 100 mg (average cup of coffee), to produce more gastric acid secretions than it normally does. Too much caffeine, for instance, when a person is dealing with IBS can lead to symptoms of more than the usual bouts of diarrhea, additional cramping, and more pain. Crohn’s sufferers can even experience symptoms of bloody stools from colon irritation and intestinal irritation after taking in too much caffeine.
Caffeine and gastrointestinal function. Dyspepsia can be defined as painful, difficult, or disturbed digestion, which may be accompanied by symptoms such as nausea and vomiting, heartburn, bloating, and stomach discomfort. The digestive problems may have an identifiable cause, such as bacterial or viral infection, peptic ulcer, gallbladder, or liver disease. Often, there is no organic cause for the problem. There is evidence that functional dyspepsia may be related to abnormal motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract.