Californium-252 (Cf-252). Cf-252 sealed sources are a cost-effective neutron source used in a variety of medical, industrial, and security applications. Our Californium-252 sealed source designs provide a cost-effective alternative to OEMs, meeting or exceeding regulatory requirements for radiation source encapsulations.
Share to: 1  Californium Facts: Properties and Uses Californium is a synthetic element with a number of industrial and medical uses, including nuclear energy and cancer therapy. 2  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Californium is used for only a few things. It is used in a device called a neutron gauge. it is also used to find things about gold and silver.
Californium: uses. The following uses for californium are gathered from a number of sources as well as from anecdotal comments. I'd be delighted to receive corrections as well as additional referenced uses (please use the feedback mechanism to add uses). 
Californium: compounds information. This section lists some binary compounds with halogens (known as halides), oxygen (known as oxides), hydrogen (known as hydrides), and some other compounds of californium. 
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Californium is used for only a few things. It is used in a device called a neutron gauge. it is also used to find things about gold and silver.
Overview. Californium is a transuranium element, or beyond uranium on the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to each other. Uranium is element number 92 in the periodic table, so elements with atomic numbers greater than 92 are said to be transuranium elements. 
MLA Format for Citing This Page. This page was created by Yinon Bentor. Use of this web site is restricted by this site's license agreement. Copyright © 1996-2012 Yinon Bentor. 
1 californium: meaning and definitions-californium: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Periodic Table of the Elements: Californium-Periodic Table of the Elements: Californium Atomic Number: 98 Atomic Symbol: Cf Californium Atomic 3  ... Chemical Elements Table-Chemical Elements Table See the interactive periodic table. 
Overview. Californium is a transuranium element, or beyond uranium on the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to each other. Uranium is element number 92 in the periodic table, so elements with atomic numbers greater than 92 are said to be transuranium elements. To make californium, researchers fired alpha particles (helium atoms without electrons) at a target of curium. Some collisions. cause a helium atom (atomic number 2) to become part of a curium atom (atomic number 96), forming a new atom with atomic number 98. Albert Ghiorso.
Element Californium-Cf. Comprehensive data on the chemical element Californium is provided on this page; including scores of properties, element names in many languages, most known nuclides of Californium. Common chemical compounds are also provided for many elements. 