HDL (Good) Cholesterol. HDL cholesterol is considered “good” cholesterol because it helps remove LDL cholesterol from the arteries. Experts believe HDL acts as a scavenger, carrying LDL cholesterol away from the arteries and back to the liver, where it is broken down and passed from the body.
HDL (high density lipoprotein) is the good cholesterol. It acts like a cholesterol dump truck, gathering bad cholesterol from the arteries and carrying it back to the liver for clearance. This heart protective effect may even slow the buildup of plaque in the arterial walls of the heart.
On the other hand, HDL cholesterol is usually nicknamed “the good cholesterol” because high blood levels are associated with less risk of heart disease and low levels are associated with increased risk. In other words; there is an inverse relationship between HDL cholesterol and the risk of heart disease.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level.
HDL is short for high-density lipoprotein. Each bit of HDL cholesterol is a microscopic blob that consists of a rim of lipoprotein surrounding a cholesterol center. The HDL cholesterol particle is dense compared to other types of cholesterol particles, so it's called high-density. Cholesterol isn't all bad.
HDL (good) cholesterol protects against heart disease, so for HDL, higher numbers are better. A level less than 40 mg/dL is low and is considered a major risk factor because it increases your risk for developing heart disease. HDL levels of 60 mg/dL or more help to lower your risk for
This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL because the HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level.