A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. Formal paralegal education programs may result in an associate degree, bachelor's degree, master's degree, or paralegal certificate. Many paralegals have completed all of their training before entering the profession, while others have completed their education while working their way up from the mailroom in a law firm.
Thanks, Jennifer. Yes, there is a difference between an Associate 's degree and a certificate. An Associate's degree is a 2 year college degree, usually from a college or university that is regionally accredited by a NEA approved educational institution. Don Kovaleski in Nashville, Tennessee said: Yes, there is a difference. A degree in paralegal studies or paralegal technology, typically an Applied Science degree, incorporates not only the legal training but the core classes-math, english, - required in a typical degree program.
When examining the difference between a paralegal certificate vs. paralegal degree, it’s important to understand that there are definitely distinct differences between the two. An associate’s degree takes 2 years to complete and is the most pursued besides certificate programs among aspiring paralegals. Bachelor’s degrees take 4 years but are not offered in paralegal studies as often as associate’s degrees.
Paralegal Certification and a Paralegal Certificate; There’s a Difference. There seems to be a great deal of confusion on the subject of Paralegal Certification and a Paralegal Certificate so in the interest of clarification we looked to the American Bar Association for a clear definition. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Many paralegal certificate programs are post-graduate study, meaning, you already have a B.S. If you already have a degree of some sort (Associates or Bachelors), the certificate will probably meet your needs. What is the difference between a paralegal certification, which is a program less than a year, and a paralegal associates degree, which takes two years to complete?
The first difference between a paralegal and a legal secretary is the level of education that is required. The vast majority of paralegals have at least a college degree. Many schools offer paralegal programs, which are four-year bachelor’s degree programs, in which a person will learn most of the legal basics. Salaries. Another key difference between a legal secretary and a paralegal is the overall compensation. Due the higher amount of education that is required and the type of work that is completed, paralegals tend to earn much more.
Certificate vs. Certification. Not only should the difference between a paralegal certificate vs. a paralegal degree be discussed, but the difference between a paralegal certificate and certification is also an important distinction to make. An associate’s degree takes 2 years to complete and is the most pursued besides certificate programs among aspiring paralegals. Bachelor’s degrees take 4 years but are not offered in paralegal studies as often as associate’s degrees.
Different Degrees. If an individual decides to seek a degree in paralegal studies, the type of degree to pursue is another consideration. An associate’s degree takes 2 years to complete and is the most pursued besides certificate programs among aspiring paralegals. Bachelor’s degrees take 4 years but are not offered in paralegal studies as often as associate’s degrees.
It is not the same as a paralegal certificate, The difference between a degree and a certificate is that a certificate is offered by a private, for-profit business or trade school to someone who has received a high school diploma. Paralegal Division 2012 – NMBAR Homepage. 
There is no difference between the Paralegal certificate and the Paralegal associate degree with respect to the law classes the student must take. Both programs require the same 12 law-related courses. The Paralegal associate degree is for students who have not completed the prerequisite hours to enter the Paralegal certificate program. The Paralegal associate degree students must take 33 hours (11 courses) of general education classes such as English, psychology, math etc., in addition to th