n. pharmacological agents used in the treatment of schizophrenia, mania, delirium, and other forms of thought disorder and uncontrolled behavioral agitation. Formerly and historically called major tranquilizers, these drugs are commonly divided into two major classes: conventional (typical or first-generation) antipsychotics and newer atypical antipsychotics-for which clozapine is an example.
Medications. Medications are the cornerstone of schizophrenia treatment. However, because medications for schizophrenia can cause serious but rare side effects, people with schizophrenia may be reluctant to take them. Antipsychotic medications are the most commonly prescribed drugs to treat schizophrenia. They're thought to control symptoms by affecting the brain neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin. Willingness to cooperate with treatment may affect medication choice
These drugs are sometimes called second-generation antipsychotics or SGAs. Aripiprazole (Abilify), which is classified as a partial dopaminergic agonist, received FDA approval in August 2003. There is no information about safety in breast feeding. As a class, the antipsychotic drugs have a large number of potential side effects, many of them serious. Because of the potential severity of side effects, these drugs must be used with special caution in children. Specific references should be consulted
1 Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with conventional or atypical antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. 2  Antipsychotic drugs are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis. 3  Furthermore, there is no approved drug for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis. Considerations for Healthcare Professionals. 1  Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with conventional or atypical antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. 2  Antipsychotic drugs are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis. 3  Physicians who prescribe antipsychotics to elderly patients with ...
An Antipsychotic is a class of medication used in psychiatry to manage psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations and disordered thinking that are frequently associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. 
Antipsychotics exert their effects by various mechanisms, including antagonism of dopamine D2 receptors, which is important in disorders in which excess dopamine is the issue. See also atypical antipsychotics. Formerly and historically called major tranquilizers, these drugs are commonly divided into two major classes: conventional (typical or first-generation) antipsychotics and newer atypical antipsychotics-for which clozapine is an example.
Atypical antipsychotics are used in the treatment of schizophrenias, delusional disorders, dementias, and in cases where behavior is violent and unpredictable. The prototype of the group of drugs is clozapine. Others in current clinical use include olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine. a newer class of antipsychotic drugs that produce fewer extra pyramidal effects compared to the original typical version. They are also less likely to alter serum levels of prolactin and appear to be less likely to cause tardic dyskinesia-all of which are significant adverse effects of the typical antipsychotic drugs.
Psychosis is defined as a serious mental disorder (as schizophrenia) characterized by defective or lost contact with reality often with hallucinations or delusions.. Psychosis is an end-stage condition arising from a variety of possible causes. There is no information about safety in breast feeding. As a class, the antipsychotic drugs have a large number of potential side effects, many of them serious. Because of the potential severity of side effects, these drugs must be used with special caution in children. Specific references should be consulted