Ribose and deoxyribose are pentose. Ribose is also called ribofuranose because of the structural relationship to furane. The only structural difference between ribose and deoxyribose is the loss of an-OH group in position 2 in the ring. 
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
Sugars are polyalcohols, i.e. organic molecules with multiple hydroxyl groups. Ribose is a five carbon sugar, and in the cyclic furanose form seen here would have hydroxyl groups at carbons 1, 2, 3, and 5. Deoxyribose (the D in DNA) is ribose with the hydroxyl group at carbon 2 deleted and replaced by hydrogen. The lack of a hydroxyl group at C2 is actually important, e.g. it increases the chemical stability of the phosphodiester backbone. 
Ribose and Deoxyribose. The 5-carbon sugars ribose and deoxyribose are important components of nucleotides, and are found in RNA and DNA, respectively. The sugars found in nucleic acids are pentose sugars; a pentose sugar has five carbon atoms. A combination of a base and a sugar is called a nucleoside. Ribose, found in RNA, is a normal sugar, with one oxygen atom attached to each carbon atom. Deoxyribose, found in DNA, is a modified sugar, lacking one oxygen atom (hence the name deoxy). The 5-carbon sugars ribose and deoxyribose are important components of nucleotides, and are found in RNA and DNA, respectively. The sugars found in nucleic acids are pentose sugars; a pentose sugar has five carbon atoms
Deoxyribose is more stable! If you look at the structure of ribose in RNA you see that it has OH Groups at C2 and C3, both of which are reactive. We need the one at C3 to reac … t with the next phosphate, but C2 can only lead to crosslinking; damaging the structure. Ribose is not found in DNA as it stands for Deoxyribonucleic Acid, so the deoxygenated form of ribose is found in the molecule. Ribose sugars can form RNA or ribonucleic acid. The deoxyribose sugars (along with phosphate groups) form the backbone of the DNA helix, each deoxyribose (or pentose sugar {pentose=5 carbons}) is bonded to one base each (A/T/G/C)
Ribose. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ribose is an organic compound with the formula C 5 H 10 O 5; specifically, a pentose monosaccharide (simple sugar) with linear form H−(C=O)−(CHOH) 4 −H, which has all the hydroxyl groups on the same side in the Fischer projection. The term may refer to either of two enantiomers. Ribose is an aldopentose (a monosaccharide containing five carbon atoms) that, in its open chain form, has an aldehyde functional group at one end. In the conventional numbering scheme for monosaccharides, the carbon atoms are numbered from C1' (in the aldehyde group) to C5'.
RNA carries messages out of the cell nucleus to cytoplasm. The structure of RNA nucleotides is very similar to that of DNA nucleotides, with the main difference being that the ribose sugar backbone in RNA has a hydroxyl (-OH) group that DNA does not. This gives DNA its name: DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid