Clan Stewart (Gaelic: Stiubhard) stiùbhard is A Highland scottish. Clan the clan is recognised By court of The Lord, lyon however it does not have a clan chief recognised by The Lord Lyon king Of. arms 
Stewart of Appin History. One of the branches of the Stewarts that became most completely integrated in the affairs of the Gaelic west was that of Appin. Sir John Stewart of Bonkyl, son of Alexander, High Steward of Scotland, was the ancestor of this west Highland clan. 
Clan Stewart of Appin regiment marker at the site of the Battle of Culloden. Clan Stewart of Appin grave marker at the site of the Battle of Culloden. Appin naturally supported the Jacobite Risings and sent men to fight in both the Jacobite rising of 1715 and Jacobite rising of 1745. 
Stewart of Appin. Clan Stewart of Appin is a west highland branch of the Clan Stewart and have been considered a distinct clan since the 15th century. They are descended from Sir James Stewart of Perston, who was himself the grandson of Alexander Stewart, the fourth hereditary High Steward of Scotland. Geography. Appin is located in the western Highlands of Scotland between Oban and Fort William
History of the Stewarts | Tartans. There is another Appin tartan that uses the over-checking associated with the MacDonald tartans. There is extensive correspondence about the use of the terms ´ancient´ and ´hunting´ in relation to this sett in the Stewart files at the Scottish Tartan Society. 
The Clan History. The Appin Stewarts, the West Highland branch of the royal surname Stewart, descend from Sir James Stewart of Perston, 4th son of Sir John Stewart of Bonkyl, second son of Alexander, the 4th High Steward of Scotland. Quantity: The Appin Stewarts, the West Highland branch of the royal surname Stewart, descend from Sir James Stewart of Perston, 4th son of Sir John Stewart of Bonkyl, second son of Alexander, the 4th High Steward of Scotland.
Stewart of Appin History. The Stuarts of Bute are descended from Sir John Stewart, born between 1345 and 1390. Sir John Stewart was the son of Robert II of Scotland and was known as ‘The Black Stewart’ (either for his dark complexion or because his brother, John of Dundonald was known as ‘The Red Stewart’. 
Clan Stewart of Appin. 191,665 pages on this wiki. Clan Stewart of Appin is a west highland branch of the Clan Stewart and have been considered a distinct clan since the 15th century. They are descended from Sir James Stewart of Perston, who was himself the grandson of Alexander Stewart, 4th High Steward of Scotland. 
In 1403 a band of Highlanders, said to have been the Clan Stewart of Appin led by Alexander Stewart, the son of the Wolf of Badenoch murderd Sir Malcolm Drummond, chief of the Clan Drummond. In 1497 some of the Clan MacLaren stole cattle from the Braes of Lochaber from the Clan MacDonald of Keppoch. Clan Stewart of Appin is a west highland branch of the Clan Stewart and have been considered a distinct clan since the 15th century. They are descended from Sir James Stewart of Perston, who was himself the grandson of Alexander Stewart, the fourth hereditary High Steward of Scotland.