Connect the USB end of the cable to a free USB port on your new computer. Click on the My Computer (Computer in Vista and Windows 7) icon and choose Explore from the menu. Click the plus sign next to My Computer to see all the connected drives. Highlight the drive letter corresponding to the old hard drive.
Connect a sufficiently large external hard drive to your old computer and drag-and-drop (or copy-and-paste) all the files you need from your old computer onto the drive. Disconnect the drive from the old computer, connect it to the new computer, and move the files onto the new computer.
Hi James, You may use Windows Easy Transfer to transfer the files from the external hard drive to the Windows 8 computer. The two links provided below will guide you on how you can use Windows Easy Transfer in Windows 8.
You may need to transfer data from your old computer's hard drive to your new computer. There are several ways to do this. Let's separate it into two things, transferring software programs and transferring data files.
Click on the Next button and you will be at a screen where you will select how you wish to transfer your data. Click on the An external hard disk or USB flash drive and you will now go to a screen where Windows will ask you if this is your new or old computer.
You could connect the external drive to the laptop and copy the files to the new computer. Go to the Desktop to open File Explorer on the new laptop. It will be the file folder icon on the lower left of the desktop screen. Windows Key + E are the shortcut keys for Explorer.
Transferring Your Files from a Mac* to a PC or to a Mac. You can take the same approach as with manual file transfers above by connecting your external hard drive to your new computer with a USB cable and manually moving the files over.
1 Or if you have an external USB flash drive (you can get a USB flash drive for around 10 bucks), and your old PC has a USB port which it should, you can copy data files from your old PC to this USB flash drive and then from the flash drive to your new PC. 2  This is probably the easiest method.