Glacial outwash is sand and gravel deposited by running water from the melting ice of a glacier. When rivers of melt water wash away at glacial till deposits, they carry the finer clay-sized materials away and leave behind thick outwash deposits of sand and gravel that concentrate in valleys. The glacial outwash then forms an outwash plain, known as a sandur, formed from the meltwater of glaciers.
OUTWASH PLAINS. The large quantities of water that flowed from the melting ice deposited various kinds of materials, the most important of which is called glacial outwash. Outwash plains made up of outwash deposits are characteristically flat and consist of layers of sand and other fine sediments. A till plain is composed of unsorted material (till) of all sizes with much clay, an outwash plain is mainly stratified (layered and sorted) gravel and sand. The till plain has a gently undulating to hilly surface; the outwash is flat or very gently undulating where it is a thin veneer on the underlying till.
: detritus consisting chiefly of gravel and sand carried by running water from the melting ice of a glacier and laid down in stratified deposits. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A till plain is behind (towards the direction of retreat) of a moraine, and the outwash plain is in front of the moraine. A till plain is composed of unsorted material (till) of all sizes with much clay, an outwash plain is mainly stratified (layered and sorted) gravel and sand. The till plain has a gently undulating to hilly surface; the outwash is flat or very gently undulating where it is a thin veneer on the underlying till. As a rule flourishing farms are on the till plains; the majority of abandoned farms in the northern part of the Lower Peninsula are on sandy outwash plains
An outwash plain, also called a sandur (plural: sandurs), sandr or sandar, is a plain formed of glacial sediments deposited by meltwater outwash at the terminus of a glacier. The 1996 joekulhlaup jökulhlaup was caused by the eruption of The grimsvoetn, grímsvötn volcano with peak flow estimated 50,000 be 50000 /m (1,800,000 s 1800000/cu) ft s compared to the normal summer peak flow of 200 to 400 /m (7,100–14,100 7100 14100/cu). ft s
The Kankakee Outwash Plain is a flat plain interspersed with sand dunes in the Kankakee River valley in northwestern Indiana and northeastern Illinois of the United States. It is just south of the Valparaiso Moraine and was formed during the Wisconsin Glaciation. It is gravel plain, which is dissected by Crooked Creek and Mill Creek. 1  Kankakee River Plain; - The largest unit of outwash is along the Kankakee River from South Bend to the Illinois border. 2  It is 15 miles (24 km) to 20 miles (32 km) wide including the Kankakee Marsh and the surrounding sand and gravel plains.
The Kankakee Outwash Plain is located on the southern side of the Valparaiso Moraine. It stretches from just west of the Illinois and Indiana border near Momence, Illinois, along the Kankakee River valley eastward in a northeast arc towards South Bend. In Porter County, Indiana, the plain begins to widen out. It is gravel plain, which is dissected by Crooked Creek and Mill Creek. 1  Kankakee River Plain; - The largest unit of outwash is along the Kankakee River from South Bend to the Illinois border. 2  It is 15 miles (24 km) to 20 miles (32 km) wide including the Kankakee Marsh and the surrounding sand and gravel plains.
1 Kankakee River Plain; - The largest unit of outwash is along the Kankakee River from South Bend to the Illinois border. 2  It is 15 miles (24 km) to 20 miles (32 km) wide including the Kankakee Marsh and the surrounding sand and gravel plains. It is gravel plain, which is dissected by Crooked Creek and Mill Creek. 1 
Landform. This subsection consists primarily of large outwash plains, narrow outwash channels, and end moraines (Hobbs and Goebel 1982). The moraines is relatively large and were formed from portions of several glacial lobes. Most of the glacial drift was sandy, but there is loamy drift to the north. Pine Moraines & Outwash Plains Subsection. The Itasca Moraine forms most of the northern boundary. To the west, the east side of the Alexandria Moraine is the dividing line.
These are large areas of glacial sediment deposited by meltwater streams furthest away from the glacial snout. They are formed from gravels, sands and clays, the clays being furthest away from the snout because the smaller particles are carried furthest. Material that was already deposited by older streams and ice activity may be reworked and sorted by the streams forming the outwash plain, and carried beyond the original maximum extent of the ice sheet / glacier.