what was their Reward for such disinterested Behaviour. Love and Friendship by Austen, Jane View in context. The case of Gridley is in no essential altered from one of actual occurrence, made public by a disinterested person who was professionally acquainted with the whole of the monstrous wrong from beginning to end. Bleak House by Dickens, Charles View in context. A disinterested witness is one who has no interest in the case at bar, or matter in issue, and is legally competent to give testimony. See: dispassionate, equitable, evenhanded, factual, impartial, judicial, just, neutral, objective, open-minded, perfunctory, phlegmatic, torpid, unbiased, unprejudiced. 1  Facebook
Examples:  1 I had a great desire to do a disinterested and pure thing--to express my belief in something higher.. ( 2 Saul Bellow, Henderson the Rain King, 1959).  3  Disinterested intellectual curiosity is the life blood of real civilization. (G. 4  M. Trevelyan).  5 Americans are not isolationist; they're uninterested. Usage Notes:  1 Precious (at least to lawyers) is the distinction between disinterested and uninterested. 2  A person is uninterested in a thing if it holds no interest for them; if they prefer to give their attention to other things.
Usage Notes. Disinterested and uninterested share a confused and confusing history. Disinterested was originally used to mean “not interested, indifferent”; uninterested in its earliest use meant “impartial.” By various developmental twists, disinterested is now used in both senses. adj. impartial and fair. 1  aboveboard. 2  balanced. 3  disinterested. 4  equitable. 5  fair. 6  fair-and-square. 7  honest. 8  honorable. 9  impartial. 10  just. 11  justifiable. 12  neutral. 13  nonpartisan. 14  objective. 15  on the level. 16  on the up-and-up. 17  reasonable. 18  right. 19  square. 20  straight. 21  unbiased. 22  unprejudiced. 23  upright. 24  virtuous.
what was their Reward for such disinterested Behaviour. Love and Friendship by Austen, Jane View in context. The case of Gridley is in no essential altered from one of actual occurrence, made public by a disinterested person who was professionally acquainted with the whole of the monstrous wrong from beginning to end. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of disinterested is a person who is unbiased or indifferent. 1  An example of disinterested is a person who votes on something but has no personal advantage or disadvantage in the outcome of the voting. 2  An example of disinterested is a student texting while eating dinner with their family. 
Disinterested Witness Law & Legal Definition. One who has no interest in the cause or matter in issue, and who is lawfully competent to testify. 
disinterested. 1. 'disinterested'. You use disinterested to describe someone who is not involved in a situation and can therefore make fair decisions or judgements about it. I'm a disinterested observer. Some people also use disinterested to say that someone is not interested in something or someone. 
Examples:  1 I had a great desire to do a disinterested and pure thing--to express my belief in something higher.. ( 2 Saul Bellow, Henderson the Rain King, 1959).  3  Disinterested intellectual curiosity is the life blood of real civilization. (G.  4 Americans are not isolationist; they're uninterested. Usage Notes:  1 Precious (at least to lawyers) is the distinction between disinterested and uninterested. 2  A person is uninterested in a thing if it holds no interest for them; if they prefer to give their attention to other things.