Auger Effect. The Auger effect is a process by which electrons with characteristic energies are ejected from atoms in response to a downward transition by another electron in the atom. If an inner shell electron is removed from an atom, an electron from a higher level will quickly make the transition downward to fill the vacancy. Sometimes this transition will be accompanied by an emitted photon whose quantum energy matches the energy gap between the upper and lower level.
An electron energy analyzer is used to measure the energy of the emitted Auger electrons. From the kinetic energy and intensity of an Auger peak, the elemental identity and quantity of a detected element can be determined. 
Definition of AUGER EFFECT. : a process in which an atom that has been ionized through the emission of an electron with energy in the X-ray range undergoes a transition in which a second electron is emitted rather than an X-ray photon —called also Auger process. ADVERTISEMENT. Pierre V. Auger †1993 French physicist. 
(2) Electron emission (the Auger process). (3) Analysis of the emitted Auger electrons. The last stage is simply a technical problem of detecting charged particles with high sensitivity, with the additional requirement that the kinetic energies of the emitted electrons must be determined. It is a surface specific technique utilising the emission of low energy electrons in the Auger process and is one of the most commonly employed surface analytical techniques for determining the composition of the surface layers of a sample.
Auger Electrons. 1. Ionization: A hole in an inner shell (here: K shell) is generated by an incident high-energy electron that loses the corresponding energy E transferred to the ejected electron.* 2. Auger-electron emission: The hole in the K shell is filled by an electron from an outer shell (here: L2). The superfluous energy is transferred to another electron which is subsequently ejected (here: from the L3 level) as Auger electron. Since Auger electrons have an energy in the range of some 100 eV to a few KeV, they are strongly absorbed by the specimen. Consequently, only Auger electron from the surface can be measured, making Auger spectroscopy a surface method. * Energy losses of the incident electrons are measured by EELS.
Auger electron spectroscopy (AES; pronounced [oʒe] in French) is a common analytical technique used specifically in the study of surfaces and, more generally, in the area of materials science. Auger electron energies can be calculated based on measured values of the various and compared to peaks in the secondary electron spectrum in order to identify chemical species. This technique has been used to compile several reference databases used for analysis in current AES setups.
The Auger effect /oʊˈʒər/ is a physical phenomenon in which the filling of an inner-shell vacancy of an atom is accompanied by the emission of an electron from the same atom. An electron from the 2s level fills in the 1s hole and the transition energy is imparted to a 2p electron which is emitted. The final atomic state thus has two holes, one in the 2s orbital and the other in the 2p orbital.
Two views of the Auger process. (a) illustrates sequentially the steps involved in Auger deexcitation. An incident electron (or photon) creates a core hole in the 1s level. An electron from the 2s level fills in the 1s hole and the transition energy is imparted to a 2p electron which is emitted. The final atomic state thus has two holes, one in the 2s orbital and the other in the 2p orbital.
Auger spectrum of a surface. The Auger effect is a process by which electrons with characteristic energies are ejected from atoms in response to a downward transition by another electron in the atom. If an inner shell electron is removed from an atom, an electron from a higher level will quickly make the transition downward to fill the vacancy. Sometimes this transition will be accompanied by an emitted photon whose quantum energy matches the energy gap between the upper and lower level.