The lacrimal nerve occasionally gives rise to a ciliary nerve, or it receives a branch from a long ciliary nerve of the ciliary ganglion or a branch from the ganglion directly. It may receive accessory roots from the supraorbital or nasociliary nerves. 
They pierce the sclera at the back part of the bulb of the eye, pass forward in delicate grooves on the inner surface of the sclera, and are distributed to the ciliary muscle, iris, and cornea. The short ciliary nerve contains parasympathetic and sympathetic nerve fibers. These are delicate filaments, from six to ten in number, which arise from the forepart of the ganglion in two bundles connected with its superior and inferior angles; the lower bundle is the larger.
The long ciliary nerves provide sensory innervation to the eyeball, including the cornea. In addition, they contain sympathetic fibers from the superior cervical ganglion to the dilator pupillae pupillæ. muscle The sympathetic fibers to the dilator pupillae muscle mainly travel in the nasociliary nerve but there are also sympathetic fibers in the short ciliary nerves that pass through the ciliary ganglion without forming synapses.
The ciliary muscles are sphincter muscle that controls the thickness of the lens. Each eye has a ciliary muscle around the lens of the eye. When the muscle contracts the lens gets compressed, and therefore thicker, meaning that it refracts light more (and shortens the focal distance). When it relaxes the reverse is true
Answer: the ciliary body is a circular band of muscle that is connected and sits immediately behind the iris. It does two things: 1. Controls lens shape by pulling or relaxing on the lens zonules. 2. Produces aqueous humor which fills the posterior and anterior. 
They run forward with the ciliary arteries in a wavy course, one set above and the other below the optic nerve, and are accompanied by the long ciliary nerves from the nasociliary. These are delicate filaments, from six to ten in number, which arise from the forepart of the ganglion in two bundles connected with its superior and inferior angles; the lower bundle is the larger.
long ciliary nerve One of a pair of nerves that comes off the nasociliary nerve and runs with the short ciliaries, pierces the sclera, travels in the suprachoroidal space and supplies sensory fibres to the iris, cornea, and ciliary muscle and sympathetic motor fibres to the dilator pupillae muscle (Fig. n a cordlike structure that conveys impulses between a part of the central nervous system and some part of the body and consists of an outer connective tissue sheath and bundles of nerve fibers. See also each of the individual nerves of the head and neck as they are listed.
The long ciliary nerves, two or three in number, are given off from the nasociliary nerve as it crosses the optic nerve. They accompany the short ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion, pierce the posterior part of the sclera, and running forward between it and the choroid, are distributed to the iris and cornea. The sympathetic fibers to the dilator pupillae muscle mainly travel in the nasociliary nerve but there are also sympathetic fibers in the short ciliary nerves that pass through the ciliary ganglion without forming synapses.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The branches of the ciliary ganglion are the short ciliary nerves. These are delicate filaments, from six to ten in number, which arise from the forepart of the ganglion in two bundles connected with its superior and inferior angles; the lower bundle is the larger.