Typical costs: Related articles: Eyelid Surgery. 1  The cost of laser eye surgery, known as LASIK, varies widely from surgeon to surgeon, with a national average of about $1,950 per eye. 2  Average prices do not vary much by geographic region, but minimum and maximum fees do. 3  All About Vision provides a chart of regional cost differences. 1 The cost of laser eye surgery, known as LASIK, varies widely from surgeon to surgeon, with a national average of about $1,950 per eye.
Cosmetic eye surgery is any of a number of surgical procedures designed to improve the appearance of your eyes, primarily to reduce signs of aging. In most cases, the surgery is performed on the eyelids and/or surrounding tissues, not the eyes. Other terms for cosmetic eye surgery include blepharoplasty, cosmetic eyelid surgery, eyelid plastic surgery and cosmetic Asian eyelid surgery. Blepharoplasty is the most frequently performed cosmetic eye surgery. Your costs can be higher or lower, depending on many factors, including whether you have surgery performed on both the upper and lower eyelids, on only the upper lids or only the lower lids. Blepharoplasty cost also can vary significantly based on the expertise and location of the cosmetic eye surgeon you choose.
Eyelid Surgery Fees. When a patient pays for blepharoplasty, the cost is actually a combination of various fees, the most substantial of which is the surgeon’s fee. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, in 2004 the average surgeon’s fee for blepharoplasty was $2,523. In comparison to more major forms of cosmetic surgery, blepharoplasty can be done for a relatively low cost. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
On average, lower eyelid surgery cost is about $2,400, while the price of upper eyelid surgery is usually around $2,100. The cost of laser eyelid surgery is typically higher than that of conventional blepharoplasty and can be anywhere between $3,000 and $5,000. 1  RELATED: Find a qualified plastic surgeon in your area. In comparison to more major forms of cosmetic surgery, blepharoplasty can be done for a relatively low cost. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
In 2013 the national average for blepharoplasty surgeon fees in the United States was $2,726 (vs. $2,724 in 2012, $2,630 in 2011 and $2,912 in 2010), according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. Your costs can be higher or lower, depending on many factors, including whether you have surgery performed on both the upper and lower eyelids, on only the upper lids or only the lower lids. Blepharoplasty cost also can vary significantly based on the expertise and location of the cosmetic eye surgeon you choose.
The average cost of eyelid surgery is $2,874, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Blepharoplasty costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon's cost for eyelid surgery may vary based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, as well as geographic office location. Many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans to help cover blepharoplasty costs, so be sure to ask. Eyelid surgery cost may include: 1  Surgeon’s fee.
Eye Surgery Costs. As a rough guideline, you should expect to pay between about $4,000 and $7,000 for eye correction surgery. If your eyelid skin poses a significant obstruction to your vision and the procedure is deemed medically necessary, the cost may be covered, in full or in part, by your health insurance provider.