calcium gluconate a calcium salt administered intravenously or orally in the treatment and prevention of hypercalcemia and as a nutritional supplement. It is also administered by injection as a treatment adjunct in cardiac arrest and in the treatment of hyperkalemia. Dietary sources of calcium include dairy products (such as milk and cheese), soybeans, fortified orange juice, dark green leafy vegetables (such as mustard greens and broccoli), sardines, clams, and oysters.
Calcium is perhaps the most essential nutrient when it comes to bone health. Building strong bones is like building a healthy balance in your “calcium bank account.” Bones are living tissue and constantly in a state of turnover, making calcium deposits and withdrawals daily. Bones don't come with a lifetime guarantee. 
Medical Definition of CALCIUM. : a silver-white bivalent metallic element that is an alkaline earth metal, occurs only in combination, and is an essential constituent of most plants and animals—symbol Ca; see element table. Full Definition of CALCIUM. : a silver-white divalent metallic element of the alkaline-earth group occurring only in combination — see element table. See calcium defined for English-language learners. See calcium defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Sources of calcium. Calcium needs to be obtained from the diet as it is not manufactured by the body. The main sources of calcium in the diet are milk, dairy products and other calcium-rich foods such as fish with edible bones (e.g sardines and anchovies), beans, tofu, spinach, watercress and broccoli. 
A coronary calcium scan is a test that looks for specks of calcium in the walls of the coronary (heart) arteries. These specks of calcium are called calcifications (KAL-sih-fih-KA-shuns). Calcifications in the coronary arteries are an early sign of coronary heart disease (CHD). CHD is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up in the coronary arteries. Figure A shows the position of the heart in the body and the location and angle of the coronary calcium scan image. Figure B is a coronary calcium scan image showing calcifications in a coronary artery. Because calcifications are an early sign of CHD, a coronary calcium scan can show whether you're at risk for a heart attack or other heart problems before other signs and symptoms occur
Calcium is found in many foods. You can get recommended amounts of calcium by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Milk, yogurt, and cheese are the main food sources of calcium for the majority of people in the United States. Calcium is a mineral found in many foods. The body needs calcium to maintain strong bones and to carry out many important functions. Almost all calcium is stored in bones and teeth, where it supports their structure and hardness.
Low total calcium (hypocalcemia). The most common cause of low total calcium is: 1  Low blood protein levels, especially a low level of albumin, which can result from liver disease or malnutrition, both of which may result from alcoholism or other illnesses. 
14 Non-Dairy Foods That Are High in Calcium. If you don't eat dairy, you're not doomed to brittle bones. Fill up on these 14 calcium-rich foods that don't contain a drop of milk. 