A serous membrane (also referred to as a serosa) is one of the thin membranes that cover the walls and organs in the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities. The parietal layers of the membranes line the walls of the body cavity (pariet-refers to a cavity wall). Each serous membrane is composed of a secretory epithelial layer and a connective tissue layer underneath. 1  The epithelial layer, known as mesothelium, consists of a single layer of avascular flat nucleated cells (simple squamous epithelium) which produce the lubricating serous fluid.
Serosal injury refers to any injury or damage to the serous membrane, which means any membrane that lines the pericardial, pleural or peritoneal cavities of the body. Given that the serous membranes exist in various parts of the body, serosal injury can refer to varied areas such as the colon or the stomach. The serous membranes of the bowel are vulnerable to gynecological intervention and may be injured during some surgical repair in the neighboring area. It is not something that can be ignored as a rule and it is best to respond promptly once you suspect that a serous membrane needs repair. Serosal injury is not easy to diagnose without medical intervention. Doctors have to run a series of tests to locate damage to the membrane and to isolate the affected area.
Our surgical service line is currently debating the treatment of serosal tears encountered during laparotomy. Half the surgeons repair any and all serosal tears on the small bowel or colon and half only repair when mucosa is exposed. Repair of small tears may not be necessary and could lead to complications whereas nonrepair of large tears may lead to perforation and reoperation. 
Serosal injury-causes. Given the fairly thin and pliable nature of the serosal membrane, it is not surprising that these linings are vulnerable to tears from excessive physical pressure. This can happen anywhere there is a serous membrane from the lung to the abdomen or bowel. It is not something that can be ignored as a rule and it is best to respond promptly once you suspect that a serous membrane needs repair. Serosal injury is not easy to diagnose without medical intervention. Doctors have to run a series of tests to locate damage to the membrane and to isolate the affected area.
When a tear is documented in the operative report, such as a small serosal tear of the stomach, the surgeon should be queried as to whether the small tear was an incidental occurrence inherent in the surgical procedure or whether the tear should be considered by the physician to be a complication of the procedure. 
The inner layer covers organs in bodily cavities and is called the visceral membrane; this inner layer of epithelial cells is followed by a connective tissue; after the connective tissue is the second layer of epithelial cells of the serous membrane called the parietal layer. The Latin anatomical name is tunica serosa. Each serous membrane is composed of a secretory epithelial layer and a connective tissue layer underneath. 1  The epithelial layer, known as mesothelium, consists of a single layer of avascular flat nucleated cells (simple squamous epithelium) which produce the lubricating serous fluid.
Hemorrhagic contusion is the most frequent type of injury to the colon, followed by serosal tears, which occur most commonly in the transverse colon. Severe injuries occur more commonly in the sigmoid, right colon, and cecum, where frank rupture or devitalization from vascular compromise may result. Injury to the transverse colon appears to have more associated injuries than other sites of colon injury. In the series reported by Dauterive et al, the most frequently encountered intra-abdominal injuries involved the liver (64%), spleen (52%), and small bowel mesentery (48%).
The other enterotomies involving the small bowel were repaired with Lembert style sutures. At the close of the surgery, Seprafilm was placed in the abdomen and pelvis and the operative wound was reapproximated. Coding Clinic, Second Quarter 2007, pages 11-12, stated that a serosal tear should not be coded. In this case, however, the full thickness injury of the small bowel appears to be significant due to the fact that a partial resection of the small intestine was carried out to repair the injury
2. a piece of material used to cover or protect a wound, an injured part, etc. 3. an adhesive patch that applies to the skin and gradually delivers drugs or medication to the user: using a nicotine patch to try to quit smoking. 4. any of the pieces of cloth sewn together to form patchwork. 5. a small piece, scrap, or area of anything: a patch of ice on the road. not be a patch on something or someone not be as good as, not hold a candle to He's not a patch on his predecessor. patch someone up treat, operate on, mend, perform surgery on The surgeons patched him up after the accident. patch something up.