Respiratory therapists must have a minimum of an associate degree from an accredited respiratory therapy education program. Accredited Respiratory Therapy Schools. Respiratory therapists must have a minimum of an associate degree from an accredited respiratory therapy education program. The Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) is the organization that accredits schools of respiratory therapy.
Matching School Ad. While the field of respiratory therapy continues to offer new job opportunities and is growing faster than the national average, most of the positions will be given to those with the highest level of training. To pursue a career in respiratory therapy, you will need formal training. After completing your education and training, you will need to apply for certification and registration to the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC). To become a Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) you will need to pass an additional examination.
The NBRC offers two levels of certification: the Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) designation, and the Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) designation. The Certified Respiratory Therapist exam consists of 160 multiple-choice questions. The exam fee is $190, and people will have three hours to complete it. The projected job outlook for respiratory therapists is excellent. Career opportunities for respiratory therapists are expected to grow 28% from 2010-2020. This is a higher than the national average for all jobs, which is between 10 and 19%.
The number of students graduating from the 8 accredited respiratory therapy schools in Massachusetts is increasing. In 2006 there were 60 respiratory therapy graduates from respiratory therapy courses in Massachusetts and in 2010 there were 110 graduates. Thus there was a 83% percent increase in the number of respiratory therapy school degree or certificate graduates in Massachusetts.
Respiratory Therapy Licensing and Certification Programs. After completing your education and training, you will need to apply for certification and registration to the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC). To become a Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) you will need to pass an additional examination.
Besides hospitals, other employers for respiratory therapists are healthcare services and physician offices. As of May 2013, the BLS reported that the median annual salary of a respiratory therapist was $56,290. Most of these professionals earned between $41,110 and $76,750 per year, according to BLS data. Show me 10 popular schools. Salary Information. As of May 2013, the BLS reported that the median annual salary of a respiratory therapist was $56,290. Most of these professionals earned between $41,110 and $76,750 per year, according to BLS data.
$34,750. The median annual wage for respiratory therapists was $55,870 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $40,980, and the top 10 percent earned more than $75,430. Most respiratory therapists work full time.
Respiratory Therapist Salary. (United States). Respiratory Therapists in the United States pull down an average of $24.37 per hour. Pay ranges from $18.67 per hour on the low end to $32.87 on the high end. This group's pay is mainly influenced by geographic location, followed by tenure and the particular employer