American Income Life's independent agency offices offer vocational insurance sales training and coaching with resources available online via computer or smart device. Learn More ». For a list of current job openings at American Income Life headquarters, click here. At American Income Life, 'Opportunity Unlimited' means YOU decide what you're worth. As an independent contractor, YOU are in control. Your performance determines how much money you make and how far you take your career.
The average American Income Life salary ranges from approximately $16,000 per year for Sales to $75,000 per year for Regional Manager. Average American Income Life hourly pay ranges from approximately $9.00 per hour for Administrative Assistant to $15.00 per hour for Human Resources Manager. Salary information comes from 210 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed.
No-Cost Child Safe Kit. Parents want to keep their children safe. AIL provides the Child Safe Kit at no cost. This kit places all of your child's information in one easy location in the event they go missing. Learn how you can receive a no-cost Child Safe Kit. 
I have an interview with American Income for a Benefits Coordinator. The HR person said it is not sales, no selling. I read someone else went and they were told the same thing and they lied and it was a sales job. I have to drive an hour to get to this place I don’t want to go if its is a scam. Instead, I wrote a blog post about their shady initial contact, and based on anywhere between 50 to 300 hits a day using the phrase “American Income Employment Scam,” many others feel the exact same way about them.
Headquartered in Waco, Texas, American Income Life is licensed in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, National Income Life Insurance Company in New York, and Union Heritage Life Assurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland. A new world opened up to me when I first learned about American Income Life. A world of limitless professional and financial potential. Twenty-seven years later, the opportunity has given me just that-and more. My career continues to be more rewarding and fulfilling than I ever imagined possible.
Most of the staff was friendly. Cons. This is supposed to be an independent contractor's position, but once you start, there are set hours, travel expectations, many costs,a long training period without pay, no real income for a long period of time, and conflicting promises made and then rescinded. Advice to Management. It is illegal to require independent contractors to do what you are requiring. Lying to unemployed people and taking money from them is immoral. Tell people the truth about the costs, the requirements, and what you have to offer.
One more thing for those of you in the Phoenix Metro area. American Income Life is located at 3800 N Central Ave in a building that humorously has a wire pyramid located on top of it. Kind of an interesting irony in itself. They are on the sixth floor in suite 600. Instead, I wrote a blog post about their shady initial contact, and based on anywhere between 50 to 300 hits a day using the phrase “American Income Employment Scam,” many others feel the exact same way about them.
American Income Life Insurance Company (AIL) was founded in 1951 by philanthropist Bernard Rapoport. Today, American Income Life strives to be the premier provider of life and supplemental health insurance to labor unions, credit unions, association members, and middle-income working families. A new world opened up to me when I first learned about American Income Life. A world of limitless professional and financial potential. Twenty-seven years later, the opportunity has given me just that-and more. My career continues to be more rewarding and fulfilling than I ever imagined possible.
American Income Life Insurance Company seeks a select group of leaders, entrepreneurs, and high achievers eager to jumpstart their sales career with a fast-paced, stable, and internationally growing company. At American Income Life, 'Opportunity Unlimited' means YOU decide what you're worth. As an independent contractor, YOU are in control. Your performance determines how much money you make and how far you take your career. American Income Life gives you the opportunity to earn as much as you desire