What do Scout and Jem find in the knothole of the tree on the Radley property? Do you have any guesses as to who might have left these odd gifts? 2. What does Scout hear coming from the Radley house after Dill and Jem accidentally roll her into their yard?
the first time: arrowhead pennies and gum the second time: soap carvings of themselves a pocket watch and a pocket knife http://wiki.answers.com/What_did_scout_and_jem_find … _in_the_radley's_tree#ixzz17YuN9Zp6.
yasmin F. said... First Scout and Jem found many things in the tree. They found little objects and miscellaneous items, but the one that impressed the most was the soap that had their faces carved out on it. But one day, Mr. Radley found out about this, and stuck cement
Jem and Scout find gifts in the knothole of the tree. Boo Radley has been placing these gifts there. It is a form of communication between Boo and Jem and Scout. It proves that Boo Radley is capable of kindness.
yasmin said... Both Scout and Jem find different objects in the tree, and it was obvious that Boo Radley had put them there. I think that this proves taht Boo Radley isnt all that bad. This action is saying that in a way, he wants to be Jem and Scout's friend.
Scout is the first to find something in the knot-hole in the oak tree on the Radleys' property. She finds two sticks of Wrigley's Double-Mint gum. Scout was hesitant to eat it because she found it on the Radley's property but eventually she does.
2 pieces of chewing gum (Scout removed the wrapper from the gun when she removed it from the tree, Wrigley's Double Mint). 2 scrubbed and polished pennies, one on top of the other (confirmed to be a 1906 and 1900, both Indian-heads by Jem).
In chapter 4 of To Kill a Mockingbird, Jem and Scout begin finding objects left for them to discover inside a knot-hole of an oak tree at the Radley's. The first object Scout discovered was a piece of Wrigley's Double-Mint gum. The second object they find is a box with two polished Indian-head pennies.