2009: Obama bows to the Queen of England. This one isn't so much of a bow as it is a head nod (note: the president, who is a solid 6'1, is taller than many world leaders). It's apparently from the same trip to London as the Saudi bow, for his first G-20 summit as president. This is the classic Obama Bowing To Things We Don't Like moment, the one that launched a thousand Fox News segments. A White House aide attempted to deny that the move to King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia at a G-20 meeting was a bow, telling Politico that It wasn't a bow.
The White House briefing room grew a bit chilly on Thursday after CNN reporter Dan Lothian asked press secretary Robert Gibbs to explain the current cause celebre célèbre of the conservative: movement Whether President obama bowed down To King abdullah Of Saudi. arabia So it's stunning that just hours after he apologized to a European audience last week, and said America has been arrogant and dismissive, President Obama paid fealty to Saudi King Abdullah by bowing to him at the G-20 Summit in London.
2. [Obama] did bow to the Muslim King, while he did not do it to the British Queen of England, and by bowing he showed the world that I am subservient, I do bow down to you as a Muslim King.. Something that no other president has done with Saudi Arabia. [5:26]. This video, makes the following claim, as aired on Fox News: [Obama] did bow to the Muslim King, while he did not do it to the British Queen of England, and by bowing he showed the world that I am subservient, I do bow down to you as a Muslim King.. Something that no other president has done with Saudi Arabia.
http://barrysoetoro.com/. Obama bows down to Saudi King. 'Americans do not bow to foreign monarchs because that act signified the monarch's power over his subjects.'. I am quite certain that this is not the protocol, and is most unbecoming a President of the United States.. http://michellemalkin.com/2009/04/02/... 
11:59PM BST 08 Apr 2009. The White House denied that the president bowed during a meeting on the sidelines of the London conference, though photographs show Mr Obama at least stooped significantly before the 84-year-old monarch. It wasn't a bow.
White House: No bow to Saudi. The White House is denying that the president bowed to King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia at a G-20 meeting in London, a scene that drew criticism on the right and praise from some Arab outlets. It wasn't a bow. Blog: Obama's apparent bow to the King of Saudi Arabia in London has drawn fire on the right and -- in response to my requests for comment at least -- sil.
State department protocol indeed decrees that presidents bow to no one, and has had to deal with similar controversies before, when then president Bill Clinton did a semi-bow to Japan's Emperor Akihito. Muhammah Diyab, a commentator in a Saudi paper, approved of Mr Obama's gesture, and saw it as a clear bow. The White House denied that the president bowed during a meeting on the sidelines of the London conference, though photographs show Mr Obama at least stooped significantly before the 84-year-old monarch. It wasn't a bow.
2009: Obama bows to the Saudi King. This is the classic Obama Bowing To Things We Don't Like moment, the one that launched a thousand Fox News segments. A White House aide attempted to deny that the move to King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia at a G-20 meeting was a bow, telling Politico that It wasn't a bow.