The surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, Oahu, Hawaii, was aimed at the Pacific Fleet of the United States Navy and its defending Army Air Fo … rces and Marine air forces. The U.S. public saw the attack as a treacherous act and rallied against the Imperial Japan, causing the United States to enter World War II.
Pearl Harbor was bombed by the Japanese for several reasons.    1. When the Japanese decided to attack America, they knew that  almost all of the immediate forces were … naval. Hence, they decided  to bomb Pearl Harbor, as it held the majority of the American naval  forces in the Pacific.
USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor. Aerial view of Pearl Harbor before the attack. The Japanese attacked U.S. military installations on Hawaii's Oahu island on 7 December 1941. Japan launched a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor during World War II.
Two waves of aircraft, totaling 253 aircraft in all, attacked the naval base at Pearl Harbor, the home of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, Hickam, Wheeler and Bellows Army airfields, Schofield Barracks, Kaneohe Naval Air Station, and Ewa Marine Corps Air Station.
1 Moreover, the Japanese did not like the threat of Pearl Harbor attacking them. 2  A good question. 3  Japan was expanding it's territory nicely throughout Asia, and if they had refrained from an attack on Pearl Harbor, perhaps America would never have entered the war. 4  The truth is, however, somewhat different.
1 Japan attacked Pearl Harbor because the U.S. enacted an embargo on all oil supplies to Japan. 2  The reason for the embargo is because Japan was invading China. 3  The U.S. embargo cutoff 90% of Japans resources, which crippled their economy and most importantly military.
Moreover, the Japanese did not like the threat of Pearl Harbor  attacking them.  A good question. Japan was expanding it's territory nicely  throughout Asia, and if they had refrained from an attack on Pearl  Harbor, perhaps America would never have entered the war. The truth  is, however, somewhat different.
1. When the Japanese decided to attack America, they knew that almost all of the immediate forces were naval. Hence, they decided to bomb Pearl Harbor, as it held the majority of the American naval forces in the Pacific.