Experience magical, close encounters with the friendly gray whale mothers and calfs of San Ignacio Lagoon, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. We also visit the beautiful Sea of Cortez for snorkeling and whale watching on this week-long Baja adventure. During the Loreto / Sea of Cortez portion of the trip, we stay in comfortable hotels and enjoy meals in local restaurants. In San Ignacio Lagoon we stay in a catered camp situated on the water's edge, with safari-style tents that have solar-powered lights and platform beds.
1 Opportunities to see blue, fin, humpback, Bryde's, sperm, and killer whales in the Sea of Cortez, plus snorkeling with tropical fish. 2  Comfortable land-based accommodations in beautiful Baja California. During the Loreto / Sea of Cortez portion of the trip, we stay in comfortable hotels and enjoy meals in local restaurants. In San Ignacio Lagoon we stay in a catered camp situated on the water's edge, with safari-style tents that have solar-powered lights and platform beds.
Cabo San Lucas is home to Land's End, a narrow stip of land where the Pacific Ocean meets the Sea of Cortez. There is a famous arch, several unique dive sites and accomodations for all sides of the nightlife spectrum. For divers, La Paz is the most popular destination. Including La paz & Cabo. The Sea of Cortez and is home to sea lions, whale sharks, manta and mobula rays, dolphins, huge schools of fish and some fascinating macro life. It is one of the easiest big animal destinations to reach and enjoy. La Paz, Cabo, Loreto, and the northern Sea of Cortez all have excellent diving.
La Paz. A favorite beach destination of Mexicans, La Paz, hub of Baja eco-tourism, affords some of the best diving in the Sea of Cortez. There is a diversity of options: a shipwreck dive, a chance to swim alongside sea lions and the likelihood of shark encounters at the seamounts. There is much to be seen here in addition to the barren rocks of the Land's End arches where the Sea of Cortez commingles with the cold Pacific. Credit Jacques Cousteau with the discovery of Sand Falls, a barren plain at 90 feet where sands shift over a rock wall.
The Sea of Cortez, also known as the Gulf of California, is a 1,126 km stretch of water sheltered from the Pacific Ocean by the Baja California peninsula. As a result, the swells of the Pacific have little effect here meaning the seas are often flat calm. La Vela, Angel Island-One of the first spots to dive on a northern Sea of Cortez liveaboard cruise is Angel Island. It is a great site for sea lions that may swoop and swim around you like the playful puppies of the ocean that they are.
1 Close encounters with the friendly gray whale cows and calves in San Ignacio Lagoon, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 2  Opportunities to see blue, fin, humpback, Bryde's, sperm, and killer whales in the Sea of Cortez, plus snorkeling with tropical fish. During the Loreto / Sea of Cortez portion of the trip, we stay in comfortable hotels and enjoy meals in local restaurants. In San Ignacio Lagoon we stay in a catered camp situated on the water's edge, with safari-style tents that have solar-powered lights and platform beds.
Non-Diving Activites. Sea of Cortez dive resorts offer activities like fishing, kayaking, snorkeling, sandy beaches, dining and lounging by the pool. Keep in mind that swimming with whale sharks is limited to snorkels and no tanks, so it's a great opportunity to bring non-divers on an ocean adventure. Including La paz & Cabo. The Sea of Cortez and is home to sea lions, whale sharks, manta and mobula rays, dolphins, huge schools of fish and some fascinating macro life. It is one of the easiest big animal destinations to reach and enjoy. La Paz, Cabo, Loreto, and the northern Sea of Cortez all have excellent diving.
We also explore the wildlife of the productive and diverse Sea of Cortez, which is home to more than 650 tropical and temperate fish (90 of them endemic) and one-third of the world's whale and dolphin species. On land, an exceptional 695 vascular plant species are scattered among colorful and rugged desert landscapes. During the Loreto / Sea of Cortez portion of the trip, we stay in comfortable hotels and enjoy meals in local restaurants. In San Ignacio Lagoon we stay in a catered camp situated on the water's edge, with safari-style tents that have solar-powered lights and platform beds.
Discover the natural wonders of the Sea of Cortez on an expedition aboard the National Geographic Sea Bird. In the company of marine biologists, experience up-close encounters with gray whale mothers and their calves after they have migrated to the inlets of Bahia Bahía. magdalena At Los Islotes, snorkel and swim among curious sea lions. With its rugged cliffs and coves carved deeply into the coastline, Espiritu Espíritu santo is one of the most beautiful islands in The sea Of. cortez
When gliding through the clear water of Mexico’s Sea of Cortez on a small cruise ship, one is tempted to jump in for a swim, or better yet to slip beneath the surface for some Sea of Cortez snorkeling. If lucky, you might discover a chocolate-chip star, so named because of its conspicuous brown spots. In a few sites within the Sea of Cortez curious California sea lions may approach snorkelers for a better look. Their streamlined form and amazing maneuverability underwater put human swimmers to shame.