Hybrid perpetuals are types of roses that were very popular in the mid to late 1800′s. They are highly scented, large-flowered, in shades of pink and red with scattered repeat bloom and graceful form reminiscent of their Old Garden rose ancestors.
These are the different types of roses that are very old. The main groups of old garden roses, heirloom old garden roses, heritage bushes of roses, whatever you choose to call these antique old roses from the past, include the following rose types.
Roses are prized for their for their lovely, often fragrant flowers. Many rose types carry their blossoms in clusters, but some, notably hybrid teas tend to bear their flowers singly, one bud per stem. Below are the three major groups of the different types of rose plants.
Finding the type of rose that's right for your garden. The wide variety and types of roses we offer can be a bit overwhelming. Here is a quick introduction to the various types of roses available. Regan Nursery carries more than 1000 types of Grade 1 roses. Here are the different types of roses we offer.
If you dream of having a rose garden, find out about the different types of roses you will be planting. Fortunately for us, there are only three different kinds: the Single or Wild Roses (which were the very first roses on Earth), the Old or Heirloom Roses, and the Modern Roses.
Modern Roses are a broad mix which include the following types: Climbing, Floribunda, Grandiflora, Hybrid Musk, Hybrid Rugosa, Hybrid Tea, Landscape (including Groundcover) or Shrub, Miniature, Mini-flora and Polyantha. The American Rose Society currently recognizes 37 classes of roses.
But no matter what type of roses you would like to buy, be sure it's the type that fit your garden situation and climate zone. So it's very convenient that information on different rose types, and roses of all different types, are being grouped in various ways with names of roses and rose types.
Within these three groups of different types of roses and rose classes, roses are further divided by their growth habits, foilage and flower forms. Wild roses, species roses, are the parents of and the origins of the Old Garden Roses and the Modern Garden Roses.
List of Names of Varieties of Roses. Below are the different varieties of garden roses. I have featured each group with a very outstanding rose that I recommendd. However, if you click on the link within each group you will get information and pictures of many more garden rose varieties.