King Ferdinand II of Aragon (1452-1516), wearing a Renaissance beret. The French word beret, béret from which The english term, derives is based on The Bearnais, béarnais berret a sort of flat, woollen cap worn by the. Local peasants it was first mentioned 1835 in french and in the 19th Century. in english In Spain, depending upon the region, the beret is usually known as the boina (from the Latin abonnis to the Aragonese word boina which was adopted by Spanish) or chapela (from the Basque, txapela) and sometimes it is also called the chapo (from the French chapeau).
Made in France The Basque Beret is one of the most recognized hats in all of the world. Jaxon Hats collaborated with Laulhere, laulhère a company that has been in existence since, 1840 to design and produce a Beautiful Basque. beret The origin of the Basque beret is actually from the Bearn Shepherds of the same name, Bearn. They first hand knit the beret and then felted the wool in mountain waters to create a hat that protects against the sun and harsh winters.
Full Definition of BERET. : a visorless usually woolen cap with a tight headband and a soft full flat top. See beret defined for English-language learners. See beret defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
King Ferdinand II of Aragon (1452-1516), wearing a Renaissance beret. The French word beret, béret from which The english term, derives is based on The Bearnais, béarnais berret a sort of flat, woollen cap worn by the. local peasants In Spain, depending upon the region, the beret is usually known as the boina (from the Latin abonnis to the Aragonese word boina which was adopted by Spanish) or chapela (from the Basque, txapela) and sometimes it is also called the chapo (from the French chapeau).
The Green Beret is a special operations group in US army though it is also the name of special cap and badge worn by these soldiers. It can be worn only by those soldiers who have qualified as Special Forces soldiers. Both the army rangers and the Green Berets are Special Forces groups in the US army. Both are considered elite members of the US armed forces and have specialized functions. Both, the rangers and the Green Berets, have served the interests of the US outside the country.
The informal use of beret-like headgear by the military of Europe dates back hundreds of years, one example being the Blue Bonnet, that became a de facto symbol of Scottish Jacobite forces in the 16th and 17th centuries. The maroon beret was adopted by the Parachute Regiment in 1941 and the green beret by the Commandos in late 1942. A khaki beret was worn by the Reconnaissance Corps from 1941 until 1944, and the Royal Air Force Regiment adopted a blue-grey beret in 1943.
A beret (UK /ˈbɛreɪ/ BERR-ay or US /bəˈreɪ/ bə-RAY; [beʁɛ]) is a soft, round, flat-crowned hat, usually of woven, hand-knitted wool, crocheted cotton, wool felt, or acrylic fibre. Mass production began in 19th century France and Spain, countries with which it remains associated. In Spain, depending upon the region, the beret is usually known as the boina (from the Latin abonnis to the Aragonese word boina which was adopted by Spanish) or chapela (from the Basque, txapela) and sometimes it is also called the chapo (from the French chapeau).
The green beret was the official headdress of the British Commandos of the Second World War. It is still worn by members of the Royal Marines after passing the Commando Course and men from other units attached to the Marines who have passed the All Arms Commando Course. Australian Commando berets are known as being Sherwood Green in colour. The corps badge on the beret is a black background and a gold combat dagger with the motto “Strike Swiftly underneath the dagger.
The Beret is a members-only land clothing item that is worn on the head. It is sold at Jam Mart Clothing. The Beret resembles a beret. When put on, it appears lopsided on the head. 
An unusual form of beret is the camo beret, mostly issued to special forces. Countries that have issued camouflage berets include Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, PRC, Denmark, Ecuador, Israel, Paraguay, Panama, Philippines, Portugal, South Africa, South Korea, and Thailand. The maroon beret was adopted by the Parachute Regiment in 1941 and the green beret by the Commandos in late 1942. A khaki beret was worn by the Reconnaissance Corps from 1941 until 1944, and the Royal Air Force Regiment adopted a blue-grey beret in 1943.