Follow-up after an abnormal CBE. For most women, a clinical breast exam will find no signs of breast cancer. If your exam does find something abnormal, you will need follow-up tests to check whether or not the finding is breast cancer. Learn about follow-up after an abnormal clinical breast exam. A clinical breast exam (CBE) is a physical exam done by a health care provider as part of your regular medical check-up. Your provider should carefully feel your breasts and underarm for any changes or abnormalities (such as a lump)
A Visual Check of Skin and Tissue. During a clinical breast exam, your healthcare provider checks your breasts’ appearance. You may be asked to raise your arms over your head, let them hang by your sides, or press your hands against your hips. Your nipples may be checked to see if fluid is expressed when lightly squeezed. A Manual Check for Unusual Texture or Lumps. Using the pads of the fingers, your healthcare provider checks your entire breast, underarm, and collarbone area for any lumps or abnormalities.
The Psychopathy Checklist or Hare Psychopathy Checklist-Revised, now the Psychopathy Checklist—revised (PCL-R) , is a psychological assessment tool used to assess the presence of psychopathy in individuals. 
Everyone has their own method of clinically checking a prescription. If I am checking an outpatient prescription the first thing I would do is check the legality. If it is not signed, dated etc then what is in the body of the prescription is irrelevant, regardless of whether it is appropriate or not. yes i am a pharmacist,how rude !!! and yes i do clinical check but also acuracy check before i give a prescription out just wasnt sure about working with an ACT to complete the process.guess i worry that if mistake is made by ACT i just dont want it to come back on me.
StudentCheck is a background check and drug testing product for students attending clinical rotations or internships at healthcare facilities. 
1 Check the womenshealth.gov screening charts (PDF, 132KB) to see when you should get a mammogram. 2  Clinical breast exam (CBE). 3  The doctor looks at and feels the breasts and under the arms for lumps or anything else that seems unusual. 4  Ask your doctor if you need a CBE. 
Guide. A clinical breast examination (CBE) is a physical examination of the breast done by a health professional. Clinical breast examinations are used along with mammograms to check women for breast cancer. Clinical breast examinations are also used to check for other breast problems. A clinical breast examination may be part of your regular checkup. Talk with your health professional about how often you need a breast examination. A clinical breast examination is done to: 1  Find a lump or change in the breast that may mean a serious problem is present, such as breast cancer. 2  Check other breast problems that may need more treatment, such as mastitis or a fibroadenoma.
Disambiguation: Clinical data validation means checking clinical data for correctness and completeness. Clinical database validation is making sure that clinical databases perform the functions required by regulations and guidances and is on another page. 1  More information on the disambiguation. 2  Back to introduction to clinical data management. More specifically, validation is usually concerned with checking four of the eight characteristics of good clinical data – these characteristics are from the first guidance and the first other reference listed below. The eight characteristics are: 1  Attributable: The sources of the data are known and recorded.