Plant canna rhizomes between 2 and 5 inches deep, depending on their size. In general, multiply the rhizome's diameter by two or three for the right planting depth. Position the rhizome on its side. The stems and tightly rolled leaves extend from the rhizome's ends until they reach the light.
1 Cannas can be started in the house in small pots if your gardening season is short. 2  Where not hardy, plant outdoors in early summer—around the same time you'd put in tomato plants. 3  To plant, loosen the soil to a depth of 12 to 15 inches, then mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost.
Our souces suggest plannting cannas about 4 inches deep, laying them horizontally, with eyes up (if you can find the eyes) in rich, most moisture-retentive soil. Fertlize when you plant with a balanced mix (or per the instructions on the canna packaging) and once a month in the summer.
Plant cannas to a depth two to three times the height of the bulb. Measure distance from the bottom of the bulb and cover with loose soil. Keywords: canna bulbs, planting bulbs, canna planting depth.
Plant rhizomes in the spring. Canna plants prefer a rich, organic soil. Plant in full sun. Canna needs plenty of water, but soil should be well draining (except varieties grown in water). Divide roots, leaving one or two growing tips on each section. Plant roots 3 to 4 inches deep, separated one to three feet apart.
Unlike most bulbs, cannas can thrive in moist soils but will not tolerate standing in water puddles. 3- How to Plant your Canna Bulbs: For outdoor planting, dig holes that are 4 to 6 inches deep, and 2 feet apart for tall varieties and 1 foot for the others. Then dig in a little peat moss and perlite. For planting in pots, fill a large pot to within 6 inches of the top with a well-draining potting mix into which you have added a little peat moss and perlite. Place one bulb into each hole. If your pot is large, you can plant two or three canna bulbs in each pot.
After the first frost dig up the canna bulbs and cut off the foliage to about 2-3 inches from the bulb. Place the bulbs in a dry area to cure for a couple of days. Then wrap the bulbs in newspaper and store in a cool, dry place for the winter. Do not water. In the spring plant outside and then dig up in the fall.