If you are concerned about how long a pardon will take the only really good rule of thumb is the age old wisdom most of heard from our parents long ago. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. At the time of writing the National Pardon Centre is quoting 10 – 12 months start to finish for an expedited pardon. I paid a 200 dollar fee to get my pardon started and went to the police station for a record check. They asked me who I was getting to do it and I said pardons Canada and they laughed at me. Pardons Canada has the worst reputation and I was advised to do my pardon by myself.
Pardon Applications of Canada (PAC) is a nationwide Canadian Pardon (Record Suspension) and U.S. Waiver application completion firm. Each year, Pardon Applications of Canada serves thousands of Canadians with criminal records, opening the door to employment opportunities, travel freedom, peace of mind and more. 
Most clients just want to get their pardon and then forget the arrest(s) ever happened. What you are experiencing with the Parole Board is fairly normal although your case sounds like it is taking a little on the long side. At the National Pardon Centre we are taking around 6 months to complete the application. I paid a 200 dollar fee to get my pardon started and went to the police station for a record check. They asked me who I was getting to do it and I said pardons Canada and they laughed at me. Pardons Canada has the worst reputation and I was advised to do my pardon by myself.
The RCMP processes record suspensions (pardons), revocations and cessation of record suspensions. It seals or reactivates the criminal record when a record suspension is granted, revoked, or ceases to have effect, and notifies the contributing agencies on behalf of the Parole Board of Canada (PBC). 
September 13, 2013 by admin in FAQ | 1 Comment. It takes an average of 9-18 months for a pardon/record suspension application to be processed and granted. However, to prepare the pardon/record suspension application, many documents must be collected. Acquiring the proper supporting documents from various law enforcement and government agencies takes between 3-10 months.
Record Suspensions. A record suspension (formerly a pardon) allows people who were convicted of a criminal offence, but have completed their sentence and demonstrated they are law-abiding citizens for a prescribed number of years, to have their criminal record kept separate and apart from other criminal records. Under the. (. 
It takes an average of 12-24 months for a pardon/record suspension application to be processed and granted. However, to prepare the pardon/record suspension application, many documents must be collected. Acquiring the proper supporting documents takes between 3-10 months. When a person is found guilty and convicted of an offence they require a pardon/record suspension. The record, including fingerprints, photographs, and RCMP report and court records are then sealed, and never opened unless the individual is subsequently charged with a criminal offence.
Anyone guaranteeing you a pardon in a certain number of months is just telling you what you want to hear. At the National Pardon Centre we provide estimates. We do our best to provide accurate estimates based on current processing times but it is not possible to accurately predict how long every file will take. I paid a 200 dollar fee to get my pardon started and went to the police station for a record check. They asked me who I was getting to do it and I said pardons Canada and they laughed at me. Pardons Canada has the worst reputation and I was advised to do my pardon by myself.
Welcome to Pardons Canada. Pardons Canada is a Federal non-profit organization that assists individuals in removing a past criminal offence from public record. We also help individuals obtain U.S. Entry Waivers. 1  Over 20 years helping Canadians. 2  Over 200,000 Pardons/Record Suspensions, U.S. Entry Waivers and File Destructions since 1989
Pardon Timeline. There are two (2) timelines in acquiring a Canadian Pardon. One timeline refers to the completion of your application, a 9-step legal process (our work). The second timeline refers to how long the Parole Board of Canada takes to approve your application and issue your Pardon.