Since the average depth of the Pacific ocean is 4000 m (14,000 feet) , tsunami wave speed will average about 200 m/s or over 700 km/h (500 mph). At such high speeds, a tsunami generated in Aleutian Islands may reach Hawaii in less than four and a half hours. Tsunami waves in the deep ocean can travel at high speeds for long periods of time for distances of thousands of kilometers and lose very little energy in the process. The deeper the water, the greater the speed of tsunami waves will be.
Tsunamis can travel as far as 10 miles (16 km) inland, depending on the shape and slope of the shoreline. Hurricanes also drive the sea miles inward, putting people at risk. But even hurricane veterans may ignore orders to evacuate. Tsunamis race across the deep ocean at jet speed, some 500 mph (800 km/h). Near shore, the killer waves slow to between 10 to 20 mph (16 to 32 km/h) and gain height.
Where the ocean is over 6,000 meters (3.7 miles) deep, unnoticed tsunami waves can travel at the speed of a commercial jet plane, over 800 km per hour (500 miles per hour). Tsunamis travel much slower in shallower coastal waters where their wave heights begin to increase dramatically. A tsunami generally consists of a series of waves, often referred to as the tsunami wave train. The amount of time between successive waves, known as the wave period, is only a few minutes; in some instances, waves are over an hour apart.
In the deep water of the open ocean, tsunami waves can travel at speeds up to 800 km (500 miles) per hour and are imperceptible to ships because the wave height is typically less than a few feet. 
In the open ocean, tsunami waves travel at 600kph to 700kph. In the deep ocean, waves from a large tsunami may be as little as 60cm high. They pass ships unnoticed. As they encounter shallow water, they slow down to about 30kph and increase in height. 
In other places tsunamis have been known to surge vertically as high as 100 feet (30 meters). Most tsunamis cause the sea to rise no more than 10 feet (3 meters). The Indian Ocean tsunami caused waves as high as 30 feet (9 meters) in some places, according to news reports. In other places witnesses described a rapid surging of the ocean. Flooding can extend inland by a thousand feet (300 meters) or more
Having said that, there are many variables and factors as to how far a tsunami would travel inland, so just because a section of coastal geography doesn’t reach the height of 300 feet for say, 50 miles, doesn’t mean that the tsunami will have enough energy to travel fifty miles. When the speed of the wave approaches zero, the wave breaks, much of its energy is released and it will not go too much further. A tsunami that reaches a height of 300 feet when it rears up at the shore, will lose energy as it travels inland.
There are various factors that determine how far inland a tsunami can go. Here is a list of factors involved: The terrain of the land and the height of the tsunami wave. If the land is mountainous the tsunami would probably not go very far; however, if it is lowland, it may wash inland for several kilometers. Another important factor in a tsunami is the volume of water displaced. It is not the height of a tsunami that gives it momentum over land, but the length. The angle at which the tsunami reaches land and the geographical shape of the coastline: A concave coastline will suffer more damage than a convex coastline that can deflect the water movement.
(For a tsunami with a wavelength of 200 km traveling at 750 km/hr, the wave period is about 16 minutes). Thus people are not safe after the passage of the first large wave, but must wait several hours for all waves to pass. The first wave may not be the largest in the series of waves. 
The 2011 Tsunami in Japan Most scientists reported that the 33ft (10m) Tsunami wave, triggered by a massive earthquake on March 11 measuring magnitude 9.0 on the Richter scale … , made it 6 miles (10 kilometers) inland with washed up debris and water reaching distances of 10 miles or more inland. It is not the height of a tsunami that gives it momentum over land, but the length. The angle at which the tsunami reaches land and the geographical shape of the coastline: A concave coastline will suffer more damage than a convex coastline that can deflect the water movement.