By this, of course, Warren did not mean that a constitutional decision by the Supreme Court lacks the character of binding law. He meant that the Constitution remains the Constitution and that observers of the Court may fairly consider whether a particular Supreme Court decision was right or wrong. 
Constitutional law. Constitutional law is the body of law which defines the relationship of different entities within a state, namely, the executive, the legislature, and the judiciary. 
The Constitution is often hailed as a marvel of brevity and of clarity. It was, however, written in the 18th century, and many of the ideas, concepts, words, phrases, and euphemisms seem odd to us today, if not down right foreign. Some of the more obscure words are defined in The Glossary. 
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed. These rules together make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is. 
The opposite of constitutional. . Constitutional: Consistent with the constitution; authorized by the constitution; not conflicting with any provision of the constitution or fundamental law of the state. Dependent upon a constitution, or secured or regulated by a constitution. CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: A constitutional law is one which is consonant to, and agrees with, the constitution; one which is not in violation of any provision of the constitution of the particular state. -- Black's Law Dictionary - 1st Edition - 1891. Please note that In American Law our Constitution is defined as the absolute rule of action and decision.. This means that what We, the People, wrote in our Constitution must be followed by all departments and officers of the government exactly as we wrote it.
attainder n. attaindre, to convict] Source: AHD. In the context of the Constitution, a Bill of Attainder is meant to mean a bill that has a negative effect on a single person or group (for example, a fine or term of imprisonment). 
Constitution of the United States; United States Constitution (the constitution written at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states). 
A state or federal law is said to be constitutional when it is consistent with the text of a constitutional provision and any relevant judicial interpretations. A law that is inconsistent with either the written text or judicial interpretation of a constitutional provision is unconstitutional. The Supremacy Clause in Article VI makes the Constitution, federal laws, and treaties the supreme Law of the Land.. Under this clause, state courts may not interpret the Bill of Rights, or any other constitutional provision, differently than does the Supreme Court.
Constitutional Law. The written text of the state and federal constitutions. The body of judicial precedent that has gradually developed through a process in which courts interpret, apply, and explain the meaning of particular constitutional provisions and principles during a legal proceeding. The Supremacy Clause in Article VI makes the Constitution, federal laws, and treaties the supreme Law of the Land.. Under this clause, state courts may not interpret the Bill of Rights, or any other constitutional provision, differently than does the Supreme Court.
Constitutional (adj). belonging to, or inherent in, the constitution, or in the structure of body or mind; as, a constitutional infirmity; constitutional ardor or dullness. Constitutional (adj). in accordance with, or authorized by, the constitution of a state or a society; as, constitutional reforms. Constitutional (adj). relating to a constitution, or establishment form of government; as, a constitutional risis. Constitutional (adj). for the benefit or one's constitution or health; as, a constitutional walk. Constitutional (noun). a walk or other exercise taken for one's health or constitution.