In this article. Polymyalgia rheumatica is an infrequently occurring, inflammatory condition that causes pain or aching in the large muscle groups, especially around the shoulders and hips. Polymyalgia literally means many muscle pains. Rheumatica means changing or in flux.. About 15% of people with polymyalgia rheumatica also have temporal arteritis and about half of people with temporal arteritis also have polymyalgia rheumatica. Temporal arteritis causes inflammation that damages large and medium-sized arteries
Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an inflammatory disorder typically seen in older adults that causes widespread aching, stiffness and flu-like symptoms. It is more common in women than men, and is seen more often in Caucasians than any other race. PMR may also occur with another serious condition called giant cell arteritis (also known as temporal arteritis), which can be dangerous. Headaches -- particularly on the side of the head -- scalp tenderness, vision changes or jaw pain when eating can be signs of this condition. PMR can be hard to diagnose.
Definition. Polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness, especially in the shoulders. Symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica (pol-e-my-AL-juh rue-MAT-ih-kuh) usually begin quickly and are worse in the morning. Most people who develop polymyalgia rheumatica are older than 65. Polymyalgia rheumatica is related to another inflammatory disorder called giant cell arteritis, which can cause headaches, vision difficulties, jaw pain and scalp tenderness. It's possible to have both of these conditions together
Related condition – giant cell arteritis (GCA). Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is sometimes associated with a condition called giant cell arteritis (GCA) , or temporal arteritis, which causes inflammation of the arteries in your head. It can affect your sight, so it needs prompt medical treatment
Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an inflammatory condition that causes many painful muscles (poly = many, myalgia = muscle pain). Any muscles can be affected, but it mainly affects the muscles of the shoulder and thigh. PMR can start at any age from 50 but mainly affects people over the age of 60. 
Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an inflammatory condition affecting the muscles in and around the shoulder and upper arm areas, buttocks and thighs. The cause is unknown. Polymyalgia rheumatica usually starts very suddenly. 