It is usually associated with brain injury or neurological illness, particularly after damage to the occipitotemporal border, which is part of the ventral stream. Agnosia only affects a single modality, such as vision or hearing. Also known as Color agnosia involves having difficulty categorizing colours, as well as recognizing colours. Cerebral achromatopsia is usually caused by neurological damage. There are two regions of the brain which specialize for color recognition, areas V4 and V8.
Visual Agnosia. Visual agnosia occurs when there is brain damage along the pathways that connect the occipital lobe of the brain with the parietal and temporal lobes. The occipital lobe assembles incoming visual information. The parietal and temporal lobes understand the meaning of this information. These lobes are where semantic information and language are stored. Lesions can be created by strokes, head traumas, or encephalitis. Other conditions that damage or impair the brain can also cause agnosia. These conditions include dementia, carbon monoxide poisoning, and anoxia.
Right hemisphere brain damage (RHD) is damage to the right side of the brain. The brain is made up of two sides or hemispheres. Each hemisphere is responsible for different body functions and skills. In most people, the left side of the brain contains the person's language functions. Damage to the right hemisphere of the brain may lead to disruption of these cognitive processes, resulting in unique cognitive and communication problems. In many cases, the person with right brain damage is not aware of the problems that he or she is experiencing (anosognosia).
Associative agnosia is associated with damage to both the right and left hemispheres at the occipitotemporal border. A specific form of associative visual agnosia is known as prosopagnosia. Prosopagnosia is the inability to recognize faces. Also known as Color agnosia involves having difficulty categorizing colours, as well as recognizing colours. Cerebral achromatopsia is usually caused by neurological damage. There are two regions of the brain which specialize for color recognition, areas V4 and V8.
Visual agnosia is often due to bilateral damage in the posterior occipital and/or temporal lobe (s) in the brain. 
1 The brain is divided into two halves (hemispheres). 2  The left half controls movement and sensation in the right side of the body, and the right half controls movement and sensation in the left side. 3  Thus, damage to the right side of the brain may cause movement problems or weakness on the body's left side. 1 The left half controls movement and sensation in the right side of the body, and the right half controls movement and sensation in the left side. 2
1 Face blindness is a brain disorder characterized by the inability to recognize faces. 2  Face blindness is thought to be the result of abnormalities, damage, or impairment in the right fusiform gyrus, a fold in the brain that appears to coordinate the neural systems that control facial perception and memory. Prosopagnosia is thought to be the result of abnormalities, damage, or impairment in the right fusiform gyrus, a fold in the brain that appears to coordinate the neural systems that control facial perception and memory. Prosopagnosia can result from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or certain neurodegenerative diseases.
1 Thus, damage to the right side of the brain may cause movement problems or weakness on the body's left side. 2  For most people, the left half of the brain is responsible for verbal and logical functions including language (listening, reading, speaking, and writing), thought and memory involving words. 1 The left half controls movement and sensation in the right side of the body, and the right half controls movement and sensation in the left side. 2 
Damage to the brain, arising from a head injury or a stroke for example, sometimes results in highly specific impairments of the person's cognitive processes. Brain Damage Stroke Dementia Neurological Disorders. Treatment: Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive. Cause: Damage to the brain, arising from a head injury or a stroke for example, sometimes results in highly specific impairments of the person's cognitive processes. Brain Damage Stroke Dementia Neurological Disorders
1 Face blindness is thought to be the result of abnormalities, damage, or impairment in the right fusiform gyrus, a fold in the brain that appears to coordinate the neural systems that control facial perception and memory. Prosopagnosia is thought to be the result of abnormalities, damage, or impairment in the right fusiform gyrus, a fold in the brain that appears to coordinate the neural systems that control facial perception and memory. Prosopagnosia can result from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or certain neurodegenerative diseases.