A radionuclide scan may be done for all sorts of reasons: 1  A bone scan is a common type. 2  A radionuclide is used which collects in areas where there is a lot of bone activity (where bone cells are breaking down or repairing parts of the bone). 1. 0. 4. A radionuclide scan is a way of imaging bones, organs and other parts of the body by using a small dose of a radioactive chemical. There are different types of radionuclide chemical. The one used depends on which organ or part of the body is to be scanned
The amount of radiation exposure from radionuclide scanning depends on which radionuclide is used and how much is used. For example, with a lung scan, the dose is similar to that used in about 75 chest x-rays. Other scans may involve more or less radiation. Radionuclide scanning can take hours to do because of the need to wait between injection and scan to give the radionuclide time to reach the target tissue.
The below image is an example of a negative brain death scan using a brain-specific tracer like Tc-99m HMPAO. In the flow phase, tracer is seen in the common carotid arteries and anterior and middle cerebral arteries (double and single arrows, respectively). This combination of findings is interpreted as negative for brain death (because there is evidence of intracerebral perfusion).The above image is an example of a negative brain death scan using an angiographic tracer like Tc-99m DTPA.
Negative radionuclide brain death scan. In the flow phase, whether the tracer is brain-specific like Tc-99m HMPAO or Tc-99m ECD or is angiographic like Tc-99m DTPA, the tracer will be seen in the carotid arteries. This confirms an adequate bolus was given. This combination of findings is interpreted as negative for brain death (because there is evidence of intracerebral perfusion).The above image is an example of a negative brain death scan using an angiographic tracer like Tc-99m DTPA.
Positive radionuclide brain death scan. In the flow phase, no matter the tracer, the tracer should be seen in the carotid arteries. This confirms an adequate bolus was given. In the delayed phase (15-20 min after tracer injection), the brain-specific tracer will be absent in brain tissue. This combination of findings is interpreted as negative for brain death (because there is evidence of intracerebral perfusion).The above image is an example of a negative brain death scan using an angiographic tracer like Tc-99m DTPA.
Computed tomography (CT or CAT scan) is a noninvasive diagnostic imaging procedure that uses a combination of X-rays and computer technology to produce horizontal, or axial, images (often called slices) of the body. A CT scan shows detailed images of any part of the body, including the bones, muscles, fat, and organs. Your physician will notify you of this prior to the procedure. CT scans of the brain can provide more detailed information about brain tissue and brain structures than standard X-rays of the head, thus providing more information related to injuries and/or diseases of the brain.
A MUGA scan (Multi Gated Acquisition Scan) is a time-proven nuclear medicine test designed to evaluate the function of the right and left ventricles of the heart, thus allowing informed diagnostic intervention in heart failure. The advantage of a MUGA scan over an echocardiogram or an angiogram is due to its accuracy. An echocardiogram measures the shortening fraction of the ventricle and is limited by the user's ability. Furthermore, an angiogram is invasive and, often, more expensive.
For example, in PET scans of the brain, a radioactive atom is applied to glucose (blood sugar) to create a radionuclide called fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), because the brain uses glucose for its metabolism. FDG is widely used in PET scanning. Other substances may be used for PET scanning, depending on the purpose of the scan. If blood flow and perfusion of an organ or tissue is of interest, the radionuclide may be a type of radioactive oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, or gallium.