We rarely think about breathing unless we’re out of breath. The act of breathing is part of the respiratory system, a complex process where air travels into and out of the lungs. Respiration is slightly different, where exercise causes muscles to release energy in the form of glucose.
Breathing: The process of respiration, during which air is inhaled into the lungs through the mouth or nose due to muscle contraction and then exhaled due to muscle relaxation. 
In mammals, breathing in, or inhaling, is due to the contraction and flattening of the diaphragm, a domed muscle that separates thorax and abdomen. If the abdomen is relaxed, this contraction causes the abdomen to bulge outwards, expanding the volume of the body. Breathing is only one of the processes that deliver oxygen to where it is needed in the body and remove carbon dioxide. Another important process involves the movement of blood by the circulatory system.
Animation of diaphragmatic breathing with the diaphragm shown in green. Diaphragmatic breathing, abdominal breathing, belly breathing or deep breathing is breathing that is done by contracting the diaphragm, a muscle located horizontally between the chest cavity and stomach cavity. Air enters the lungs and the belly expands during this type of breathing. 
Breathing or respiration is an important activityof the human body.This is made possible by the lungs with the help of the diaphragm,a big muscle locate at the bottom of the chest cavity. Breathing is respiration. your body taking in air. Breathing is the exchange of gases between the cells of an organism and the external evironment. In simple words: Ventilation ,or bringing oxigen into the lungs and Circulation ,or transporting the oxigen all over the body, where is needed
For other uses, see Breathing (disambiguation) . Breathing is the process that moves air in and out of the lungs, or oxygen through other respiratory organs such as gills. For organisms with lungs, breathing is also called ventilation, which includes both inhalation and exhalation. Breathing is one part of physiological respiration required to sustain life. Aerobic organisms of birds, mammals, and reptiles—require oxygen to release energy via cellular respiration, in the form of the metabolism of energy-rich molecules such as glucose. Breathing is only one of the processes that deliver oxygen to where it is needed in the body and remove carbon dioxide. Another important process involves the movement of blood by the circulatory system.
frog breathing, glossopharyngeal breathing breathing in which air is “swallowed” into the lungs by the tongue and muscles of the pharynx, unaided by primary or ordinary accessory muscles of respiration; used by those with chronic muscle paralysis to augment their breathing. mouth breathing breathing through the mouth instead of the nose, usually because of some obstruction in the nasal passages.
pursed-lip breathing a breathing technique in which air is inhaled slowly through the nose and then exhaled slowly through pursed lips. This type of breathing is often used by patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease to prevent small airway collapse. mouth breathing breathing through the mouth instead of the nose, usually because of some obstruction in the nasal passages.