Pin It. Cochinita Pibil (ko-chi-knee-ta pee-beel) is slow roasted pork from the Yucatan peninsula, (in Mexico of course). Traditionally whole suckling pig is used, hence the meaning of Cochinita – baby pig. Pork loin or shoulder or Boston butt is also commonly used in lieu of a suckling pig. Vinegar may also be used in combination with any of the aforementioned acid fruits. The purpose of this acidic sauce is to tenderize the meat. The color in Cochinita Pibil comes from annatto seeds that are ground or made into a paste and commonly know as Achiote.
The unique ingredient in cochinita pibil is annatto seed. It grows on the achiote tree and is a native spice to Mexico. by Karen on. The unique ingredient in cochinita pibil is annatto seed. It grows on the achiote tree and is a native spice to Mexico. It has a mild peppery flavor and is used as a red dye in things like cheddar cheese and margarine, similar to how turmeric is used to dye foods yellow.
Such preparation is thus well-summarized by the descriptive Mayan name “ cochinita pibil ” which basically means “baby pig roasted under the ground”. The tender, flavorful pork results both from marinating it for at least 8 hours in highly acidic juice and slowly cooking it for hours. Traditionally, this dish involves marinating cochinita, which is literally baby pig (pork shoulder, loin, or Boston butt roast can be used instead), in the juice of Seville or bitter oranges, coloring it with achiote (annatto seed), wrapping it in a banana leaf, and then slowly roasting it over hot stones underground.
Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with Simply Recipes contributor Hank Shaw‘s Cochinita Pibil, or pulled pork braised in citrus and achiote. ~Elise. Cochinita pibil (ko-chin-ee-ta pee-beel) is an easy braised pork dish that originally comes from the Yucatan in Mexico. 
Methods [edit]. Cochinita means baby pig, so true cochinita pibil involves roasting a whole suckling pig. Alternatively, pork shoulder (butt roast), or pork loin is used in many recipes. The high acid content of the marinade and the slow cooking time tenderizes the meat, allowing otherwise tough pieces of meat to be used.
Cochinita pibil (also puerco pibil or cochinita con achiote) is a traditional Mexican slow-roasted pork dish from the Yucatan Yucatán peninsula Península of. mayan origin Alternatively, pork shoulder (butt roast), or pork loin is used in many recipes. The high acid content of the marinade and the slow cooking time tenderizes the meat, allowing otherwise tough pieces of meat to be used.
6 Ways to Un-Cinnamon Your Cinnamon Rolls. Tradition calls for achiote-scented cochinita pibil to be roasted underground in a pit called a pib. Indirect grilling produces a terrific pibil, and because Yucatecans don't prize the flavor of wood smoke for this dish, a gas grill is ideal. The meat needs to marinate four hours. 
Preparation of traditional cochinita or puerco pibil involves marinating the meat in strongly acidic citrus juice, seasoning it with annatto seed which imparts a vivid burnt orange color, and roasting the meat while it is wrapped in banana leaf. Alternatively, pork shoulder (butt roast), or pork loin is used in many recipes. The high acid content of the marinade and the slow cooking time tenderizes the meat, allowing otherwise tough pieces of meat to be used.
Authentic Cochinita Pibil (Spicy Mexican Pulled Pork). Pork shoulder slow cooks in a sauce of orange juice, guajillo chile peppers, vinegar, garlic, and achiote paste to deliver traditional Mexican flavor with relatively low effort. This is my favorite Mexican pork dish that is always a hit. Can be toned down with less or no peppers and still tastes awesome. If you can find Seville orange juice, use it in place of the lemon and regular orange juice for authentic Mexican flavor. Quite easy to prepare too!