Understanding Your Diagnosis. It is important that you understand your diagnosis because your diagnosis determines the treatment you will receive. Once your doctor tells you that you have colon or rectal cancer, your healthcare team will work together to determine what stage of diagnosis you have. For more info: get your free copy of Your Guide in the Fight.
Colon Cancer Symptoms. Some symptoms and signs of colon cancer are blood in the stool, dark-colored stool, change in bowel habits, constipation, diarrhea, or narrow stools. Abdominal pain, cramping, or bloating may occur. Nonspecific symptoms of colon cancer can include weight loss, fatigue, weakness, and shortness of breath
If a colon cancer diagnosis is made after a biopsy, doctors will often order chest x-rays, ultrasounds, or CT scans of the lungs, liver, and abdomens to see how far the cancer has spread. It is also not uncommon for a doctor to test blood for CEA (carcinoembyonic antigen) - a substance produced by some cancer cells. Rectal cancer originates in the rectum, which is the last several inches of the large intestine, closest to the anus. In the United States, about 112,000 people are diagnosed with colon cancer each year.
Treatments seek to remove the cancer and/or relieve painful symptoms that the cancer is causing. Surgery. Surgery to remove part of or the entire colon is called colectomy. During colectomy, a surgeon will remove the part of the colon containing the cancer as well as the maringal area close to the cancer. Rectal cancer originates in the rectum, which is the last several inches of the large intestine, closest to the anus. In the United States, about 112,000 people are diagnosed with colon cancer each year.
How cancer grows and spreads. Cancer is the growth of abnormal cells in the body. These extra cells grow together and form masses, called tumors. In colorectal cancer, these growths usually start as polyps in the large intestine (colon or rectum). If colon polyps aren't found and removed, they may turn into cancer. Cancers in the colon or rectum usually grow very slowly. It takes most of them years to become large enough to cause symptoms. If the cancer is allowed to grow, over time it will invade and destroy nearby tissues and then spread farther. Colorectal cancer spreads first to nearby lymph node
1 An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body. 2  Surgery: A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon. 3  PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. 1 Chest x-ray: An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. 2  An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body. 3  Surgery: A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon.
1 Surgery: A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon. 2  PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. 1 Chest x-ray: An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. 2  An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body. 3  Surgery: A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon.
The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the colon or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process: 1  CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the abdomen, pelvis, or chest, taken from different angles. 1 Chest x-ray: An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. 2  An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body. 3  Surgery: A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon.