Legal minimum hours for obtaining a massage therapy license vary by state, and these minimums range from 330 to 1,000 hours. Depending on how your program is structured, you can obtain your license in a matter of weeks, or it might take you up to two years. Always check with your state’s health board to find out the number of hours you need to complete in order to become licensed. In the U.S., most states require massage therapists to be licensed before they can legally practice. The majority of states require both a certain number of hours of education and a passing grade on the entry-level licensing exam known as the MBLEx.
Answers. Best Answer: You have to find out what is required in your state to become a massage therapist and then decide on how much education you personally need to be successful as the programs will often be much more training than is actually required just so you can get grants and loans. Then you need to have enough saved to start your own business which is usually 6 months to a year of savings to live on or a part time job that you can live on substantially while you build your practice. Source(s): http://www.thebodyworker.com/massage_sta... Jono · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Massage Therapist Licensing. 1  How long will it take for me to become licensed? 2  Can I obtain a temporary license? 3  Can I work as a massage therapist while waiting for my license? 4  Can I find out if my application will be approved before I submit it and pay the non-refundable fee? 5  What can I do to speed up the application process? 6  If licensure is 7  ... Is If you have not provided a valid e-mail address, then you may check the board web site using the  Check a Massage Therapist License  feature. Use the following link or find the option on the Board home page. Select Personal information (or the personal info tab).
Massage License Requirements by State. Find out what it takes to get your massage therapist license or massage therapy certification in your state. Massage therapy licensing requirements vary from state to state. This means that if you move, you may need to update your education or contact the licensing board to keep your massage license current. Make sure that your massage license will transfer you wherever you go
You can take full time or part time classes so it depends on which one you opt for also most states require you to have practice hours from 500 to 600 before you can take the certification exam. so http://www.massageregister.com/massage-faqs/education/how-long-does-massage-therapy-school-take. I am an integrative healthcare professional, massage therapist, and health sciences educator that loves everything that has to do with the human body, nature, and especially natural health. Once you have your graduation certificate from a massage therapy school there is no time limit for getting your license. Most people get their license soon after they graduate. If they need to take the NCETM, NCETMB, or MBLEx, it may take a bit longer
The time it takes you to become a massage therapist is determined by you and not just the state and school requirements you must meet. You time can be altered by a variety of other factors. One of those is the type of massage you choose to specialize in. Some schools will require you take more massage school hours in order to learn specific types of massage therapies. The amount of classes you take at a given time can also effect the how long it will take you to complete massage therapy school. If you are able to attend school on a full time schedule then you will graduate much faster then if you are only able to attend part time. Most of these states set guidelines for the amount of hours of massage therapy education which are required to become licensed. The average for these states ranges between 500 and 600 hours. Each state has requirements for how many of those hours are divided between classroom time and hands on training experienc