histidine highlight the side chain toggle rotation spacefill ball&stick stick. Lysine, arginine, and histidine are the basic amino acids because their side chains have nitrogen atoms that can act as bases and accept a hydrogen ion. Even though they are called basic, at physiological pH, these groups tend to exist in their positively charged conjugate acid form. 
Lysine is incorporated into proteins at the rate of 7 percent on a molar basis compared to the other amino acids. Lysine is an essential amino acid that has a net positive charge at physiological pH values making it one of the three basic (with respect to charge) amino acids. This polar amino acid is commonly found on the surfaces of proteins and enzymes, and sometimes appears in the active site. Lysine. Lysine is an essential amino acid that has a net positive charge at physiological pH values making it one of the three basic (with respect to charge) amino acids.
Lysine. an essential amino acid, has a positively charged ε-amino group (a primary amine). Lysine is basically alanine with a propylamine substituent on theβcarbon. The ε-amino group has a significantly higher pK a (about 10.5 in polypeptides) than does the α-amino group. Physical Properties: Polar (positively charged). 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The reason why lysine is basic is because of the presence of the nitro group in the side chain, not the amino group!!!. Also, the side chain nitro groups tend to be more basic than the usual amino group in all amino acids. Note that the Pka for side chain nitro groups are in the range of 10-11
Also, an amino acid without a nitro group in the side chain would not be as basic as lysine. Note that the electrons on the amino group that is present in every amino acid is not very basic because they are inductively affected by the proximity of the cabonyl group. Best Answer: The reason why lysine is basic is because of the presence of the nitro group in the side chain, not the amino group!!!. Also, the side chain nitro groups tend to be more basic than the usual amino group in all amino acids. Note that the Pka for side chain nitro groups are in the range of 10-11
Acidic and Basic Amino Acids. There are three amino acids that have basic side chains at neutral pH. These are arginine (Arg), lysine (Lys), and histidine (His). Their side chains contain nitrogen and resemble ammonia, which is a base. Their pKa's are high enough that they tend to bind protons, gaining a positive charge in the proces