The urine culture test detects and identifies bacteria and yeast in the urine. Urine is produced by the kidneys, two fist-sized organs located on either side of the spine at the base of the ribcage. The kidneys filter waste out of the blood and produce urine, a yellow fluid, to carry wastes out of the body. 
A urine culture may be ordered when symptoms indicate the possibility of a urinary tract infection, such as pain and burning when urinating and frequent urge to urinate. 
Urine Culture Overview. A urine culture is a test that can detect bacteria in your urine. This test can find and identify the germs that cause a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Bacteria, which typically cause UTIs, can enter the urinary tract through the urethra. Urine cultures can locate and identify the microorganisms, typically bacteria, which cause a UTI. UTIs are more common in females than males. This is because a woman’s urethra is shorter and much closer to the anus. This makes it much easier for bacteria from the intestines to find their way into the urinal tract.
Results. A urine culture is a test to detect and identify organisms (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine culture results are usually ready in 1 to 3 days. Some organisms take longer to grow in the culture; for this reason, results may not be available for several days. 
1 A urine culture test is done to identify the specific bacteria that are causing a urinary tract infection. 2  Ideally, a sample of urine is collected by cystocentesis or by inserting a needle directly into the animal’s bladder. 
Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine.
A urine culture is a diagnostic laboratory test performed to detect the presence of bacteria in the urine (bacteriuria). Culture of the urine is a method of diagnosis for urinary tract infection that determines the number of microorganisms present in a given quantity of urine.
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative. If organisms grow in numbers large enough to indicate an infection, the culture is positive.
For example, urine infection is generally diagnosed based on results of urinalysis. However, urine culture is often ordered as a follow-up test to identify the bacteria that may be causing the infection. Other examples include kidney stones, inflammation or the kidneys (glomerulonephritis), or muscle breakdown (rhabdomyolysis).