Resist the urge to touch the babies for at least two weeks. Don’t touch the nest, either. Only touch the mother or the cage, and only if absolutely necessary. Really, the best thing you can do is leave the mother hamster and babies alone for the first two weeks. If you want to look in, do it quietly. By the time the baby hamsters are two to three weeks old, you should be able to touch them and even pick them up! 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Day 14 is safe to hold the baby hamsters. Take the mother out first, though. Put her in her ball and let her run around while you clean their cage and pet the babies. Then return the babies FIRST before returning the mother to the cage. On day fourteen, you can finally hold your baby hamsters and clean out their cage. Don't worry if mom panics a little bit; this is normal. She might run around a bit, but she will calm down in a few minutes.
Dwarf hamsters are weaned by their mother earlier than Syrians, at about three weeks, but a dwarf mother may tolerate her pups a little longer than a Syrian mother. 12. All dwarf hamster pups must be removed from the cage when they are between 3½ to 5 weeks of age. 19. Dwarf hamsters appear to mature sexually later than Syrians if paired with a mate of the same age — usually at about 3 to 4 months of age. However, there are exceptions. Litters are conceived when the female is around 8 to 9 weeks old, so there isn’t the same urgency to split the sexes as with Syrian hamsters.
Removing the Pups. You can remove weaned hamsters from their mother at approximately 3 to 4 weeks of age, though if a litter has exceptionally small hamsters or babies that failed to flourish, let them stay with their mother an extra week. Baby hamsters can safely go to adoptive homes as early as 3 weeks of age. 
21. At 12 weeks of age, Syrian hamsters can be 6 to 8 inches long, so some of them may outgrow the exercise wheel you first purchased. Dwarf species are smaller and usually don’t outgrow a standard 6-inch exercise wheel. Small wheels force a hamster to arch its back too far and may cause injury. 19. Dwarf hamsters appear to mature sexually later than Syrians if paired with a mate of the same age — usually at about 3 to 4 months of age. However, there are exceptions. Litters are conceived when the female is around 8 to 9 weeks old, so there isn’t the same urgency to split the sexes as with Syrian hamsters.
First of all, unless you already have homes for the babies, you should not breed your hamsters. Consider getting your next hamster from a shelter or rescue. A hamster rescued is a life saved. Syrian (non-dwarf) hamsters should be 12 - 13 weeks (about 3 months) old for best results. Dwarf hamsters should be 3 - 4 months old. If the mother is too young, she may not produce enough milk for her babies.
Start to handle babies when they turn two weeks old. Handling babies at this young age will help them get used to human touch. The mother hamster will also be fine with them smelling like you at this stage in the babies development. Provide soft building material for your pregnant hamster. One of your hamster’s first reactions when she gets pregnant will be to build a soft nest to give birth to her babies in. You can help this process along by providing pieces of toilet paper for your hamster to shred up and use in her nest.
I know when you can start taming the baby hammies. when they are about 5 to 7 weeks old, and ready to leave their mother, you can start teaching them how to get more used to your touch. and if you don't want to clean the cage everyday, teach them how to use a hamster potty. 
1 Some mother hamsters are too young and inexperienced to care for their litter. 2  Be prepared to find a surrogate mother for your baby hamsters. 3  If you touch the babies before 2 weeks, your scent will be on them and may confuse the mother into killing or abandoning them. Provide soft building material for your pregnant hamster. One of your hamster’s first reactions when she gets pregnant will be to build a soft nest to give birth to her babies in. You can help this process along by providing pieces of toilet paper for your hamster to shred up and use in her nest.