1. Chest pain. Heartburn is usually accompanied with chest pain. It occurs when stomach acid splashes into esophagus. This is the classic heartburn or acid reflux sign. This pain in the chest is often misunderstood as heart attack. However, it is not. Heart attack is severe and is completely a different term.
Heartburn triggers differ from person to person, but most people have similar heartburn symptoms. 1  A burning feeling in the chest just behind the breastbone that occurs after eating and lasts a few minutes to several hours. 2  Chest pain, especially after bending over, lying down, or eating. 1 Chest pain, especially after bending over, lying down, or eating. 2  Remember, you should see your doctor right away for any unexplained chest pain. 3  Don't assume it's heartburn until your doctor tells you it is. 4  Burning in the throat -- or hot, sour, acidic or salty-tasting fluid at the back of the throat
You might have burning or pain in the upper part of your stomach, too. It’s indigestion, also called dyspepsia. Indigestion is often a sign of an underlying problem, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ulcers, or gallbladder disease, rather than a condition of its own. People often have indigestion along with heartburn (a burning feeling deep in the chest), which happens when stomach acids rise into the esophagus.
For the novel, see Heartburn (novel) . Heartburn, also known as pyrosis, cardialgia, or acid indigestion, is a burning sensation in the chest, just behind the breastbone or in the epigastrium, the upper central abdomen. The pain often rises in the chest and may radiate to the neck, throat, or angle of the jaw. Symptoms of heartburn can be confused with the pain that is a symptom of an acute myocardial infarction and angina. A description of burning or indigestion-like pain increases the risk of acute coronary syndrome, but not to a statistically significant level.
1 Remember, you should see your doctor right away for any unexplained chest pain. 2  Don't assume it's heartburn until your doctor tells you it is. 3  Burning in the throat -- or hot, sour, acidic or salty-tasting fluid at the back of the throat. 4  Difficulty swallowing. 1 Chest pain, especially after bending over, lying down, or eating. 2  Remember, you should see your doctor right away for any unexplained chest pain. 3  Don't assume it's heartburn until your doctor tells you it is. 4  Burning in the throat -- or hot, sour, acidic or salty-tasting fluid at the back of the throat
GERD and other gastrointestinal problems such as ulcers, muscle spasms in the esophagus, a gallbladder attack, and pancreatitis can all cause chest pain and other symptoms that mimic those of a heart attack or angina, a crushing type of chest pain caused by decreased blood flow to the heart. 
Sometimes people with indigestion also experience heartburn, but heartburn and indigestion are two separate conditions. Heartburn is a pain or burning feeling in the center of your chest that may radiate into your neck or back during or after eating. People with indigestion may have one or more of the following symptoms: 1  Early fullness during a meal. 2  You haven't eaten much of your meal, but you already feel full and may not be able to finish eating. 3  Uncomfortable fullness after a meal. 4  Fullness lasts longer than it should.
The terms indigestion includes heartburn along with a number of other symptoms. Indigestion is sometimes defined as a combination of epigastric pain and heartburn. Heartburn is commonly used interchangeably with gastroesophageal reflux disease rather than just to describe a symptom of burning in one's chest. Symptoms of heartburn can be confused with the pain that is a symptom of an acute myocardial infarction and angina. A description of burning or indigestion-like pain increases the risk of acute coronary syndrome, but not to a statistically significant level.