Depending on what type of item you rented from Redbox, the normal charge is $1.00 - $1.50 per day. This price varies based on whether you rent a DVD, a game or a Blueray. Af … ter you rent a movie, it is due back by 9:00 p.m. the following day.
These rental terms are brought to you by Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (doing business in Texas as DVD Rental by Redbox LLC), which we call “ Redbox .” They explain the rules for renting items from a Redbox kiosk (which we call “ Redbox Transactions ”).
1 Each item you rent from Redbox has a minimum rental period of one day. 2  That one day minimum rental period is measured from the time you first receive your rental through 9:00 p.m. the next day – unless we tell you differently at the kiosk or otherwise before you rent.
1 If you keep an item through the maximum rental period, that item is yours to keep and Redbox will charge you the maximum charge for that item. 2  The maximum charge varies depending on the type of item you are renting and the daily rental charge(s) for the item.
For each day you keep a rental, you’ll be charged the nightly fee + tax. You have 25 days to return the movie before the system automatically charges you the purchase price of the disc ($25 + tax for standard DVDs and $34.50 + tax for Blu-ray™ Discs), and the movie is yours to keep.
Depending on what type of item you rented from Redbox, the normal charge is $1.00 - $1.50 per day. This price varies based on whether you rent a DVD, a game or a Blueray. Af … ter you rent a movie, it is due back by 9:00 p.m. the following day.
Each night that you keep a Redbox movie, you’ll be charged a fee of $1 (plus tax). If you don’t want to be charged for a second day, be sure to return your movie rental by 9pm on the following evening.
Each Redbox movie will cost $1 per night (plus tax), and you can keep them as long as you want (actually, the movie will be considered “lost“ after 25 days, and you‘ll be charged an additional fee).
1 For example, if a DVD’s daily rental charge is $1.50 and its maximum charge is $25.50, then the maximum rental period for that DVD (before you own it and owe $25.50 (except for Maryland Rental Transactions for which additional tax is not charged)) is 17 days.