COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a lung disease that causes coughing, wheezing, shortness of breath, and other symptoms. COPD is a major cause of disability and the third leading cause of death in the United States. Describes how COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a progressive disease that makes it hard to breathe. Details the symptoms of COPD. Shows how the disease works in the lungs. Explains how progress of the disease can be slowed.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease (COLD), and chronic obstructive airway disease (COAD), among others, is a type of obstructive lung disease characterized by chronically poor airflow. It typically worsens over time. The most common symptoms of COPD are sputum production, shortness of breath and a productive cough. These symptoms are present for a prolonged period of time and typically worsen over time. It is unclear if different types of COPD exist.
The most common type of COPD is called chronic bronchitis, associated with extensive inflammation and scarring of the small tubes of the lungs. Another less common type of COPD is called emphysema, associated with permanent destruction of the small air exchange units of the lungs called alveoli. The Two Types Of COPD. Chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) is an umbrella term describing two different types of lung diseases. 1  COPD affects about 27 million Americans. 2  One in five Americans over the age of 45 years old has COPD. 3  Ten per cent of all COPD patients in the United States are African American.
COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a lung disease that causes coughing, wheezing, shortness of breath, and other symptoms. COPD is a major cause of disability and the third leading cause of death in the United States. Describes how COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a progressive disease that makes it hard to breathe. Details the symptoms of COPD. Shows how the disease works in the lungs. Explains how progress of the disease can be slowed.
Share on Google +. COPD, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a common lung disease that restricts airflow to the lungs, making it difficult to breathe. There are two forms of COPD: chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Regardless of the form, symptoms of the disease typically worsen over time. There are, however, a number of medications that assist with the symptoms of COPD, which include coughing, wheezing, shortness of breath, and life-threatening flare-ups.
COPD is a type of obstructive lung disease in which chronic incompletely reversible poor airflow (airflow limitation) and inability to breathe out fully (air trapping) exist. The poor airflow is the result of breakdown of lung tissue (known as emphysema) and small airways disease (known as obstructive bronchiolitis). The most common symptoms of COPD are sputum production, shortness of breath and a productive cough. These symptoms are present for a prolonged period of time and typically worsen over time. It is unclear if different types of COPD exist.
A type of lung disease marked by permanent damage to tissues in the lungs, making it hard to breathe. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease includes chronic bronchitis, in which the bronchi (large air passages) are inflamed and scarred, and emphysema, in which the alveoli (tiny air sacs) are damaged. It develops over many years and is usually caused by cigarette smoking. Also called COPD.
Types of COPD. COPD is usually the result of a combination of two conditions, emphysema and chronic obstructive bronchitis. Most people who have COPD have both conditions. Emphysema occurs when the alveoli, small air sacks in the lungs where oxygen is absorbed into the body, are damaged by smoke or other lung irritants. This damage also can destroy the walls of the air sacs, resulting in fewer and larger air sacs and less ability to absorb oxygen into the bloodstream. 