A chihuahua can live up to 20 years. It may only live this long if it is taken good care of. They need good nutrition. Lots of love and exercise. They need to be groomed weekly. 
Report Abuse. Usually a good rule of thumb is the smaller a dog breed is the longer they live. Chihuahua's have an average life expectancy of about 15 years but my wife and I met a woman with two 21 year old chihuahuas. They didn't look to healthy but they were still a
It depends on healthy you keep them. The average life expectancy of  chihuahuas is 15 to 18 years. Unless they get genital herpes, which  can shave off approximately two to … three years. Be careful.    The smaller the animals, the faster their heart beat, the faster  the body oxidizes, the shorter their life span
Healthy adult Chihuahuas live an average of 15 to 20 years. As with any breed, a Chihuahua's lifespan varies depending on a number of different factors (see below for a complete list). Some of these factors are controllable, whereas others are outside of owners' control. There's no foil-proof method for predicting exactly how long they can live, but current data suggests that Chihuahuas live an average of 15 to 20 years when properly cared for by a loving owner.
Owners should familiarize themselves with these factors so they give their Chihuahua the longest, fullest life possible. There's no foil-proof method for predicting exactly how long they can live, but current data suggests that Chihuahuas live an average of 15 to 20 years when properly cared for by a loving owner.
Small breeds like the Chihuahua and Yorkshire Terrier live longer than medium-to-large breeds like the Labrador Retriever and Mastiff. Medium-to-large breeds have an average life expectancy of 10 to 13 years. There's no foil-proof method for predicting exactly how long they can live, but current data suggests that Chihuahuas live an average of 15 to 20 years when properly cared for by a loving owner.
It depends on healthy you keep them. The average life expectancy of chihuahuas is 15 to 18 years. Unless they get genital herpes, which can shave off approximately two to three years. Be careful. The smaller the animals, the faster their heart beat, the faster the body oxidizes, the shorter their life span.
1 Gender-statistically speaking, females live longer than their male counterparts. 2  The exact cause of this longer average lifespan is unknown, but studies suggest female Chihuahuas live 1 to 2 years longer than males. 3  Activity Levels-keeping your Chihuahua active is crucial to promoting a long, healthy life. There's no foil-proof method for predicting exactly how long they can live, but current data suggests that Chihuahuas live an average of 15 to 20 years when properly cared for by a loving owner.