Ariana 25.12.2012. If you bought the music from itunes-go into itunes on the computer, click on purchased, select what you want to download-then drag the music from the itunes library to the ipod shuffle. If the music was obtained somewhere other than itunes-then the only way to get it off the iphone is with 3rd party ripping software. 
Or there may be need to copy songs from pc to iPod shuffle without iTunes etc. Keep reading! The following tutorials will help you solve all of these problems with ease. And Syncios also supports iPod classic, iPod Nano, iPhone, iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPhone 5S, iPhone 5C, iPhone 6, iPhone 6s, iPad, iPad mini, iPad Air. But you do not have to run iTunes. Step 1: Download and install Syncios on your computer. Step 2: Connect your iPod shuffle to computer with USB and launch Syncios. Step 3: Refer to Tutorial 1 to transfer your songs from iPod shuffle to pc first. Step 4: Import songs from pc to iTunes.
Mark all needed ones, then you can click Recover button to save them on your computer. Step 3. Sync exported music to your iPhone. Drag and drop the exported music from your local to iTunes library. Then, connect your iPhone to the same computer and sync those music files to your iPhone with one click. Way 1: Transfer iPod music to iPhone with iPod File Transfer. Not only transferring music files, Coolmuster iPod File Transfer also supports to export photos, videos, voice memos, TV shows, books, etc. from iPod to computer with 100% quality kept.
• Step 3: Connect your iPod to your computer and click the device icon when it appears in iTunes. If you have the automatic management and updating feature enabled, click Sync to sync your iPhone and import all new music in your iTunes library, including the music imported from your iPhone. • Step 4: Select the music from your iPhone you want to import from your iPod. You can import music purchased on your iPhone or music in your iTunes library you have previously imported to your iPhone. Use the Shift key to select songs in a row or the Command key to select songs that are not next to each other
3. Connect iPhone and sync the files. When the transference finishes, eject your iPod from the computer and plug in the new iPhone. Drag-n-drop the exported music files from local to iTunes and sync to your iPhone 3GS/4/4S/5/5S/5C/6/6 Plus. Way 1: Transfer iPod music to iPhone with iPod File Transfer. Not only transferring music files, Coolmuster iPod File Transfer also supports to export photos, videos, voice memos, TV shows, books, etc. from iPod to computer with 100% quality kept.
How to Download Music to an iPod.... 5. Cancel. To automatically transfer songs onto an iPod shuffle, just click a button in iTunes. Find out how to automatically transfer songs to an iPod shuffle with tips for a technology specialist in this free video about how to use an iPod. Part of the Video Series: How to Use an iPod. 1  How to Load MP3s to an iPod.
Select contents you would like to transfer from iPhone to iPod. You can easily transfer contacts, music, video, photos, bookmark, apps and notes from iPhone to iPod. Then please click on the button “Start Copy” to start the transfer. Please do not unplug the device during the whole transferring process. 
Syncios is a free iPod/iPhone/iPad Transfer, it can manage/backup/transfer your iPod Shuffle with just a few clicks. Free, Safe and Powerful ! You will need it in the following tutorials. Download Syncios now! Step 1: Download and install Syncios on your computer. Note: iTunes must be installed on your computer for running Syncios correctly. But you do not have to run iTunes. Step 2: Connect your iPod shuffle to computer with USB and launch Syncios. Step 3: Go to the left panel of Syncios, Click Media tab on the left panel. But you do not have to run iTunes. Step 1: Download and install Syncios on your computer. Step 2: Connect your iPod shuffle to computer with USB and launch Syncios. Step 3: Refer to Tutorial 1 to transfer your songs from iPod shuffle to pc first. Step 4: Import songs from pc to iTunes.
• Step 1: Connect your iPhone to your computer using a USB cord and open iTunes if it does not open automatically. Click the device icon for your iPod in the left column of the iTunes application window. • Step 2: Click the Music tab and check the Sync Music box. Click Apply to sync your iPhone. iTunes will automatically import purchased music from your iPhone into the Purchased on iPhone playlist. • Step 4: Select the music from your iPhone you want to import from your iPod. You can import music purchased on your iPhone or music in your iTunes library you have previously imported to your iPhone. Use the Shift key to select songs in a row or the Command key to select songs that are not next to each other