Now we know there’s another essential group of nutrients needed for optimal health — phytonutrients, also known as phytochemicals. These are the nutrients often concentrated in the skins of many fruits and vegetables, and are responsible for their color, hue, scent, and flavor. Plant-based foods promote good health. We have known for a while that plant-based foods are extremely beneficial to consume, and phytonutrients may be the reason why. There are literally thousands of them in our food.
Definition of PHYTONUTRIENT. : a bioactive plant-derived compound (as resveratrol) associated with positive health effects. ADVERTISEM
Phytonutrients: The active health-protecting. Currently, the terms  phytonutrient  and  phytochemical  are being used interchangeably to describe those plant compounds which are thought to have health-protecting qualities. The antioxidant, immune boosting and other health promoting properties of active compounds in plants are being investigated. Fruits, vegetables, grains, legumes, tree nuts and teas are sources of phytonutrients. Some of the common classes of phytonutrients include: Carotenoids, Flavonoids (Polyphenols), including Isoflavones (Phytoestrogens), Inositol Phosphates (Phytates), Lignans (Phytoestrogens), Isothiocyanates and Indoles, Phenols and Cyclic Compounds, Saponins, Sulfides and Thiols, and Terpenes.
Plant foods contain thousands of natural chemicals. These are called phytonutrients or phytochemicals.Phyto refers to the Greek word for plant. These chemicals help protect plants from germs, fungi, bugs, and other threats. Fruits and vegetables contain phytonutrients. Other plant-based foods also contain phytonutrients, such as: 1  Whole grains. 2  Nuts. 3  Bean
Medical Definition of PHYTONUTRIENT. : a bioactive plant-derived compound (as resveratrol or sulforaphane) associated with positive health effects. : a bioactive plant-derived compound (as resveratrol
The term phytochemicals is a broad name for a wide variety of compounds produced by plants. They’re found in fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and other plants. Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body.
Phytochemicals are found in plant foods (fruits, vegetables, beans, grains). By maintaining a balanced eating pattern that includes different forms and colors of fruits and vegetables, you’ll provide your body with a wide variety of all beneficial compounds, including phytochemicals! They’re found in fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and other plants. Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body.
Some phytochemicals with physiological properties may be elements rather than complex organic molecules. For example, selenium, which is abundant in many fruits and vegetables, is a dietary mineral involved with major metabolic pathways, including thyroid hormone metabolism and immune function. Without specific knowledge of their cellular actions or mechanisms, phytochemicals have been considered possible drugs for millennia.
Some are responsible for color and other organoleptic properties, such as the deep purple of blueberries and the smell of garlic. Phytochemicals may have biological significance, for example carotenoids or flavonoids, but are not established as essential nutrients. There may be as many as 4,000 different phytochemicals. Without specific knowledge of their cellular actions or mechanisms, phytochemicals have been considered possible drugs for millennia.
Phytonutrients are a class of nutrients that are thought to have health-protecting properties. The prefix phyto is from the Greek and means plant, and it is used because phytonutrients are obtained only from plants. 