There is no cure for genetic hair loss and no, it is not your mother's fathers fault. Hair loss can skip generations or certain siblings may never experience hair loss. If you … are interested in a permanent solution, I would recommend finding the source of your hair loss. Any disorders in these glands can cause hair loss. The excessive presence of a component of the male hormone DHT can also cause hair loss. This is a genetic predisposition. Genetic Factors: Inherited causes of hair loss effect the unlucky that have a family history of prematur
There are 3 reasons as to why alcohol causes hair loss: 1  Hair loss due to alcohol consumption is mainly due to the fact that alcohol affects the levels of estrogen and zinc in the body, which subsequently affect hair growth. 2  Excessive drinking RAISES the level of estrogen, high levels of estrogen result in hair loss. However, although we are aware that the side effects of alcoholism are many and varied, few of us are aware of the specifics. It is not, for example, commonly known that alcohol, and more specifically alcoholism, can cause
Consuming soy milk to reduce hair loss is an inexpensive way to treat the issue as opposed to taking prescription drugs for the same. Moreover, soy milk offers other health benefits to the body which prescription drugs would obviously not furnish. Soy milk might have the potential to stop hair loss, but likewise there are also other things that can contribute towards preventing hair loss.
Lead poisoning, among many other things, can also cause hair loss. Water traveling from old lead pipes to the shower head may be a prescription for hair loss. Zinc is also a contributor. So is aluminum. There are also literally ways to poison your hair: traces of arsenic and thallium in water can also cause hair to fall out. 
Strong, healthy strands don't just look good -- their quality signals overall health. Dietary choices can affect your hair, so maintaining a healthy, balanced diet is key for healthy tresses. No compelling evidence indicates soy milk can prevent or reverse hair loss, but it does have nutrients that promote hair growth. Choose unsweetened milks to limit your calorie and sugar intake
At times, other toxins will affect the scalp. These might be due to a skin care product such as a shampoo, hair dye or other product that is somewhat toxic. Other causes are iron, manganese or other chemicals in the water used for bathing and drinking. This cause for hair loss requires stopping the use of the toxic product, and perhaps filtering the bathing water if it is toxic, which is not common. Hair loss during a nutritional balancing program. This may damage the hair follicles in some way that causes hair loss. It appears to be more common when the sodium/potassium ratio is also elevated. This may indicate a need for zinc and other anti-inflammatory nutrients such as omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D, in addition to zinc.
1 Hair loss due to alcohol consumption is mainly due to the fact that alcohol affects the levels of estrogen and zinc in the body, which subsequently affect hair growth. 2  Excessive drinking RAISES the level of estrogen, high levels of estrogen result in hair loss. 3  Excessive drinking REDUCES zinc levels in the body. However, although we are aware that the side effects of alcoholism are many and varied, few of us are aware of the specifics. It is not, for example, commonly known that alcohol, and more specifically alcoholism, can cause
Drinking Water and Hair Loss. Something that is often overlooked is the effect of water and dehydration on hair loss. Each hair shaft is made up of 1/4 water and when you don't drink enough, it causes your hair to become weak. Water also helps to flush your body of toxins which could be a major contributor to hair l
They might also grow slowly or not at all. Drinking more water is easy, free, and worth a try to see if you obtain any improvement. If this doesn't work, you may want to look at other causes for your hair loss such as, other medical issues, or other common hair and scalp concerns. My hair has been thinning, and I've been losing a decent amount of hair. I don't chemically treat my hair or anything like that, and I take multivitamins, but I only drink about one, and at the most two glasses of water per day. Sometimes I don't drink water at all.
Although it has not been shown to halt hair loss, soy milk does have nutrients that benefit your hair. It's rich in high-quality protein, which your body can use to generate new tissue, including new hair. Depending on the type of soy milk you choose, you'll get roughly 7 to 8 grams of protein per serving. Dietary choices can affect your hair, so maintaining a healthy, balanced diet is key for healthy tresses. No compelling evidence indicates soy milk can prevent or reverse hair loss, but it does have nutrients that promote hair growth.