Joining Facebook. Joining Facebook is, literally, as easy as 1-2-3. 1. Go to Facebook.com and create a UserID (your e-mail address), password and birth date (all three are mandatory fields). Notice that the Sign Up dialog box on the home page says: Sign up for Facebook. It’s free and anyone can join. (So, that answered my questions about who could join and how much it costs.). 2. Next, type in a security code (a Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart or CAPTCHA; you know, one of those strings of jumbled up, curvy letters that look like shorthand on a roller coaster). 
We have joined Zoosk, so we have added a short review of the site and outlined how much it costs to join Zoosk. We have scoured the internet and will also display any live discount codes for Zoosk so that we can save you as much money when finding love online. Joining Zoosk is a fairly easy process, with the interface (mobile site) having received some care and attention. The overall feel is much like the eHarmony site, in that the design is very user friendly. The Zoosk site has an app and also a very well optimised mobile site, which I used to sign up.
The annual cost can vary depending on how long you sign up for. As of May 2011, you can sign up for 1 year, 3 years, or 5 years. One year of membership costs $16.00. Three yea … rs of membership would cost $43.00 (or $14.33 per year). Finally five years of membership would cost $63.00 (or $12.60 per year). How much would it cost to buy facebook? Facebook is worth about $90 billion, but since it's publicly traded, you can buy shares in it for about $30 each.
Facebook is a free site and will never require that you pay to continue using the site. You do, however, have the option of making purchases related to games, apps and other items. In addition, if you choose to use Facebook from your mobile phone, keep in mind that you'll be responsible for any fees associated with internet usage and/or text messaging as determined by your mobile carrier.
It is free to join Facebook. Facebook makes most of their money from the ads which they display on their pages. There isn't any cost to join Facebook. A person can sign up to … facebook for free. No one has to pay a price to join facebook. No, Facebook at the moment, does not cost money, although there is a rumor going around that they are going to start charging people but if your starting to visit Facebook it … wont cost you a thing. Unless you go on it on your mobile, which in that case you would have to ask your networ
Facebook makes most of their money from the ads which they display on their pages. There isn't any cost to join Facebook. A person can sign up to facebook for free. No one has to pay a price to join facebook. How much would it cost to buy facebook? Facebook is worth about $90 billion, but since it's publicly traded, you can buy shares in it for about $30 each.