Noun. 1. candle-stick of wax with a wick in the middle. wax light, taper. candlewick-the wick of a candle. chandlery-candles and other commodities sold by a chandler. dip-a candle that is made by repeated dipping in a pool of wax or tallow. lamp-an artificial source of visible illumination. rush candle, rushlight-a tallow candle with a rush stem as the wick. 
Wick in a rolled beeswax candle. A candle wick is usually a braided cotton that holds the flame of a candle or oil lamp for a set period of time depending upon the amount of wick. Look up wick in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. A candle wick is usually a braided cotton that holds the flame of a candle or oil lamp for a set period of time depending upon the amount of wick. A candle wick works by capillary action, conveying (wicking) the fuel to the flame.
Candle snuffers are instruments used to extinguish burning candles by smothering the flame with a small metal cup that is suspended from a long handle, and thus depriving it of oxygen. An older meaning refers to a scissor-like tool used to trim the wick of a candle. Various devices have been invented to hold candles, from simple tabletop candle holders to elaborate chandeliers. For a candle to burn, a heat source (commonly a naked flame) is used to light the candle's wick, which melts and vaporizes a small amount of fuel (the wax). Once vaporized, the fuel combines with oxygen in the atmosphere to ignite and form a constant flam
A candle consists of a wick and wax and is made by placing the wick into the wax, which is molded, dipped, extruded, pressed, rolled, drawn or filled into the size and shape that is desired. When you light a candle, the flame produces heat and melts the wax near the wick. Beeswax is either solid or honeycomb wax and can be used to make candles. The wax is collected in mid summer to September and is the result of pollination of canola, sunflowers or sweet flower. These plants product a light colored beeswax and a light scent.
A candle is wax with an ignitable wick embedded that provides light, and in some cases, a fragrance. It can also be used to provide heat, or as a method of keeping time. Various devices have been invented to hold candles, from simple tabletop candle holders to elaborate chandeliers. For a candle to burn, a heat source (commonly a naked flame) is used to light the candle's wick, which melts and vaporizes a small amount of fuel (the wax). Once vaporized, the fuel combines with oxygen in the atmosphere to ignite and form a constant fla
Wick types [edit]. Candle wicks are normally made out of braided cotton. Wicks are sometimes braided flat, so that as they burn they also curl back into the flame, thus making them self-consuming. Prior to the introduction of these wicks special scissors were used to trim the excess wick without extinguishing the flame. Look up wick in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. A candle wick is usually a braided cotton that holds the flame of a candle or oil lamp for a set period of time depending upon the amount of wick. A candle wick works by capillary action, conveying (wicking) the fuel to
The liquid/melted wax is drawn up into the wick by capillary action. The heat vaporizes the liquid wax to produce carbon dioxide and water vapor. A candle that is made well, no matter what the candles are made from, will not produce smoke when it is burning. If the wick gets too long or an air current disturbs the teardrop shape of the fame this can produce a little bit of unburned carbon particles, which is called soot, and this will escape from the flame. Beeswax is either solid or honeycomb wax and can be used to make candles. The wax is collected in mid summer to September and is the result of pollination of canola, sunflowers or sweet flower. These plants product a light colored beeswax and a light scent.
Soy wax is a vegetable wax made from the oil of soybeans. After harvesting, the beans are cleaned, cracked, de-hulled, and rolled into flakes. The oil is then extracted from the flakes and hydrogenated. The hydrogenation process converts some of the fatty acids in the oil from unsaturated to saturated. 
Full Definition of CANDLE. 1. : a usually molded or dipped mass of wax or tallow containing a wick that may be burned (as to give light, heat, or scent or for celebration or votive purposes). 2. 3. : required effort, expense, or trouble —usually used in the phrase not worth the candle. 4. : candela. 