Program Sections. Joint Commission accreditation can be earned by many types of health care organizations, including hospitals, doctor’s offices, nursing homes, office-based surgery centers, behavioral health treatment facilities, and providers of home care services.
Since its founding in 1981, the ACCME has focused on setting and maintaining accreditation requirements that are relevant to physicians’ lifelong learning needs and responsive to changes in the health care environment.
Accreditation, in general, is a process of external quality review used to scrutinize colleges, universities and educational programs for quality assurance and quality improvement. In the United States, accreditation is carried out by private, nonprofit organizations designed for this specific purpose.
a process that a health care institution, provider, or program undergoes to demonstrate compliance with standards developed by an official agency. Accreditation for institutions and agencies in the United States and Canada is voluntary.
accreditation, n a process of formal recognition of a school or institution attesting to the required ability and performance in an area of education, training, or practice. In dentistry, this process is controlled by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).
Accreditation is a process of review that healthcare organizations participate in to demonstrate the ability to meet predetermined criteria and standards of accreditation established by a professional accrediting agency.
The purpose of the ACCME accreditation requirements is to set expectations for accredited providers that ensure CME is independent, based on valid content, and contributes to health care improvement for patients and their communities.
These requirements apply to accreditation decisions made on or after November 2010). The 2006 Accreditation Criteria are built upon two earlier sets of accreditation guidelines: the Seven Essentials, established in 1982, and the Essential Areas and Their Elements, or System98, released in 1998.
For your convenience, we have created a compilation of the accreditation requirements in one document. The PDF includes the ACCME Accreditation Criteria, the ACCME Standards for Commercial Support: Standards to Ensure Independence in CME Activities SM, and the ACCME policies.