Hypoglycemia can affect all the organs in your body, especially your brain. If the hypoglycemia symptoms are severe and the individual cannot treat himself/herself, somebody else will need to apply honey, treacle, jam or Glucogel to the inside of the cheeks and then gently massage the outside of the cheeks. 1 Reactive hypoglycemia (postprandial hypoglycemia) - this is when the pancreas produces too much insulin after a meal. 2  Tumors-tumors in other parts of the body (not the pancreas) can cause hypoglycemia. 3  This is very rare.
Hypoglycemia refers to blood sugar levels that drop below the normal range. When blood sugar becomes too low, the body releases a hormone called epinephrine, which causes the body to release stored sugar into the blood. Epinephrine produces symptoms such as hunger, sweating, and shaking. This causes dizziness, confusion, and weakness. As blood sugar continues to drop, and the brain does not have enough sugar to function properly, more severe effects occur, including permanent brain damage, seizures, coma, and death.
Introduction. Hypoglycemia is a condition in which there is an abnormally low level of glucose (sugar) in your blood. Normally your body keeps blood sugar levels within a narrow range through the coordinated work of several organs and glands and their hormones, primarily insulin and glucagon. Too much glucose results in hyperglycemia, one of the major symptoms of diabetes. However, hypoglycemia is most common among people with diabetes, as too much insulin can cause blood sugar levels to fall (an insulin reaction).
Hypoglycemia is the clinical term for low levels of blood glucose. Glucose is the main source of energy for the cells of the human body. As such, blood glucose is usually very well-regulated by the endocrine system. Normal blood glucose level is about 90mg/100ml, with comparatively small fluctuations naturally occurring due to fasting, high carbohydrate meals, activity level and time of day.. Hypoglycemia effects are mainly related to the central nervous system, the digestive system and the circulatory system.Hypoglycemia effects will be most noticeable in relation to the central and autonomic nervous systems.
A person with abnormally low levels of blood sugar (glucose) has hypoglycemia. Glucose is the body's main energy source. Hypoglycemia is not a disease in itself; it is a sign of a health problem. The majority of people know when their blood sugar levels have dropped, and have time to do something about it. 1 Reactive hypoglycemia (postprandial hypoglycemia) - this is when the pancreas produces too much insulin after a meal. 2  Tumors-tumors in other parts of the body (not the pancreas) can cause hypoglycemia. 3  This is very rare.
Hypoglycemia refers to blood sugar levels that drop below the normal range. When blood sugar becomes too low, the body releases a hormone called epinephrine (adrenaline), which causes the body to release stored sugar into the blood. Epinephrine produces symptoms such as hunger, sweating, and shaking. Low blood sugar can: If you notice any of these signs or symptoms, check your blood sugar. If it is low, eat or drink a source of quick sugar -- like 5-6 pieces of hard candy, 3-4 glucose tablets, or 6 ounces of fruit juice or soft drink (not diet). Check your blood sugar again in 15 minutes.
1 Some critical illnesses. 2  Severe illnesses of the liver, such as severe hepatitis, can cause hypoglycemia. 3  Disorders of the kidney, which can keep your body from properly excreting medications, can affect glucose levels due to a buildup of those medications. Causes. Hypoglycemia occurs when your blood sugar (glucose) level falls too low. There are several reasons why this may happen, the most common being a side effect of drugs used for the treatment of diabetes.
The most affected organ from hypoglycemia is the brain, which requires a full glucose supply at all times. Interruption of that supply is similar to interruption of oxygen -- it causes brain insult and damage within 3-4 minutes. Since all the cells of the body, especially the brain cells, use glucose for fuel, a blood glucose level that is too low starves the cells of needed fuel, causing both physical and emotional symptoms.
on the Body. Every cell in your body needs sugar (glucose) to function. When your blood sugar levels drop too low, your cells become starved for energy. Initially, that can cause minor symptoms, but if you don’t get your blood sugar levels up soon, you’re at risk of serious complications. In type 2 diabetes, the pancreas doesn’t make enough, or your body can’t use it properly. To keep blood sugar levels from rising too much (hyperglycemia), you need the right amount of insulin. With insufficient insulin, your blood sugar levels rise. Too much, and your blood sugar levels can plummet.