The Bolivian economy has had a historic pattern of a single-commodity focus. From silver to tin to coca, Bolivia has enjoyed only occasional periods of economic diversification. Political instability and difficult topography have constrained efforts to modernize the agricultural sector. Bolivia 's 2012 gross domestic product referred to PPP totaled $54.36 billion and in the official exchange $27.12 billion. Its standard of living, as measured in GDP in PPP per capita was US $5,100. Economic growth is about 5.2% a year and inflation was 4.5% in 2012.
Follow The Money. Bolivia is a landlocked country in South America. It is bordered by Brazil to the north and east, Paraguay and Argentina to the south, and Chile and Peru to the west. Bolivia has a population of 9 million.
The economy of Bolivia is the 95th largest economy in the world in nominal terms and the 87th economy in terms of purchasing power parity. It is classified by the World Bank to be a lower middle income country. With a Human Development Index of 0,675, it is ranked 108th (medium human development). Bolivia 's 2012 gross domestic product referred to PPP totaled $54.36 billion and in the official exchange $27.12 billion. Its standard of living, as measured in GDP in PPP per capita was US $5,100. Economic growth is about 5.2% a year and inflation was 4.5% in 2012.
Bolivia: Introduction. Bolivia is a landlocked country in South America that borders the countries of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Peru. Bolivia is located in the rugged Andes Mountain with highland plateau and lowland plains of the Amazon basin. Bolivia shares control of Lago Titicaca, the world’s highest navigable lake.
Best Answer: The current government of Bolivia, that started its mandate in January 2006, has the fight against poverty, inequality and exclusion as one of its main priorities, by increasing the citizen’s participation in decision making processes and with a significant state participation in the economy. In 2002, the United States exported $283 million of merchandise to Bolivia and imported $162 million. Bolivia's major exports to the United States are tin, gold, jewelry, and wood products. Its major imports from the United States are computers, vehicles, wheat, and machinery.
Bolivia has a mixed economic system in which the economy includes a variety of private freedom, combined with centralized economic planning and government regulation. Bolivia is a member of the Andean Community (CAN) and the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Bolivia is located in the rugged Andes Mountain with highland plateau and lowland plains of the Amazon basin. Bolivia shares control of Lago Titicaca, the world’s highest navigable lake.
Bolivia’s most lucrative agricultural product continues to be coca, of which Bolivia is currently the world’s third largest cultivator (after Colombia and Peru), with an estimated 29,500 hectares under cultivation in 2007, increased slightly when compared to 2006. Bolivia 's 2012 gross domestic product referred to PPP totaled $54.36 billion and in the official exchange $27.12 billion. Its standard of living, as measured in GDP in PPP per capita was US $5,100. Economic growth is about 5.2% a year and inflation was 4.5% in 2012.
The State of Bolivia has been a remarkably unsuccessful state. Bolivia is now poor and backward but this was not always the case for the area that is now Bolivia. 