can anyone give me a brief summary of the treaty of tordesillas between spain and porugal. and can you tell me did spain or portugal det the better deal and why in your opinion. please and thank you. Update: sorry i type it wrong, it's suppose to be. did Spain or Potugal get the better deal(on top). 1 following. can anyone give me a brief summary of the treaty of tordesillas between spain and porugal. and can you tell me did spain or portugal det the better deal and why in your opinion. please and thank you. Add your answer. Source.
Tordesillas, Treaty of. Tordesillas, Treaty of (tōrˌħāsēˈlyaes) [ tōrˌħāsēˈlyäs ], key, 1494 agreement signed At, Tordesillas, spain by Which spain And portugal divided the-Non christian world into two zones of. influence In principle the treaty followed the papal bull issued in 1493 by Pope Alexander VI, which fixed the demarcation line along a circle passing 100 leagues W of the Cape Verde Islands and through the two poles. This division gave the entire New World to Spain and Africa and India to Portugal.
Lesson Summary. The Treaty of Tordesillas was a compromise that allowed Spain free control of the Americas (except Brazil) and Portugal all of Africa and India. Both sides got what they wanted without going to war. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
A treaty in 1494 between the Crown of Portugal and the Crown of Spain that split the world West of Europe in two divisions. The line was drawn at 2,193 kilometres West of the … Cape Verde Islands (which were owned by Portugal at the time). The treaty divided newly discovered lands between Spain and  Portugal avoiding a war between to two countries. Portugal was  awarded all newly discovered land east of a meri … dian 370 leagues or  1364 miles west of Cape Verde islands, while Spain got everything  west.
The Treaty of Tordesillas of 1494 was a treaty that divided all the newly discovered lands outside of Europe between Spain and Portugal. The treaty divided newly discovered lands between Spain and  Portugal avoiding a war between to two countries. Portugal was  awarded all newly discovered land east of a meri … dian 370 leagues or  1364 miles west of Cape Verde islands, while Spain got everything  west.
The Treaty of Zaragoza, or Treaty of Saragossa, also referred to as the Capitulation of Zaragoza, was a peace treaty between Spain and Portugal signed on 22 April 1529 by King John III and the Emperor Charles V in the Spanish city of Zaragoza. In 1494 Castile and Portugal signed the Treaty of Tordesillas, dividing the world into two exploration and colonizing areas: the Castilian and the Portuguese. It stated a meridian in the Atlantic Ocean, with the western part exclusive to Spain and the east to Portugal.
The lands to the east would belong to Portugal and the lands to the west to Castile. The treaty was signed by Spain, 2 July 1494 and by Portugal, 5 September 1494. The other side of the world would be divided a few decades later by the Treaty of Zaragoza or Saragossa, signed on 22 April 1529, which specified the antimeridian to the line of demarcation specified in the Treaty of Tordesillas. The Treaty of Saragossa did not modify or clarify the line of demarcation in the Treaty of Tordesillas, nor did it validate Spain's claim to equal hemispheres (180° each), so the two lines divided the Earth into unequal hemispheres. Portugal's portion was roughly 191° whereas Spain's portion was roughly 169°.
King John's rationale to Ferdinand and Isabella was that the Pope's line extends all around the globe, thus limiting Spanish influence in Asia. On June 7, 1494 Spain and Portugal met at Tordesillas, Spain and signed a treaty moved the line 270 leagues west, to 370 leagues west of Cape Verde. This new line (located at approximately 46° 37') gave Portugal more claim to South America yet also provided Portugal with automatic control over most of the Indian Ocean. While it would be several hundred years before the line of the Treaty of Tordesillas could be accurately determined (due to problems determining longitude), Portugal and Spain kept to their sides of the line quite well. Portugal ended up colonizing places like Brazil in South America and India and Macau in Asia.
Background. The Treaty of Tordesillas was made to settle a dispute between Spain and Portugal before the two nations went to war. You see, during the fifteenth century, those two were competing to get the wealth of India's spices. Portugal was trying to get to India by going around Africa. The Treaty of Tordesillas was a compromise that allowed Spain free control of the Americas (except Brazil) and Portugal all of Africa and India. Both sides got what they wanted without going to war. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
In the spring of 1494, representatives of Spain and Portugal met in the Spanish town of Tordesillas and negotiated a mutually satisfactory solution to their dispute. By resulting Treaty of Todesillas, the line of demarcation was relocated to a position 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands. 