Psychotherapist education requirements differ by state, but a doctoral degree is the minimum requirement in many states. Education Requirements. Every state requires a graduate degree, typically a doctorate, in clinical psychology, counseling or clinical social work, preferably with an emphasis on psychotherapy. Master's and doctoral degree programs require students to complete two years of supervised clinical practice. Psychotherapist education programs at the doctoral level emphasize psychotherapy research, psychoanalytic psychotherapy and psychotherapy and medicine
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. Undergraduate Studies. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) reported in 2012 that some states will allow you to work as a school psychologist with a master's degree in psychology, but many states now require you to have an education specialist degree such as an Ed.S. in school psychology or a doctoral degree (www.bls.gov). You must have a master's degree and complete at least 100 hours of experience working directly with patients to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC). You may also have to pass an exam given by the state licensing board. Some states require counseling psychologists in private practice to have doctorates.
A doctoral degree is the highest educational level a therapist can achieve. While it is not required to practice as a therapist, you will have to get a doctorate if you want to become a licensed psychologist. Undergraduate Studies. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school.
As with all other psychology careers, becoming a clinical psychologist requires extensive training and education. In order to start a clinical psychology career, individuals will typically need to earn a Bachelor's in psychology or clinical psychology. Additional schooling is also usually necessary after the four year degree. This typically includes earning a Master's degree and Doctoral degree in clinical psychology. To learn more about the available colleges for these programs in your area visit our Find a School Page.
The minimum educational requirement to become a psychologist in Alberta is a master's degree in psychology or educational psychology; however, many positions require a doctoral (PhD) degree, which is the minimum education requirement in most other provinces. 2. To become a practicing psychologist in Canada, you usually need to be registered or chartered. The educational requirements for registration may vary from province to province. A doctoral degree in psychology is required in Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and British Columbia.
A master's degree is the minimum requirement for most psychologist positions, and jobs in some branches of psychology will require you to have a doctorate degree. Upon completion of a doctorate program in psychology, you will be awarded either a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) or Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. You must have a master's degree and complete at least 100 hours of experience working directly with patients to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC). You may also have to pass an exam given by the state licensing board. Some states require counseling psychologists in private practice to have doctorates.
Becoming a Psychologist. To become a psychologist, after obtaining a bachelor's degree in psychology, one must attend graduate school and obtaining a master's degree and/or doctoral degree. At the master’s degree level, one can obtain a master of arts (M.A.) or a master of science (M.Sc.)