A technician is a worker in a field of technology who is proficient in the relevant skills and techniques, with a relatively practical understanding of the theoretical principles. Thus a 'stage technician' is a worker who provides technical support for putting on a play, while a 'medical technician' is an employee who provides technical support in the medical industry or to the medical profession.
Field Service Technician: Job Description & Requirements. A field service technician is a general term for any mobile repair or assessment technician who travels to a site to troubleshoot equipment problems. A field service technician may work for a product manufacturer or be employed by a dedicated team of repairmen, such as Best Buy's Geek Squad, whose job is to repair and maintain all makes and models of a particular type of product. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Read More... The field service technician performs different types of support at the customer’s location, such as troubleshooting, setup, and installation of systems and equipment. Daily work logs and service tickets must be filled out and accurate, and there is an element of end user and owner training to the position. (United States). The average wage for a Field Service Technician is $19.13 per hour. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) / Automation and Industrial Hydraulics.
Another term for service technician is field technician, which can again apply to many different types of work. Your local power or cable company employs field technicians who are skilled in repairing or servicing equipment needed to provide you with power or cable. Ad. Not all service technician workers are field technicians. Some work out of shops, as is the case with automotive technicians. When you have a problem with your car, few mechanics or automotive technicians come to your home.
What Automotive Service Technicians and Mechanics Do. Automotive service technicians and mechanics, often called service technicians or service techs, inspect, maintain, and repair cars and light trucks. The median annual wage for automotive service technicians and mechanics was $36,610 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $20,810, and the top 10 percent earned more than $60,070.
Typically, the service technician can be defined as the following: a person with significant technical and practical knowledge in a given field who is trained to provide both service (like routine cleanings) and repair of equipment that lies within his/her field of expertise. Ad. Ad. Not all service technician workers are field technicians. Some work out of shops, as is the case with automotive technicians. When you have a problem with your car, few mechanics or automotive technicians come to your home.
Service Technician Jobs at Chrysler Dealership. A service technician job at a Chrysler dealership is the best way to get the experience to become a Chrysler master technician. You will work in a clean, state-of-the-art auto repair facility with the opportunity to learn every vehicle in Chrysler’s line
An auto mechanic performs an oil change on a vehicle. Automotive service technicians and mechanics, often called service technicians or service techs, inspect, maintain, and repair cars and light trucks. The median annual wage for automotive service technicians and mechanics was $36,610 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $20,810, and the top 10 percent earned more than $60,070.
Employment of automotive service technicians and mechanics is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Job opportunities for qualified jobseekers should be very good. The median annual wage for automotive service technicians and mechanics was $36,610 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $20,810, and the top 10 percent earned more than $60,070.