Two Parts: Disassembling the Engine Reassembling the Engine. The timing chain on your vehicle is the connection between the crankshaft and camshaft, which operate the valves. The timing chain is a crucial piece of equipment that, when working properly, causes the valves to open and close at very specific intervals for optimum operation of your vehicle's engine. Timing chains and the sprockets on which they sit can wear with time, which can affect your engine's operation. You may find the need to replace your timing chain at some point; however, with the right tools, an owner's manual and some patience, you can do it yourself.
I purchased a new timing chain tensioner (part # 13540-0D010) for our 2005 Toyota Corolla S online for $20.42. The only tools needed to complete this procedure are a 10mm deep socket with ratcheting wrench, some RTV silicone sealant, and a 22mm socket with ratcheting wrench. Tensioner Nuts Removed. The timing chain tensioner on this Corolla didn't pop out so I had to use a small flathead screwdriver to pry it out. Then it shot out about an inch from the engine block. Pull the old timing chain tensioner straight out and put it aside.
Install a Timing Chain. Put engine oil on from the top of the intake camshaft until it returns to 16mm. Line up the valve timing controller and the knock pin timing marks and insert the controller into the camshaft. Place the No. 1 piston to Top Dead Center (TDC). Position the crankshaft key at 12 o'clock. Line up the timing marks on the crankshaft pulley and the timing chain cover. The camshaft sprockets' timing marks should be facing each other. Reconnect any remaining items and replace the coolant. Start the engine and check for leaks
Two 10mm Nuts. The old timing chain tensioner on the 1ZZ-FE 1.8 liter engine is located on the passenger side at the rear of the engine block. See the picture above for a better idea of the location. The green arrow points to the upper of the two 10mm nuts holding it in place. Tensioner Nuts Removed. The timing chain tensioner on this Corolla didn't pop out so I had to use a small flathead screwdriver to pry it out. Then it shot out about an inch from the engine block. Pull the old timing chain tensioner straight out and put it aside.
Undo the chain tensioner, water pump and the valve timing control assembly and camshaft timing sprocket. Force the seal from its cover. Extend the timing chain to its maximum length and measure the span of any 16 successive links, not to surpass 4.827 inches (122.6mm). Line up the timing marks on the crankshaft pulley and the timing chain cover. The camshaft sprockets' timing marks should be facing each other. Reconnect any remaining items and replace the coolant. Start the engine and check for leaks
Disconnect the timing chain tensioner from the rear side of the timing chain cover by removing its mounting nuts. Remove the cover's fasteners with a Torx wrench and pry the cover off the engine. Remove the slack from the chain's left side while installing the timing chain tensioner pivot arm/chain guide, tightening the pivot bolt to 168 inch-pounds. Make sure the tab on the pivot arm doesn't move past the stopper on the cylinder head.
Normally, you won’t need to make any interventions on the timing chain of a Toyota VVTi engine, but if for certain reasons you have to, here’s a tutorial on how to do it. The timing chain cover is found right at the front of the engine, located just behind the accessory belt and different pulleys. As you probably imagine, you have a lot of parts to remove before reaching it, so you’ll need a complete set of sockets, a ratchet, different screwdrivers and rubber gloves. 1 Take out the crankshaft pulley and the other pulleys. 2  Now you’ll need to remove the engine’s mounting harness, so if the engine is still in the vehicle, you need to support its weight with a jack. 3  Remove the timing chain tightener. 4  Finally, remove all the bolts fixing the timing chain cover to the engine block.
1 Remove the timing chain tightener. 2  Finally, remove all the bolts fixing the timing chain cover to the engine block. 3  Use something to pry it open (you might need a hammer here) and you are done. 1 Take out the crankshaft pulley and the other pulleys. 2  Now you’ll need to remove the engine’s mounting harness, so if the engine is still in the vehicle, you need to support its weight with a jack. 3  Remove the timing chain tightener. 4
Apply RTV sealant to the sealing surfaces on the timing chain cover and place the cover in position on the engine. Tighten the bolts evenly in multiple steps to 120 inch-pounds if they have 10 millimeter heads; if they have 12 millimeter heads, tighten them to 168 inch-pounds. Remove the slack from the chain's left side while installing the timing chain tensioner pivot arm/chain guide, tightening the pivot bolt to 168 inch-pounds. Make sure the tab on the pivot arm doesn't move past the stopper on the cylinder head.