Mu waves are quite local. If you imagine moving just your feet, the Mu waves are only suppressed in a small portion of your sensorimotor cortex that, for the feet, is near the top of your head. Imagining moving your hands suppresses the Mu waves in a different part of the cortex (down closer to the ears). So, if by imagining motion with the left side of your body, the Mu waves should only be suppressed on the *right* side of your brain. The converse is true as well -- imagining motion on the right side of your body should suppress the Mu waves on the left
Mu waves, also known as mu rhythms, comb or wicket rhythms, arciform rhythms, or sensorimotor rhythms, are synchronized patterns of electrical activity involving large numbers of neurons, probably of the pyramidal type, in the part of the brain that controls voluntary movement. A person suppresses mu wave patterns when he or she performs a motor action or, with practice, when he or she visualizes performing a motor action. This suppression is called desynchronization of the wave because EEG wave forms are caused by large numbers of neurons firing in synchrony.
The idea with a Mu wave brain-computer interface (BCI) is that I'll use my EEG system to listen to my brain waves. Mu waves are simple but strong signals in the Alpha band that appear in the sensorimotor (SM) cortex when you relax parts of your body. The Mu waves go away when you move (or *think* about moving!) those parts of your body. Supposedly, different regions of the SM cortex correspond to different portions of your body. I to do this, I will modify my PC software to process the data and make a dinging sound or something in proportion to the strength of the signal at 12 Hz. This live feedback will tell my I'm doing the right thing. As a result, I should be able to train myself to do a better job making Mu waves.
See the list below: Mu waves are runs of rhythmic activity that have a specific shape. They are rounded in one direction with a sharp side in the other direction. Frequency is one half of the fast (beta) activity. Mu waves disappear with motor acts of the contralateral hand or arm. 
As it says, Mu Waves are a type of oscillating electrical rhythm within the brain that can be seen in an EEG. Specifically, they occur in the sensorimotor cortex, which is the portion of the brain associated with coordinating muscle motion and the perception of ones muscle and joint motion. So, if by imagining motion with the left side of your body, the Mu waves should only be suppressed on the *right* side of your brain. The converse is true as well -- imagining motion on the right side of your body should suppress the Mu waves on the left
A fruitful conceptualization of mu waves in pediatric use that is independent of their frequency is that mu wave suppression is a representation of activity going on in the world, and is detectable in the frontal and parietal networks. A person suppresses mu wave patterns when he or she performs a motor action or, with practice, when he or she visualizes performing a motor action. This suppression is called desynchronization of the wave because EEG wave forms are caused by large numbers of neurons firing in synchrony.
Mu 8-13 Hz. The Mu wave is a brain frequency which has been observed and studied since the 1930’s. Mu waves are in the range of 8-13 Hz and arise from large groups of neurons in the brain. Recently Mu brain waves have been associated with the “mirror neuron” system that activates when we watch another person’s activity. Alpha Waves: 8-13 Hz. Alpha is the brain wave associated with relaxed, daydreaming states of mind; it’s a state of relaxed, detached awareness. Many people are “in alpha” while watching TV. Alpha is often called a “hypnogogic” state because you may experience spontaneous mental imagery.
This wave occurs at frequencies similar to the mu wave, although the alpha wave is detected over a different part of the brain. The left motor cortex, or BA4, is highlighted in green on this left lateral view of the brain. This is the area over which mu waves are detected bilaterally. A person suppresses mu wave patterns when he or she performs a motor action or, with practice, when he or she visualizes performing a motor action. This suppression is called desynchronization of the wave because EEG wave forms are caused by large numbers of neurons firing in synchrony.