Forensic science is the application of sciences such as physics, chemistry, biology, computer science and engineering to matters of law. Forensic science plays a vital role in the criminal justice system by providing scientifically based information through the analysis of physical evidence. During an investigation, evidence is collected at a crime scene or from a person, analyzed in a crime laboratory and then the results presented in court
In forensics, there is often a difficulty conveying critical scientific terms to investigators, attorneys, juries, and even court reporters. Forensic Science Glossary is a single source reference that contains the spelling and definitions of commonly used terms found in forensic environments. This glossary of words and their meanings covers important areas of forensic science, including the relevant toxicology, documents, drug chemistry, criminalistics, ballistics, and DNA analysis. It is the first forensic glossary to integrate such a wide variety of topics.
Save. Forensic science is the use of science in matters of law. It can be used in both criminal and civil matters and can help resolve cases from the conclusions made by forensic scientists. Suspects. When a crime is committed, suspects are found because of the use of forensic science. Pieces of evidence collected at crime scenes and examined by forensic scientists, such as fingerprints and DNA, can reveal the identity of a suspect.
Forensic Science is any science used for the purposes of the law, and therefore provides impartial scientific evidence for use in the courts of law, e.g. in a criminal investigation and trial. What makes forensic science so exciting to study is the nature of the problems to be solved, and this provides its own intrinsic rewards. Great emphasis is placed not only on developing the skills of forensic examination, but also on their application and on the communication of findings to the lay-person.
Forensic science is any scientific field that is applied to the field of law. Forensic scientists are tasked with the collection, preservation, and analysis of scientific evidence during the course of an investigation. 1 Forensic archaeology is the application of a combination of archaeological techniques and forensic science, typically in law enforcement. 2  Forensic astronomy uses methods from astronomy to determine past celestial constellations for forensic purposes.
Creative commons image Credit: West Midlands Police under CC-BY-SA licence Forensic science, or forensics, is the application of science to establish how historical events occurred and thereby provide impartial evidence that can be used in a court of law. It is common for evidence from several types of forensic science to be used in one case. The application of science to collection, analysis and explanation of evidence, allows a forensic scientist to reconstruct historical events, identify victims and pinpoint the perpetrators.
Definition of Forensic-Science 1. Forensic science is the application of natural sciences to matters of the law. In practice, forensic science draws upon physics, chemistry, biology, and other scientific principles and methods. Forensic science is concerned with the recognition, identification, individualization, and evaluation of physical evidence
Computer forensics (sometimes known as computer forensic science) is a branch of digital forensic science pertaining to evidence found in computers and digital storage media. 
Forensic is defined as belonging to, used in or suitable to courts of law, or to public discussion or debate. So forensic science is bringing science into the public or courts for discussion and debates. A: Forensic science is a major academic principle that can be studies at degree level as well as non-degree level. You can choose from various forensic science degrees, and also pursue certifications in this area. If you want to become a forensic science technician, having a bachelor degree is necessary.