Between 5 and 14 years of age. On international flights provided by Air France, children 5 to 14 years of age who are traveling alone are required to travel as Unaccompanied Minors (UM). Air France staff provides continuous supervision as part of our Kids Solo service. On flights within metropolitan France, children from 4 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone are required to travel as Unaccompanied Minors (UM). Air France staff provide continuous supervision as part of our Kids Solo service. The cost of this service is €25 each way.
Age limits-minimums and maximums. Airlines treat children traveling alone differently depending on the age of the child. Most airlines have a minimum age for their unaccompanied child service, typically five, and a maximum age, typically 12. Children younger than the minimum age will have to travel with an adult. Most airlines allow a child under the age of 18 to fly alone, and the rules and restrictions for what they call unaccompanied children are different for each airline.
Special restrictions. 1  Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 1 Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors.
1 Children ages five through 11 traveling without an accompanying Passenger age 12 or older must travel as an Unaccompanied Minor (UM) on Southwest Airlines. 2  For travel booked on or after April 23, 2010, Southwest Airlines will charge $50 each way ($100 roundtrip) in addition to the air fare per child for UMs to travel. We’re a click away. 1 
Children 5 to 11 years of age who are not accompanied on an aircraft by a parent, legal guardian or someone who is at least 18 years of age are considered unaccompanied minors and are subject to specific restrictions. 1 Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors.
If your child age 8 to 17 is travelling as an unaccompanied minor on a flight offering only Air Canada Caf service, the price of a meal or hot snack is included in the service fee charged for the special care of your child. 
1 United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 2  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 3  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge. 1 Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors.
1 Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 2  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge. 1 Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors.