Diaphysis. The diaphysis is the main or midsection of a long bone. It is made up of cortical bone and usually contains bone marrow and adipose tissue. It's a middle tubular part composed of compact bone which surrounds a central marrow cavity which contains red or yellow marrow. In diaphysis, primary ossification occurs. 
Definitions: 1. An elongated rodlike structure, as the part of a long bone between the epiphysial extremities. The shaft of a long bone, as distinguished from the epiphyses, or extremities, and apophyses, or outgrowths. Synonyms: shaft. The definition information for diaphysis is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
diaphysis. 1. the portion of a long bone between the ends or extremities, which is usually articular, and wider than the shaft; it consists of a tube of compact bone, enclosing the medullary cavity. Called also shaft. 2. the portion of a bone formed from a primary center of ossification. See illustration. 1. the portion of a long bone between the ends or extremities, which are
The shaft or central part of a long bone. Compare with epiphysis. Example sentences. 1  Interposed between the epiphysis and the diaphysis is the cartilaginous epiphyseal plate. 2  The tumor is eccentric, usually metaphyseal, but it may extend into the epiphysis or along the medullary cavity into the diaphysis.
The diaphysis (/daɪˈaefɨsɨs/) daɪˈæfɨsɨs is the main or (midsection) shaft of a long. Bone it is made up of cortical bone and usually contains bone marrow and adipose (tissue). Fat it is a middle tubular part composed of compact bone which surrounds a central marrow cavity which contains red or yellow. marrow The diaphysis (/daɪˈaefɨsɨs/) daɪˈæfɨsɨs is the main or (midsection) shaft of a long. bone
Definition of DIAPHYSIS. : the shaft of a long bone. — di·aph·y·se·al \(ˌ)dī-ˌa-fə-ˈsē-əl\ or di·a·phys·i·al \ˌdī-ə-ˈfi-zē-əl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. Origin of DIAPHYSIS. New Latin, from Greek, spinous process of the tibia, from diaphyesthai to grow between, from dia- + phyein to bring forth — more at be.
Medical Definition of DIAPHYSIS. : the shaft of a long bone—compare epiphysis 1. Origin of DIAPHYSIS. New Latin, from Greek, spinous process of the tibia, from diaphyesthai to grow between, from dia- + phyein to bring forth — more at be.
The metaphysis (/mətˈaefɨsɨs/) mətˈæfɨsɨs is the wide portion of a long bone between the epiphysis and the narrow. Diaphysis it is considered a part of the growth, plate the part of the bone that grows during childhood and as it, grows it ossifies near the diaphysis and the. epiphyses The metaphysis (/mətˈaefɨsɨs/) mətˈæfɨsɨs is the wide portion of a long bone between the epiphysis and the narrow. diaphysis