Adults measure between 4.8 - 5.3 m and reach a body mass of 1400kg (Reidenberg and Laitman, 2009). 2. Distribution. True's beaked whale is found in the North Atlantic from Nova Scotia and Ireland south to Florida, San Salvador Island in the Bahamas, and Islas Canarias.
Baird's beaked whales are found in pelagic, temperate waters over 1,000 to 3,000 m deep, on the continental slope. Off the Pacific coast of Japan, these whales have been recorded in waters ranging between 23°C and 29°C, with a southern limit lying at the 15°C isotherm at a depth of 100 m.
This species is one of two beaked whales species that have two pairs of teeth. Both male and female adults have two large triangular teeth (tusks) that erupt at the tip of the lower jaw, which extends about 10 cm (4 in) beyond the upper jaw.
Species Description. True's beaked whales are little known members of the beaked whale family (Ziphiidae). As adults, True's beaked whales can reach lengths of 15.5-17.5 ft (4.8-5.4 m) and weigh at least 2,200-3,000 lbs (1,020-1,400 kg). Females may be slightly larger than males. Adult males can be distinguished from females and juveniles by a pair of teeth visible on the tip of the lower jaw.
Tove (1995) observed a pod of what he identified as three True's beaked whales 32 nm southeast of Hatteras Inlet, North Carolina and successfully tracked the animals, obtaining photographs that document live coloration and surface swimming habits.
True's beaked whales occur throughout the northern and southern hemispheres. Their range includes areas off of Nova Scotia (Canada), Ireland, Europe, the Canary Islands, Bermuda, Florida, and the Bahamas in the Atlantic, as well as off the coasts of Brazil, Madagascar, South Africa, and southern Australia.
Baird’s beaked whales are the largest of the currently known 21 species of beaked whales. Their habitat is the deep ocean which makes them challenging whales to study in the wild. Most information about them has been obtained from dissections of animals killed in coastal hunting off Japan and studies of stranded whales.