By using the term Kemet instead of Egypt, we refer to the country by the name its own people called it (Egypt is an English form of the Greek name for this land, Aegyptos, itself derived from Coptic hi(t)-ka(u)-ptah, the house/temple of the ka of Ptah). The name Kemet is refers to the the Land of the Black people! Some white researchers claim that the name Kemet refers to the rich dark soil that was deposited along the banks if the Nile!
· just now. Report Abuse. To most white professionals KEMET my mean black land but the facts of genetics strongly suggest that the amount of Melanin levels found in the tissue of the ancient African mummies are never found in the white and yellow groups and this is absolute ... The name Kemet is refers to the the Land of the Black people! Some white researchers claim that the name Kemet refers to the rich dark soil that was deposited along the banks if the Nile!
Kemet (keh-MET) is the term ancient Egyptians used as the official name of their country. (Sometimes they also called it Ta-mery, or beloved land.) Kemet translates as Black Land, in reference to the fertile banks and fields surrounding the Nile (black from the soil). The name Kemet is refers to the the Land of the Black people! Some white researchers claim that the name Kemet refers to the rich dark soil that was deposited along the banks if the Nile!
It actually means 'Land of the Black Faces. KMT -- It actually means 'Black Land meaning fertile. KMTians were a Name for what we now call Ancient Egyptians (Greek word Aeg … yptos). KMT denotes the color of the land not the skin. Some opine that KMT meant Land of Ham.. Quote from the Related Link: 'Kemet' (keh-MET) is the term ancient Egyptians used as the official name of their country. (Sometimes they also called it Ta-mery, or 'beloved land.').
Kemet means black land, and Deshret means red land.. Kemet refers to the land that is flooded every year by the Nile, giving it vital nutrients and a dark color. Deshret is … the desert, which is red obviously. 8 people found this useful. Quote from the Related Link: 'Kemet' (keh-MET) is the term ancient Egyptians used as the official name of their country. (Sometimes they also called it Ta-mery, or 'bel … oved land.'). 15 people found this useful.
The meaning of Kemet has been much debated. The word was spelt with four hieroglyphs: a piece of crocodile skin with spines making the sound K; an owl making the sound M and a half loaf of bread making the sound T. The round symbol represents a crossroads and shows the reader that in this context this is a place name. Before this time there is evidence of a culture that we call Paleolithic and which dated in Kemet to around 100,000 BC, and which was centred around the southern part of the country. Objects from this phase were mainly in the form of flint tools and weapons.
all scholars know that egypt is a greek word (aegyptos) but i was told and i have studied that they referred to themselves as kemites and their land as kemet.the bible refer to them as mizraim and it refer to egypt as the land of ham (hem) in the hebrew. who can tell me what does kemet mean and also what is the... Depends on who you speak to about the meaning of Kemet, kmt, some say soil some say skin, some say city but when I look it up, kemet means black in greek. Doesn't say anything about soil/city just black. So you can take it as you will.
Kemet means black land, and Deshret means red land.. Kemet refers to the land that is flooded every year by the Nile, giving it vital nutrients and a dark color. Deshret is … the desert, which is red obviously. 8 people found this useful. Quote from the Related Link: 'Kemet' (keh-MET) is the term ancient Egyptians used as the official name of their country. (Sometimes they also called it Ta-mery, or 'beloved land.').
It actually means 'Land of the Black Faces.. KMT -- It actually means 'Black Land meaning fertile. KMTians were a Name for what we now call Ancient Egyptians (Greek word Aegyptos). KMT denotes the color of the land not the skin. Some opine that KMT meant Land of Ham.. This debate falls on the information that Ham, who was one of the three sons of Noah and the direct ancestor of the Egyptians, was black. Quote from the Related Link: 'Kemet' (keh-MET) is the term ancient Egyptians used as the official name of their country. (Sometimes they also called it Ta-mery, or 'bel … oved land.'). 15 people found this useful.