Bacterial diseases: Introduction. Bacterial diseases include any type of illness or disease caused by bacteria, a type of microbe. Microbes are tiny organisms that cannot be seen without a microscope and include viruses, fungi, and some parasites as well as bacteria
Bacteria. Once you are infected bacteria grow and reproduce inside the cells of your body. As they grow and divide, many bacteria make toxins (poisons). These toxins can damage your cells. Some bacteria damage your cells directly as they grow. Disease symptoms such as a high temperature, headaches and rashes can be caused by the damage and toxins or by the way your body responds to the damage and toxins produced by the bacteria. 
Bacteria That Cause Human Disease Only a small fraction of the thousands of species of bacteria on the earth cause disease in humans. Bacterial infection can be prevented by killing bacteria with heat, as in sterilization and pasteurization. If a bacterial infection does occur, doctors may treat it with antibiotics. 
Bacteria cause disease. Most of these bacteria, like those listed below make their presence felt immediately and may or may not result in death. Some people though, can be infected with a bacterium that normally causes a disease and not show any harmful effects at all, people like this are called carriers. Bacteria rarely, if ever, cause disease merely by being present, even the virulence factors they produce to help them invade the body often do little real harm. Virulence factors are normally enzymes. Their role is to make it easier for the bacterium to invade your body.
The pathogenicity of invasive bacteria, or their ability to cause disease is generally the result of toxins. Substances produced by the bacterial cell, sometimes simply as a by-produce of its normal metabolism, which interact negatively with our body, by interfering with the normal functioning. Bacteria rarely, if ever, cause disease merely by being present, even the virulence factors they produce to help them invade the body often do little real harm. Virulence factors are normally enzymes. Their role is to make it easier for the bacterium to invade your body.
Bacterial diseases are caused by harmful bacteria (pathogenic bacteria). The vast majority of bacteria do not cause disease, and many bacteria are actually helpful and even necessary for good health. Bacterial diseases occur when pathogenic bacteria get into an area of the body that is normally sterile, such as the bladder, or when they crowd out the helpful bacteria in places such as the intestines, vagina or mouth. Less common, bacterial infections can occur when healthy bacteria multiply uncontrollably.
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites. Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningiti
Other bacteria are opportunistic pathogens and cause disease mainly in people suffering from immunosuppression or cystic fibrosis Examples of these opportunistic pathogens include Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cenocepacia, and Mycobacterium avium. These pathogens can cause pneumonia or urinary tract infection and may be involved in coronary heart disease. Other groups of intacellular bacterial pathogens include: Salmonella, Neisseria, Brucella, Mycobacterium, Listeria, Francisella, Legionella, and Yersinia pestis.