FAQ. 1  What is community-based ecotourism? 2  What is the difference between community-based ecotourism and regular ecotourism? 3  Does community-based ecotourism involve doing volunteer work? 4  Does community-based ecotourism mean that we will be staying with local families? 5  Can I visit community-based ecotourism destinations just for the day? 6  Can I 7  ... W 
Ecotourism is trendy, but what is it really? It's important to understand a few principles so you can evaluate whether an expedition or site is legitimate, or merely using the ecotourism label for greenwashing. Definitions of ecotourism vary, but share some basic tenets. Ecotourism should:
Ecotourism, as an alternative tourism, involves visiting natural areas in order to learn, to study, or to carry out activities environmentally friendly, that is, a tourism based on the nature experience, which enables the economic and social development of local communities. 
Ecotourism is a form of tourism involving visiting fragile, pristine, and relatively undisturbed natural areas, intended as a low-impact and often small scale alternative to standard commercial (mass) tourism. Ecotourism is intended to offer tourists insight into the impact of human beings on the environment, and to foster a greater appreciation of our natural habitats.
However, this same growth creates significant opportunities for both conservation and local communities. Ecotourism can provide much-needed revenues for the protection of national parks and other natural areas -- revenues that might not be available from other sources. Additionally, ecotourism can provide a viable economic development alternative for local communities with few other income-generating options. In fact, tourism is now the world's largest industry, with nature tourism the fastest growing segment. People want to experience nature and the world, but should try to do so in a way that doesn't impact the natural environment.
Keeping impact on the local environment and on the entire planet as low as possible is a key feature of responsible travel. Buying carbon offsets for air travel is one component. Avoiding activities that degrade the environment is also critical. It's important to understand a few principles so you can evaluate whether an expedition or site is legitimate, or merely using the ecotourism label for greenwashing. Definitions of ecotourism vary, but share some basic tenets. Ecotourism should:
Most tourism in natural areas today is not ecotourism and is not, therefore, sustainable. Ecotourism is distinguished by its emphasis on conservation, education, traveler responsibility and active community participation. Specifically, ecotourism possesses the following characteristics: In fact, tourism is now the world's largest industry, with nature tourism the fastest growing segment. People want to experience nature and the world, but should try to do so in a way that doesn't impact the natural environment.
“Ecotourism involves visiting natural areas with the objectives of learning, studying or participating in activities that do not bring negative effects to the environment; whilst protecting and empowering the local community socially and economically. (Cristina, 2004). See other Ecotourism definitions. The aim of our Ecotourism Resource Centre is to act as an informative guide for users about the concept of Ecotourism.
Ecotourism focuses on socially responsible travel, personal growth, and environmental sustainability. Ecotourism typically involves travel to destinations where flora, fauna, and cultural heritage are the primary attractions. Ecotourism is intended to offer tourists insight into the impact of human beings on the environment, and to foster a greater appreciation of our natural habitats.
Myth: It means traveling to tropical jungles. Reality: Ecotourism often brings to mind images of exotic tropical locations, but the reality is that ecotourism opportunities can be found in a wide range of destinations, and ecotourism accommodations and tour packages exist on every continent. Myth: It's for backpackers. 