Using a hygrometer, test the temp and humidity in a variety of places in your fridge, especially the vegetable drawers. You ideally want an average temperature in your refrigerator of about 4-5 degrees C (37-40 degrees F), and a temperature of about -18 to -17 degrees C in your freezer (0-4 degrees F). You’ll notice, though, if you test a variety of locations in your fridge, you’ll learn where it’s coldest and where it’s warmest. 
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2
A refrigerator maintains a temperature a few degrees above the freezing point of water. Optimum temperature range for perishable food storage is 3 to 5 °C (37 to 41 °F). 
To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2
Here’s the short answer: The ideal refrigerator temperature, measured in the middle of the middle shelf, is between 35 and 38 degrees. Your fridge needs to be warm enough so your food doesn’t freeze (32 degrees) but not so warm that it crosses into the bacterial danger zone (above 40 degrees). 
34°F - 40°F is the ideal refrigerator temperature range. Some Web sites just say under 40°F, but not so cold to freeze fresh foods. Dairy products and meats keep best at the low end of the temperature range. A freezer should be set at 0°F, or lower, if possible. 
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. 