Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. 
As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Set timer for 17 minutes for large eggs or 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. After 17 or 20 minutes (depending on size of your eggs), remove lid and drain off water from the eggs. Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!).
Hard boiled: Boil 2 inch of water in large pot, Insert steaming rack (I like the collapsible kind) Place eggs on steamer, and turn down heat to medium boil. Steam eggs for 13 min. Remove eggs from pan and put in bowl of ice-water. Soft and Medium boiled: 5+ minutes, depending on how soft or medium you like them. Report Abuse. Place your eggs in cold water and when it starts boiling, time it for 10 minutes, then place them in cold water or water with ice to stop the cooking process. If cooked too long, the outside part of the yolk will turn green. If it's not green, you know you're doing it right
Best Answer: about 20 minutes. Put the eggs in a kettle. add enough water to just cover the eggs. add a litt salt if you want to. Put on to boil. When the water is boiling briskly, put a cover on the kettle and remove from heat. Let set, covered for 10 minutes. after that, drain and run cold water over them They will be perfectly boiled. Report Abuse. As long as 1 takes! Put them in a pot well covered with cold water. Bring it up to a rolling boil, take off the heat and cover, and leave for 15 minutes (no longer, or they'll get rubbery).
The length of time it takes to hard boil an egg depends on the size and type of the egg. First, put eggs in a pan and fill with enough cold water to cover eggs completely, then bring water to a rapid boil. As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Let sit 12 minutes for regular-sized eggs, 17 minutes for large eggs and 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. Transfer eggs immediately to cold water and let cool at least 10 minutes.
Place the eggs in the pot, cover it and bring it to a boil. Boil the eggs 3 minutes for soft boiled eggs or 10 minutes for hard boiled. Put in water in a large pot and boil on very high heat. 2. When it starts to boil violently, add goose egg. 3. Cover pot for around 6-8 minutes. (sometimes up to 12 min … utes) 4. Enjoy.
Put all the eggs in pan then put enough water to cover the eggs heat to boiling. Turn down the heat to very low and cook eggs to desired hardness 3-5min for soft boiled and 10-12 for hard boiled. Remove from hot water and emerged in cold water for easy peeling. Report Abuse. Place your eggs in cold water and when it starts boiling, time it for 10 minutes, then place them in cold water or water with ice to stop the cooking process. If cooked too long, the outside part of the yolk will turn green. If it's not green, you know you're doing it right