I am 11 weeks will be 12 weeks in 3 days, and I was able to feel my baby push against the side of my stomach today. I have a 6year old, so this is my second pregnancy, but I do know the feeling, and I could definitely feel it. My friend was able to feel it with her hand pushing against my stomach. 
You will probably start to be aware of your baby's movements when you're about 18 to 20 weeks pregnant (Gillieson et al 1984) , although it can be later. If you've had a baby before, you'll know the tell-tale signs. You'll probably start to notice your baby moving around between 15 and 18 weeks (Gillieson et al 1984) . 
6 weeks with flutters? the baby is definitely wayyy too small for you to feel flutters, or any kind of movement. Or you may be further along in your pregnancy. Like the others have said, 6 weeks is too tiny-as baby will not even resemble a baby just yet, and s/he'll be free floating for a while yet. So you won't be feeling them move, for a second child-you usually start to feel movements at 17+ weeks.
Some moms can feel their babies move as early as 13-16 weeks from the start of their last period. These first fetal movements are called quickening and are often described as flutters. It may be difficult to determine whether this feeling is gas or your baby’s movements, but soon you will begin to notice a pattern. First-time moms may not feel these movements as early as second-time moms. Some moms, especially those in their first pregnancy, may not feel movement until 18-20 weeks. Remember that each woman and every pregnancy is different, so you may not feel movement as early as another woman.
Anywhere between 18-24 weeks, second time moms sometimes feel the baby as early as 13/14 weeks though. If you haven't felt the baby move by 24 weeks then your doctor will be concerned. If feels like it takes forever with the first pregnancy, but it is so worth it. The initial feeling will feel like flutters, bubbles, etc. so it might be hard to recognize or you may even mistake it for something else. Report. 5 years ago. You will feel the baby move yourself at between 13 to 16 weeks. It will feel just like a flutter. Like the baby is swimming in there. You will be the only one who can feel this. When you get to around 16-20 weeks others will be able to feel the baby kick. This varies from woman to woman though.
I knew if I were pregnant it would be waaaay to early to feel anything but this odd sensation made me suspect pregnancy. Sure enough, I am now 10 weeks so yes, definately, 'butterflies' in the stomach can be an early symptom of pregnancy! + 37 others found this useful. I started feeling little flutters at about 3 months pregnant but now I'm 3 months 3 weeks and I feel little taps in my belly its weird even though its my 3rd baby.
But the rest of my pregnancies, I have always felt teeny tiny little flutters, or to best describe it... It feels like the baby is flicking me very softly. I have read on professional websites that the embryo can start to move at 9 weeks along, and the more pregnancies you have, the more easily you can feel your baby. Yes | No Thank you! they say its to early to feel baby kick so probably uterus streching....im 6 weeks pregnant on my second child & also feeling flutters, i didnt experience anything like this until i was atleat 5 months on my 1st.
I think I felt my baby move at 18 weeks. I am a skinny person, but didn't have bigger boobs or anything so that I can't answer. I did however read that if you have less stomach fat pre-pregnancy, that the kicks and moves are easier to feel because there's less padding. I would say that you're about 3 months along. 