The preliminary hearing phase of the trial usually takes place 5-6 days after an arraignment. In the case of a misdemeanor charge, the next phase of the trial is the motions and hearings phase. This usually takes about 3 months to occur but can last as long as 2 years. During this phase evidence issues are settled and investigations are conducted to determine the allowance or suppression of witnesses. However, most criminal trials do not take nearly as long as the popular media trials would seem to make you think. Usually the entire process from arrest to sentencing takes less than a couple of years to complete. The first part of any trial process is the arrest phase.
Depending on the complexity of the case a trial can last anywhere from one day to six months or longer. If you are asking how long a rape prosecution takes you are probably looking at 6 months to a couple of years. Again, this depends on the facts of your case and how complex the case is. It has no bearing on the length of the subsequent trial. A trial will last as long or as short as is necessary to get in all of the evidence and include all of the arguments of both sides. The more complicated the case, and the more witnesses that are expected, the longer the trial will last.
For example, in California, a defendant charged with a felony must be brought to trial within 60 days of being arraigned on an information or indictment unless there is “good cause” for delay—otherwise, the judge must dismiss the charges. (Cal. Penal Code § 1382.). Talk to a Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. The amount of time that passes between an arrest and the filing of charges on the one hand, and trial or entry of a guilty or “ no contest ” plea on the other, varies widely from case to case.
Today the Daily News highlighted a backlog in the Bronx that leaves accused felons waiting in jail for as long as five years before their case is heard. The average time to resolve a trial in that borough has increased dramatically, from 733 days in 2008 to 988 last year. 
Case length in your local area. You can find out about the average time a case took-from the offence to the outcome-in courts within your local area between April and June 2015. 
The trial lasts as long as it needs to. The trial's length depends on the number of witnesses and the questions asked them and the arguements ofthe lawyers and picking the jury and the court's instructions etc. This varies from case to case. In some cases a trial can go a day or two and in others weeks. It has no bearing on the length of the subsequent trial. A trial will last as long or as short as is necessary to get in all of the evidence and include all of the arguments of both sides. The more complicated the case, and the more witnesses that are expected, the longer the trial will last.
3 months to 2 years. Trial. In all felony cases you have a right to a trail by jury. There are times, however, that your lawyer may suggest that you waive your right to a jury trial and take a trial by a judge alone. A non-jury trial can take as little as one day. 
Wow, depends on the cases. Most last for fifteen to thirty minutes. A lot depends on if the suject pleads or fights ect. In my area, we have around 20 to 30 cases seen in a day. Most are continued and a date reset. You will need to see a jury or bench trial to see a case completely from start to finish. 
Some criminal cases can last for years, while others are over within weeks. The length of the criminal defense process depends on many different factors: the circumstances of the crime, the strength of the prosecution’s case, and the possibility of appeals all play a role. You deserve an attorney who is thorough and will see your case through from start to finish. Many people who are facing criminal charges have found such a lawyer at the Law Offices of Mark T. Lassiter. Tell a committed, tenacious Dallas criminal defense attorney about your case today by calling 214-845-7007.