The first standing Committee of Correspondence was formed by Samuel Adams and twenty other Patriot leaders in November of 1772 in Boston in response to the Gaspee Gaspée, affair which had occurred the Previous june in the colony Of Rhode. island In late 1773, the Boston Committee of Correspondence was charged with managing the “tea crisis” and was the driving force of the December 16, 1773, Boston Tea Party, which was carried out by the Sons of Liberty.
The first communication from the Boston Committee of Correspondence sent to the towns of Massachusetts was a list of grievances (below) they had with Britain with a request that their views be endorsed. In Boston on Monday, November 2, 1772, they organized a town meeting at Faneuil Hall and garnered enough support to vote in a resolution to create a standing Committee of Correspondence.
The Boston Committee of Correspondence was formed at the Boston Town Meeting of November 2, 1772 in response to the British government’s decision to pay the governor and Superior Court judges of Massachusetts with Crown stipends, thereby making them dependent on the Crown rather than the people in assembly. With the gradual establishment of self-government and the evacuation of the British from Boston in March 1776, the Committee of Correspondence attended to public safety activities in the Boston area until the end of the Revolutionary War.
Circular Letter of the Boston Committee of Correspondence; May 13, 1774. We have just received the copy of an Act of the British Parliament passed in the present session whereby the town of Boston is treated in a manner the most ignominious, cruel, and unjust. 
The Boston Committee of Correspondence records, dated 1772-1784, document the Committee’s initiatives in colonial political action in Massachusetts, from the writing of the Boston Pamphlet in November 1772 through the early months of war with Great Britain in 1775, as well as the Committee's contact with other colonies. With the gradual establishment of self-government and the evacuation of the British from Boston in March 1776, the Committee of Correspondence attended to public safety activities in the Boston area until the end of the Revolutionary War.
The first standing Committee of Correspondence was formed by Samuel Adams and twenty other Patriot leaders in November of 1772 in Boston in response to the Gaspee Gaspée, affair which had occurred the Previous june in the colony Of Rhode. Island Samuel adams. portrait In late 1773, the Boston Committee of Correspondence was charged with managing the “tea crisis” and was the driving force of the December 16, 1773, Boston Tea Party, which was carried out by the Sons of Liberty.
In late 1773, the Boston Committee of Correspondence was charged with managing the “tea crisis” and was the driving force of the December 16, 1773 Boston Tea Party…. These Committees of Correspondence were intercolonial standing provincial governments. In late 1773, the Boston Committee of Correspondence was charged with managing the “tea crisis” and was the driving force of the December 16, 1773, Boston Tea Party, which was carried out by the Sons of Liberty.
This report of the Boston Committee of Correspondence was prepared by Sam Adams and read to the Boston Town Meeting on Nov. 20, 1772. The inflammatory piece, written by the known radical and master propagandist, is a window looking into Revolutionary Boston four years before the Declaration of Independence. For example the Committee of Correspondence in Boston gave its blessing on the raiding of the Dartmouth and the destruction of its cargo that became known as the Boston Tea Party. As the revolution drew nearer, the committees became the spine of colonial interaction.
The Boston Committee of Correspondence was the driving force of the December 16, 1773, Boston Tea Party, which was carried out by the Sons of Liberty. Samuel Adams was the prominent leader of both organizations. In late 1773, the Boston Committee of Correspondence was charged with managing the “tea crisis” and was the driving force of the December 16, 1773, Boston Tea Party, which was carried out by the Sons of Liberty.