Re: Mack Tuna: *Eating Qualities. This might be common knowledge but a good way of bleeding tuna is by taking a sharp knife and making a vertical cut just behind the pectoral fins. the blood comes rushing out if done strait away. Speak up if so as I have your gloves. We filleted a mack tuna that a &quot;matt&quot; hit at fishrock at SWR. Nice fish but when we filleted it the flesh was blood black and really didnt look inviting. We didnt bleed it so that would prob be a major factor. Befor we go out again matt can you fix your inside leg seem.
Nutrition. A 3-ounce serving of chunk light tuna canned in water contains 99 calories, 22 grams of protein and 0.7 grams of fat, making it a good choice for people looking for a low-fat protein source. This is 44 percent of the daily value for protein for people following a 2,000-calorie diet. 
Ask any bodybuilder or fitness-lover what he or she thinks of canned tuna and there's a good chance that you'll get this answer: Canned tuna is a time-saving miracle food, said with eyes full of wonder and happiness. Of course, you have to like tuna to eat canned tuna. As far as meal-in-a-can foods go, tuna is bland. 
Re: Mack Tuna: *Eating Qualities. Most of the time when people tell you something tastes crap, it's just them having a wank about how much they know. I was told the 3 kilo Bonito I once bought from the co-op wouldn't even impress my cat. It was beautiful. Speak up if so as I have your gloves. We filleted a mack tuna that a &quot;matt&quot; hit at fishrock at SWR. Nice fish but when we filleted it the flesh was blood black and really didnt look inviting. We didnt bleed it so that would prob be a major factor. Befor we go out again matt can you fix your inside leg seem.
Haven't tried this with mack tuna, but have done it with tailor which has a similar soft oily flesh and came out pretty good. Usually eat it as a starter or snack before main meal. I usually just eyeball the ingredients, but below is an approximation for one fillet off the fish you are holding. Of course that means you have lot of leftover tuna. #Which is just perfect as snapper bait ... #8-). Last, I'm a great believer in making sure ingredients go together. #Dipping mack tuna in beer batter and deep frying it might make sense (maybe) but it's definitely not going to taste like snapper.
Canned tuna is inexpensive and packed with protein. The fish is mild in flavor and versatile enough to include in a variety of nutritious recipes. Opt for tuna canned in water, and a serving contains less than 1 gram of fat and only about 100 calories. You'll also get a good dose iron and potassium as well. While you shouldn't eat tuna every day because of its mercury content, you can still safely enjoy canned tuna as a regular part of your healthy eating plan. Omega-3 Fatty Acids. The small amount of fat present in canned light tuna is mostly the healthy unsaturated kind, including omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids support a healthy brain and promote proper growth and development.
#That makes the meat a lot more like beef than fish. #Mack tuna are even richer than most tuna so they have a strong taste if not bled. Second, because they are such speedsters, mack tuna have lots of interior support such as tendons and blood cavities. #The only part I consider worth eating is the large muscle along the back that doesn't have any tendons in it. Of course that means you have lot of leftover tuna. #Which is just perfect as snapper bait ... #8-). Last, I'm a great believer in making sure ingredients go together. #Dipping mack tuna in beer batter and deep frying it might make sense (maybe) but it's definitely not going to taste like snapper.
The only time I have ever eaten mack tuna was at the Mackerel Islands one year when a Greek friend baked one up with garlic and vegetables – it tasted pretty good too, given that it looked so bloody and uninviting when he prepared it. Most readers will have eaten mack tuna in its canned form. Mack tuna are members of the very important family Scombridae that includes all mackerel, tuna and bonito. Size. The Australian all-tackle game fishing record stands at 11.8 kilos, taken in Queensland back in 1973. The West Australian record is a bit smaller at 8.9 kilos taken off Exmouth in 1995 by Geoff Moyle.
Although the mack tuna schools tend to contain larger fish, the star record for striped tuna is about 2kg heavier. Mack tuna are a northern species and are most common from Carnarvon north although Kalbarri does play host to many schools quite close to shore. Those stripes on top of the back make the Mack Tuna look very much like a mackerel in the water. Striped Tuna. Striped tuna certainly look blue rather than green and have prominent horizontal stripes along the body.