The answer varies from person to person because it depends upon how long it takes for your toenail to grow out. Discovery Health says it can take “a year to a year-and-a-half to grow from cuticle to tip.” As long as your old infected nail is there, you will still have toenail fungus. Unfortunately, it could take forever to get rid of toenail fungus if you wait for it to go away on its own. “Sad fact is, a toenail fungus problem will not usually go away on its own,” says the California Foot and Ankle Doctors.
If it is a severe infection, it may cause permanent damage to your nails or may spread beyond your nails. If you know you have toenail fungus, you can follow a few simple steps to get rid of it and return your toenail to its former health. 1 You should discard old shoes after you get rid of your fungus. 2  They can contain remnants of the fungi. 3  You can also wear open toe shoes to help reduce humidity. 4  Do not share nail clippers or tools used for manicures and pedicures.
Apply Vick's VapoRub. You can get over the counter vapor rub from Vick's to help your fungus. A study showed that daily application of Vick's VapoRub for 48 weeks can be as effective as topical treatment options such as Ciclopirox 8% for nail fungus. 1 You should discard old shoes after you get rid of your fungus. 2  They can contain remnants of the fungi. 3  You can also wear open toe shoes to help reduce humidity. 4  Do not share nail clippers or tools used for manicures and pedicures.
Tea tree oil is a natural anti-fungal. One study showed that tea tree oil may be effective for nail fungus. 18% of patients who used tea tree oil twice daily for 24 weeks were cleared of the infection. 1 You should discard old shoes after you get rid of your fungus. 2  They can contain remnants of the fungi. 3  You can also wear open toe shoes to help reduce humidity. 4  Do not share nail clippers or tools used for manicures and pedicures.
1. The first question a person may ask when they develop a nail fungus infection is how long it will take to get rid of the infection. The duration of a nail fungus infection depends on the severity of the infection, the type of treatment that is used and the general health of the person. These medications are typically taken for three months but it can take up to a year for a new nail to fully grow. Some people use a foot soak for nail fungus infections that is a combination of vinegar and hydrogen peroxide.
1 Soak your feet in a water and vinegar solution nightly for six months or until the fungus clears. 2  This will lower the pH of your toenails, thereby making it difficult for the fungus to thrive. 3  Take vitamins and supplements that are designed to improve your immune system. Symptoms of toenail fungus include: 1  A white, yellow or green patch of discoloration under the nail, typically near the edge; 2  Painful or sore nails; 3  Thickened nails; 4  Discoloration, often yellow, green or black; 5  Crumbling at the edges; 6  Rough, abnormal nail surface texture; 7  Foul odor; 8  Distorted nail shape;
If your nail fungus infection lingers you should see your doctor to rule out underlying health problems that may be associated with the fungus infection. Because you are the one in control of treatment it is really up to you to decide how long a nail fungus infection will last. These medications are typically taken for three months but it can take up to a year for a new nail to fully grow. Some people use a foot soak for nail fungus infections that is a combination of vinegar and hydrogen peroxide.
Getting more information is the first step in getting rid of toenail fungus. Clear Toes Clinic provides a safe, effective, FDA cleared laser procedure to remove toenail fungus. Getting rid of toenail fungus is a simple, 15 minute procedure that will leave you fungus free. You don’t need to take any medication or lose your nail with our procedure
How to get rid of a bad toenail fungus infection. Medical treatments, topical anti-fungal medications as well as home remedies to treat a toenail fungal infection. Toenail fungus is a chronic and potentially contagious problem that affects millions of people worldwide. Symptoms of toenail fungus include: 1  A white, yellow or green patch of discoloration under the nail, typically near the edge; 2  Painful or sore nails; 3  Thickened nails; 4  Discoloration, often yellow, green or black; 5  Crumbling at the edges; 6  Rough, abnormal nail surface texture; 7  Foul odor; 8  Distorted nail shape;
It takes a long time (about 6 months) for the nail to grow out, but the fungus is gone. However, it does come back and the treatment has to be repeated.” M.W. “I have had fungus and nail bed damage on my right thumb nail (about half way up the nail) for approximately 8 eight years. “I have been keeping up on your ideas to combat toenail fungus. I am happy to say that since March, 2013 I have been soaking my toes every day for 30 minutes with a combination of Listerine and ACV (apple cider vinegar) with great success.