The name is currently popular in Scandinavian countries. Mathilde appeared among the top 10 most popular names for girls born in Denmark in 2008 and the name was also well-used in Norway, Sweden and Finland. 
In American the meaning of the name Mathilde is: Battle maiden. Greek Meaning: The name Mathilde is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Mathilde is: Brave in war. German Meaning: The name Mathilde is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Mathilde is: Mighty battle maiden. French Meaning: The name Mathilde is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Mathilde is: Strong in war. Strength for battle. 
The name Aria is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Aria is: Intelligence of an eagle. American Meaning: The name Aria is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Aria is: Intelligence of an eagle. English Meaning: The name Aria is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Aria is: Gentle music. Greek Meaning: The name Aria is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Aria is: Ariadne who aided Theseus to escape from the Cretan labyrinth. Italian Meaning: The name Aria is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Aria is: Melody.
Calliope. Gender: F Rate: Calliope is the name of the muse of epic poetry -- and also the musical instrument on the merry-go-round. Bold and creative, it would not be the easiest name for a girl lacking such qualities. Read More. List Categories
1 In the bible, this is the name of one of Paul's Christian associates. 2  In mythology, this is the name of a musician, the personification of lamentation. 3  He was killed by Apollo who was his rival in music. 4  Another version of the story says he was killed by Hercules. 1 KOUSAN: Armenian name meaning singer.. 2  LINOS: Greek name derived either from the word ailinon, a ritual cry of grief, or, from linon, meaning flax, linen.. 3  In the bible, this is the name of one of Paul's Christian associates. 4
1 CHENANIAH: Anglicized form of Hebrew Kenanyah, meaning Jehovah establishes or whom Jehovah defends.. 2  In the bible, this is the name of a Levite who was the chief of the Temple singers who conducted the music when the Ark of the Covenant was moved from the house of Obed-edom to Jerusalem. 1 KOUSAN: Armenian name meaning singer.. 2  LINOS: Greek name derived either from the word ailinon, a ritual cry of grief, or, from linon, meaning flax, linen.. 3  In the bible, this is the name of one of Paul's Christian associates. 4  In mythology, this is the name of a musician, the personification of lamentation.
You've come to the right place. Our baby name guide presents the most popular baby names, celeb baby names, and thousands of names that are searchable by origin and gender. Our guide also includes baby name meanings and lets you keep a list of your favorite names to help you make this important decision. Photo: Thinkstock / The Bump
Girls Names is a four-piece band from Belfast, Northern Ireland. Formed in 2009 as a two-piece by singer/guitarist and songwriter Cathal Cully and drummer Neil Brogan, Claire Miskimmin joined on bass the following year and Charles Hurts guitarist Philip Quinn was added to the line-up in 2012. 
1 LINUS: Latin form of Greek Linos, meaning either a cry of grief or flax, linen.. 2  In the bible, this is the name of one of Paul's Christian associates. 3  In mythology, this is the name of a musician, the personification of lamentation. 4  He was killed by Apollo who was his rival in music. 1 KOUSAN: Armenian name meaning singer.. 2  LINOS: Greek name derived either from the word ailinon, a ritual cry of grief, or, from linon, meaning flax, linen.. 3  In the bible, this is the name of one of Paul's Christian associates. 4