It's not likely, but it is possible. Your chances of getting pregnant just after your period depend on how short your menstrual cycle is, and how long your period lasts. One of your ovaries will release an egg (ovulation) about 12 to 14 days before your period starts. The first day of your period, when you start bleeding, is counted as the first day of your cycle. If you have a 28-day cycle, you'll usually ovulate some time between day 12 and day 16 of your cycle. If your cycle is short, 22 days for example, then you could ovulate just days after your period, if your period lasted seven days. The longest that sperm can survive in fertile cervical mucus is
Report Abuse. This depends on the length of your cycles. 28 days is the average cycle length for women. Ovulation occurs on about Day 14 in women who have 28 day cycles. (Day 1 is the first day of bleeding.) What is always constant is that (asuming you ovulate) your period will come 14 days AFTER you ovulate. The time from onset of menses (day 1) until ovulation can differ
There is not a way to know for certain how long after your period you will ovulate, however. Ovulation does not occur in relation to the previous period, but rather to the next period. You will ovulate 14 days prior to the start of your next menstrual cycle. This means, then, that if you have a 28-day cycle, you will ovulate roughly 14 days after your period, and 14 days prior to the start of your next period. If you have a 31 day cycle, however, you will ovulate roughly 17 days after your period, and, again, 14 days prior to the start of your next period. If you are trying to conceive, you should begin to have intercourse roughly 4-5 days prior to ovulation, as the sperm can live in the body for about 5 days. 
Best Answer: usually about 14 days. If you buy ovulation predictor kits, you should start testing on cycle day 10 (about 3 days after your period ends or 10 days after it starts.) If you started your period on the 15th, you should ovulate about the 28th. Buy OPT and chart your BBT.
39 Followers. A. By convention, the first day of your period is the first day of your menstrual cycle. Around day 7 several eggs start to develop in your ovaries. However, only one egg will predominate and be release when you ovulate. For the average menstrual cycle, which is 28-32 days ovulation occurs on day 14. 
During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days. The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period.
You ovulate 14 days BEFORE your period, not after (unless you have a 28 day cycle, then it's the same thing). Find out how long your cycle is by counting from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. Then subtract 14 from that and that's what day you ovulate on. If you buy ovulation predictor kits, you should start testing on cycle day 10 (about 3 days after your period ends or 10 days after it starts.) If you started your period on the 15th, you should ovulate about the 28th. Buy OPT and chart your BBT.