Deplin is a prescription vitamin that contains L-methylfolate, the active form of folic acid. This vitamin can help increase folate levels in people with depression and reduce homocysteine levels in people with schizophrenia. (Click Deplin for a complete overview of what Deplin is prescribed for. This article also covers other potential side effects, dosing information, and general safety precautions.).
How DEPLIN ® is Different. Non-prescription folic acid is not the same as the active folate found in DEPLIN ® . Unlike DEPLIN ® , non-prescription folic acid needs to be broken down (or activated) by the body before it can be used. Unfortunately, up to 70% of depressed patients have a compromised ability to complete this activation. DEPLIN ® capsules can provide you with already-activated folate, so that your body does not have to go through all the steps needed to benefit from it. This ensures that you get the most out of your folate, without the worry that your body may not be able to activate it.
Deplin is based on a single active ingredient, the natural form of Folic acid known as L-methylfolate. This is claimed as the only form to cross the brain blood barrier, which makes the product effective in regulating levels of important neurotransmitters associated with mood. This form is known as L-methylfolate and is an essential substance for the formation of healthy DNA and prevention of DNA damage. Deplin is prescribed to treat different conditions caused by a deficiency in this vitamin including low plasma and low blood cell folate, and other conditions such as mood related disorders.
If you have depression or schizophrenia, a healthcare provider may prescribe Deplin. Deplin ® is a prescription vitamin that contains L-methylfolate, which is the active form of folate in the body. It is approved for use as a nutritional supplement in people with: Deplin should be prescribed in combination with an antidepressant or antipsychotic, under the supervision of a healthcare provider. It is considered a medical food.. Medical foods are products that are designed to help manage certain medical conditions with specific dietary needs.
Using this vitamin in combination with antidepressants and antipsychotics can help improve the effectiveness of the medications. Deplin ® is a prescription vitamin that contains L-methylfolate, which is the active form of folate in the body. It is approved for use as a nutritional supplement in people with: Deplin should be prescribed in combination with an antidepressant or antipsychotic, under the supervision of a healthcare provider. It is considered a medical food.. Medical foods are products that are designed to help manage certain medical conditions with specific dietary needs.
Discover DEPLIN ®. DEPLIN ® , a prescription product, is specially formulated and can be used with your current antidepressant to meet the nutritional needs of patients with depression. DEPLIN ® capsules can provide you with already-activated folate, so that your body does not have to go through all the steps needed to benefit from it. This ensures that you get the most out of your folate, without the worry that your body may not be able to activate it.
Folic acid is the man-made form of folate. Folate is a B-vitamin naturally found in some foods. It is needed to form healthy cells, especially red blood cells. Folic acid supplements may come in different forms (such as L-methylfolate, levomefolate, methyltetrahydrofolate). They are used to treat or prevent low folate levels. Low folate levels can lead to certain types of anemia
Deplin oral Uses. How to use Deplin oral. Folic acid is the man-made form of folate. Folate is a B-vitamin naturally found in some foods. It is needed to form healthy cells, especially red blood cells. Folic acid supplements may come in different forms (such as L-methylfolate, levomefolate, methyltetrahydrofolate).
Folate is the natural form. Deplin is a man-made version, L-methyl folate, and is available by prescription only. It is not an antidepressant but seems to help with depression, depression related to bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Deplin isn’t a antidepressant. It is the natural, active form of folic acid(Vitamin B9). It’s called 5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid or Metafolin and Deplin is just a high dose of it. For this reason you don’t need a prescription.