Respiration is a series of reactions in which energy is released from glucose glucose: A simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration. Aerobic respiration is the form of respiration which uses oxygen. It can be summarised by this equation: glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water (+ energy). Energy is shown in brackets because it is not a substance.
Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration is the release of energy from glucose or another organic substrate in the presence of Oxygen. Strictly speaking aerobic means in air, but it is the Oxygen in the air which is necessary for aerobic respiration. Anaerobic respiration is in the absence of air
Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs. Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors.
Aerobic respiration is the cellular process through which humans obtain energy from food. The breakdown of glucose into cellular energy takes place mostly inside mitochondria. Weightlifting can increase anaerobic power. Cells store energy in a molecule called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Aerobic respiration is when food substances break down in the presence of oxygen to release large amounts of energy. Carbon dioxide and water are also released.
Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. 
Cellular respiration is the process by which living organisms obtain energy from food. There are two main methods. Aerobic respiration — employed by all multicellular and some unicellular life forms — uses oxygen in the atmosphere, or dissolved in water, as part of a complex process that releases and stores energy. Aerobic respiration is when food substances break down in the presence of oxygen to release large amounts of energy. Carbon dioxide and water are also released.
Respiration. Respiration is the process of releasing energy from the breakdown of glucose. Respiration takes place in every living cell, all of the time and all cells need to respire in order to produce the energy that they require. 
Anaerobic respiration. Unlike aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration does not need oxygen. It is the release of a relatively small amount of energy in cells by the breakdown of food substances in the absence of oxygen. 
Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. 