Ayers Rock Weather. Learn about the weather and climate at Ayers Rock. Record summer highs of above 50ºC have been reported, while winter lows often drop below -10ºC. No matter when you come for a tour of Ayers Rock, be sure to come prepared for hot, dry days and cold nights. Travellers on an Ayers Rock tour during these months should keep an eye on the weather forecast at Ayers Rock to stay on top of any possible storms. The average daytime high during the peak summer months of December and January is 38ºC, though the mercury typically breaks the 40ºC barrier and can even hit 50ºC.
The Uluru, Northern Territory climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine.
Climate statistics. If you are after long-term averages relevant to Uluru [Ayers Rock], Northern Territory, look at the tables for Yulara Airport or Ayers Rock. Maps and tables of average conditions for locations across Australia are also available. Other times and other places. The last 14 months of Daily Weather Observations for Uluru [Ayers Rock], Northern Territory are also here on this web site: Oct 15 Sep 15 Aug 15 Jul 15 Jun 15 May 15 Apr 15 Mar 15. Feb 15 Jan 15 Dec 14 Nov 14 Oct 14 Sep 14.
Unlike the Top End of the Northern Territory which has a tropical climate, the Red Centre has a semi-arid climate. In summer (December-February), average temperatures range between 20°C and 35°C. In winter (June-August), the average temperature range is 3°C -20°C. Spring and autumn have warm days and cool evenings. Rainfall varies dramatically from year to year, but the annual average is around 286mm
Alice Springs weather is unpredictable, including its rain patterns. Alice Springs weather is classified as a desert climate, although its average rainfall of 290mm normally results in a semi-arid classification. Its high evaporation statistic, however, puts the climate firmly into the arid category. 
Temperatures. Weather at Uluru can be extreme. Ayers Rock temperatures average 37-40C in summer and 18-20C in winter. However, summer temperatures in Desert of 45C have been recorded. As with most places in the Outback, January and February are the hottest months of the year. July is generally the coolest month Uluru Kata Tjuta National Park. The temperature can drop below freezing, and frosts occur on 50% of mornings. This graph shows the average minimum and maximum temperatures for each month. So tropical cyclones are the main influence upon Ayers Rock rainfall. Rainfall at Ayers Rock averages 308mm (about 12 inches) rain each year. Like many other place in the Outback, Uluru’s rainfall is unpredictable. More rain occurs during the summer, although rain can fall at any time
Desert climate, average temperatures range from approximately 22 degrees Celsius (72 degrees Fahrenheit) in winter to 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit) in summer. Nights and mornings during winter are cold and guests should pack appropriate warm clothing. Temperatures can range from 5° C in July to 37° C in January. What classifies a desert is the amount of rainfall it receives. On average Ulu r u-Kata Tju t a receives approximately 308mm (12 inches) per year.
However, it surprises-in that the temperature can vary so dramatically. Temperatures can range from 5° C in July to 37° C in January. What classifies a desert is the amount of rainfall it receives. On average Ulu r u-Kata Tju t a receives approximately 308mm (12 inches) per year.
Overview. Uluru is situated near the centre of a semi-arid desert, Temperatures can range from 3.5° C in July to 37.5° C in January. On average Uluru-Kata Tjuta receives approximately 308mm (12 inches) per year, so not much at all. Temperature. The climate in this region is extreme. In winter, daytime temperatures can be pleasant but clear nights can see the temperature drop below 0.