closerfan12. Post 3. @EarlyForest -- Sometimes tortuous aortas can indirectly cause abdominal aortic aneurysms, like pharmchick78 was talking about. Since a tortuous aorta is abnormal, sometimes the wall of the aorta can be weaker, leading to an aortic aneurysm, or, worst case scenario, an aortic aneurysm rupture.
The aorta is the largest artery in the body, leaving directly from the left ventricle of the heart to supply blood to the entire body. It is made of elastic tissue layers called intima and is subject to damage by high blood pressure, smoking, cholesterol, and inherited risk factors.
The aorta vessel (outflow tract) is the main vessel for blood flow to the system. An elongated aorta can by its size can crowd out and cause tracheal (throat) compression. Pressure on the trachea can be sufficient to cause displacement and reduction in caliber, usually inside the thorax.
Aorta: The largest artery in the body, the aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart, goes up (ascends) a little ways, bends over (arches), then goes down (descends) through the chest and through the abdomen to where ends by dividing into two arteries called the common iliac arteries that go to the legs.
The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body. It carries freshly oxygenated blood out of the heart so that it can be distributed to the circulatory system. In most people, the aorta follows a relatively straight path, but in people with tortuous aorta, the vessel may be twisted or distorted.
Thank you for the input. Elongated and tortuous aorta on Chest X ray sounds like thoracic part of the aorta. This can be elongated & become tortuous from a number of causes. In an adult of his age it is likely to be due to atherosclerosis & high blood pressure. CAD is coronary artery disease. It is a type of heart disease.
Elongated and tortuous aorta on Chest X ray sounds like thoracic part of the aorta. This can be elongated & become tortuous from a number of causes. In an adult of his age it is likely to be due to atherosclerosis & high blood pressure. CAD is coronary artery disease. It is a type of heart disease.