Osteomalacia, or soft bones, often develops because of a lack of vitamin D. It causes severe bone pain and muscle weakness. In Victorian times the condition often affected children and was called rickets, but today osteomalacia usually affects adults, especially the elderly and/or people of South Asian origin. 
Definition. Osteomalacia refers to a softening of your bones, often caused by a vitamin D deficiency. Soft bones are more likely to bow and fracture than are harder, healthy bones. Osteomalacia is not the same as osteoporosis, another bone disorder that also can lead to bone fractures. Osteomalacia results from a defect in the bone-building process, while osteoporosis develops due to a weakening of previously constructed bone.
Osteomalacia in children is known as rickets, and because of this, use of the term osteomalacia is often restricted to the milder, adult form of the disease. Signs and symptoms can include diffuse body pains, muscle weakness, and fragility of the bones. The most common cause of osteomalacia is a deficiency of vitamin D, which is normally derived from sunlight exposure and, to a lesser extent, from the diet.
osteomalacia. softening of the bones, resulting from impaired mineralization, with excess accumulation of osteoid, caused by a vitamin D deficiency in adults. A similar condition in children is called rickets. Osteomalacia is a bone disease that occurs in adults and is caused by a prolonged period of vitamin D deficiency. Mentioned in: Bone X Rays, Laxatives, Vitamin D Deficiency.
Measures to prevent and treat osteomalacia usually revolve around intake of vitamin D and calcium supplements. Vitamin D should always be administered in conjunction with calcium supplementation since most of the consequences of vitamin D deficiency are a result of impaired mineral ion homeostasis. Signs and symptoms can include diffuse body pains, muscle weakness, and fragility of the bones. The most common cause of osteomalacia is a deficiency of vitamin D, which is normally derived from sunlight exposure and, to a lesser extent, from the diet.
Osteomalacia is a disease that causes an adult’s bones to soften, resulting in muscle weakness and bone pain. The most common cause of osteomalacia is a lack of vitamin D. In children osteomalacia is known as rickets. People at risk for developing soft bones typically possess one or more risk factors associated with low vitamin D levels. Osteomalacia is caused by a dysfunction in the bone-building process. Because vitamin D is needed to build strong bones, any disorder that affects vitamin D levels in your body will affect your bones.
There are two main causes of osteomalacia: (1) insufficient calcium absorption from the intestine because of lack of dietary calcium or a deficiency of, or resistance to, the action of vitamin D; and (2) phosphate deficiency caused by increased renal losses. Signs and symptoms can include diffuse body pains, muscle weakness, and fragility of the bones. The most common cause of osteomalacia is a deficiency of vitamin D, which is normally derived from sunlight exposure and, to a lesser extent, from the diet.
The most common reason that osteomalacia occurs is a lack of vitamin D. Vitamin D is an important nutrient that helps you absorb calcium in the stomach. Vitamin D also helps maintain calcium and phosphate levels for proper bone formation. 
Muscle weakness and achy bone pain are the major symptoms of osteomalacia. Treatment for osteomalacia involves replenishing low levels of vitamin D and calcium and treating any underlying disorders that may be causing the deficiencies. Osteomalacia is not the same as osteoporosis, another bone disorder that also can lead to bone fractures. Osteomalacia results from a defect in the bone-building process, while osteoporosis develops due to a weakening of previously constructed bone.
Rickets is a condition that affects bone development in children. It causes the bones to become soft and weak, which can lead to bone deformities. Rickets in adults is known as osteomalacia or soft bones. The most common cause of rickets is a lack of vitamin D and calcium. Vitamin D largely comes from the exposure of the skin to sunlight, but it is also found in some foods such as oily fish and eggs. Vitamin D is essential for a child to form strong and healthy