Architecture [edit]. Lighttpd is an asynchronous server. It runs as single process with a single thread and non-blocking I/O. Nginx and Lighttpd are probably the two best-known asynchronous servers and Apache is undoubtedly the best known process-based server. [... ] The main advantage of the asynchronous approach is scalability. In a process-based server, each simultaneous connection requires a thread which incurs significant overhead
Lighttpd also supports WebDNA, the resilient in-memory database system designed to build database-driven websites. It is a popular web server for the Catalyst and Ruby on Rails web frameworks. Lighttpd does not support ISAPI. lighttpd supports the FastCGI, SCGI and CGI interfaces to external programs, allowing web applications written in any programming language to be used with the server. As a particularly popular language, PHP performance has received special attention.
Architecture. Both Lighttpd and nignx are asynchronous servers. Nginx and Lighttpd are probably the two best-known asynchronous servers and Apache is undoubtedly the best known process-based server. [... ] The main advantage of the asynchronous approach is scalability. In a process-based server, each simultaneous connection requires a thread which incurs significant overhead. 
The Lighttpd web server, also oddly called lighty by the author, is an excellent tool for small to medium sized web sites. The server is a great way to off load static content like pictures or binary downloads from an overloaded Apache server and it is perfect for small home web servers or corporate LAN. 
Note that lighttpd does not support .htaccess files as some web servers do to configure directory specific server settings. Instead, it uses a centrally configured system using lighttpd.conf to define all settings, using powerful matching functions. This still means that you have to manually set up directory settings. Lighttpd. Lighttpd is a highly-configurable, lightweight web server. See lighttpd and http://www.lighttpd.net/ . There are many modules available for lighttpd that can be installed and configured. For more information on the modules see http://redmine.lighttpd.net/projects/lighttpd/wiki/doc
lighttpd (pronounced lighty) is an open-source web server optimized for speed-critical environments while remaining standards-compliant, secure and flexible. lighttpd supports the FastCGI, SCGI and CGI interfaces to external programs, allowing web applications written in any programming language to be used with the server. As a particularly popular language, PHP performance has received special attention.
Description. lighttpd is a secure, fast, compliant, and very flexible web-server that has been optimized for high-performance environments. It has a very low memory footprint compared to other webservers and takes care of cpu-load. This will automatically install Lighttpd, start it, and set it to run at boot. You can access your web server by going to  http://localhost  in any web browser on the local machine, or  http://serverip  (where serverip is the IP address of the computer running lighttpd) from any other computer on the network.
Important: Some malware camouflages itself as LightTPD.exe, particularly when located in the C:\Windows or C:\Windows\System32 folder. Therefore, you should check the LightTPD.exe process on your PC to see if it is a threat. We recommend Security Task Manager for verifying your computer's security. Therefore, please read below to decide for yourself whether the LightTPD.exe on your computer is a Trojan that you should remove, or whether it is a file belonging to the Windows operating system or to a trusted application.