The consequences of lung inflammation depend on the cause of the inflammation. Lung inflammation can refer to irritation and infection of the lung itself, or of the thin membrane that covers the lungs and lines the chest cavity, known as the pleura. It is one of the main reasons for lung inflammation, and causes a phlegm-filled cough, chest pain when you breathe, shortness of breath, and fever. Tuberculosis is another, highly contagious bacterial infection that can cause lung
1 2 diseases that are common. 2  1 disease that is uncommon. 3  4 diseases that are very rare. 4  175 diseases without any prevalence information. 5  The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Lung inflammation as a side effect. This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Lung inflammation, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 1  2 diseases that are very common. 2  2 diseases that are common. 3  1 disease that is uncommon. 4
Viral infection is probably the most common cause of pleurisy. Some of the other causes include: 1  Lung infections, such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. 2  Other diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, liver diseases, and pulmonary embolism. 3  Chest injuries. 4  Drug reactions.
Pneumonia is any disease that causes inflammation of the lung tissue, particularly the air sacs (alveoli) of the lung. It is a fairly common respiratory disease that can be life threatening. 
Key Capabilities: Lung inflammation: Inflammation is an essential component of many lung diseases, including asthma, COPD, lung cancer, and granulomatous lung diseases. LRRI scientists have observed in rat lung that chronic, silicotic granulomas are initiated late and coincide with the initiation of lung inflammation. 
All forms of interstitial lung disease cause thickening of the interstitium. The thickening can be due to inflammation, scarring, or extra fluid (edema). Some forms of interstitial lung disease are short-lived; others are chronic and irreversible. Some of the types of interstitial lung disease include: Interstitial pneumonia: Bacteria, viruses, or fungi may infect the interstitium of the lung. A bacterium called Mycoplasma pneumonia is the most common cause. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: A chronic, progressive form of fibrosis (scarring)
1 1 disease that is uncommon. 2  4 diseases that are very rare. 3  175 diseases without any prevalence information. 4  The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Lung inflammation as a side effect. This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Lung inflammation, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 1  2 diseases that are very common. 2  2 diseases that are common. 3  1 disease that is uncommon. 4
1 2 diseases that are very common. 2  2 diseases that are common. 3  1 disease that is uncommon. 4  4 diseases that are very rare. 5  175 diseases without any prevalence information. 6  The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Lung inflammation as a side effect. This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Lung inflammation, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 1 
Definition. Pneumonitis (noo-moe-NIE-tis) is a general term that refers to inflammation of lung tissue. Although pneumonia is technically a type of pneumonitis because the infection causes inflammation, most doctors are referring to other causes of lung inflammation when they use the term pneumonitis.. Factors that can cause pneumonitis include exposure to airborne irritants at your job or from your hobbies. 