1 The PCC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), working jointly, will mutually agree on a set of criteria to decide whether and when alternatives within U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) are warranted for private companies. The FAF Trustees appointed FASB member Daryl Buck to serve as a liaison between the FASB and the PCC. The primary purpose of this liaison role is to serve as the main point of contact to facilitate communications and integration between the PCC and the FASB. The FASB liaison is not a member of the PCC.
Pyridinium chlorochromate (PCC) is a red–orange salt with the formula C 5 H 5 NH[CrO 3 Cl]. A variety of related compounds are known with similar reactivity. Although no longer widely used, PCC offered the advantage of the selective oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes, whereas many other reagents were less selective. Disadvantages to using PCC are the tedious reaction workup and its toxicity. The chemical was first synthesized and used by E.J. Corey and J. William Suggs
Background and history of the events leading up to the creation of the PCC, including the final plan, comment letters, public roundtables, and the initial FAF plan to create a private company standards council. More. The FAF Trustees appointed FASB member Daryl Buck to serve as a liaison between the FASB and the PCC. The primary purpose of this liaison role is to serve as the main point of contact to facilitate communications and integration between the PCC and the FASB. The FASB liaison is not a member of the PCC.
In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of PCC file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your PCC file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your PCC file.
The Program for Cooperative Cataloging (PCC) is one of two cooperative cataloging ventures. The PCC is an international cooperative effort aimed at expanding access to library collections by providing useful, timely, and cost-effective cataloging that meets mutually-accepted standards of libraries around the world. Read more about the PCC. 1 The PCC Secretariat uses the information gathered from the report form to capture PCC training statistics. 2  Instructors may request Certificate of Appreciation by filling out the report form. 3  Note: please do not use the report form for training conducted within your institution.
Think PCC first. No matter where you’re going, PCC is the place to start. With our many academic options, you can earn the training, degree or certificate you need to get a great job, or you can earn credits that transfer to a four-year university. 
Gardening with Ciscoe: Summer grilling. Everyone is welcome to shop at PCC Natural Markets, a member-owned cooperative. You'll find fresh, local and organic produce, quality meats, sustainable seafood and so much more at our ten Seattle-area locations. We look forward to helping you taste the season! 
Another oxidative reaction of PCC is its conversion of unsaturated alcohols or aldehydes to cyclohexenones. This pathway, an oxidative cationic cyclization, is illustrated by the conversion of (−)- citronellol to (−)- pulegone. A variety of related compounds are known with similar reactivity. Although no longer widely used, PCC offered the advantage of the selective oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes, whereas many other reagents were less selective. Disadvantages to using PCC are the tedious reaction workup and its toxicity. The chemical was first synthesized and used by E.J. Corey and J. William Suggs
PCC Policy Statement: Be advised that by entering your User Name and Password on this site, you are requesting access to MyPCC and agree to the conditions of all applicable Information Security Policies and Standards. 