Kira /ki-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KEER-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Kira is lord. Variant of Kyra. Made familiar by the character Major Kira on the TV series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. Kira is a very prominent first name for women (#1165 out of 4276, Top 27%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#73412 out of 150436, Top 49%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Kira for girls
Kyra /kyra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KEER-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Kyra is lord. From the male name Kyros (see Kyrie), from the Persian and Egyptian word for like Ra, the sun. A short form of Kyria, the Greek title of respect for a woman. In Slavonic it means strong woman. 
The girl's name Kira is pronounced /ˈkɪərə/ KEER-ə. It might be a female form of the name Kiran, pronounced /ˈkɪərən/ KEER-ən. Kiran is of Hindi and Sanskrit origin, meaning beam of light. Besides Sanskrit, there might be other etymologies from Egyptian, where the word Ki-Ra means like Ra , or Persian. Kira kira also means glittery, shiny in Japanese. Finally, Kira is a diminutive of the old and rare male given name Avvakir.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kira. Kira is a variant of the Irish name Ciara (pronounced KEER-a), which is the feminine of Ciar meaning “black”. Secondly, Kira is also considered the Russian feminine form of Cyrus, from the Greek (kyrios) meaning ‘lord’ therefore giving Kira the meaning ‘mistress, ruler’. Thirdly, the name could be a feminine form of Kiram, from Sanskrit meaning ‘beam of light’. In Greek, the word “κυρία” (Kyria) translates to ‘lady’ providing another possible origin. Lastly, in Japanese, Kira means ‘glittery, shining’.
Latin Meaning: The name Kira is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Kira is: Light. Russian Meaning: The name Kira is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Kira is: Light. American Meaning: The name Kira is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kira is: Light.
In Russian Kira (ки́ра) is the feminine form of the male name Kir, meaning mistress, ruler, but can translate to leader of the people, one the people look to or beloved. Kira could also have arrived into Russian from the Persian-Greek name Kyra. Kira kira also means glittery, shiny in Japanese. Finally, Kira is a diminutive of the old and rare male given name Avvakir.
Feminine form of Kieran, an Anglicized form of the Irish Ciaran, ciarán which is derived from The gaelic (ciar) black and the diminutive-suffix: an, hence little dark.. One the name was originally bestowed upon those babies born with dark hair or a dark. Complexion From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Personal experiences with the name Kira: | Edit. My sister is called kira. Yeah, she is a nutter! She thinks she is hannah montana and annoys the hell ou of me 24/7. Yay, Kira! Kira is a very pretty name. The only problem is a lot of people think it's Kara. My best friend is Kira and I love her name.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kira and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kira and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Kira are: The meaning of the name “Kira” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.