A: As of 2014, if the car contains a front passenger air bag, a child can ride in the front seat if he is no longer using a rearward-facing car seat. These seats are used until a child is 9 to 15 months old or weighs 22 to 29 pounds.
1 » The child is 5 years or older. » 2  The child weighs 40 pounds or more. 3  If a child needs to ride in the front seat, you should still use a car seat or booster seat where appropriate. 4  However, rear-facing seats can NEVER be used in front of an active airbag.
1 No. When a child reaches age 8 (regardless of weight) OR reaches 80 pounds (regardless of age), a properly fitted seat belt may be used instead of a child restraint/booster to restrain the child. 2  However, keep in mind that the seatbelt may not fit properly even if the child is 8 years old or weighs 80 pounds.
1 According to North Carolina law, children less than age 5 and less than 40 pounds must be in the back seat in vehicles with active passenger-side front airbags. 2  However, the recommendation is to keep kids in the back seat until they are 12 or 13.
The laws can be very specific about what age, height, and weight a child must be to sit in a front seat. For example, in Colorado, where Brandi C. lives, children have to be 5 feet tall and 11 years old before they can ride in the front seat, she reports.
A child under age 8 may only be in the front seat, properly restrained in a car seat or booster seat when: 1  The vehicle has no rear seating position appropriate for correctly restraining a child, or. 2  All appropriate rear seating positions are occupied by other children.
1 For the best possible protection, infants and children should be buckled in a rear-facing car seat, in the back seat, until age 2 or when they reach the upper weight or height limits of their particular seat. 2  Check the seat’s owner’s manual and/or labels on the seat for weight and height limits.
1 Birth up to age 2 – Rear-facing car seat. 2  For the best possible protection, infants and children should be buckled in a rear-facing car seat, in the back seat, until age 2 or when they reach the upper weight or height limits of their particular seat.
If the car does not have air bags, then a child can sit in the front at any age, but must us a booster seat until they weigh at least 80lbs. If your car has passenger side air … bags, then it not recommended for them to sit in the front seat until after they turn 13.