Meiosis in males occurs in the seminiferous tubules. This means that the seminiferous tubules are crucial in the process of reproduction. The seminiferous tubules are found inside the testes. They consist of a network of tubes that are lined with a type of cell known as a sertoli cells.
The endocrine cells located in the interstitial tissues, between the seminiferous tubules, of the testes, which produce and secrete the steroid androgens, testosterone, etc.; they are regulated by LH = ICTH from the anterior pituitary. 
Seminiferous tubules are located within the testes, and are the specific location of meiosis, and the subsequent creation of male gametes, namely spermatozoa. The seminiferous tubules are formed from the testis cords that develop from the primitive gonadal cords, formed from the gonadal ridge. Seminiferous tubule (right) with sperm (black, tiny, ovoid).
Definition of Seminiferous Tubules. Male sex cells are known as sperm. When a sperm from a male unites with the egg from a female, the process of fertilization occurs and a new life in produced. This process of reproduction is crucial for the survival of any living thing. This means that the seminiferous tubules are crucial in the process of reproduction. The seminiferous tubules are found inside the testes. They consist of a network of tubes that are lined with a type of cell known as a sertoli cells.
Located in the testicles, the seminiferous tubules are tiny tubes in which spermatozoa or sperm cells are formed. They are lined with Sertoli cells, specialized cells that serve as a sort of nursery for growing sperm cells. Malformation of seminiferous tubules may cause male infertility problems. Located inside the testicles, seminiferous tubules are where spermatozoa -- or sperm cells --
The epithelium of the tubule consists of a type of sustentacular cells known as Sertoli cells, which are tall, columnar type cells that line the tubule. In between the Sertoli cells are spermatogenic cells, which differentiate through meiosis to sperm cells. Sertoli cells function to nourish the developing sperm cells. They secrete testis-determining factor, a binding protein which increases the concentration of testosterone inside the seminiferous tubules. The seminiferous tubules are formed from the testis cords that develop from the primitive gonadal cords, formed from the gonadal ridge. Seminiferous tubule (right) with sperm (black, tiny, ovoid).
The supporting cells (Sertoli) are located within the seminiferous tubules. Their task is the creation of a hemato-testicular barrier and the nourishment of the spermatozoa. They can only proliferate in the first year of life (their equivalent in the woman are the follicular cells). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Spermatogenesis is the process in which spermatozoa are produced from male primordial germ cells by way of mitosis and meiosis. The initial cells in this pathway are called spermatogonia, which yield primary spermatocytes by mitosis. The mature spermatozoa are released from the protective Sertoli cells into the lumen of the seminiferous tubule in a process called spermiation. The non-motile spermatozoa are transported to the epididymis in testicular fluid secreted by the Sertoli cells with the aid of peristaltic contraction.