Ketotifen is a second-generation noncompetitive H 1 - antihistamine and mast cell stabilizer. It is most commonly sold as a salt with fumaric acid, ketotifen fumarate, and is available in two forms. In its ophthalmic form, it is used to treat allergic conjunctivitis, or the itchy red eyes caused by allergies.
Ketotifen ophthalmic (eye) solution is used to temporarily prevent itching of the eye caused by a condition known as allergic conjunctivitis. It works by acting on certain cells, called mast cells, to prevent them from releasing substances that cause the allergic reaction.
Ophthalmic ketotifen is used to relieve the itching of allergic pinkeye. Ketotifen is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms.
Ketotifen is an antihistamine that inhibits the body's release of a chemical called histamine. Histamine can produce allergy symptoms such as sneezing, runny nose, and watery eyes. Ketotifen ophthalmic is used to treat itching of the eyes caused by allergy to dust, pollen, animals, or other allergens.
Ketotifen is a medicine that helps prevent the warning signs and the danger signs of asthma. This medicine keeps the airways of your child s lungs healthy when your child uses it regularly. But if your child has the warning signs of asthma, make sure he or she uses his or her reliever medicine.
1 Review. Ketotifen is an antihistamine that inhibits the body's release of a chemical called histamine. Histamine can produce allergy symptoms such as sneezing, runny nose, and watery eyes. Ketotifen ophthalmic is used to treat itching of the eyes caused by allergy to dust, pollen, animals, or other allergens.
Ketotifen is an antihistamine for the eye that treats allergic symptoms by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine). It is also a mast cell stabilizer that prevents allergic reactions by reducing the release of natural substances that cause an allergic reaction.
Ophthalmic ketotifen comes as a solution (liquid) to instill in the eye. It is usually instilled in the affected eye(s) twice daily, 8 to 12 hours apart. Instill ketotifen eye drops at around the same times every day.