1 Most phones will tell you when the number is displayed if it is an IMEI or MEID number. 2  If your phone doesn't you can verify which number it is by checking what carrier you use. 3  GSM networks like AT&T and T-Mobile use IMEI numbers. 4  CDMA networks such as Sprint, Verizon, and US Cellular use MEID numbers. If your iPhone won't turn on, you can connect it to your computer and use iTunes to retrieve the IMEI/MEID number. 1  Plug your iPhone into your computer and open iTunes. 2  Select your iPhone from the Device menu in the upper-right corner of iTunes and then click the Summary tab.
You can also find your device's serial number in iTunes: 1  Connect your iOS device to your computer. 2  If iTunes doesn't launch automatically, open it. 3  Locate your device. 4  Click the Summary tab to see its information. 5  For an iPhone, click Phone Number to find the IMEI/MEID and ICCID. On these devices, you'll find the serial number in the Settings menu and the IMEI/MEID on the SIM tray. If you need support but you can't get to the Settings menu, you can use the IMEI/MEID instead of the serial number: 1  iPhone 6s Plus.
iPhone. On these devices, you'll find the serial number in the Settings menu and the IMEI/MEID on the SIM tray. If you need support but you can't get to the Settings menu, you can use the IMEI/MEID instead of the serial number: 1  iPhone 6s Plus. 2  iPhone 6s
Find the IMEI/MEID using iTunes. If your iPhone won't turn on, you can connect it to your computer and use iTunes to retrieve the IMEI/MEID number. 1  Plug your iPhone into your computer and open iTunes. 2  Select your iPhone from the Device menu in the upper-right corner of iTunes and then click the Summary tab.
It can also be printed inside the battery compartment of the phone. IMEI in iPhone & iPad. 1  Go to phone settings. 2  Then select the General. 3  In the About field you will find your iPhone IMEI. 4  In iPhone 3G, 3GS, 4 and 4s you can check the IMEI number on SIM card tray. 5  In iPhone 5, 5c and 5s IMEI number is engraved on the back cover. The IMEI is only used for identifying the device and has no permanent or semi-permanent relation to the subscriber. Number is used by the GSM network to identify valid devices and therefore can be used for stopping a stolen phone from accessing the network in that country.
The IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) is a unique number to identify GSM, WCDMA, and iDEN mobile phones, as well as some satellite phones. The IMEI is only used for identifying the device and has no permanent or semi-permanent relation to the subscriber. Number is used by the GSM network to identify valid devices and therefore can be used for stopping a stolen phone from accessing the network in that country.
Find your iPhone IMEI Number. Apr 13, 2011 - 31 Comments. IMEI stands for International Mobile Equipment Identity, you can think of IMEI like a serial number in that every iPhone, or other mobile phone for that matter, has a unique IMEI number used to identify it with carriers, manufacturers, and providers. If your iPhone is connected to iTunes you can grab the IMEI number from the app: 1  Select your iPhone from the iTunes menu. 2  In the “Summary” tab click on your phone number to reveal the IMEI number.
No, apple cannot track a phone using an IMEI number. And Apple will nt get invo9lved in lost devices. The onyl way to track a phone is to use find my iPhone. THe IMEI number just identifies the phone but is not a means of tracking it in and of itself. nutan_bashte wrote: 
Every single mobile phone in creation has a unique, 15 digit IMEI number. IMEI stands for The International Mobile station Equation Identity number, and is used to ID any device – phone, tablet, PC or laptop – that uses terrestrial (on earth) mobile networks. 
Mobile devices are one of the most commonly stolen items. T-Mobile, in cooperation with government agencies and other national and international carriers have joined together to help eliminate the use of stolen devices. Your International Mobile Equipment Identity number (IMEI) is a major part of this plan. 