Now factor in the cost of cancelled and rescheduled events and it is a system you cannot afford to live without! Natural Turf Drainage Design Natural Turf Drainage Installation. 1. Effective – Athletic field drainage systems must be able to collect water and transport water. Multi-Flow excels in both regards: Collecting water – Water can enter a Multi-Flow drain more readily because Multi-Flow has greater surface area than traditional round pipe. A. Sample usage Multi-Flow drainage systems are widely used in athletic fields. The explosion of Multi-Flow usage is part of a larger trend toward more extensive and intensive drainage in sports turf areas. Facility managers are under persistent pressure to keep fields healthy, attractive and ready for us
Example: If the cost of installing tile drainage is $500 per acre and the expected annual net cash return in crop returns from tile drainage is $100 per acre, the payback period is 5 years ($500 / $100 = 5 years). 
Also known as a drain field or soil absorption system, leach fields are an integral part of a septic system. If the leach field fails, replacing it can be costly. The cost of a new leach field depends on various factors. If your leach field needs replacement, get estimates from several contractors. You might save a few thousand dollars that way.
The cost to install drainage in a new home or during a basement remodel will be more affordable than retroactively installing it. One of the reasons it costs more than new construction drainage systems is due to concrete or finished floors removal to dig a perimeter ditch. A hole will also need to be dug in your basement floor underneath the foundation.
Drainage control structures cost between $500 and $2,000 apiece. Don Pitts of the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service state office in Champaign, Ill., says retrofitting existing pattern tile drainage systems on an ideal slope can run $50 to $150 per acre. At $500 to $2,000 per structure, the drainage water management structures only added about five to 15 percent to the cost of upgrading the field's century-old drainage system.
Thompson's slope is about one percent, so each structure manages a zone of about nine acres. At $500 to $2,000 per structure, the drainage water management structures only added about five to 15 percent to the cost of upgrading the field's century-old drainage system.
Replacement Costs. Although costs vary according to the size of the leach field, soils and costs of local permits, expect to pay between $5,000 and $20,000 for leach field replacement. It is the most expensive component of the septic system. If the leach field fails, replacing it can be costly. The cost of a new leach field depends on various factors. If your leach field needs replacement, get estimates from several contractors. You might save a few thousand dollars that way.
A system layout that matches poorly with field topography will result in a wide variation of drainage depths and uneven field drainage. Avoid a system layout with many points of minimum cover (2 - 2 1/2 ft) and excessively deep cuts. This figure is often between 3/8 and 1/2 inch of water removal per day. Table 2 shows drainage coefficients guidelines for crop production for land that has adequate surface drainage. (The figures are from Chapter 14 of the NRCS Engineering Field Handbook).