Etymology & Historical Origin-Callum. Callum is a variant spelling of Calum both of which are Scottish masculine names. Essentially Callum is the Scottish Gaelic equivalent to Columba in reference to Saint Columba, a 6th century Irish missionary who is credited with converting Scotland to Christianity.
Callum might also be spelled Calum; in Ireland, the name became Colm, and in Scotland it's sometimes used as a pet form of Malcolm. Callum was popular among early Christians because the dove was a symbol of purity, peace and the Holy Spirit. St. Columba was one of the most influential of the early Celtic saints. 
Borrowed from the Scottish, Calum is a Gaelic form of the Latin Columba (dove). Var: Callum, Kallum. Short: Cal, Kal. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Callum is a male given name and surname of Gaelic origin meaning Dove. It may be also spelled Calumn, Calum or Colum. Callum is a popular boy's name especially in Scotland where it was the 24th most popular boys name in 2012.
The name Callum is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Callum is: Dove. Can also be a 'Servant/disciple of Columba'. Irish Meaning: The name Callum is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Callum is: a Latin name meaning dove. Scottish Meaning: The name Callum is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Callum is: Bald dov
Calum /ca-lum/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAL-um. It is of Scottish, Gaelic and Latin origin, and the meaning of Calum is dove. Variant of Columba. This was popular among early Christians because the dove was a symbol of gentleness, purity, peace, and the Holy Spirit. Prominent alternative forms of Calum ranked in the Top 1000 are Callum (#729 a year ago) , Colm, Malcolm (#442) and Malcom. Usage of these boy names reached its peak in 1992 (usage of 0.2054%) and is almost as widespread today (usage 0.1658%, ▼ 19.3%), but with the versions Malcolm and Malcom becoming less trendy.
Borrowed from the Scottish, Calum is a Gaelic form of the Latin Columba (dove). Var: Callum, Kallum. Short: Cal, Kal. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Callum: | Edit. The pronounciation of this name is up for opinion. I named my son Callum and we pronounce it Cay-lum. Majority of people I have encountered say it wrong, and almost no one has heard of it.
Personal experiences with the name Callum: | Edit. I am Scottish but live in Florida and have a little boy named callum. The ONLY pronunciation of this name is kal-um. This is the proper pronunciation and any other way is wrong. Comments and insights on the name Callum: | Edit. The pronounciation of this name is up for opinion. I named my son Callum and we pronounce it Cay-lum. Majority of people I have encountered say it wrong, and almost no one has heard of it.
Meaning of Callum. Irish name. In Irish, the name Callum means-dove. Other origins for the name Callum include-Irish, Scottish, Gaelic.The name Callum is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-dove. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-Scottish Gaelic
[ 2 syll. cal-lum, ca-ll-um ] The baby boy name Callum is pronounced as K AE L-ahM †. Callum is used mostly in English and Scottish, and its language of origin is Latin and Celtic. Callum is a spelling variant of the English and Scottish name Calum. Callum is also a derivative of the English and Scottish name Malcolm. Callum is somewhat popular as a baby name for boys. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of sporadic use only. 