Your Voicemail 901 is automatically set up with a default message that greets your callers. Or you can record your own. Here's how; •Dial 901. •Press * for greetings and mailbox settings and then 3. •Follow the prompts. You use the same prompts to change your greeting, as and when you need to. 
your voicemail from another phone. on ‎01-09-2008 23:27. to get your voice mail number, you need to dial 1780 from your mobile, you will then be sent a sms and a here your own personal voice mail number. Then you can dial this number from any phone or any where in the world as long as you know your pin number. StevieDanielle. Level 1: Joiner. on ‎01-09-2008 17:13. How do I access my voicemail from another phone as I dont no what number to call from another phone to access my voicemail. I know my voicemail pin number but do not know the number in which i need to call from another 02 mobile phone so as i can access my own personal mail
4) Enter your pin – When prompted enter your pin or passcode. This is same pin you use when accessing your voicemail from your own phone. If you do not know your pin and you are a Callmaster Mobile customer, please do get in touch with us, we can request a pin re-set for you. 5) Listen to your messages. 2) Press *. 3
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Dial your mobile number from the landline, when it goes to voicemail press star (or hash, can't remember) then you will be prompted for your 4-digit pin number and then you can listen to your voicemails as if you had dialed 901. Source(s): I do this often. carli8305 · 9 years ago
To create a distribution list, dial 901 key * and then 6.Note: Messages can be sent to any 901 user and are charged at your standard tariff rate for the time spent in 901. Set up a Voicemail PIN for added security. You can set up a PIN to ensure only you can access your messages. To do this, dial 901, key * and then 5. This will activate mailbox PIN protection meaning you will be asked for your PIN each time you access your Voicemail. To turn it off again, simply dial 901, key * and then 5 and follow the prompts. Record your Greeting. Let people know they've reached you with your own personal greeting. To record your greeting: 1  Dial 901 to access your Voicemail, key * and then 3. 2  Follow the prompts and record your message.
901. Accessing voicemail from a landline or from abroad. To access your voicemail account from a standard landline phone, you'll need to use your personal o2 voicemail retrieval phone number. If you don't already have this number, dial +44 7802 090100 and when prompted, enter your o2 mobile phone number. To change your greeting, you need to connect to your mailbox (as above). Then, go to the o2 Voicemail Main Menu, and select 'Greetings', which is option 3. You can change your name and your voicemail answerphone greeting from here.
1) Dial your own number. 2) Press *. 3) Enter your pin – When prompted enter your pin or passcode. This is same pin you use when accessing your voicemail from your own phone. If you do not know your pin and you are a Callmaster Mobile customer, please do get in touch with us, we can request a pin re-set for you. 4) Listen to your messages
Key 8 Time of message deposit and caller ID To access the main Voicemail Menu Dial 901 send then press * immediately and the default security PIN code: 8705. We recommend you change this to a memorable 4-digit PIN to prevent unauthorised access to the mailbox. 1. Key 1 Tutorial – how to use Voicemail 901 2. 