Rickets. The vitamin D-deficiency disease in children; characterized by abnormal growth of bone and manifested in bowed legs or knock-knees, outward-bowed chest, and knobs on the ribs.
Major symptoms of vitamin D deficiency rickets include bone disease, restlessness, and slow growth. This disorder is rare in the United States but is not uncommon in certain areas of the world. General Discussion. Vitamin-D deficiency rickets, a disorder that becomes apparent during infancy or childhood, is the result of insufficient amounts of vitamin D in the body.
Rickets is a disorder caused by a deficiency of vitamin D, calcium, or phosphate. Rickets leads to softening and weakening of the bones and is seen most commonly in children 6-24 months of age. 
Rickets is defective mineralization or calcification of bones before epiphyseal closure in immature mammals due to deficiency or impaired metabolism of vitamin D, phosphorus or calcium, potentially leading to fractures and deformity. Rickets is among the most frequent childhood diseases in many developing countries. The primary cause of rickets is a vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D is required for proper calcium absorption from the gut. Sunlight, especially ultraviolet light, lets human skin cells convert vitamin D from an inactive to active state.
The predominant cause is a vitamin D deficiency, but lack of adequate calcium in the diet may also lead to rickets (cases of severe diarrhea and vomiting may be the cause of the deficiency). The primary cause of rickets is a vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D is required for proper calcium absorption from the gut. Sunlight, especially ultraviolet light, lets human skin cells convert vitamin D from an inactive to active state.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Rickets is the classic vitamin D deficiency disease. Rickets is a disease primarily found in children, in which their bones remain soft. In adults, vitamin D deficiency can lead to osteomalacia, which results in weak bones. Low levels of vitamin D also contribute to osteoporosis, the brittle-bone disease that can affect adults, particularly women, in their later years
Rickets, Vitamin D Deficiency. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Rickets, Vitamin D Deficiency is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. General Discussion. Vitamin-D deficiency rickets, a disorder that becomes apparent during infancy or childhood, is the result of insufficient amounts of vitamin D in the body.
Osteomalacia. Osteomalacia is a bone disease that occurs in adults and is caused by a prolonged period of vitamin D deficiency. Mentioned in: Bone X Rays, Laxatives, Vitamin D Deficiency. bone decalcification due to infection, metabolic or renal deficiency. osteomalacia (os´tēōməlā´shēə, -shə) , n a systemic disorder of bone characterized by decreased mineralization of bone matrix possibly resulting from vitamin D deficiency, inadequate calcium in the diet, renal disease, and/or steatorrhea.