Look up Alanna, Alanah, Alannah, Alana in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Alanna, Alanah or Alannah is a Women given name which has disputed origins. It can be either derived from the Old High German word for precious or from the Irish language term a leanbh or child , in English. 
Alana /ala-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ah-LAH-nah. It is of Old German and Hawaiian origin, and the meaning of Alana is precious; awakening. A rather modern Latinate feminine form of Alan. Also possibly from the Gaelic ailin meaning little rock or possibly derived from Elaine or Helen. Award-winning pop vocalist Alanis Morissette; actress Lana Turner. 
Alanna /alan-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Alanna's name origin is Old German, and Alanna means precious; awakening. Alanna is an alternate spelling of Alana (Old German, Hawaiian). Alanna is also a variation of Allena (Old German): transcription of Alaine. See also Alannah. 
The name Alanna is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Alanna is: This name of uncertain origin may be a feminine form of Man, or derived from the Irish Gaelic word for 'child'. American Meaning: The name Alanna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Alanna is: This name of uncertain origin may be a feminine form of Man, or derived from the Irish Gaelic word for 'child'. Irish Meaning: The name Alanna is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Alanna is: Beautiful. Dear child. Celtic Meaning: The name Alanna is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Alanna is: meaning harmony, stone, noble, or fair.
[ 3 syll. a-lan-na, al-a- nna ] The baby girl name Alanna is pronounced as aa-L AE N-aa- †. Alanna is used chiefly in the English language and its origin is Celtic. Alanna is a variant spelling of the name Alana (English). Alanna is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 1970s. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Alanna is a baby girl name. The name Alanna comes from the Celtic origin. In Celtic The meaning of the name Alanna is: Feminine form of Alan meaning harmony, stone, noble, or fair. Similar Names: 1  Lanna (English).
Etymology & Historical Origin-Alanna. Alanna is a variant of Alana. The name Alana is thought to have originated from one of two places. For one, Alana could be a simple, feminized version of the Celtic male name Alan which means “rock”. 
Gaelic Meaning: The name Alana is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Alana is: This name of uncertain origin may be a feminine form of Man, or derived from the Irish Gaelic word for 'child'. Hawaiian Meaning: The name Alana is a Hawaiian baby name. In Hawaiian the meaning of the name Alana is: Feminine of Alan awakening. 
Origin of the name Alana: Feminine form of Alan, an old name of Breton origin but of uncertain meaning. Some believe it ot mean handsome; others promote the possibility that it is from a Celtic word meaning rock.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.