The spirally arranged sporophyll of the strobilus bears the spores in their sporangium. These spores on germination give rise to the gametophytic generation. The strobilus is considered as a reproductive structure bearing spores.  Equisetum hyemale . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.5 via Commons. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A strobilus (plural: strobili) is a structure present on many land plant species consisting of sporangia-bearing structures densely aggregated along a stem. The flower of flowering plants is sometimes referred to as a bisexual strobilus. Stamens include microsporangia within the anther, and ovules (contained in carpels) contain megasporangia. Magnolia has a particularly strobiloid flower with all parts arranged in a spiral, rather than as clear whorls.
Strobili are often called cones, but many botanists restrict the use of the term cone to the woody seed strobili of conifers. Strobili are characterized by a central axis (anatomically a stem) surrounded by spirally arranged or decussate structures that may be modified leaves or modified stems. The flower of flowering plants is sometimes referred to as a bisexual strobilus. Stamens include microsporangia within the anther, and ovules (contained in carpels) contain megasporangia. Magnolia has a particularly strobiloid flower with all parts arranged in a spiral, rather than as clear whorls.
Lycopodium (from Greek lukos, wolf and podion, diminutive of pous, foot) is a genus of clubmosses, also known as ground pines or creeping cedar, in the family Lycopodiaceae, a family of fern-allies (see Pteridophyta). 
Many species of Selaginella produce two kinds of strobili, which are typically red and yellow. If strobili are present, examine spores derived from these cones. Examine hydrated and dehydrated resurrection (Sela ginella lepidophylla) plants Examine some living Isoetes (quillwort) plants. Sporangia of Lycopodium occur on small modified leaves called sporophylls, which are clustered in strobili (cones) that form at tips of branches. Examine strobili on a living Lycopodium plant. Examine prepared slides of strobili of Lycopodium (Fig. 22-4).
The leaves of these plants are long and narrow like needles, and strobili, cone-like clusters of diminutive leaves, are usually present as well. At the base of each clubmoss strobilus is a small yellowish-orange sporangium, where the reproductive spores are produced and stored. Approximately 200 different species of primitive vascular plants commonly referred to as clubmosses are classified in the genus Lycopodium.
Clubmoss (Lycopodium) Strobilus. Approximately 200 different species of primitive vascular plants commonly referred to as clubmosses are classified in the genus Lycopodium. The pollen produced by the plants is flammable and was formerly utilized as a flash powder for early cameras and as a common component of firework
View a high magnification image of the horsetail mature strobilus. In similarity to other ancient vascular plants, such as the spike mosses in the division Lycophyta, the only living remnants of the division Sphenophyta, Equisetum have an asexual reproductive structure, the sphenophyte cone or strobilus. 
B. Anatomy of the strobilus, sporangia and spores 1. Structure of the strobilus In section A we learned that the strobilus is a condensed fertile shoot or portion of a shoot. Obtain a prepared slide of a longitudinal section of the strobilus and locate a sporophyll with its associated sporangium. 
Lycopodium clavatum, whole plant (sporophyte) with a pair of strobili, plus a single sporophyll. Illustration taken from T. Moore (1855), plate XX. L. clavatum is commonly taken as the 'typical' clubmoss as described in textbooks. It shows an alternation of independent generations. 