Eye fillet of beef. This is an incredibly simple recipe for one of my favourite cuts of meat. The eye fillet (or I think it is called tenderloin in the northern hemisphere) is from the back of the animal, under the rib cage. It is a muscle that doesn’t get a lot of work, making it incredibly tender.
Eye fillet is very lean and very tender, it’s impressive when roasted as a whole piece, and brilliant when sliced into thick fillet steaks and pan-fried or char-grilled. We’ve teamed it with a flavoursome Sriracha butter that melts beautifully over the cooked fillet or steaks making a luscious sauce. 
A beef tenderloin, known as an eye fillet in New Zealand and Australia, fillet in South Africa and the UK, filet in France and Germany, is cut from the loin of beef. Whole tenderloins are sold as either unpeeled (meaning the fat and silver skin remain), peeled (meaning that the fat is removed, but silver skin remains), or as PSMOs (pismos), which is short for peeled, silver skin removed, and side muscle (the chain) left on.
Eye fillet steaks are cut from a whole eye fillet, an oblong shaped cut that spans between the short loin and the sirloin. The muscle sits beneath the ribs next to the back bone and does very little work, ultimately making it an incredibly tender and succulent cut. If you add salt before cooking your eye fillet steaks, it can leech them of their natural tasty juices. If you choose to marinade your eye fillet steaks, don’t leave the marinade on for more than an hour as the acidity will ruin the texture. If you insist on using a marinade, then make sure it has an oil base.
Eye fillet's the most tender cut, sure, but that doesnt make it the best. A really highly marbled eye fillet can be wonderful, but high grade eye fillet is both hard to find and very, very expensive. Finding rib fillet with good marbling and tenderness isnt particularly hard, on the other hand. Personally I always keep both. For different applications.
USDA Choice beef rib eye steak. A rib steak is a beef steak sliced from the rib primal of a beef animal, with rib bone attached. In the United States, the term rib eye steak is used for a rib steak with the bone removed; however in some areas, and outside the U.S., the terms are often used interchangeably. The term cowboy ribeye or cowboy cut is often used in American restaurants for a bone-in rib eye. The rib eye or ribeye was originally, as the name implies, the center best portion of the rib steak, without the bone.
The eye fillet is cut from the tenderloin and is the most tender cut of beef. It is best cooked very simply to bring out its rich flavour. 
Eye fillet is an oblong shaped cut that spans between the short loin and the sirloin. It sits beneath the ribs next to the back bone and does very little work, ultimately making it an incredibly tender and succulent cut. It can be roasted whole or cut into steaks. Eye fillet has a thin membrane called silverskin which needs to be removed if your butcher has not already done so. Use a sharp knife to carefully remove all the membrane.
• Scotch Fillet Steak — cut from a rib roast and also known by the names Rib eye or rib-eye. When cut into steaks, Scotch Fillet is one of the most popular, flavourful, juicy, and expensive steaks available. These steaks can be cut as bone-in or boneless. 
The rib eye or ribeye (also known as Scotch fillet in Australia and New Zealand) is a beef steak from the rib section. The rib section of beef spans from ribs six through twelve. The term cowboy ribeye or cowboy cut is often used in American restaurants for a bone-in rib eye. The rib eye or ribeye was originally, as the name implies, the center best portion of the rib steak, without the bone.