Gaper (n). A gaper is a skiier or snowboarder who is completely clueless. Usually distiungished by their bright colored clothes and a gaper gap, the gap between goggles and a helment/hat. Gapers also do the Gaper Tuck which is an attempt at being a ski racer by tucking, however, it is done incorrectly with the poles sticking straight up like thunderbolts and lighting, very very frightning! Gapers also sit at the bottom of jumps and try and go big off table tops in the park.
A male gaper pea crab (right) seen crawling around the siphon of a gaper clam. Gaper chondrophores. At the hinge of a clam, a cavity can be found that is known as a chondrophore. In gaper clams, this cavity is very pronounced, and is the thickest part of a gaper shell. As a shell is deteriorated through the years, the chondrophore is the last part of a gaper still recognizable by species. Over time, chondrophores get polished by sand and surf and are found by beach comber
Pick one or all of the following. A gaper is a skier or snowboarder who is completely clueless. Usually distinguished by their bright colored clothes and a gaper gap, the gap between goggles and a helmet/hat. Gapers also do the Gaper Tuck which is an attempt at being a ski racer by tucking, however, it is done incorrectly with the poles sticking straight up like thunderbolts and lighting, very frightening! The gaper is descending a slope well beyond the range of their abilities, attempting to snowplow, only to discover that it doesn't work if you don't use your edges.
Definition of gaper. 1  a person who won't participate in an event that might lead to physical pain (primarily sports) but attend the event and get in the way; spectator. noun
Ok, i realize that i may be called a gaper for even asking, but i've been on this forum for several years now and i always thought a gaper was referring to someone who stood in the middle of a run for no apparent reason gaping at the scenery. This is of course correct, but you need to add the correct definition to your poll, which is someone who stops at every roll in the hill and gapes downward, spending inordinate amounts of time (and precious ridge space), determining which way to go. Gaper gap is a symptom of gaperism, not a definition.
a gaper is a person who doesnt spend much time on the hill or on the mountain. you can tell by what they wear, how they ski, the demanor and by their rear entry boots...... therefore, if you suck, dont ski much, or just are a pain to others on the hill, you are a gaper. This is of course correct, but you need to add the correct definition to your poll, which is someone who stops at every roll in the hill and gapes downward, spending inordinate amounts of time (and precious ridge space), determining which way to go. Gaper gap is a symptom of gaperism, not a definition.
Usually distiungished by their bright colored clothes and a gaper gap, the gap between goggles and a helment/hat. Gapers also do the Gaper Tuck which is an attempt at being a ski racer by tucking, however, it is done incorrectly with the poles sticking straight up like thunderbolts and lighting, very very frightning! Gapers also sit at the bottom of jumps and try and go big off table tops in the park.
Gaper. A gaper is a stone or wooden head, often depicting a Moor, on the front of a building in the Netherlands. It was used to indicate that this building is a pharmacy. The literal translation of gaper would be yawner; the figure is always displayed with an open mouth, and sometimes you can see a pill he has taken resting on his tongue. In fact he wasn't yawning, but opening his mouth to take medicine.
It's all of the above and more. A gaper is a skiier or snowboarder who is completely clueless. Usually distiungished by their bright colored clothes and a gaper gap, the gap between goggles and a helment/hat. This is of course correct, but you need to add the correct definition to your poll, which is someone who stops at every roll in the hill and gapes downward, spending inordinate amounts of time (and precious ridge space), determining which way to go. Gaper gap is a symptom of gaperism, not a definition.
2. gaper. A skier or snowboarder who sucks and is usually spotted wearing clothing from 1983, but other clothing styles for them do exist. A dead giveaway of a gaper is when their pants are tucked into their boots and the famous Gaper Gap (a gap between the helmet/hat and the goggles). Gapers sometimes temporarily inhabit the entrance to a terrain park. Gapers also do the Gaper Tuck which is an attempt at being a ski racer by tucking, however, it is done incorrectly with the poles sticking straight up like thunderbolts and lighting, very very frightning! Gapers also sit at the bottom of jumps and try and go big off table tops in the park.