Swollen ankles and feet. Swollen ankles and swollen feet are common and are often caused by fluid retention, or oedema. The cause of the swelling can range from an injury to medical conditions. Seek medical advice if you are concerned about swollen feet or ankles.
Heart, liver, or kidney disease. Sometimes swelling can indicate a problem such as heart, liver, or kidney disease. Ankles that swell in the evening could be a sign of retaining salt and water because of right-sided heart failure. Kidney disease can also cause foot and ankle swelling.
Some swelling of the ankles and feet is normal during pregnancy. Sudden or excessive swelling, however, may be a sign of preeclampsia, a serious condition in which high blood pressure and protein in the urine develop after the 20th week of
Swelling of the feet and ankles can occur as a result of conditions involving the local extremities as well as systemic conditions (diseases and conditions that affect the entire body). Localized processes such as injuries and infections may lead to a swollen foot and/or ankle only on the involved side.
Some swelling of the ankles and feet is normal during pregnancy. Sudden or excessive swelling, however, may be a sign of pre-eclampsia, a serious condition in which high blood pressure and protein in the urine develop after the 20th week of
Blood clot. Blood clots that form in the veins of the legs can stop the return flow of blood from the legs back up to the heart and cause swelling in the ankles and feet. Blood clots can be either superficial (occurring in the veins just beneath the skin), or deep (a condition known as deep vein thrombosis).
Swollen ankles may be the side effect of a medication or the result of a localized injection. Sodium retention can lead to edema in the ankles. Blockage of the lymph nodes in the legs can cause ankle or leg swelling.
Swollen ankles and swollen feet are common and are often caused by fluid retention, or oedema. The cause of the swelling can range from an injury to medical conditions. Seek medical advice if you are concerned about swollen feet or ankles.