The average wage in travel accommodation businesses was $10.95 per hour in 2012. Hostesses in amusement and recreation restaurants earned an average of $10.51 per hour. More traditional restaurant environments paid a more modest average wage of $9.27. The average pay for all hosts and hostesses as of May 2012 was $9.41 per hour, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The top 10 percent of earners made at or above $12.28, though, based on business factors and environmental influences.
National Salary. The mean hourly wage for restaurant, lounge and coffee-shop hosts and hostesses was $9.23, and the mean annual wage, or average salary, was $19,190, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics in May 2009. The median annual salary for hosts and hostesses ranges from approximately $15,110 to $25,230. 
The two most common systems are: 1) You are paid a set wage-for example $6/hour 2) You are paid a lower wage-for example $3.5/hour but are compensated by the waitstaff who give you a set amount of money or a set percentage of their sales each shift you work. Source(s): Shadow Knight · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
The highest average state-based hourly wage was $11.88 in the District of Columbia as of 2012. Nevada, Hawaii and New York were also among the top states for hostess pay, with all three offering average pay above $11 per hour. Massachusetts hostesses earned just under $11 with an average rate of $10.96 per hour. The average pay for all hosts and hostesses as of May 2012 was $9.41 per hour, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The top 10 percent of earners made at or above $12.28, though, based on business factors and environmental influences.
(United States). An average Restaurant Host or Hostess in the United States can expect to take home roughly $8.67 per hour. Compensation ranges from $7.28 per hour on the lower end to $11.76 on the higher end. While tenure and the specific company impact pay for this group, residence is the most influential factor. Restaurant Hosts and Hostesses who responded to the questionnaire are largely women, dominating at 85 percent
Each business will differ for what they pay hostesses. I had a job at a resturaunt where the hostess got paid an extra $3.00 an hour because they didn't get tips. They do not get to share the tips with the waiter/waitresses because they are suppose to report those at then end of their shift. You would have to ask the manager to find out for sure how much you would get paid for being a hostess, and you won't get any tips.
Waitresses usally get paid less because of their tips. Hostesses usually get paid more but no tips. I did hostess for a while at a mom and pop place at the time I was making $5.50 an hour. I also waitressed there and was making $2.13 an hour. They do not get to share the tips with the waiter/waitresses because they are suppose to report those at then end of their shift. You would have to ask the manager to find out for sure how much you would get paid for being a hostess, and you won't get any tips.
Depending on the class of the restaurant, the hostess can make anywhere from minimum wage to about $10.00 or more, and also depending on the length of time the person has been on the job. In the United States, the average hourly pay of a dog groomer  varies depending on experience and qualifications. The average  beginning pay is between $10 and $12 per hour, … while more  experienced groomers may earn up to $22 per hour or more. The  national average for all dog groomers is $15 per hour.
How much do hosts and hostesses make? Since hosts and hostesses usually don't get any tips, they get paid more per hour than waiters or waitresses do. On average, hosts and hostesses make $8.42 an hour, but depending on the type of restaurant where you work, you could make upwards of $12 an hour. If you're really lucky, you'll also get a share of the tips waiters and waitresses make-typically between three and five percent-and an employee discount on your meals. Many hosts and hostesses work their way into manager jobs. They may become lead hostess, a front-of-house manager or even a maitre d'. An ambitious host or hostess who would like to eventually end up as a general or regional manager-or even restaurant owner-should consider getting a degree in hospitality management.