The nervous system consists of the brain, spinal cord, sensory organs, and all of the nerves that connect these organs with the rest of the body. Together, these organs are responsible for the control of the body and communication among its parts. 1 Afferent, Efferent, and Mixed Nerves. 2  Some of the nerves in the body are specialized for carrying information in only one direction, similar to a one-way street. 3  Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves.
With nerve damage there can be a wide array of symptoms. Which ones you may have depends on the location and type of nerves that are affected. Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 1 These nerves control the involuntary or partially voluntary activities of your body, including heart rate, blood pressure, digestion and temperature regulation. 2  Motor nerves. 3  These nerves control your movements and actions by passing information from your brain and spinal cord to your muscles.
Nerve pain and nerve damage is a common cause of chronic or long-term pain. Our nerves carry pain signals to the brain about damage to parts of the body, but nerves can also be a cause of pain themselves. This can be from damage to nerves because of medical conditions, through injury or pressure, such as a trapped nerve. 1 These nerves control the involuntary or partially voluntary activities of your body, including heart rate, blood pressure, digestion and temperature regulation. 2  Motor nerves. 3  These nerves control your movements and actions by passing information from your brain and spinal cord to your muscles.
The grey matter of the spinal cord integrates reflexes to stimuli. Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium. 1 Afferent, Efferent, and Mixed Nerves. 2  Some of the nerves in the body are specialized for carrying information in only one direction, similar to a one-way street. 3  Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves.
Anxiety, Chills, Drowsiness and Fatigue. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms anxiety, chills, drowsiness and fatigue including Generalized anxiety disorder, Sleep apnea, and Sleep deprivation. There are 107 conditions associated with anxiety, chills, drowsiness and fatigue. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. 
Many of us have experienced severe burning, numbness, and tingling after hitting our “funny bone.” This is caused by trauma to the ulnar nerve at the elbow. Similar discomfort may be brought on by sleeping on an arm or leg in a funny position. The brain and spinal cord are considered the Central Nervous System. Peripheral neuropathy produces symptoms such as weakness, muscle cramps, twitching, pain, numbness, burning, and tingling (often in the feet and hands). Symptoms are related to the type of affected nerve and may be seen over a period of days, weeks, or years.
When Lyme disease first affects the nervous system, one may see symptoms of meningitis, encephalitis, or cranial neuritis. a. Meningitis is characterized by headaches that fluctuate in intensity from mild to severe with or without associated nausea, vomiting, light sensitivity, neck stiffness, or pain on eye motion. 
The nervous system consists of two anatomic parts. The central nervous system includes the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system transmits sensory information between the muscles, tissues and nerves in the rest of the body to the brain. Nerve symptoms often originate in the peripheral nervous system and can manifest with burning, numbness, pins-and-needles sensations, muscle weakness or paralysis, and sensitivity. 