LOCATION: Most temperate, deciduous (leaf-shedding) forests are located in the eastern United States, Canada, Europe, China, Japan, and parts of Russia. Deciduous forests are broken up into five zones. The firstzone is the tree stratum zone.
The corresponding biome is the Deciduous Forest, or Temperate Forest biome. The latitude range is anywhere from 23 ° north to 38 ° south. One thing that is interesting about this biome and its climate is that it has four distinct seasons; spring, summer, autumn, and winter.
Location Deciduous biomes are located primarily in the eastern half of the United States, Canada, Europe, parts of Russia, China, and Japan. Climate The average temperature of the forest is about 50 degrees F. The average amount of rainfall in the forest is 30 to 60 inches a year.
The Temperate Deciduous Forest. Temperate deciduous forests can be found in the eastern part of the United States and Canada, most of Europe and parts of China and Japan. The temperate deciduous forest is a biome that is always changing. It has four distinct seasons: winter, spring, summer and fall. Winters are cold and summers are warm.
The temperate deciduous forest biome is characterized by its leaf-shedding trees and its seasons. This biome experiences all four seasons-winter, spring, summer, and fall. The temperate deciduous forest biome is located in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, and Japan.
Climate is a mix of temperature and precipitation. Deciduous forests have almost 14 inches of rain in the winter months and more than 18 inches of rain in the summer. I hope you enjoyed my report on the climate of a deciduous forest and that you learned a few things from it.
Temperate Deciduous Forest ClimateNext to the rainforest the temperate deciduous forest gets the 2nd most amount of rainfall per year. In the winter, precipitation is in the form of sleet, snow, and hail.
Plants Animals Climate Northeast Asian Deciduous Forest Deciduous forests can be found in the eastern half of North America, and the middle of Europe. There are many deciduous forests in Asia. Some of the major areas that they are in are southwest Russia, Japan, and eastern China.