Vagus nerve disorders are basically broken down into two categories. There are the disorders that are caused by a nerve that is underactive or not functioning properly and there are those that are caused by your vagus nerve overacting to the stimuli it receives. Overactive vagus nerves can cause frequent fainting. These nerves are used to send a variety of signals throughout the body, but will also transfer signals back to the brain. The vagus nerve is also known for wandering through the body, weaving through the abdomen and branching into other nerves that extend through the limbs and organs.
Gross Anatomy. The vagus nerve is the longest cranial nerve. It contains motor and sensory fibers and, because it passes through the neck and thorax to the abdomen, has the widest distribution in the body. It contains somatic and visceral afferent fibers, as well as general and special visceral efferent fibers. (See Table 1, below.).
Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve, called vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), is sometimes used to treat people with epilepsy or depression. The vagus nerve is involved in one of the most common causes of fainting, called vasovagal syncope. This is an overreaction of the body to certain stimuli, like the sight of blood, which involves the stimulation of the vagus nerve. This stimulation causes a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. Less blood flows to brain, resulting in loss of consciousness.
Vagus nerve: A nerve that supplies nerve fibers to the pharynx (throat), larynx (voice box), trachea (windpipe), lungs, heart, esophagus, and intestinal tract, as far as the transverse portion of the colon. 
The vagus nerve is actually two cranial nerves that extend from the brain stem and connect down to the viscera. Sometimes this nerve is referred to as cranial nerve X, the 10 th cranial nerve or the wandering nerve. These nerves are used to send a variety of signals throughout the body, but will also transfer signals back to the brain. The vagus nerve is also known for wandering through the body, weaving through the abdomen and branching into other nerves that extend through the limbs and organs.
It gets this name because the nerve wanders from the brain stem via various organs in the neck, thorax and abdomen. The vagus nerve is two nerves that go through the brain stem and enter different parts of the body such as the heart and the stomach. Vagus nerve leaves the brain stem from the rootlets present in the medulla that has been found to be caudal to the rootlets in the ninth carnial nerve. The vagus nerve comprises of two sensory ganglia which are segmented into superior and inferior vagal ganglia. The vagus nerve connects our brainstem to the body, due to which the brain receives, controls and monitor several body functions automatically. The vagus nerve forms a sort of electrical circuit while linking our heart, lungs, and gut to the brain-base.
The vagus nerve is one of 12 cranial nerves. It is the longest of the cranial nerves, extending from the brainstem to the abdomen by way of multiple organs including the heart, esophagus, and lungs. This is an overreaction of the body to certain stimuli, like the sight of blood, which involves the stimulation of the vagus nerve. This stimulation causes a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. Less blood flows to brain, resulting in loss of consciousness.
The vagus nerve runs throughout the body and is responsible for the function and regulation of several bodily systems such as the heart and digestive tracts. The vagus nerve is one of the largest nerve systems in the body. The name vagus is Latin for wandering, which describes the long and complicated path this nerve takes through the body and all of the different systems it comes in contact with. These nerves are used to send a variety of signals throughout the body, but will also transfer signals back to the brain. The vagus nerve is also known for wandering through the body, weaving through the abdomen and branching into other nerves that extend through the limbs and organs.
It involves implanting a pacemaker-like device that generates pulses of electricity to stimulate the vagus nerve. The vagus nerve is one of the 12 cranial nerves, which conduct impulses between the brain and other parts of the brain and va rious body structures, mostly in the head and neck. The vagus nerve-the longest of the cranial nerves-also extends to organs in the chest and abdomen. (The word vagus comes from a Latin word for wandering.') It serves many organs and structures, including the larynx (voice box), lungs, heart and gastrointestinal tract. 
Introduction to the Vagus Nerve. The vagus nerve is the paired tenth cranial nerve that branches out from the brain and supplies parts of the gastrointestinal system such as the stomach, and parts of the respiratory system such as the lungs. To supply vital organs, it has further to travel than the other cranial nerves