1 Season the salmon with seafood seasoning. 2  Heat the Cast Iron Skillet (we used the Cast Iron Panini Press) on a grill with medium-high heat. 3  Place the salmon skin side up and cook until golden and a little crispy at the edges, 3-4 minutes. 4  Flip and cook for 2 minutes more for a pink center, or 4 minutes for opaque fish. 1 Heat the Cast Iron Skillet (we used the Cast Iron Panini Press) on a grill with medium-high heat. 2  Place the salmon skin side up and cook until golden and a little crispy at the edges, 3-4 minutes. 3
1 Stream in the olive oil while continuing to whisk. 2  Season the salmon with seafood seasoning. 3  Heat the Cast Iron Skillet (we used the Cast Iron Panini Press) on a grill with medium-high heat. 4  Place the salmon skin side up and cook until golden and a little crispy at the edges, 3-4 minutes. 1 Heat the Cast Iron Skillet (we used the Cast Iron Panini Press) on a grill with medium-high heat. 2  Place the salmon skin side up and cook until golden and a little crispy at the edges, 3-4 minutes. 3  Flip and cook for 2 minutes more for a pink center, or 4 minutes for opaque fish
Place salmon at an angle to grill grids, and cook 2-3 minutes (until you can see grill marks.). Rotate fish a quarter turn and cook 2-3 minutes more. Turn fish over carefully and cook 1-2 minutes more on second side. Total cooking time should not be more than 7-8 minutes, possibly less, depending on how hot your pan is and how thick the salmon is. Spray the grill pan with olive oil or non-stick spray and let it heat for a couple of minutes. Then lay the fish at an angle to the grill grid and cook 2-3 minutes. And just for fun, here's the original photo for this recipe from 2007.
Heat a large heavy-bottomed pan or cast iron skillet over medium heat, and add the oil. When the oil begins to smoke quite heavily shut the heat off under the pan. Add the salmon, 1 at a time, in a single layer, flesh side down, in the oil. Turn the heat back on under the pan and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Use a spatula to turn the salmon to the other side. Cook the salmon over medium heat, until the skin becomes crispy, about 5 to 6 minutes. Arrange the salmon on a platter, sprinkle with lemon zest and lemon juice and serve immediately
Directions: 1. Heat the oil and butter in a large cast iron skillet. Place the salmon skin-side-up in the skillet and cook until it's just about cooked through (you still want it to be tender throughout, so be careful not to cook it too long-- or at too high of heat). 
1 Place the salmon fillet skin side down on the pan. 2  Let it cook, undisturbed, for 2 minutes (if it's a thin fillet) and up to 4 minutes (if it's a thick 2-inch fillet). 3  Don't touch it (the skin might stick and tear); set an alarm instead. 4  While it's cooking, liberally sprinkle salt over the top of the fish. 1 Let the oil heat through, about a minute. 2  Place the salmon fillet skin side down on the pan. 3  Let it cook, undisturbed, for 2 minutes (if it's a thin fillet) and up to 4 minutes (if it's a thick 2-inch fillet). 4
1 Set a large cast-iron skillet over high heat. 2  When a drop of water skitters on the surface, after about 3 minutes, add the oil. 3  Tilt the pan to coat the bottom evenly and heat until the oil is almost smoking, about 30 seconds. 4  Season the salmon with the salt and pepper and add to the skillet, skinned side up. 1 When a drop of water skitters on the surface, after about 3 minutes, add the oil. 2  Tilt the pan to coat the bottom evenly and heat until the oil is almost smoking, about 30 seconds. 3  Season the salmon with the salt and pepper and add to the skillet, skinned side up. 4  Cook until golden brown on the bottom, about 4 minutes.
1 Heat an ovenproof pan, large enough to fit both pieces of salmon over a high heat for about 1 minute. 2  Generously spray the pan with the avocado oil spray. 3  Place the salmon into the pan, skin side up and sear for about 1 minute. 4  Using a spatula, carefully turn the salmon over onto the skin side. 1 Place the salmon into the pan, skin side up and sear for about 1 minute. 2  Using a spatula, carefully turn the salmon over onto the skin side. 3  Add the tomatoes around the fish and sprinkle with the chopped tarragon. 4  Finally add the butter in two pieces to each side of the pan.
When your cast iron skillet is just starting to smoke (after perhaps 5-7 minutes), add a tablespoon or two of oil, and spread it around to cover the entire cooking surface. Immediately add the salmon filets skin side up. 