Don't get excited if the dove is not sitting on the egg or is standing over the egg not getting it warm. They will sit on it when they are ready. The incubation will take about 15 days for the eggs to fully hatch. Dove eggs do not have a waterproof membrane like chicken eggs so it is important not to get a dove egg wet. Anything you put on the egg will penetrate the shell and affect the baby inside. Dove eggs are larger than those of the average bird. They are a glossy white about 2/3 the size of a golf ball. Sometimes it is difficult to determine which is the small end of the egg and which is the large end. There are usually 2 in each clutch.
Eggs hatch 17 to 18 days after laying. Mom and Dad take turns sitting on the eggs and then staying with the chicks after they hatch. Both parents feed them. Ours are now 8 days old. They are getting their feathers but not big or strong enough to fly. 
It is assumed that all doves/pigeons lay two eggs; that the eggs are laid 1 day apart; that the clutch always consists of 1 male & 1 female; with the first egg always being the male & the second egg laid is always the female. The eggs always hatched the same way they were laid. The eggs are always laid in the mornings. 
Question on Incubation Period for Dove Eggs. We need some advice on this situation: A momma Mourning Dove made a nest in one of our (outside, of course) hanging spider plants a little over 3 weeks ago. She laid one egg and has been faithfully sitting on it since. She is quite welcome and used to our walking past her on the porch. As long as we don't get closer than 2 feet, she is undisturbed.
The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). The bird is also called the turtle dove or the American mourning dove or rain dove, and formerly was known as the Carolina pigeon or Carolina turtledove. It is one of the most abundant and widespread of all North American birds. The mourning dove is sometimes called the American mourning dove to distinguish it from the distantly related mourning collared dove (Streptopelia decipiens) of Africa. It was also formerly known as the Carolina turtledove and the Carolina pigeon.
In making the nest, they carry sticks singly, and often nest in an unused robin's nest. Doves lay a clutch of two white eggs. The second egg is laid 40 or so hours after the first. The incubation period is 14 days. The egg tooth occurs on the lower as well as on the upper bill for some mysterious reason. 
Eggs hatch 17 to 18 days after laying. Mom and Dad take turns sitting on the eggs and then staying with the chicks after they hatch. Both parents feed them.   Ours are now … 8 days old. They are getting their feathers but not big or strong enough to fly. 
Eggs .--The mourning dove lays almost always two eggs, but there are a few records of three, or even four. In shape they vary from elliptical oval, the commonest shape, to elliptical ovate or ovate. The shell is smooth with very little gloss. 
This first part covers nest building up to one day before hatching of the first egg; 30 May 2009 - 13 June 2009. Most segments are sped up in order to produce a 10 minute clip. From Wikipedia, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mourning... Incubation takes two weeks. 