1 Aqueduct (bridge) , a bridge that is constructed to convey water over an obstacle, such as a ravine or valley. 2  Navigable aqueduct (or water bridge), a water-filled bridge enabling boats, barges or ships on a waterway to cross over an obstacle, such as a ravine or valley. 1 Aqueduct (water supply) , an artificial (man-made) channel that is constructed to convey water from one location to another. 2  This can be made of canals, pipelines, inverted siphons, reservoirs and tunnels.
aqueduct. noun aq·ue·duct \ˈa-kwə-ˌdəkt\. Tweet. : a structure that looks like a bridge and that is used to carry water over a valley; also: a pipe or channel that is used to bring water to an area. 1
An aqueduct is a structure that carries water through Rome and Greece. It leads pipes to houses to sinks to water fountains and anything that has water coming out with a button. Aqueducts were large water pipes which were used to transport water to where it was needed. An aqueduct is a manmade bridge carrying or funneling water from a distant and higher source. Romans built many to service their communities.
A large system for carrying water from one place to another is called an aqueduct. Aqueducts may supply water to cities or to farms for irrigation. The water may be carried underground through a tunnel or pipe, at ground level through a canal, or over the ground on a bridge. 
Ancient Roman Aqueducts. Ancient Roman Aqueducts. An aqueduct is a water supply or navigable channel constructed to convey water. In modern engineering, the term is used for any system of pipes, ditches, canals, tunnels, and other structures used for this purpose. In a more restricted use, aqueduct (occasionally water bridge) applies to any bridge or viaduct that transports water-instead of a path, road or railway-across a gap. Large navigable aqueducts are used as transport links for boats or ships.
Making It Work. The purpose of an aqueduct is to carry the canal and its towpath over a river, a ravine, a railroad, or a road. 
They are used to carry water from one  place to another.   An aqueduct is used for the transporting of water. It is the  ancient form of today's water pipes. They led from the springs or  rivers ind the mountains into the cities. Aqueducts were large water pipes which were used to transport water to where it was needed. An aqueduct is a manmade bridge carrying or funneling water from a distant and higher source. Romans built many to service their communities.
An aqueduct is an artificial channel that is constructed to convey water from one location to another. The word is derived from the Latin aqua, water and ducere, to lead.. Many aqueducts are raised above the landscape, resembling bridges rather than rivers. 