Exhaust Heat Recirculation. The key to exhaust heat recirculation is a device called an exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve. The EGR valve opens when it encounters back pressure from the car's exhaust and channels it back into the combustion chamber. You might wonder what good this does, since the air in the chamber is mixed with gasoline to make it combustible. Well, one thing it does is to make the fuel warmer. 
Pros. 1  The EGR valve is vital to your car's emission controls. 2  Exhaust gas recirculation helps to keep huge amounts of unburned fuel from being released into the atmosphere. 3  This unburned fuel is thought to be a huge contributor to greenhouse gas build-up. Cons. 1  When the EGR valve goes bad, it must be replaced. 2  Unlike some emissions control devices that can go bad without affecting the drivability of the car or truck, a bad EGR valve can really affect the engine's performance, or even cause it to stop running altogether. 3  The good news is you can clean it.
The Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) Valve is an integral part of a vehicle's emission control system or EGR System. It controls the engine's emission of nitrous oxides by reducing combustion temperature. 
The EGR valve, or Exhaust Gas Recirculation valve, is a vacuum controlled valve which allows a specific amount of your exhaust back into the intake manifold. This exhaust mixes with the intake air and actually cools the combustion process. Cons. 1  When the EGR valve goes bad, it must be replaced. 2  Unlike some emissions control devices that can go bad without affecting the drivability of the car or truck, a bad EGR valve can really affect the engine's performance, or even cause it to stop running altogether. 3  The good news is you can clean it.
EGR valve on top of the inlet manifold of a Saab H engine in a 1987 Saab 90. In internal combustion engines, exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) is a nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions reduction technique used in petrol/gasoline and diesel engines. EGR works by recirculating a portion of an engine's exhaust gas back to the engine cylinders. 
Though many people have heard of it, few know what exactly an EGR valve is. The EGR valve, or Exhaust Gas Recirculation valve, is a vacuum controlled valve, which allows a specific amount of your exhaust back into the intake manifold. This exhaust mixes with the intake air and actually cools the combustion process. You'll know if your EGR valve is stuck or malfunctioning because your car will experience symptoms such as rough idle and bucking on acceleration. Of course there are other potential causes for these issues but a stuck EGR is a quick explanation.
1 The EGR valve is vital to your car's emission controls. 2  Exhaust gas recirculation helps to keep huge amounts of unburned fuel from being released into the atmosphere. 3  This unburned fuel is thought to be a huge contributor to greenhouse gas build-up. Cons. 1  When the EGR valve goes bad, it must be replaced. 2  Unlike some emissions control devices that can go bad without affecting the drivability of the car or truck, a bad EGR valve can really affect the engine's performance, or even cause it to stop running altogether. 3  The good news is you can clean it.
An Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve is a mechanical component found on automobiles and plays an integral part in the proper functioning of gasoline and diesel-engined cars. It ensures that the car burns its fuel effectively by recirculating the emissions from the exhaust through the car’s combustion system. An EGR valve reduces the quantity of harmful car emissions. A faulty EGR valve may result in a stalled car. An EGR valve. An issue with an EGR valve is often identified through reading the car's diagnostic trouble codes.
The EGR (Exhaust Gas Recirculation) valve helps lower the car’s exhaust emissions (gases from the tailpipe). It recirculates the portion of the gasses coming out of the engine by putting in back into the intake manifold, where the engine can burn it again, thereby reducing the emissions. 