Lapis lazuli is treasured the world over for its beautiful deep blue color. Color. Variously described as indigo, royal, midnight, or marine blue, lapis lazuli’s signature hue is slightly greenish blue to violetish blue, medium to dark in tone, and highly saturated. In its most-prized form, lapis lazuli has no visible calcite, although it might contain gold-colored pyrite flecks. Although many people associate lapis with dark blue, it’s also found in other blue shades, and even other hues. Its color can range from deep violet blue and royal blue to light blue to turquoise blue to a greenish blue. The combination of different minerals in the aggregate determines the color.
Lapis lazuli is a rock whose most important mineral component is lazurite (25% to 40%), a feldspathoid silicate mineral with the formula (Na,Ca) 8 (AlSiO 4) 6 (S,SO 4 ,Cl) 1-2. Lapis lazuli was being mined in the Sar-i Sang mines and in other mines in the Badakhshan province in northeast Afghanistan as early as the 7th millennium BCE.
Lapis Lazuli Natural Birthstone. Lapis Lazuli, with its deep blue color, is one of the natural birthstones of those born as the world Lapis Lazuli awaits the vernal equinox and spring (February 19 - March 19). This is a time when new life is about to burst forth, a time of faith and trust. Blue crystals bring you patience and respect. Lapis Lazuli is one of the most sought after stones in use since man's history began. Its deep, celestial blue remains the symbol of royalty and honor, gods and power, spirit and vision. It is a universal symbol of wisdom and truth.
Lapis lazuli, also known simply as lapis, is a blue metamorphic rock that has been used by people as a gemstone, sculpting material, and ornamental material for thousands of years. Unlike most other gem materials, lapis lazuli is not a mineral. Instead, it is a rock composed of multiple minerals. The blue color of lapis lazuli is mainly derived from the presence of lazurite, a blue silicate mineral of the sodalite group with a chemical composition of (Na,Ca) 8 (AlSiO 4) 6 (S,Cl,SO 4 ,OH) 2.
Lapis lazuli /ˈlaepɪs ˈlæpɪs/ , ləˈzuːliː /-also/ ˈlaeʒuːli /-ˈlæʒuːli/ , or ˈlaeʒuːlaɪ ˈlæʒuːlaɪ or, lapis for short is a-deep blue semi precious stone that has been prized since antiquity for. its intense color Lapis lazuli was being mined in the Sar-i Sang mines and in other mines in the Badakhshan province in northeast Afghanistan as early as the 7th millennium BCE.
Lapis lazuli, often referred to as just 'lapis', has been used as a gemstone for thousands of years. It has been mined from Afghanistan since the early 7th millennium BC, and it was discovered in ancient burial sites throughout the Caucasus, the Mehrgarh and even as far as the Republic of Mauritania. In other parts of the world, words for 'blue' were named after the color of lapis, including the English word 'azure'; Italian 'azzurro'; Polish 'azur'; Spanish 'azur' and Romanian 'azuriu'. Today, lapis lazuli is still considered to be one of the most important opaque blue gemstones available.
In addition to lazurite, specimens of lapis lazuli usually contain calcite and pyrite. Sodalite, hauyne, wollastonite, afghanite, mica, dolomite, diopside, and a diversity of other minerals might also be present. To be called lapis lazuli, a rock must have a distinctly blue color and contain at least 25% lazurite. Instead, it is a rock composed of multiple minerals. The blue color of lapis lazuli is mainly derived from the presence of lazurite, a blue silicate mineral of the sodalite group with a chemical composition of (Na,Ca) 8 (AlSiO 4) 6 (S,Cl,SO 4 ,OH) 2.
Lapis Lazuli Color. Although the colour of lapis lazuli is defined by its name, 'the blue stone', its colors can actually range from slightly greenish blue to violetish, medium to dark and from low to highly saturated. The blue is owed to sulfur coloring agents. In other parts of the world, words for 'blue' were named after the color of lapis, including the English word 'azure'; Italian 'azzurro'; Polish 'azur'; Spanish 'azur' and Romanian 'azuriu'. Today, lapis lazuli is still considered to be one of the most important opaque blue gemstones available.
Lapis Lazuli is a deep blue opaque gemstone, used in antiquity and continuously used throughout the generations. It still continues to be popular today, and remains one of the most important opaque gemstones. Lapis Lazuli is often called Lapis for short. In fact, the shorthand name Lapis is actually used more often to describe this gemstone than the full term Lapis Lazuli. Lapis Lazuli is rarely without any of the white Calcite present.
Lapis lazuli can be easily confused with other blue opaque gems such as azurite and sodalite, but azurite has a lower hardness and is typically darker in color than lapis lazuli; while sodalite in most cases, has a lighter color and its granularity is not as fine as that of lapis lazuli. In other parts of the world, words for 'blue' were named after the color of lapis, including the English word 'azure'; Italian 'azzurro'; Polish 'azur'; Spanish 'azur' and Romanian 'azuriu'. Today, lapis lazuli is still considered to be one of the most important opaque blue gemstones available.