Normal urine levels of metanephrine and normetanephrine mean it is unlikely that the person tested has a catecholamine-secreting tumor. This test is very sensitive and these tumors are rare, so the negative predictive value of the test is very good. Testing may also be used when a tumor has been treated or removed to monitor for recurrence. The metanephrines-metanephrine and normetanephrine-are breakdown products (metabolites) of epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine.
Normetanephrine is a metabolite of norepinephrine created by action of catechol-O-methyl transferase on norepinephrine. It is excreted in the urine and found in certain tissues. Normetanephrine. Normetanephrine is a metabolite of norepinephrine created by action of catechol-O-methyl transferase on norepinephrine. It is excreted in the urine and found in certain tissues. It is a marker for catecholamine-secreting tumors such as pheochromocytoma.
The metanephrines-metanephrine and normetanephrine-are breakdown products (metabolites) of epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine. Epinephrine and norepinephrine belong to a group of similar hormones called catecholamines. The plasma free metanephrines test measures the amount of metanephrine and normetanephrine in the blood. Catecholamines are produced in the adrenal medulla, the interior portion of the adrenal glands, small triangular organs located on top of each kidney, and by cells of the sympathetic nervous system.
This test measures the substances metanephrine and normetanephrine in your blood. It helps find out whether you have a tumor of the adrenal glands called pheochromocytoma. The adrenal glands sit on top of your kidneys. They make the hormone adrenaline and other adrenaline-like chemicals called cate­cholamines. Adrenaline regulates your blood pressure and helps you cope with stress. You might have this test if your healthcare provider suspects that you have an adrenal gland tumor. Symptoms include: Rapid heartbeat. Headaches. Sweating. Rise and fall in blood pressure. You also may have fever, chest pain, stomach pain, nausea, vomiting, anxiety, tremors, heat intolerance, and weight loss.
Normetanephrine is a metabolite of norepinephrine created by action of catechol-O-methyl transferase on norepinephrine. It is excreted in the urine and found in certain tissues. It is a marker for catecholamine-secreting tumors such as pheochromocytoma. 
In particular, despite consistently high plasma concentrations of normetanephrine or metanephrine, some patients with pheochromocytoma have normal plasma concentrations of catecholamines or have high concentrations only during paroxysmal attacks. Two patients with von Hippel–Lindau disease and all patients with MEN-2 who had pheochromocytoma also had high plasma concentrations of metanephrine; thus, both plasma normetanephrine and metanephrine were normal in only 1 of the 38 tests in the 35 patients with familial pheochromocytoma.
Clinical Significance. Normetanephrine (NM) and metanephrine (MN) are the extra-neuronal catechol-o-methyl transferase (COMT) metabolites of the catecholamines norepinephrine and epinephrine, respectively.
Description of Normetanephrine. Normetanephrine: 3-methylnorepinephrine, a metabolite of epinephrine excreted in urine. Source: CRISP. Normetanephrine: A methylated metabolite of norepinephrine that is excreted in the urine and found in certain tissues. 