The dire wolf averaged about 1.5 m (4.9 ft) in length and weighed between 50 and 79 kg (110 and 174 lb), which made it the largest species in the genus Canis. Limb elements are rarely found outside the La Brea Tar Pits, which makes it hard to compare the size of average individuals between populations. Unlike the gray wolf, which is of Eurasian origin, the dire wolf evolved on the North American continent, along with the coyote. The dire wolf co-existed with the gray wolf in North America for about 100,000 years.
The dire wolf (Canis dirus, fearsome dog) is an extinct carnivorous mammal of the genus Canis, roughly the size of the extant gray wolf, but with a heavier build. It evolved in North America and later moved into South America. Unlike the gray wolf, which is of Eurasian origin, the dire wolf evolved on the North American continent, along with the coyote. The dire wolf co-existed with the gray wolf in North America for about 100,000 years.
Canis dirus meaning Dire Wolf was one of the largest canines that ever lived on Earth, and also one of the largest representative of the subfamily of wolves (Caninae). Dire Wolves were the size of a large modern gray wolf (Canis lupus) and weighed, depending on gender and individual differences, 55 to 80 kg. Although it was closely related to the Gray Wolf and other sister species, Canis dirus was not the direct ancestor of any species known today. Unlike the Gray Wolf, which is of Eurasian origin, the Dire Wolf evolved on the North American continent, along with the Coyote.
. Shown at right is an extremely well preserved canine tooth of the dire wolf (Canis dirus). It is of Late Pleistocene age (between 10-130 thousand years old) and was found in the Withlacoochee River, Florida. Remains of the dire wolf are widespread in North America, but the greatest concentrations are found in California and Florida.
The dire wolf (Canis dirus) is an extinct carnivorous mammal of the genus Canis related to the smaller extant gray wolf. It was most common in North America and South America from the Irvingtonian stage to the Rancholabrean stage of the Pleistocene epoch, living 1.80. Relationship to gray wolf. Artistic rendition of two possible appearances of the dire wolf, one based on a North American origin and the other on a possible South American originAlthough it was closely related to the gray wolf and other sister species, Canis dirus is not the direct ancestor of any species known today.
The largest ancestral canine that ever lived, the Dire Wolf terrorized the plains of North America until the end of the last Ice Age, ten thousand years ago--and lives on in both popular lore and pop culture (as witness its cameo role on the hit HBO series Game of Thrones). The Dire Wolf (Canus dirus) occupied a side branch of canine evolution; it wasn't directly ancestral to modern Dalmatians, Pomeranians and Labradoodles, but more of a great uncle a few times removed. Specifically, the Dire Wolf was a close relative of the Gray Wolf (Canis lupus), from which all modern dogs descend.
By 10,000 years ago, the large mammals and the Dire Wolf were extinct, or so it was supposed, however, fossils found in the state of Arkansas in the US, suggest that they lived on, in what is known as a relic population, and were still alive 4000 years ago. Sometime later, about 1000000 years ago, the Dire Wolf also made his appearance in America. Then about 16,000 years ago near the end of the last Ice Age, and about the time of the arrival of humans in North America, most of the large mammals the Dire Wolf used for prey began to die out.
The Dire Wolf is an extinct North American species of wolf which was a great deal larger than our wolves of present day. For about 100,000 years it lived alongside its cousins, the Gray Wolves, although they are not directly linked. Sometime later, about 1000000 years ago, the Dire Wolf also made his appearance in America. Then about 16,000 years ago near the end of the last Ice Age, and about the time of the arrival of humans in North America, most of the large mammals the Dire Wolf used for prey began to die out.
In real-life. The name dire wolf (Latin: ​Canis dirus ​) is given to an actual species of Pleistocene megafauna that once existed on real-life Earth, like the mammoth and sabertooth cat. Dire wolves inhabited the Americas, from 1.8 million years ago to about 10,000 years ago. 