For some cars you can negotiate down as much as 25% when you include cash-back rebates (although that's extreme). In most cases, you can negotiate 5 - 15% off MSRP. Again, I have to agree with Reilly-use http://www.carwoo.com to see what dealers are willing to sell the car for.
For instance, if a car is advertised at $31,000 and the salesperson offers $30,500, we wouldn't suggest counter-offering with $30,000. Instead, try $28,500. That gives you a lot of room in between to make a good deal.
How much can you save? If you negotiate even a little, you can save $1,000 on most new cars. If you negotiate actively, you might save $2,000 with about an hour's worth of discussion at a dealership. This article covers negotiating car prices when you are physically present in
The MSRP is listed on a sticker, which is posted on the car. This sticker price also details any dealer-installed options, prep fees and markup. In contrast, the invoice price refers to what the dealer actually pays the manufacturer for the new car. However, that's not necessarily what the dealer pays.
Since you can't determine how much the dealer paid for the RV like you can with cars, take your clue from one of our visitors. He helped his brother make buy a Damon Escaper double slider. The MSRP of this vehicle was $176,500, and the sales price was $131,000. You can see that at this level a 35% drop is possible.
1 Shop around and play dealers off of one another. 2  Don't try to negotiate when the dealership is busy, like on Saturdays. 3  Line up your car financing before going to the dealership so you are a cash customer and can avoid any dealer's attempt to negotiate the monthly payment.
The holdback is a percentage of the sticker price or invoice price. Manufacturers pay it to the dealer after he sells a car. This means that a dealer could sell a car at invoice price, tell the customer that's he not making one penny on the deal and still get a check from the manufacturer a month later for $500.
Your Negotiating Strategy. Now that you have been able to determine how much the dealer paid for the car and you've figured out your 3% - 5% fair profit offer, you are in a much better position than most new car shoppers.