The A1c test evaluates the average amount of glucose in the blood over the last 2 to 3 months by measuring the percentage of glycated (glycosylated) hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is an oxygen-transporting protein found inside red blood cells (RBCs). There are several types of normal hemoglobin, but the predominant form – about 95-98% – is hemoglobin A. As glucose circulates in the blood, some of it spontaneously binds to hemoglobin A. 
Blood is a specialized body fluid. It has four main components: plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Blood has many different functions, including: 1  transporting oxygen and nutrients to the lungs and tissues. 2  forming blood clots to prevent excess blood loss. 
A serum hemoglobin test measures the amount of free-floating hemoglobin in your blood serum. Serum is the liquid that is left over from your blood plasma when the red blood cells and the clotting elements have been removed. Hemoglobin is a type of oxygen-carrying protein found in your blood. Most of the hemoglobin in your blood is inside your red blood cells. A smaller percentage of the hemoglobin is located in your serum. This is called free hemoglobin. The serum hemoglobin test measures this free hemoglobin. Doctors usually use this test to diagnose or monitor hemolytic anemia.
Hemoglobin is the four-stranded protein molecule found in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the individual body cells. Hemoglobin is the protein that is responsible for turning megakaryocytes into doughnut-shaped red blood cells. Hemoglobin is the protein that is either found in decreased amounts or totally absent in persons with hemophilia. This deficiency prevents normal blood clotting. Hemoglobin, a protein found in white blood cells, carries oxygen from the lungs to the individual cells. [Return to the Top of this Page]: return
Hemoglobin is also found outside red blood cells and their progenitor lines. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney. Hematocrit, the proportion of blood volume occupied by red blood cells, is typically about three times the hemoglobin concentration measured in g/dL. For example, if the hemoglobin is measured at 17 g/dL, that compares with a hematocrit of 51%.
A red blood cell contains about 200 million hemoglobin molecules. If all this hemoglobin was in the plasma rather than inside the cells, blood would be so thick that the heart would have a difficult time pumping it through. The thickness of blood is called viscosity. The greater the viscosity of blood, the more friction there is and more pressure is needed to force blood through the heart and vessels.Since hemoglobin is a respiratory pigment the efficiency of oxygen transport is high in this closed and packaged model of the red blood cell.
Hemoglobin and hemoglobin-like molecules are also found in many invertebrates, fungi, and plants. In these organisms, hemoglobins may carry oxygen, or they may act to transport and regulate other things such as carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, hydrogen sulfide and sulfide. Hematocrit, the proportion of blood volume occupied by red blood cells, is typically about three times the hemoglobin concentration measured in g/dL. For example, if the hemoglobin is measured at 17 g/dL, that compares with a hematocrit of 51%.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A red blood cell contains about 200 million hemoglobin molecules. If all this hemoglobin was in the plasma rather than inside the cells, blood would be so thick that the heart would have a difficult time pumping it through. The thickness of blood is called viscosity. The greater the viscosity of blood, the more friction there is and more pressure is needed to force blood through the heart and vessels.Since hemoglobin is a respiratory pigment the efficiency of oxygen transport is high in this closed and packaged model of the red blood cell.
a. is found in blood plasma. b. has five subunits. c. uses ATP to move oxygen from blood to body cells. d. is the site of cellular respiration. e. is a protein that can bind four molecules of oxygen. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guideline