•. .docx is the new file extension that Microsoft Word 2007 uses when it saves documents in the new default format. So you might save your document as letter, but what Word 2007 writes to disk is letter.docx where previous versions would write letter.doc.
Using Mac. Open or create your word-processing document using Microsoft Word 2007 or later. Click File on the menu bar along the top of your screen. Select Save As from the drop-down list. Type a name for your document in the Save As field of your pop-up window, then click the blue Save button.
In the File name box, type a name for the file. In the Save as type box, click Web Page or Singe File Web Page. Note If you save the document as a Web page (HTML format) and later want to move it or send it as an e-mail message attachment, you must remember to include the folder that contains any supporting files.
And you are not only limited to .doc or .docx as the default file type, either. You can also choose to save to any of the other compatible Word 2010 file types as well, such as .txt or .html. But continue reading to learn how to start using .doc as your default file type in Word 2010. Step 1: Launch Microsoft Word 2010. Step 2: Click the File tab at the top-left corner of the window.
If I change a file's extn from .docx to .doc Word defaults to saving as Word Document (.docx) -- because that what the file format actually is. Keep in mind that the extn is only an indicator of what the file type is, it doesn't determine or dictate the file type.
Shares & Saves. Save. The DOCX file format (or .docx) is a Microsoft-created word-processing file type introduced as part of Microsoft Office 2007, developed as an advanced update to the older .doc format. Newer versions of Microsoft Word use DOCX as the default saving format, formatted specifically for Microsoft.
To convert .doc document to .docx, you need to open it in Kingsoft Writer 2013, and press Writer Save as Microsoft Word 2007/2010 Document (see following picture). In the pop-up Save as window, the *.docx type is chosen as default (see above picture). Press Save.