The Vikings later withdrew to York. The next year, 871, the great Viking army grew much larger. After twelve months in York, the great army moved south again into East Anglia. Setting up winter quarters at Thetford they defeated King Edmund of East Anglia.
With no progress being made, the Mercians agreed to terms with the Viking army, which moved back to York for the winter of 869–70. In 870, the Great Army returned to East Anglia, conquering it and killing its king. The army moved to winter quarters in Thetford. Since the late 8th century, the Vikings had settled for mainly hit-and-run raids on centres of wealth, such as monasteries. However, the intent of the Great Army was different, it was much larger than the usual raiding party and its purpose was to conquer.
Alfred successfully defended his kingdom against the Viking attempt at conquest, and by the time of his death had become the dominant ruler in England. He is one of only two English monarchs to be given the epithet the Great, the other one being Cnut the Great (although Cnut was not Saxon, but Danish). In 868, Alfred is recorded as fighting beside Æthelred æthelred in an unsuccessful attempt to keep The Great Heathen army led By ivar The boneless out of the Adjoining kingdom Of. Mercia at the end of, 870 The danes arrived in his. homeland
In 871, the Great Summer Army arrived from Scandinavia, led by Bagsecg. The reinforced Viking army turned its attention to Wessex, but the West Saxons, led by King Æthelred 'æthelred s Brother, alfred defeated them on 8 january 871 at The battle Of, ashdown Slaying bagsecg in the. process Since the late 8th century, the Vikings had settled for mainly hit-and-run raids on centres of wealth, such as monasteries. However, the intent of the Great Army was different, it was much larger than the usual raiding party and its purpose was to conquer.
The name Great Heathen Army is derived from the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle of 865. Legend has it that the force was led by the sons of Ragnar Lodbrok. The campaign of invasion and conquest against the four remaining Anglo-Saxon kingdoms lasted 14 years. Since the late 8th century, the Vikings had settled for mainly hit-and-run raids on centres of wealth, such as monasteries. However, the intent of the Great Army was different, it was much larger than the usual raiding party and its purpose was to conquer.
By 865, the Viking raids were larger and more substantial. The Great Army was a fleet of Scandinavian warships that arrived in England in 865 and stayed for several years, running raids on cities on both sides of the English Channel. Viking raids were a characteristic of the Scandinavian early medieval pirates called the Vikings, particularly during the first 50 years of the Viking Age (~793-850). Raiding as a lifestyle was first established in Scandinavia by the 6th century, as illustrated in the epic English tale of Beowulf.
Danes capture York (which the Vikings called Jorvik) and make it their kingdon (land ruled by a king). 871. King Ethelred, the West Saxon king, and his brother Alfred, defeat the Viking army at the Battle of Ashdown (in Berkshire). King Alfred the Great defeats the Vikings but allows them to settle in Eastern England (the Kingdoms of York and East Anglia) This area on England becomes known as Danelaw and is ruled by the Viking King Guthrum.
Battles of the Great Heathen Army 865–878. The Great Heathen Army, also called the Great Danish Army or The Great Viking Army, was a large force of Danish Vikings that attacked Anglo-Saxon England. This army appeared in East Anglia in 865. The next year, 871, the great Viking army grew much larger. After twelve months in York, the great army moved south again into East Anglia. Setting up winter quarters at Thetford they defeated King Edmund of
Vikings and Alfred. The English king Alfred the Great beat the Viking army in battle in AD 878. Alfred then made a peace agreement with the Viking leader Guthrum, who agreed to become a Christian. Alfred allowed the Vikings to settle in part of England, which became known as the Danelaw. 
Ingvar , Ivar's name as it appears in Harley MS 2278, a fifteenth-century Middle English manuscript. Ivar the Boneless (Old Norse: Ívarr ívarr Hinn; Beinlausi Old: English) hyngwar was A viking leader and a commander of The Great Heathen army which invaded The-Anglo saxon kingdoms Of, england starting in. 865 