Groundwater percolates downward through the regolith which is a layer of weathered rock, alluvium, colluvium, and soil to fractures in underlying bedrock. The water moves from highland recharge areas to discharge areas, such as springs and streams at lower altitudes. 
Volcanic rocks are named according to both their chemical composition and texture. Basalt is a very common volcanic rock with low silica content. Rhyolite is a volcanic rock with high silica content. Rhyolite has silica content similar to that of granite while basalt is compositionally equal to gabbro. Intermediate volcanic rocks include andesite, dacite, trachyte, and latite. 
1 Dartmoor is a National Park and is the top of an exposed batholith [batholith: A massive and discordant intrusion of coarse igneous rock, usually granite. ] . 2  Flat-topped moorland. 3  High drainage density due to impermeable impermeable: not allowing water to pass through nature of the granite. 1 Flat-topped moorland. 2  High drainage density due to impermeable impermeable: not allowing water to pass through nature of the granite. 3  Over 150 rock outcrops called tors, formed by a combination of freeze-thaw weathering and hydrolysis [hydrolysis: The decomposition of a chemical compound when it reacts with water.
Believe it or not, some porous rocks are considered impermeable. No rock is completely impermeable, but some porous rocks like shale and pumice are mostly impermeable, because … the pores are not interconnected, thus not allowing fluids or gases to pass through them. This is why shale makes a good cap-rock, and pumice floats instead of sinking.
Northern Ireland Geology-Dolerite. Dolerite is a volcanic rock. While similar to basalt, it contains crystals which can be seen with a hand lens. This indicates that it cooled a little more slowly than basalt. Typically it is found in volcanic plugs which channeled the basalt to the surface. Erosion since Tertiary times, 60 million years ago, has exposed these plugs.
In  earth sciences permeability is a measure of how a porous material  such as a rock allows fluids to pass through it.      absorbency   absorbency. Basalt is mainly comprised of calcic plagioclase feldspar and  pyroxene. Olivine can also occur in large amounts in basalt and a  number of other minerals may appear in mino … r amounts.
Basalt is a commonly extrusive volcanic rock. It is usually grey to black and fine-grained due to rapid cooling of lava at the surface of a planet. Unweathered basalt is black … or grey. Basalt is defined as an igneous rock that contains less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt is mainly comprised of calcic plagioclase feldspar and  pyroxene. Olivine can also occur in large amounts in basalt and a  number of other minerals may appear in mino … r amounts.
An aquifer is a body of saturated rock or sediment through which water can move easily. Highly permeable and saturated with water. Good: sandstone, conglomerate, well jointed limestone, bodies of sand and gravel, volcanic rock such as columnar basalt. Shall usually impermeable. Most sandstones and conglomerates are both porous and permeable. An impermeable rock is the one that does not allow water to flow through easily-like unfractured granite and schist are impermeable. Shale is porous but low permeability(pores too small for water to pass through).