The CFA is best for portfolio management, which most of us are not interested in. There’s nothing wrong with wanting to do portfolio management rather than the industries above, but you need to be aware of where the CFA will help and where it won’t. Why You Might Want to Ignore All This and Get Certified Anyway. And those last 3 items would help you break into investment banking far more than passing the CFA. Remember that time is the scarcest resource of all – you can never generate more time no matter how much money you have.
By Investopedia Staff AAA |. A: If you are looking specifically for an investment banking position, an MBA may be marginally preferable over the CFA. The caveat here is that the MBA would most probably need to be from a Top-20 B-School. In summary, if you are fortunate enough to be enrolled in a top B-school, the MBA should be enough for you to get your foot in the door upon completion. But the CFA is increasingly becoming a viable alternative to jumpstart a career in investment banking, not least because of its scarcity value.
If you search and do some research, you will learn the CFA doesn’t help (for the most part) you get into IB. Transaction Advisory at a big 4 can help you get into a middle market IB. Otherwise a solid MBA. Also, I am sure you are aware of the situation in the financial world, so it’s not a good time. My strengths are my work ethic and I’d like to think that I’m a great team player and communicator. I do like my job and would only leave it for a step up in all facets. I want to get into investment banking and am also pondering doing the CFA after my CPA.
The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) is well worth considering if you (a) are aiming for an entry-level position in investment banking, and/or (b) cannot afford to shell out six figures for an MBA or have to settle for a lesser-known B-school. In summary, if you are fortunate enough to be enrolled in a top B-school, the MBA should be enough for you to get your foot in the door upon completion. But the CFA is increasingly becoming a viable alternative to jumpstart a career in investment banking, not least because of its scarcity value.
The CFA does not cover the accounting, valuation, and financial modeling specific to investment banks, and there’s nothing on conducting due diligence, creating pitch books, or communicating with senior bankers – all of which you’ll be doing a lot as an analyst or associate. And those last 3 items would help you break into investment banking far more than passing the CFA. Remember that time is the scarcest resource of all – you can never generate more time no matter how much money you have.
The Time Requirements. According to the CFA Institute, 300 hours of study are required for each level of the exam – 900 hours altogether. To put that number in perspective: 1  A full-time job is 2,000 hours per year (50 weeks * 40 hours per week). And those last 3 items would help you break into investment banking far more than passing the CFA. Remember that time is the scarcest resource of all – you can never generate more time no matter how much money you have.
1 If you are already in the investment management business and want to move up-complete the CFA program. 2  If you are not in the investment management business and don't want to start as an entry-level analyst as a career switch-go back to b-school for an MBA, then do the CFA. This is not fun. The CFA program is a pain the a$$, and everyone with the CFA charter knows this. I believe much of the value in the CFA is its signal to others that you are a diligent self-starter. The content learned from the CFA program is directly applicable to investing, though.
1 Job Opportunities – CFA is especially useful for those who want to make a career in Investment Banking, Portfolio Management or Financial Research. 2  FRM opens up careers in Risk Management in Banks, Treasury Department or Risk Assesments. 1 However, FRM is a specialized exam for gaining expertise in Risk Management. 2  Job Opportunities – CFA is especially useful for those who want to make a career in Investment Banking, Portfolio Management or Financial Research. 3
But obtaining the CFA charter is no walk in the park. Candidates are required to pass three levels of exams (which take about a combined 1,000 hours of study), and possess four years of qualified experience that involves investment decision-making. In summary, if you are fortunate enough to be enrolled in a top B-school, the MBA should be enough for you to get your foot in the door upon completion. But the CFA is increasingly becoming a viable alternative to jumpstart a career in investment banking, not least because of its scarcity value.