reconnaissance by fire-a method of reconnaissance in which fire is placed on a suspected enemy position in order to cause the enemy to disclose his presence by moving or returning fire. reconnaissance in force-an offensive operation designed to discover or test the enemy's strength (or to obtain other information). A mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods, information about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or to secure data concerning the meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area.
Noun. 1. recce-reconnaissance (by shortening). recco, reccy. reconnaissance, reconnaissance mission-the act of reconnoitring (especially to gain information about an enemy or potential enemy); an exchange of fire occurred on a reconnaissance mission. Translations
Reconnaissance is a mission to obtain information by visual observation or other detection methods, about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or about the meteorologic, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. Civil Reconnaissance is the process of gathering a broad spectrum of civil information about a specific population in support of military operations. It is related to and often performed in conjunction with infrastructure reconnaissance (assessment and survey).
Espionage normally is not reconnaissance, because reconnaissance is a military force's operating ahead of its main forces; spies are non-combatants operating behind enemy lines. Often called  recce  (British and Canadian English) or  recon  (American and Australian English), the associated verb is reconnoitre. Civil Reconnaissance is the process of gathering a broad spectrum of civil information about a specific population in support of military operations. It is related to and often performed in conjunction with infrastructure reconnaissance (assessment and survey).
1 Last August I was one of five Persians and four Westerners-three women and six men-who set off to recce a route by jeep through the deserts, mountains and ‘emptylands’ of north and north-east Iran. 1 Our first visit in November was largely as a recce and investigation of possibilities. 2  During the recce, the helicopter would land on one of the islands used in aircraft bombing missions. 3  It's been a while since our last recce of the hardware sites.
The term 'recce' is also used in radio and television production. Other examples of later media borrowing from film includes wildtrack which, in film production, was sound recorded without pictures for use in post-production later. In the US the term site survey is commonly used with the same meaning. 
Recce /ˈrɛki/ is a military term that has been borrowed by media production in the United Kingdom and New Zealand, derived from  reconnaissance  in the noun sense and  reconnoitre  in the verb sense. It refers to a pre-filming visit to a location to work out its suitability for shooting, including access to necessary facilities and assessment of any potential lighting or sound issues, and is closely related to location scouting. The term 'recce' is also used in radio and television production. Other examples of later media borrowing from film includes wildtrack which, in film production, was sound recorded without pictures for use in post-production later
reconnaissance. A mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods, information about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or to secure data concerning the meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area.
Reconnaissance. Reconnaissance is the military term for exploring beyond the area occupied by friendly forces to gain vital information about enemy forces or features of the environment for later analysis and/or dissemination.