More trip calculations. 1  driving distance from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France. 2  cost to drive from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France. 3  reverse driving time from Calais, France to Alicante, Spain. 4  halfway between Alicante, Spain and Calais, France. 5  places to stop from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France. Map of driving directions from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France. Click here to show map. Drag the line on the map to calculate the driving distance for a different route. If you want to verify these driving directions or look for another possible route, you can try. Google Maps, Bing Maps, or MapQuest.
If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France. You can also calculate the cost to drive from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. Since this is a long drive, you might want to stop halfway and stay overnight in a hotel. Map of driving directions from Alicante, Spain to Calais, France. Click here to show map. Drag the line on the map to calculate the driving distance for a different route. If you want to verify these driving directions or look for another possible route, you can try. Google Maps, Bing Maps, or MapQuest.
Calais to Alicante Spain in Only 16 Hours. One of the visitors to my website, Steve from Oxford, has very kindly written an extremely thorough article about his regular drive to spain from the UK. This article is highly informative for anyone taking this route for the first time, or who regularly drive to Spain and would like to try a new route.
The approx distance between Alicante and Calais in a straight line is 880 miles or 1415.92 KMS See the maps and links below for additional information related to driving distances, fuel costs and estimated journey times for this trip from Alicante to Calais. Happy trails!! Advertisements: By Road: If you were in a road vehicle maintaining an average speed of 40mph (64 kmh), it would take you approximately 26.84 hours to travel from Alicante to Calais for an estimated driving distance of 1135.2 miles (1727.42 kms) . (see map below for precise driving times, directions and distance).
Click here and use the Calais radius tool. The approx distance between Calais and Alicante in a straight line is 880 miles or 1415.92 KMS See the maps and links below for additional information related to driving distances, fuel costs and estimated journey times for this trip from Calais to Alicante. Happy trails!! Advertisements: By Road: If you were in a road vehicle maintaining an average speed of 40mph (64 kmh), it would take you approximately 26.84 hours to travel from Calais to Alicante for an estimated driving distance of 1135.2 miles (1727.42 kms) . (see map below for precise driving times, directions and distance).
How long does it take to drive from England to Alicante in Spain?   We drove to Alicante a few years ago from Hertfordshire and the the total driving time took approximately 20 hours. This does not include stopping over in France overnig … ht or taking rest breaks. The whole journey took approximately 2 days to get there covering a distance of around 1200 miles. How long does it take to get from Manchester to Calais on a ferry?   Time For Ferry From Manchester to Calais   For ever; Manchester is 200 miles from the channel coast.
Approx distance in miles from Alicante to Calais is 880 miles or 1415.92 KMS. This page was designed to give you a good indication of the distance from Alicante to Calais. By Road: If you were in a road vehicle maintaining an average speed of 40mph (64 kmh), it would take you approximately 26.84 hours to travel from Alicante to Calais for an estimated driving distance of 1135.2 miles (1727.42 kms) . (see map below for precise driving times, directions and distance).