Nearsightedness: An Overview. Nearsighted (also called myopia) is a term to describe an eye condition that lets you clearly see objects that are near or close to you, while objects in the distance appear blurry or hazy. Nearsightedness happens in eyes that are incorrectly focusing images in front of the retina rather than directly on it
Nearsightedness (myopia). Nearsightedness (myopia) is a common vision condition in which you can see objects near to you clearly, but objects farther away are blurry. Nearsightedness may develop gradually or rapidly, often worsening during childhood and adolescence. Nearsightedness tends to run in families
Prescription eyeglasses can often be used to treat nearsightedness. Without corrective glasses, nearsightedness can make it difficult for children to see the blackboard at school. Myopia, or nearsightedness, is the most common cause of blurred vision when viewing objects at a distance. Nearsighted children may have trouble seeing the blackboard in a classroom. Consult with an optometrist if you are experiencing vision problems.
Myopia, or “nearsightedness” or “shortsightedness,” as most of us refer to it, is an eye condition in which you can view objects up close clearly, but things farther away may appear blurry. This condition is fairly common and many people who have it don’t detect it immediately, as all objects in view aren’t blurry. 
Nearsightedness, also known as myopia, is a common type of refractive error where close objects appear clearly, but distant objects appear blurry. The cornea and lens bend (refract) incoming light rays so they focus in front of the retina. 
Nearsighted means that with your natural uncorrected vision, you can see closer or “nearer” and further out gets blurry. Nearsightedness or myopia is a refractive defect of the eye lens in which the image is formed in front of the retina not on it. This defect can have people seeing closer objects clearly while distant ones are blurred. Farsighted is simply the opposite. 
Nearsightedness (myopia) is a common cause of blurred vision. It can be mild, moderate, or severe. If you are nearsighted, objects in the distance appear blurry and out of focus. You might squint or frown when trying to see distant objects clearly. View a photo as seen through a normal and a nearsighted eye. Nearsightedness is usually a variation from normal, not a disease.
Nearsightedness or myopia is the most common cause of blurred vision when viewing objects at a distance. People with this condition must squint or strain to see objects that are not nearby. This is most notable for children in a classroom setting where it can be difficult to read the blackboard. Myopia, or nearsightedness, is the most common cause of blurred vision when viewing objects at a distance. Nearsighted children may have trouble seeing the blackboard in a classroom. Consult with an optometrist if you are experiencing vision problems.
Nearsightedness, or myopia, as it is medically termed, is a vision condition in which close objects are seen clearly, but objects farther away appear blurred. Nearsightedness occurs if the eyeball is too long or the cornea, the clear front cover of the eye, has too much curvature. 
Most nearsightedness is caused by a natural change in the shape of the eyeball. Less often, nearsightedness may be caused by a change in the cornea or the lens. These problems cause light rays entering the eye to focus in front of the retina. Normally, light focuses directly on the retina. It can be mild, moderate, or severe. If you are nearsighted, objects in the distance appear blurry and out of focus. You might squint or frown when trying to see distant objects clearly. View a photo as seen through a normal and a nearsighted eye. Nearsightedness is usually a variation from normal, not a disease.