The BSN Nurse is Preferred. In 1980, almost 55 percent of registered nurses held a hospital diploma as their highest educational credential, 22 percent held the BSN, and 18 percent an associate degree.
The American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN), the national voice for baccalaureate and graduate nursing programs, believes that education has a significant impact on the knowledge and competencies of the nurse clinician, as it does for all health care providers. 1 In a 2001 survey published in the Journal of Nursing Administration, 72% of these directors identified differences in practice between BSN-prepared nurses and those who have an associate degree or hospital diploma, citing stronger critical thinking and leadership skills.
Accordingly, the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) recognizes the Bachelor of Science degree in nursing as the minimum educational requirement for professional nursing practice. (See also our fact sheet on Associate Degree in Nursing Programs and AACN's Support for Articulation .). In 1980, almost 55 percent of registered nurses held a hospital diploma as their highest educational credential, 22 percent held the BSN, and 18 percent an associate degree.
1 Though some arts and science courses are included in ADN programs, the BSN provides a much stronger base in the humanities and sciences. 2  There are 679 RN-to-BSN and 209 RN-to-MSN programs that build on the education provided in diploma and associate degree programs and prepare graduates for a broader scope of practice. 1 In a 2001 survey published in the Journal of Nursing Administration, 72% of these directors identified differences in practice between BSN-prepared nurses and those who have an associate degree or hospital diploma, citing stronger critical thinking and leadership skills.
Nurses with Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degrees are well-prepared to meet the demands placed on today's nurse. BSN nurses are prized for their skills in critical thinking, leadership, case management, and health promotion, and for their ability to practice across a variety of inpatient and outpatient settings. 1 In a 2001 survey published in the Journal of Nursing Administration, 72% of these directors identified differences in practice between BSN-prepared nurses and those who have an associate degree or hospital diploma, citing stronger critical thinking and leadership skills.
The BSN Nurse is Prepared for a Broad Role. Unlike graduates of diploma or associate-degree nursing programs, the nurse with a baccalaureate degree is prepared to practice in all health care settings-critical care, outpatient care, public health, and mental health. In 1980, almost 55 percent of registered nurses held a hospital diploma as their highest educational credential, 22 percent held the BSN, and 18 percent an associate degree.
The American Nurses Association (ANA) is a professional organization to advance and protect the profession of nursing. It started in 1896 as the Nurses Associated Alumnae and was renamed the American Nurses Association in 1911. It is based in Silver Spring, Maryland and Pamela F. Cipriano is the current President. 
About an associate's degree in nursing. An associate's degree in nursing (ADN) will give you a solid career foundation in the health care field. Popular among registered nurses (RNs), the ADN provides opportunities to work in entry-level nursing positions. 
Welcome to the SAC RN Program Website! The Associate Degree Nursing (A.D.N.) program at Santa Ana College (SAC) is approved by the California Board of Registered Nursing (BRN) and accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN). 
At an American Nurses Association meeting last year, 85% of the 501 nurse leaders from all over the country voted for the BSN in Ten resolution, which would require nurses graduating with their associate's degree to earn their BSN within a ten-year timeframe. 