The frequency of a sound wave not only refers to the number of back-and-forth vibrations of the particles per unit of time, but also refers to the number of compressions or rarefactions that pass a given point per unit of time.
Frequency. Frequency is the number of occurrences of a repeating event per unit time. It is also referred to as temporal frequency, which emphasizes the contrast to spatial frequency and angular frequency. The period is the duration of one cycle in a repeating event, so the period is the reciprocal of the
The noun FREQUENCY has 3 senses: 1. the number of occurrences within a given time period. 2. the ratio of the number of observations in a statistical category to the total number of observations. 3. the number of observations in a given statistical category. Familiarity information: FREQUENCY used as a noun is uncommon.
The frequency of a wave is measured as the number of complete back-and-forth vibrations of a particle of the medium per unit of time. If a particle of air undergoes 1000 longitudinal vibrations in 2 seconds, then the frequency of the wave would be 500 vibrations per second.
Frequency, referring to sound, is the amount of complete waves every second that produce sound. For example: High pitched sounds, like the sound that whistles make, have a h … igh frequency (lots of waves per second).
And Low pitched sounds like the sound that a subwoofer makes have a low frequency (Not so many waves per second) The average human can hear from 20hz (cycles per second) up to around 20,000hz (cycles per second).
1. the number of occurrences within a given time period. 2. the ratio of the number of observations in a statistical category to the total number of observations. 3. the number of observations in a given statistical category.
At its most basic, frequency is the number of times an event happens during a time period. For example, the frequency of Christmas is once per year. In science and nature, waves carry energy and have frequencies. Sound and light are waves as real as the ones you find in the ocean.
The frequency of a wave is the number of waves produced by a source each second. It is also the number of waves that pass a certain point each second. The unit of frequency is the hertz (Hz). It is common for kilohertz (kHz), megahertz (MHz) and gigahertz (GHz) to be used when waves have very high frequencies.