How Divorce Affects Children. How children are affected by divorce is a question of huge importance to your children and, of course, to you. Sadly, experts sometimes are confused about how divorce affects children, and they can offer parents conflicting advice. That's why I emphasize what research tells us in The Truth about Children and Divorce. In fact, how you parent and work with your children's other parent basically is going to determine whether your children are resilient — or end up as a statistic. I tell you how to do this — practically and emotionally — in The Truth about Children and Divorce.
1 They often feel that the termination of the marriage was their fault. 2  They come to believe it is their job to mediate their parent's arguments. 3  They often feel that they are in the middle of their parent's conflict. 1 They are sometimes used as “message carriers” between parents and they develop an identity as a message deliverer. 2  They are also asked to report back to the other parent about what mom or dad is doing and they have mixed feelings about playing informer.
A Bob Livingstone, Marriage & Family Therapy, answered. The effects of divorce on children's development are: 1  They often feel that the termination of the marriage was their fault. 2  They come to believe it is their job to mediate their parent's arguments. 1 They are sometimes used as “message carriers” between parents and they develop an identity as a message deliverer. 2  They are also asked to report back to the other parent about what mom or dad is doing and they have mixed feelings about playing informer.
This is not to say that divorce does not affect them at all, it is merely to say that they make a quicker recovery to normalcy because they accept it and younger children have harder time understanding the consequences of divorce. There are positive and negative effects that divorce has on older children. They still have fear but not as the younger children do. Older children fear that if they enter their own love relationships the result may be the same as their parents’. For this reason, they will be hesitant to enter a relationship.
1 They come to believe it is their job to mediate their parent's arguments. 2  They often feel that they are in the middle of their parent's conflict. 3  They are sometimes used as “message carriers” between parents and they develop an identity as a message deliverer. 1 They are sometimes used as “message carriers” between parents and they develop an identity as a message deliverer. 2  They are also asked to report back to the other parent about what mom or dad is doing and they have mixed feelings about playing informer.
Child Development and the Effects of Divorce. Divorce in and of itself does not harm children; it is the intensity and duration of the conflict-between-parents that negatively impacts a children’s adjustment. It is important to know that children’s behaviors are likely to change as a normal response to divorce. Divorce does, however, affect children’s behaviors and their reaction varies widely, depending on many factors, especially age. Divorcing parents usually do not know what is best for their children at this time. At this age, children may be ashamed or embarrassed by the divorce and may feel powerless to do anything about it. They may experience somatic symptoms based on their conflict about the divorce. They may complain of headaches, stomachaches, fatigue, and generally feeling out of sorts.
Researchers do not believe that divorce always causes pain in children. Divorce can have both positive and negative results. For some children, the parents’ divorce can be a disaster. It might be negative for the child both now and later. There is no age when all children would definitely have problems or definitely do well. Each age and stage of development presents different issues and challenges. For example, some researchers have found that preteen children (about ages 10 to 12) are the most upset about the divorce.