Corn used for food has been genetically modified to tolerate various herbicides and to express a protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) that kills certain insects. About 90% of the corn grown in the U.S. was genetically modified in 2010. Most food modifications have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seed oil. These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and for better nutrient profiles.
Definition. Genetically engineered foods have had foreign genes (genes from other plants or animals) inserted into their genetic codes. Genetic engineering can be done with plants, animals, or bacteria and other microorganisms. We have bred plants and animals for thousands of years to produce the desired traits
Today, in the United States, 85 % of corn, 91% of soybeans and 88% of cotton are genetically engineered. Plus, 75% of processed foods on supermarket shelves contain some genetically engineered (GE) food products. Consumers across the United States are getting anxious about the safety of genetically modified foods. The benefits of genetically modified food crops include being able to breed disease resistant crops and herbicide tolerant strains. Genetically modified crops can also be made to include vitamins that may be lacking in some staple varieties.
When farmers start growing genetically modified crops, they stop growing the old varieties. These old varieties are important sources of diverse genes that give plants other desirable characteristics. For example, a new pest or disease could come along and destroy the genetically modified rice. 1 You are a tomato farmer whose crops are threatened by a persistent species of beetle. 2  Each year, you spend large sums of money for pesticides to protect your crops. 3  A biotechnology company introduces a new strain of tomato plant that produces a natural pesticide, making it resistant to the beetle.
1 Soybean-Genetically modified to be resistant to herbicides-Soy foods including, soy beverages, tofu, soy oil, soy flour, lecithin. 2  Other products may include breads, pastries, snack foods, baked products, fried products, edible oil products and special purpose foods. The benefits of genetically modified food crops include being able to breed disease resistant crops and herbicide tolerant strains. Genetically modified crops can also be made to include vitamins that may be lacking in some staple varieties.
Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism. 
Our ability to manipulate plants by introducing new genes promises innovative solutions to these and many other real-world problems. Yet there is considerable opposition to the use of genetically modified plants for food production and other uses. Genetic engineering offers a time-saving method for producing larger, higher-quality crops with less effort and expense. 1 You are a tomato farmer whose crops are threatened by a persistent species of beetle. 2  Each year, you spend large sums of money for pesticides to protect your crops. 3  A biotechnology company introduces a new strain of tomato plant that produces a natural pesticide, making it resistant to the beetle.
The genetically modified foods controversy is a dispute over the use of food and other goods derived from genetically modified crops and other uses of genetic engineering in food production. Most food modifications have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seed oil. These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and for better nutrient profiles.
Brief Synopsis: Genetically modified foods information including list of GM foods with dna changes and pros and cons of GM food. Any politician or scientist who tells you these products are safe is either very stupid or lying. The hazards of these foods are uncertain. The benefits of genetically modified food crops include being able to breed disease resistant crops and herbicide tolerant strains. Genetically modified crops can also be made to include vitamins that may be lacking in some staple varieties.