A heterozygote advantage (heterozygous advantage) describes the case in which the heterozygote genotype has a higher relative fitness than either the homozygote dominant or homozygote recessive genotype. Polymorphism can be maintained by selection favoring the heterozygote, and this mechanism is used to explain the occurrence of some kinds of genetic variability.
Heterozygote. Definition. noun, plural: heterozygotes. A nucleus, cell or organism possessing two different alleles for a particular gene. Supplement. An example is a zygote having one dominant allele and one recessive allele for a particular gene. Word origin: hetero (different) + zygote. Related forms: heterozygous (adjective). Compare: homozygote. See also: zygote. Related term: 1  Compound heterozygote.
Heterozygote: An individual who has two different forms of a particular gene, one inherited from each parent. A heterozygote for cystic fibrosis (CF) has the CF gene on one chromosome 7 and the normal paired gene on the other chromosome 7. 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Heterozygous refers to having two different alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Homozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r). Organisms have two alleles for each trait. When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one is dominant and the other is recessive. Using the previous example, round seed shape (R) is dominant and wrinkled seed shape (r) is recessive.
Codominance. Not all traits follow this dominant/recessive pattern. Some are codominant, meaning that a heterozygote has a phenotype that is different from homozygotes. A phenotype can include the physical characteristics, behaviors, traits and development of an organism. One example of codominance is the Rex gene in rats. 
A diploid organism is heterozygous at a gene locus when its cells contain two different alleles of a gene. The cell or organism is called a heterozygote specifically for the allele in question, therefore, heterozygosity refers to a specific genotype. Zygosity is the degree of similarity of the alleles for a trait in an organism. Most eukaryotes have two matching sets of chromosomes; that is, they are diploid
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A heterozygote is an organism that has two different forms of the same gene, with one being the dominant form and the other the recessive form. Genes are functional units that transmit hereditary information when organisms reproduce. 
Noun. 1. heterozygote - (genetics) an organism having two different alleles of a particular gene and so giving rise to varying offspring. fertilized ovum, zygote - (genetics) the diploid cell resulting from the union of a haploid spermatozoon and ovum (including the organism that develops from that cell).