Allegra (fexofenadine hydrochloride) is an antihistamine used to treat allergic symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis (sneezing, runny nose, itchy or watery eyes), and urticaria (hives). Allegra is available as a generic drug termed fexofenadine hydrochloride. Stop taking fexofenadine and call your doctor if you have fever, chills, body aches, cough, or other flu symptoms. Less serious side effects may include: 1  nausea, diarrhea, upset stomach; 2  menstrual cramps; 3  drowsiness, tired feeling; 4  headache; or. 5  muscle or back pain.
A: Allegra (fexofenadine) is an antihistamine commonly used to treat the symptoms of seasonal allergies including sneezing, runny nose, cough, and itchy watery eyes. Both adults and children can take Allegra (fexofenadine) for their allergy symptoms. Allegra is in a class of medications known as antihistamines, which stop the effects of histamine, a substance in your body that causes allergic symptoms by blocking the histamine receptor known as the H1 receptor. Allegra causes less drowsiness than other antihistamines. It can help alleviate symptoms such as runny nose and sneezing; red, watery, or itchy eyes; itchy nose, throat or roof of the mouth; or itchy skin and rash. Allegra comes in tablet and liquid form
A: Fexofenadine (Allegra) is an antihistamine that is used to treat the symptoms of allergies. The price of generic fexofenadine can vary depending on the wholesaler and pharmacy from which the medication is acquired. Allegra is in a class of medications known as antihistamines, which stop the effects of histamine, a substance in your body that causes allergic symptoms by blocking the histamine receptor known as the H1 receptor. Allegra causes less drowsiness than other antihistamines. It can help alleviate symptoms such as runny nose and sneezing; red, watery, or itchy eyes; itchy nose, throat or roof of the mouth; or itchy skin and rash. Allegra comes in tablet and liquid form
This combination medication is used to temporarily relieve symptoms caused by the common cold, flu, or allergies. It contains 2 medications: fexofenadine and pseudoephedrine. Fexofenadine is an antihistamine that helps relieve watery eyes, itchy eyes /nose/throat, runny nose, and sneezing. Pseudoephedrine is a decongestant that helps relieve stuffy nose and ear congestion symptoms. This medication is not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age due to the large amount of pseudoephedrine in it.
Fexofenadine is used to treat the symptoms of seasonal allergies (hay fever) in adults and children. Fexofenadine is also used to treat skin itching and hives caused by a condition called chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children. Fexofenadine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
It relieves common allergy symptoms with minimal side effects. Allegra ® (fexofenadine hydrochloride) is a medication used to treat allergies and hives. It is part of a class of medicines called antihistamines.. Allegra is also available with an added decongestant, known as Allegra-D.
Allegra works by blocking the effects of histamine, reducing the symptoms of sneezing, runny nose, and irritation of the throat and eyes. Allegra ® (fexofenadine hydrochloride) is a medication used to treat allergies and hives. It is part of a class of medicines called antihistamines.. Allegra is also available with an added decongestant, known as Allegra-D.
Allegra is an antihistamine used primarily for the treatment of seasonal allergies. Allegra ® (fexofenadine hydrochloride) is a medication used to treat allergies and hives. It is part of a class of medicines called antihistamines.. Allegra is also available with an added decongestant, known as Allegra-D.
BRAND NAME: Allegra-D. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Allegra-D is a combination of an antihistamine (fexofenadine) and a decongestant (pseudoephedrine). Fexofenadine is an oral, second generation antihistamine that is used to treat the signs and symptoms of allergy and hives. 