3,548 pages on this wiki. The Frilled shark, (Chlamydoselachus anguineus) is one of two extant species of shark in the family Chlamydoselachidae, with a wide but patchy distribution in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. 
The frilled sharks off southern Africa were described as a different species, C. africana, in 2009. The frilled shark inhabits the outer continental shelf and upper to middle continental slope, seeming to favor upwellings and other biologically productive areas. The gestation period may be as long as three and a half years, the longest of any vertebrate. Litter sizes vary from two to fifteen, and there is no distinct breeding season. Frilled sharks are occasional bycatch in commercial fisheries, but have little economic value.
Order: Chlamydoselachiformes. Frilled sharks, a long, skinny shark that looks like an eel, are among the oldest living species of sharks. Fossil evidence dates frilled sharks to 95 million years ago. Some paleontologists suggest it is a living cladodont shark, a shark that existed as long ago as 380 million years.
Frilled shark habitat. A predominantly deepwater species, the frilled shark typically lives close to the seabed or in the water column at depths between 500 and 1,000 metres, but may be found as deep as 1,500 metres. The little-known, deepwater-dwelling frilled shark (Chlamydoselachus anguineus) is one of the most primitive species of living shark. The species name anguineus, which derives from the Latin for snakelike, only partly conveys its bizarre appearance.
Many frilled sharks are found with the tips of their tails missing, probably from predatory attacks by other shark species. Parasites identified from this shark include a tapeworm in the genus Monorygma, the fluke Otodistomum veliporum, and the nematode Mooleptus rabuka. The gestation period may be as long as three and a half years, the longest of any vertebrate. Litter sizes vary from two to fifteen, and there is no distinct breeding season. Frilled sharks are occasional bycatch in commercial fisheries, but have little economic value.
Frilled sharks are so unusual that the 2 known species, the Frilled Shark and the Southern African Frilled Shark, are placed by some biologists in their own order (as we do, here). Historically, Frilled sharks have been considered a Family within the order of Hexanchiformes, or Cow sharks. Fossil evidence dates frilled sharks to 95 million years ago. Some paleontologists suggest it is a living cladodont shark, a shark that existed as long ago as 380 million years.
The frilled shark (Chlamydoselachus anguineus) is one of two extant species of shark in the family Chlamydoselachidae, with a wide but patchy distribution in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The gestation period may be as long as three and a half years, the longest of any vertebrate. Litter sizes vary from two to fifteen, and there is no distinct breeding season. Frilled sharks are occasional bycatch in commercial fisheries, but have little economic value.
Hexanchiform sharks have a single dorsal fin, either six or seven gill slits (versus the 5 found in all other existing sharks), and no nictitating membranes (protective third eyelids) . The frilled shark, Chlamydoselachus anguineus, is currently one of only two known species of frilled sharks. The southern African frill shark, C. africana, was recently discovered (2009) off southern Angola, Namibia and South Africa. Frilled sharks, Chlamydoselachus anguineus (Garman, 1884), aka frill sharks, frill-gilled sharks, Greenland sharks, scaffold sharks, and silk sharks are members of the most ancient frill and cow sharks order, Hexanchiformes.
Owing to its deepwater habitat, very few observations of the frilled shark have been made in its natural environment. Analysis of stomach contents of frilled sharks brought to the surface indicate that this species mostly preys on deep water squid and a variety of fish, including other sharks. The little-known, deepwater-dwelling frilled shark (Chlamydoselachus anguineus) is one of the most primitive species of living shark. The species name anguineus, which derives from the Latin for snakelike, only partly conveys its bizarre appearance.