HVAC Coils. In the HVAC and Refrigeration field, cooling and heating coils are used to exchange heat to/from air to a heat exchange fluid. A heat exchange fluid is flown through the coil and as air is passed over the coil, the air is either heated or cooled. Coils are rated by the height of the fins and the number of fins per inch. Cooling and Heating Coil Fluids There are several different types of heat exchange fluids used in cooling/heating coils. Refrigerant: Hot refrigerant gas or cool refrigerant liquid can be used in a coil to provide either heating or cooling. In a heating-coil, cool air is passed over a coil containing hot gas. Heat is exchanged to the cool air, which warms the air. The heat lost by the refrigerant gas causes it to condense to a liqui
This is due to the constraint that dehumidifiers in an air conditioning application must be selected for a particular mass flow rate (or volume flow rate) of air, and a deeper dehumidifier, due to the higher face velocity, will have a reduced bypass factor (not an increased bypass factor). Contrary to the teaching of that textbook, this invention is based partly on the discovery that the bypass factor increases as air velocity decreases when the constraints imposed by an air conditioning system are imposed.
The bypass factor of .384 means that 38.4% of the air moving over the coil. is unaffected by the coil. Typical bypass factors for normally opera ting coils vary from .1 to .35, or. from 10% to 35%. Moving to the left on the chart indicates a reduction in temperature as well as an increase in relative humidity. Also notice that the state point on the right is higher on the chart than that on the left. As this air was cooled it moved to the left but, it also dropped to a lower specific humidity (grains) line.
Cooling Moist Air-Sensible Cooling. If the temperature on a cooling surface-tC-is above or equal to the dew point temperature-t DP-of the surrounding air, the air will be cooled without any change in specific humidity. 1 m3/s of air at 30 oC and relative humidity 60% (A) is cooled down to 15 oC (B). The surface temperature of the cooling coil is 0 oC (C). The density of air at 20 oC is 1.205 kg/m3.
In this case a 5-ton HVAC system at a nominal 2000 Cfm is split into 2 zones. For the sake of simplicity, the zones are assumed to be equal in load at 1000 Cfm each. ACCA Manual Zr defines this ratio of bypass Cfm versus system Cfm as the “ Bypass Factor ” (BPF) = 1000 / 2000 = .50 or 50%. 
The chart in figure 8-1 shows a typical process line for cooling with dehumidification. Figure 8-1. The state point on the right is warmer and lower in relative humidity than the point on the left. Moving to the left on the chart indicates a reduction in temperature as well as an increase in relative humidity. Also notice that the state point on the right is higher on the chart than that on the left. As this air was cooled it moved to the left but, it also dropped to a lower specific humidity (grains) line.
• Coils are the main devices for transferring energy to/from the airstream in an air-handling system. • Heat Transfer Media – Hydronic Fluid (Water) – Steam – Direct Expansion • Important Coil Load Concepts – Apparatus Dew Point – Bypass Factor. 1. Air Conditioning Design-Psychrometrics & Coil Load Calculation. 6. Bypass Factor. Some of the air flowing through the coil impinges on the water tubes or the fins and is cooled to the ADP. Other air passes through unchanged. Coil Entering Air. Fin. The percentage of air that passes through the coil unchanged is called the bypass factor.
Coils • Coils are the main devices for transferring energyto/from the airstream in an air-handling system.• Heat Transfer Media– Hydronic Fluid (Water)– Steam– Direct Expansion• Important Coil Load Concepts– Apparatus Dew Point– Bypass Factor. 
This process is indicated in the Mollier diagram as below. The air cools in the direction of point C, which is the intersection point of the cold surface temperature (the cooling surface dew point temperature or the apparatus dew-point-tADP) and the saturation line. 1 m3/s of air at 30 oC and relative humidity 60% (A) is cooled down to 15 oC (B). The surface temperature of the cooling coil is 0 oC (C). The density of air at 20 oC is 1.205 kg/m3.