In electronics, a diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts primarily in one direction (asymmetric conductance); it has low (ideally zero) resistance to the flow of current in one direction, and high (ideally infinite) resistance in the other. The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current to pass in one direction (called the diode's forward direction), while blocking current in the opposite direction (the reverse direction). Thus, the diode can be viewed as an electronic version of a check valve.
A semiconductor diode, the most common type today, is a crystalline piece of semiconductor material with a p–n junction connected to two electrical terminals. A vacuum tube diode has two electrodes, a plate (anode) and a heated cathode. Semiconductor diodes were the first semiconductor electronic devices. The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current to pass in one direction (called the diode's forward direction), while blocking current in the opposite direction (the reverse direction). Thus, the diode can be viewed as an electronic version of a check valve.
A diode placed in series with the positive side of the power supply is called a reverse protection diode. It ensures that current can only flow in the positive direction, and the power supply only applies a positive voltage to your circuit. 
A diode is a specialized electronic component with two electrodes called the anode and the cathode. Most diodes are made with semiconductor materials such as silicon, germanium, or selenium. 
Operation of Zener Diode: 1  Zener diodes are normally used only in the reverse bias direction. 2  It means that the anode must be connected to the negative side of the voltage source and the cathode must be connected to the positive side. 1 Varying amount of reverse current can pass through the diode without damaging it. 2  The breakdown voltage or zener voltage (VZ) across the diode remains relatively constant. 3  The maximum reverse current is limited, however, by the wattage rating of the diode.
In this interactive and animated object, learners examine the operation of a semiconductor diode when it is forward and reverse biased. 
Varactor diodes or varicap diodes are semiconductor devices that are widely used in the electronics industry and are used in many applications where a voltage controlled variable capacitance is required. 
A PIN diode is a diode with a wide, undoped intrinsic semiconductor region between a p-type semiconductor and an n-type semiconductor region. The p-type and n-type regions are typically heavily doped because they are used for ohmic contacts. The wide intrinsic region is in contrast to an ordinary PN diode. A PIN diode operates under what is known as high-level injection. In other words, the intrinsic i region is flooded with charge carriers from the p and n regions. Its function can be likened to filling up a water bucket with a hole on the side. Once the water reaches the hole's level it will begin to pour out.
Zener diodes have many of the same basic properties of ordinary semiconductor diodes. They conduct in the forward direction and have the same turn on voltage as ordinary diodes. For silicon this is about 0.6 volts. In the reverse direction, the operation of a Zener diode is quite different to an ordinary diode. For low voltages the diodes do not conduct as would be expected. However, once a certain voltage is reached the diode breaks down and current flows. Diode Tutorial Includes: Diode types PN junction diode LED PIN diode Schottky barrier diode Varactor / varicap Zener diode. Zener diodes are a form of semiconductor diode that are widely used in electronics circuits as voltage references.