In 2003, she appeared as Hilda, she who must be obeyed, wife of Horace Rumpole in four BBC Radio 4 plays, with Timothy West playing her fictional husband. Prunella Scales and West toured Australia at the same time in different productions. Throughout her career, Scales has often been cast in comic roles. Her early work included the second UK adaptation of Pride and Prejudice (1952), Hobson's Choice (1954), Room at the Top (1959) and Waltz of the Toreadors (1962).
Long married to second wife actress/comedienne Prunella Scales, the couple have appeared together on stage over the years in such productions as When We Are Married, A Long Day's Journey Into Night, The Birthday Party and The External. Mini Bio (1). A versatile British actor noted for his great power and command on the classical stage and in several other mediums including radio, film and television, Timothy West was born on October 20, 1934 in Bradford, Yorkshire, England, the son of actors (Harry) Lockwood West and his wife Olive (Carleton-Crowe).
Prunella Scales net worth: $2 Million. Prunella Scales Net Worth: Prunella Scales is an English actress who has a net worth of $2 million. Born in 1932 in Sutton Abinger, Surrey, England, Prunella Scales is best known for her comedy work throughout her show business career. Her biography, Prunella, hit bookshelves in 2005, she works as an ambassador to the charity SOS Children's Villages, and is a patron of World Orphan week. Scales is fluent in French and has two children with her husband, Timothy West
Timothy Busfield Net Worth. Timothy Busfield net worth: Timothy Busfield is an American director and actor who has a net worth of $1 million. Timothy Busfield... 1  Prunella Scales Net WorthPrunella Scales Net Worth: Prunella Scales is an English actress who has a net worth of $2 million. Born in 1932 in Sutton Abinger... 1  Sean Murray Net WorthSean Murray net worth: Sean Murray is an Australian-American actor who has a net worth of $8 million dollars. Sean Murray was bo... 
Actress | Soundtrack. Prunella Scales was born on June 22, 1932 in Sutton Abinger, Surrey, England as Prunella Margaret Rumney Illingworth. She is an actress, known for Howards End (1992), After Henry (1988) and Marriage Lines (1961). She has been married to Timothy West since October 1963. They have two children. 
Prunella Scales, CBE (born Prunella Margaret Rumney Illingworth; 22 June 1932) is an English actress best known for her role as Basil Fawlty 's wife Sybil in the BBC comedy Fawlty Towers and her BAFTA award-nominated role as Queen Elizabeth II in A Question of Attribution (Screen One, BBC 1991) by Alan Bennett. Throughout her career, Scales has often been cast in comic roles. Her early work included the second UK adaptation of Pride and Prejudice (1952), Hobson's Choice (1954), Room at the Top (1959) and Waltz of the Toreadors (1962).
1 Sean Murray Net WorthSean Murray net worth: Sean Murray is an Australian-American actor who has a net worth of $8 million dollars. Sean Murray was bo... 
Scales has appeared in several political broadcasts for the Labour Party. Her biography, Prunella, hit bookshelves in 2005, she works as an ambassador to the charity SOS Children's Villages, and is a patron of World Orphan week. Scales is fluent in French and has two children with her husband, Timothy West