Cyclones are subdivided into two main types: tropical and extratropical. A tropical cyclone is a tropical storm system with a cyclonic circulation about a low pressure center powered by organized convection. In a tropical cyclone, rapid inward circulation of air masses about a low pressure centre. Thus, a cyclone rotate … s clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere and counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere. In meteorology the term cyclone is reserved for circulation systems with horizontal dimensions of hundreds (tropical cyclones) or thousands (extratropical cyclones) of kilometers.
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center and numerous thunderstorms that produce strong winds and flooding rain. A tropical cyclone feeds on heat released when moist air rises, resulting in condensation of water vapour contained in the moist air. In the Atlantic and the northeastern Pacific oceans, a tropical cyclone is generally referred to as a hurricane (from the name of the ancient Central American deity of wind, Huracan), in the Indian and south Pacific oceans it is called a cyclone, and in the northwestern Pacific it is called a typhoon.
A tropical cyclone is a low-pressure system which develops in the tropics and is sufficiently intense to produce sustained gale force winds of at least 63km/h. In other parts of the world they are called hurricanes or typhoons. Tropical cyclones can cause significant phenomena which can adversely, and sometimes favourably impact on communities and the environment. The most common features are destructive winds and heavy rainfall that can lead to flooding.
A cyclone is a large-scale low pressure system characterized by a cyclonic circulation (counterclockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern) about a definite center where pressure is lowest. Air spirals toward the center of a cyclone, rises, and then diverges at upper levels. Thus, a cyclone rotate … s clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere and counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere. In meteorology the term cyclone is reserved for circulation systems with horizontal dimensions of hundreds (tropical cyclones) or thousands (extratropical cyclones) of kilometers.
A tropical cyclone is a rapidly rotating storm system characterized by a low-pressure center, strong winds, and a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce heavy rain. For this reason, coastal regions are particularly vulnerable to damage from a tropical cyclone as compared to inland regions. Heavy rains, however, can cause significant flooding inland, and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to 40 kilometres (25 mi) from the coastline.
Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (/ˈhʌrɨkən/ or /ˈhʌrɨkeɪn/), typhoon /taɪˈfuːn/ , tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, and simply cyclone. Tropical cyclones typically form over large bodies of relatively warm water. For this reason, coastal regions are particularly vulnerable to damage from a tropical cyclone as compared to inland regions. Heavy rains, however, can cause significant flooding inland, and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to 40 kilometres (25 mi) from the coastline.
Cyclone seen from Space. A tropical cyclone is a low-pressure system which develops in the tropics and is sufficiently intense to produce sustained gale force winds of at least 63km/h. If the sustained wind reaches hurricane force of at least 118km/h the system is defined as a severe tropical cyclone. In other parts of the world they are called hurricanes or typhoons. Tropical cyclones can cause significant phenomena which can adversely, and sometimes favourably impact on communities and the environment. The most common features are destructive winds and heavy rainfall that can lead to flooding.
Cyclone usually refers to an extra-tropical (non-tropical) cyclone, which is a low pressure area that forms near the boundary between warm and cool air masses. (It alternatively refers to a hurricane that forms in the Indian Ocean). 
Tropical Cyclones are low pressure systems that form over warm tropical waters and have gale force winds (sustained winds of 63 km/h or greater and gusts in excess of 90 km/h) near the centre. then the system is called a severe tropical cyclone. These are referred to as hurricanes or typhoons in other countries. The circular eye or centre of a tropical cyclone is an area characterised by light winds and often by clear skies. Eye diameters are typically 40 km but can range from under 10 km to over 100 km.