Atrial fibrillation remains one of the most challenging arrhythmias for the clinician and basic researcher. Different approaches have been undertaken to improve its understanding; from the development of animal models to the analysis of genetic backgrounds in individuals with familial and acquired forms of the disease. 
Atrial fibrillation may be hereditary. Having a parent with atrial fibrillation (AF) strongly increased an offspring’s risk of developing this heart rhythm disorder, according to a study of participants in the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute’s (NHLBI) Framingham Heart Study.
Atrial fibrillation, a common heart rhythm disorder, is usually caused by abnormalities or changes to your heart's structure. Your risk of developing atrial fibrillation increases with age. Atrial fibrillation may sometimes be inherited. This type of atrial fibrillation, called familial atrial fibrillation, has been associated with changes in certain genes in a small number of inherited cases.
Most cases of atrial fibrillation are not caused by mutations in a single gene. This condition is often related to structural abnormalities of the heart or underlying heart disease. These resources address the diagnosis or management of familial atrial fibrillation and may include treatment providers. 1  Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 1. 2  Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 2.
Research into the genetic factors associated with atrial fibrillation continues with the hope that genetic testing might someday be possible. Such testing could help doctors more accurately determine a person's risk of atrial fibrillation and develop plans to prevent or manage the condition. Your risk of developing atrial fibrillation increases with age. Atrial fibrillation may sometimes be inherited. This type of atrial fibrillation, called familial atrial fibrillation, has been associated with changes in certain genes in a small number of inherited cases.
It is the most common type of arrhythmia, affecting approximately 350,000 Canadians. Generally, the risk of developing atrial fibrillation increases with age and with other risk factors such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and underlying heart disease. One of the main complications of atrial fibrillation is stroke.
Atrial fibrillation (AF or A-fib) is an abnormal heart rhythm characterized by rapid and irregular beating. Often it starts as brief periods of abnormal beating which become longer and possibly constant over time. Most episodes have no symptoms. Atrial fibrillation is the most common serious abnormal heart rhythm. In Europe and North America, as of 2014, it affects about 2% to 3% of the population.
Familial atrial fibrillation is an inherited condition that disrupts the heart's normal rhythm. This condition is characterized by uncoordinated electrical activity in the heart's upper chambers (the atria), which causes the heartbeat to become fast and irregular. These resources address the diagnosis or management of familial atrial fibrillation and may include treatment providers. 1  Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 1. 2  Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 2.
Familial atrial fibrillation is an autosomal dominant heart condition that causes disruptions in the heart's normal rhythm. This condition is characterized by uncoordinated electrical activity in the heart's upper chambers (the atria), which causes the heartbeat to become fast and irregular. Familial atrial fibrillation appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means the defective gene is located on an autosome, and only one copy of the defective gene-inherited from one parent-is sufficient to cause the disorder.
Despite the widespread nature of atrial fibrillation, our understanding of the disease remains limited, according to Patrick T Ellinor, director Cardiac Step Down Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital Corrigan Minehan Heart Centre (Boston, USA) and associate professor, Harvard Medical School. Large families with atrial fibrillation are rare, but can be an invaluable resource when a specific genetic cause is identified. To date, mutations in over 20 genes have been reported in individuals and families with atrial fibrillation.