I’ll have to try the crayon. I tried the root touch up and it seemed the only difference was the fancy little brush and the higher price! So I saved the fancy little brush and bowl and by Revlon’s Color Siik (GREAT price and lasts forever) and use it as the root touch up….same principle but way cheaper.
There are several types of temporary and permanent root touch up hair coloring products, including permanent hair color cream and several wet and dry products that provide temporary hair color. Permanent hair dye can be applied to the roots with a brush or sponge and cannot be washed out.
Just dye your roots. Fortunately, there are hair color products that allow you to easily just dye your roots. Clairol Nice 'N Easy Root Touch-Up allows you to stretch out the time between coloring. It comes with just enough color to do your part, hairline and other small touch-ups.
There is nothing to it. If you can style your own hair, then you can colour it. Just remember that you can’t colour over darker permanent haircolour with a lighter colour. Right now I use three different colours on my hair, light brown at the bottom, dark blonde around the middle, and medium blonde on top.
I use a root touch up. It is gentle, blends well. I guess it would matter what root color you are touching up and if you are weaved to a blond. So if you natural hair color is brown with blond highlight put in, using the brown root touch up would not look so good. I don’t know what the blond would do.
Save. Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. When you want to touch up your roots in between dyes or highlights you can do so easily with a hair dye crayon. Also known as touch up sticks, hair dye crayons are pigmented wax sticks that temporarily stain the hair and last between one and two shampoos.
The Bruised Violet crayon is a vibrant shade of purple and will liven up your hair instantly! The BLEACH Hair Crayon Bruised Violet also matches the shade of the Super Cool Colours Bruised Violet dye, enabling you to touch up your colour easily.
I use both the Clairol root touch up and the crayon that someone mentioned (I got mine at Sally’s Beauty Supply a couple of years ago and it’s still going strong). I have long thick hair and I am concerned about the adverse impact of frequent dying, so I want to stretch as long as I can between full coloring sessions.