1 In Ancient Rome the month of April was sacred to the goddess Venus. 2  The Japanese fiscal year for most businesses starts on April 1st. 3  In England there are many cuckoo festivals. 4  The arrival of the cuckoo bird in April is a signal that spring has arrived. In the initial Roman calendar April was the second month of the year until January and February were added in 700 BC. It is thought that the name April comes from the Latin word to open and describes the trees opening at springtime. It could also be that the name comes from the Greek goddess Aphrodite.
Rome's birthday: The date of Rome's founding (in 753BC) is celebrated on April 21 so if you're in Rome, watch for festivals, concerts, and special events. There's usually a fireworks display over the Tiber River and gladiator shows around the forum area. Find out more in April Events in Rome. April is a good time for spring festivals in Italy. Although you'll probably find other small festivals, here are some of the highlights. April 25 is a national holiday celebrating Liberation Day in Italy.
1 It is the second month of spring. 2  It is a time of planting and spring cleaning. 3  In the Southern Hemisphere, April is the same as October in the Northern Hemisphere. 4  The diamond of April symbolizes innoncence. 5  The Boston Marathon is held during April. 6  In Ancient Rome the month of April was sacred to the goddess Venus. In the initial Roman calendar April was the second month of the year until January and February were added in 700 BC. It is thought that the name April comes from the Latin word to open and describes the trees opening at springtime. It could also be that the name comes from the Greek goddess Aphrodite.
Here are the festivals and events that happen each April in Rome.. Early April-Holy Week and Easter. Holy Week is one of the busiest times of the year to visit Rome and the Vatican City, but for good reason. From Via Crucis procession and Good Friday services in the Colosseum to Easter Sunday Mass in Saint Peter's Square, Easter in Rome is unforgettable. The celebration of Rome's birthday is typically held the weekend that falls closest to April 21. Rome is said to have been founded by the twins Romulus and Remus in 753 BC.
History: In the initial Roman calendar April was the second month of the year until January and February were added in 700 BC. It is thought that the name April comes from the Latin word to open and describes the trees opening at springtime. It could also be that the name comes from the Greek goddess Aphrodite.
Feast of the Latin League. This festival honored Jupiter Latiaris, and was one of the festivals appropriated from the Latins. It was held at Jupiter's temple on the Alban Mount, and not in Rome itself. During the Feriae Latinae milk and other agricultural foods were offered to Jupiter. Guilds who's members practiced the arts of Minerva had a festival on this day. This was mainly a plebean festival, and was celebrated at Minerva 's temple in Rome. Weapons used for war were purified during this festival.
King Romulus. The original Roman calendar was said to be invented by Romulus, the first king of Rome, at around 753 BCE (Before Common Era). The calendar started the year in March (Martius) and consisted of 10 months, with 6 months of 30 days and 4 months of 31 days. The Roman calendar, or “pre-Julian” calendar, was created during the founding of Rome and is believed to have been a lunar calendar. The calendar originally consisted of hollow months that were 29 days long or full months that had 30 days.
This article is about ancient Roman holidays. For the symphonic poem by Ottorino Respighi, see Roman Festivals (Respighi) . Festivals in ancient Rome were an important part of Roman religious life during both the Republican and Imperial eras, and one of the primary features of the Roman calendar. Feriae (holidays in the sense of holy days; singular also feriae or dies ferialis) were either public (publicae) or private (privatae) . State holidays were celebrated by the Roman people and received public funding. Games (ludi) , such as the Ludi Apollinares, were not technically feriae, but the days on which they were celebrated were dies festi, holidays in the modern sense of days off work.