Confidence votes 7. I am going to assume that you mean core components that you MUST have to make use of your computer. First, and possibly the MOST important of ALL components, is the Central Processing Unit! It's the thing that does near-everything that your computer is capable of. 
up vote 44 down vote favorite. 15. I'm searching for the difference between a core and a processor. I've already looked for it in google but i'm just having multi-core and multi-processor definition, but it doesn't match what i am looking for. 
Core. 1. In relation to computer processors, a core is the processing unit which receives instructions and performs calculations, or actions, based on those instructions. A set of instructions can allow a software program perform a specific function. Processors can have a single core or multiple cores.
Core i3, Core i5, Core i7 — the difference in a nutshell. If you want a plain and simple answer, then generally speaking, Core i7s are better than Core i5s, which are in turn better than Core i3s. Nope, Core i7 does not have seven cores nor does Core i3 have three cores. 
1 analysis --- certainly a major focus within computer science is the analysis and evaluation of software, algorithms and architecture. 2  experimentation --- use of experiments to reveal computing principles is an important method of scientific investigation within computer science. 
core. 1. the central part of a fleshy fruit, containing the seeds. 2. the central, innermost, or most essential part of anything. 3. the piece of iron, bundle of iron wires, or other ferrous material forming the central or inner portion in an electromagnet, induction coil, transformer, or the like. 
Part of the Electronics glossary: A quad-core processor is a chip with four independent units called cores that read and execute central processing unit (CPU) instructions such as add, move data, and branch. Within the chip, each core operates in conjunction with other circuits such as cache, memory management, and input/output (I/O) ports. 
Core i5. Developed and manufactured by Intel, the Core i5 is a computer processor, available as dual-core or quad-core. It can be used in both desktop and laptop computers, and is one of three types of processors in the i series (also called the Intel Core family of processors). The most common type of RAM used with a Core i5 processor is DDR3 1333 or DDR3 1600, however, higher performance RAM can be used as well (if the motherboard supports it). Power usage varies for the Core i5 processors: 1  Slower speeds (1.90 GHz to 2.30 GHz) use 11.5 W of power.
USS Enterprise computer core, late 2260s. The computer core is the location of a starship 's or space station 's central computer. The computer core houses primary processing equipment. 23rd century Starfleet ships had duotronic systems, while 24th century ships had isolinear cores. 