constituent. adj (prenominal). 1. forming part of a whole; component. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) having the power to frame a constitution or to constitute a government (esp in the phrases constituent assembly, constituent power). 3. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) electing or having the power to elect. noun. 1. voter, elector, member of the electorate They plan to consult their constituents before taking action. 2. component, element, ingredient, part, unit, factor, principle Caffeine is the active constituent of drinks such as tea and coffee.
component, constituent, element (noun). an artifact that is one of the individual parts of which a composite entity is made up; especially a part that can be separated from or attached to a system. spare components for cars; a component or constituent element of a system. constitu
A constitutional government is any government whose authority and construction are defined by a constitution. The government need not be of a specific type, such as democratic, socialist, etc., but it does need to have parameters that are defined and relatively unchangeable. Constitution is a noun, with the meanings 1. Law determining the fundamental political principles of a government 2. The act of forming or establishing something 3. The d … esign of an object or plan (from constituents, or parts) 4. Colloquially -- the physical condition or health of a person.
constituent. adj (prenominal). 1. forming part of a whole; component. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) having the power to frame a constitution or to constitute a government (esp in the phrases constituent assembly, constituent power). 3. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) electing or having the power to elect. constituent. noun. 1. voter, elector, member of the electorate They plan to consult their constituents before taking action. 2. component, element, ingredient, part, unit, factor, principle Caffeine is the active constituent of drinks such as tea and coffee.
adjective. noun. The definition of constituent is someone or something that is necessary in making something else whole. An example of constituent is England being part of the United Kingdom. A constituent is defined as someone who has the ability to appoint another person to be a representative. constituent. 1  necessary in forming or making up a whole; component: a constituent part. 2  that can or does appoint or vote for a representative. 3  authorized to make or revise a political constitution or establish a government: a constituent assembly.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A constituent state, constituent entity or constituent part, is a territorial and constitutional entity forming part of a sovereign state. A constituent state holds administrative jurisdiction over a defined geographic territory and is a form of regional government. The term constituent state is sometimes also used to refer to member states of an international organisation. It is used within the European Union to refer to member states. It is also used to refer to sovereign states in bilateral negotiations or agreements between two or more states.