Full Definition of PALPATE. transitive verb. : to examine by touch especially medically. — pal·pa·tion \pal-ˈpā-shən\ noun. See palpate defined for English-language learners.edical Definition of PALPATE. transitive verb. : to examine by touch: explore by palpation. in
Locating anatomical landmarks can be performed using two palpation protocols: 1) manual palpation that allows spatial location of landmarks using hands combined or not with three-dimensional (3D) digitizing, and 2) virtual palpation on 3D computer models obtained, for example, from medical imaging.anual palpation of skeletal landmarks (illustrated here on a patient's shoulder, see left image). The gauntlet on the palpating ha (left) allows to locate the spatial coordinates of the palpated landmarks with a satisfactory accuracy (below 1 cm).
rectal palpation. palpation of the posterior abdomen and the organs in it by inserting the finger (in dogs) or hand and arm (in horses, cattle and pigs) in the rectum.
Palpation under general anesthesia is sometimes necessary, such as when there is a need to palpate structures deep in the abdominal or pelvic cavity, since it would otherwise cause considerable patient discomfort and subsequent contraction of the abdominal muscles which would make the examination difficult.anual palpation of skeletal landmarks (illustrated here on a patient's shoulder, see left image). The gauntlet on the palpating ha (left) allows to locate the spatial coordinates of the palpated landmarks with a satisfactory accuracy (below 1 cm).
Palpate: To touch or feel. For example, a physician may palpate the liver's edge when examining the abdomen.
Palpation. Palpation is used as part of a physical examination in which an object is felt to determine its size, shape, firmness, or location. Palpation should not be confused with palpitation, which is an awareness of the beating of the heart.he act of feeling or pushing on various parts of a patientu2019s body to determine medical condition such as the normality of organs or the presence or absence of tumors, swelling, muscle tension, etc.
palpation. the act of feeling with the hand; the application of the fingers with light pressure to the surface of the body for the purpose of determining the condition of the parts beneath in physical diagnosis. bimanual palpation palpation with both hands in the physical examination of a patient. Bimanual palpation.ectal palpation. palpation of the posterior abdomen and the organs in it by inserting the finger (in dogs) or hand and arm (in horses, cattle and pigs) in the rectum.
1. Examination with the hands, feeling for organs, masses, or infiltration of a part of the body, feeling the heart or pulse beat, or vibrations in the chest. 2. Touching, feeling, or perceiving by the sense of touch. [L. palpatio, fr. palpo, pp.ectal palpation. palpation of the posterior abdomen and the organs in it by inserting the finger (in dogs) or hand and arm (in horses, cattle and pigs) in the rectum.
Medical Definition of PALPATE. transitive verb. : to examine by touch: explore by palpation. in
From Dictionary.com: –verb (used with object), -pat·ed, -pat·ing. to examine by touch, esp. for the purpose of diagnosing disease or illness. From MedicineNet: Palpate: To touch or feel. For example, the edge of an enlarged liver may be palpated below the rib cage. From the Latin palpare (to stroke or to pat).