The Columbia Icefield is located on the Icefields Parkway/Hwy 93N that runs between Lake Louise and Jasper. Distance from Banff 195km, 2 hours 40 min. From Lake Louise 130km, 1 hour 40 min, from Jasper 105km 1 hour 25 min.
The Columbia Icefields has one of the most accessible glaciers in North America. The massive six kilometer long and one kilometer wide wide Athabasca Glacier is within walking distance of the Icefields Parkway.
A view of the Athabasca Glacier and Mts Athabasca and Andromeda from the Visitors' Centre. The Columbia Icefield is located roughly midway down the Icefields Parkway in the Canadian Rockies, roughly at the border of Jasper and Banff National Parks.
The Columbia Icefield Glacier Experience is located on Canada’s most scenic mountain roadway; The Icefields Parkway. This is the route to over one hundred visible glaciers, turquoise lakes, rushing waterfalls and numerous hiking trails, picnic spots and campgrounds.
The Columbia Icefield is located roughly midway down the Icefields Parkway in the Canadian Rockies, roughly at the border of Jasper and Banff National Parks.
This glacier is one of the major glaciers of the Columbia Icefield. It is located on Castleguard Mountain, along the eastern face. Bow Glacier. Flowing from the Wapta Icefield and visible from the Icefields Parkway, this glacier supplies melt water for Bow Lake and the Bow River.
Icefields Parkway. The Columbia Icefield Glacier Experience is located on Canada’s most scenic mountain roadway; The Icefields Parkway. This is the route to over one hundred visible glaciers, turquoise lakes, rushing waterfalls and numerous hiking trails, picnic spots and campgrounds.
In the Columbia Icefield Discovery Centre, located approximately halfway between Banff and Jasper, Parks Canada has a Glacier Gallery Exhibit which is a self-guided tour of how glaciers move, the importance of glaciers and information about the natural history of the area.
Columbia Icefield Area and the Athabasca Glacier. Columbia Icefield Area and the Athabasca Glacier © J. Nadeau. The Columbia Icefield is a surviving remnant of the thick ice mass that once mantled most of Western Canada's mountains. Lying on a wide, elevated plateau, it is the largest icefield in the Canadian Rockies.