The statue is situated in Upper New York Bay on Liberty Island south of Ellis Island, which together comprise the Statue of Liberty National Monument. Both islands were ceded by New York to the federal government in 1800. 
The island was made part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument in 1965, and has hosted a museum of immigration since 1990. Long considered part of New York, a 1998 United States Supreme Court decision found that most of the island is in New Jersey. Ellis Island is an island that is located in Upper New York Bay in the Port of New York and New Jersey, United States. It was the gateway for millions of immigrants to the United States as the nation's busiest immigrant inspection station from 1892 until 1954.
Liberty Island is a federally owned island in Upper New York Bay in the United States, best known as the location of the Statue of Liberty. The island is an exclave of the New York City borough of Manhattan, surrounded by the waters of Jersey City, New Jersey. By the time it was chosen for the Statue of Liberty, the base was disused and its walls were used as the distinctive base for the Statue of Liberty given by France for the 1886 centenary celebrations. It had become a part of the base for the Statue of Liberty after the island was first seen by the statue's sculptor.
Report Abuse. The island is Liberty island. The island was formerly called Bedloe's Island, and it is a a small uninhabited island in Upper New York Bay. The name Liberty Island has been in use since the early 20th century, although the name was not officially changed until 1956. 
The Statue of Liberty was then given to the United States and erected atop an American-designed pedestal on a small island in Upper New York Bay, now known as Liberty Island, and dedicated by President Grover Cleveland in 1886. In 1956, Bedloe’s Island was renamed Liberty Island, and in 1965, more than a decade after its closure as a federal immigration station, Ellis Island became part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument.
Liberty Island,with nearby Ellis Island are part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument. The only access to the island is the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Ferry system.The ferries depart from Battery Park in New York and Liberty State Park in New Jersey. We all know of Liberty Island,because that's where the Statue of Liberty is.France gave us this wonderful gift of friendship.A symbol known through out the world as of freedom & democracy.
The statue stands on Liberty Island in New York Harbor, but the location of the Statue of Liberty has not always been so clear. Originally, the island was known as Bedloe Island and was officially renamed in 1956. Before Lady Liberty inhabited the island, it was home to Fort Wood. The fort was built in the shape of an eleven-point star, upon which the statue and pedestal now sit.
Ellis Island is located in the Upper New York Bay, east of Liberty State Park and north of Liberty Island, in Jersey City, New Jersey with a small section that is territory of New York City enclaved within it. Ellis Island is an island that is located in Upper New York Bay in the Port of New York and New Jersey, United States. It was the gateway for millions of immigrants to the United States as the nation's busiest immigrant inspection station from 1892 until 1954.
The Statue of Liberty is closer to New Jersey than New York and, in fact, resides in New Jersey's waters. However, it has been established as part of the 8th Congressional District of New York according to the U.S. Geological Survey. New Jersey has never claimed rights to the island. Originally, the island was known as Bedloe Island and was officially renamed in 1956. Before Lady Liberty inhabited the island, it was home to Fort Wood. The fort was built in the shape of an eleven-point star, upon which the statue and pedestal now sit.
In response to a FAQ about whether the Statue of Liberty is in New York or New Jersey, the National Park Service, which oversees Liberty Island, cites the 1834 compact. By the time it was chosen for the Statue of Liberty, the base was disused and its walls were used as the distinctive base for the Statue of Liberty given by France for the 1886 centenary celebrations. It had become a part of the base for the Statue of Liberty after the island was first seen by the statue's sculptor.