Ethnic identity is constructed and modified as individuals become aware of their ethnicity, with in the large (sociocultural) setting” (2003, p. 63). Phinney (1990, 2000) views subjective identity as a starting point that eventually leads to the development of a social identity based on ethnic group membership. Several conceptual approaches to ethnic identity emphasize an individual level of analysis where notions of identity formation and development are linked to one's self-concept. Much of the work in this area relies on the social psychologist Henri Tajfel's (1982) theory of social identity.
Functionalist theorists and conflict theorists both share the belief thatChoose one answer.a. all parts of society work together.b. social behavior originates in the structure of society.c. theory should focus on interpersonal, face-to-face interaction.d. power and exploitation are the basis for order in society. From the perspective of conflict theorists, social institutionsChoose one answer.a. exist to protect the rights of those with less power in society.b. provide for some members of society more than for others.c. create meaning for the people who participate in them.d. hold society together.
An ethnic group or ethnicity is a socially defined category of people who identify with each other based on common ancestral, social, cultural or national experience. Ethnicity is often assumed to be the cultural identity of a group, often based on language and tradition, while race is assumed to be a biological classification, based on DNA and bone structure. Race is a more controversial subject than ethnicity, due to its common political use.
The term race refers to the concept of dividing people into populations or groups on the basis of various sets of physical characteristics (which usually result from genetic ancestry). Significance. Ethnicity connotes shared cultural traits and a shared group history. Self-identification and Choice. Another difference between race and ethnicity is related to the ability to self-identify. A person does not choose her race; it is assigned by society based upon her physical features.
People who assert a symbolic ethnicity do not give much attention to the ease with which they are able to slip in and out of their ethnic roles. It is quite natural to them that in the greater part of their lives, their ethnicity does not matter, it is largely a matter of personal choice and a source of pleasure. One is to deny that their identities as whites have anything to do with their actions-in a sense, to adopt a raceless interpretation in which the altercations are not bias crimes at all because the racial and ethnic identities of the participants had nothing to do with the encounters.
To understand the sociological perspective on race and ethnicity, it is important to understand the meanings of these concepts. An ethnic group is a social category of people who share a common culture, such as a common language, a common religion, or common norms, customs, practices, and history. Ethnic groups have a consciousness of their common cultural bond.
Race refers to a person's physical characteristics, such as bone structure and skin, hair, or eye color. Ethnicity, however, refers to cultural factors, including nationality, regional culture, ancestry, and language. Self-identification and Choice. Another difference between race and ethnicity is related to the ability to self-identify. A person does not choose her race; it is assigned by society based upon her physical features.
Ethnicity is an important means by which people may identify with a larger group. Many social scientists, such as anthropologists Fredrik Barth and Eric Wolf, do not consider ethnic identity to be universal. Ethnicity is often assumed to be the cultural identity of a group, often based on language and tradition, while race is assumed to be a biological classification, based on DNA and bone structure. Race is a more controversial subject than ethnicity, due to its common political use.
The construct, ethnic identity, can best be understood through an examination of its etymological origins. The term ethnic has Latin and Greek origins – ethnicus and ethnikas both meaning nation. It can and has been used historically to refer to people as heathens. Ethos, in Greek, means custom, disposition or trait. Several conceptual approaches to ethnic identity emphasize an individual level of analysis where notions of identity formation and development are linked to one's self-concept. Much of the work in this area relies on the social psychologist Henri Tajfel's (1982) theory of social identity.
Assimilation is a process in which a minority becomes absorbed into the dominant society – socially, economically, and culturally. Symbolic interaction theorists look at two issues in relation to race and ethnicity. First, they look at the role of social interaction and how it reduces racial and ethnic hostility. Second, they look at how race and ethnicity are socially constructed. An ethnic group is a social category of people who share a common culture, such as a common language, a common religion, or common norms, customs, practices, and history. Ethnic groups have a consciousness of their common cultural bond.