The opposite of endocytosis is exocytosis, which is an active process and requires energy. This is the process by which a cell directs the contents of secretory vesicles out o … f the cell membrane. There are two types of endocytosis: Phagocytosis (cell-eating) and  Pinocytosis (cell-drinking). Endocytosis is a process in which a  cell fully engulfs materials from the o … utside and fuses them to its  plasma membrane.
Exocytosis. Exocytosis is the reverse of endocytosis. And that is just as well. In 30 minutes an active cell like a macrophage (right) can endocytose an amount of plasma membrane equal to its complete plasma membrane. 1 It restores the normal amount of plasma membrane. 2  Any molecules dissolved in the fluid contents of these vesicles are discharged into the extracellular fluid-this is called secretion. 3  Example: the various components of the extracellular matrix are secreted by exocytosis.
Endosomes and Endocytosis. Endosomes are membrane-bound vesicles, formed via a complex family of processes collectively known as endocytosis, and found in the cytoplasm of virtually every animal cell. The basic mechanism of endocytosis is the reverse of what occurs during exocytosis or cellular secretion. It involves the invagination (folding inward) of a cell s plasma membrane to surround macromolecules or other matter diffusing through the extracellular fluid. Endosomes and Endocytosis
Simply put, endocytosis is the process that a cell uses to take in molecules from the extracellular space by folding its membrane around it and forming a vesicle. Exocytosis is the reverse process, which uses vesicles to release substances to the extracellular space. 
Pinocytosis: A process of taking in fluid together with its contents into the cell by forming narrow channels through its membrane that pinch off into vesicles, and fuse with lysosomes that hydrolyze or break down contents. Exocytosis is when materials leave the cell by the membrane spitting it out. Endocytosis is a process in which a  cell fully engulfs materials from the o … utside and fuses them to its  plasma membrane. These materials are usually the larger of  materials since they aren't small enough to cross the cell's plasma  membrane by some sort of diffusion.
Exocytosis. Exocytosis is the reverse of endocytosis. Quatities of material are expelled from the cell without ever passing through the membrane as individual molecules. By using the processes of endocytosis and exocytosis, some specialized types of cells move large amounts of bulk material into and out of themselves. Endocystosis, is a general term for the process whereby very large particles of material are wrapped with plasma membrane and moved into the cell in the form of vesicles or vacuoles.
Endocytosis is a process for moving items that are outside of the cell into the cytoplasm of the cell. Exocytosis is a process for moving items from the cytoplasm of the cell … to the outside. + 213 others found this useful. There are two types of endocytosis: Phagocytosis (cell-eating) and  Pinocytosis (cell-drinking). Endocytosis is a process in which a  cell fully engulfs materials from the o … utside and fuses them to its  plasma membrane.
Endocytosis and its counterpart, exocytosis, are used by all cells because most chemical substances important to them are large polar molecules that cannot pass through the hydrophobic plasma or cell membrane by passive means. Endocytosis includes pinocytosis (cell drinking) and phagocytosis (cell eating).
In Genetics.   A process where cells absorb material molecules such as proteins from the outside by engulfing it with their cell membrane. It is used by all cells of the body because m … ost substances important to them are large polar molecules, and thus cannot pass through the hydrophobic plasma membrane. Endocytosis is a process in which a  cell fully engulfs materials from the o … utside and fuses them to its  plasma membrane. These materials are usually the larger of  materials since they aren't small enough to cross the cell's plasma  membrane by some sort of diffusion.