[More] [Examples]. Connective Tissue supports other tissues. Connective tissue consists of several cell types and extracellular products which, together, provide essential functions of mechanical reinforcement, immune surveillance, transport/diffusion of nutrients and wastes, and energy storage (fat). 1 The parenchyma of the brain is nervous tissue (nerve cells and glia). 2  The blood vessels within the brain and the connective tissue associated with these blood vessels are stroma. 3  The parenchyma of the malignant neoplasm is cancer cells. 4  Other tissues, including blood vessels, which grow to support the tumor are stroma.
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. Other kinds of connective tissues include fibrous, elastic, and lymphoid connective tissues. Fibroblasts are the cells responsible for the production of some CT. Type-I collagen, is present in many forms of connective tissue, and makes up about 25% of the total protein content of the mammalian body.
1. Distinguish the connective tissues from all epithelial tissues on the basis of location, cell density and the presence of discrete fibers. 2. Distinguish between loose irregular (areolar), dense irregular, or dense regular connective tissues on the basis of fiber packing and orientation. 3. The most numerous cell types are fibroblasts. In addition, other fibers such as collagen, elastic, and reticular fibers are present. Also, look for this type of connective tissue surrounding blood vessels and underlying the epithelium of the digestive tract.
All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water. Other kinds of connective tissues include fibrous, elastic, and lymphoid connective tissues. Fibroblasts are the cells responsible for the production of some CT. Type-I collagen, is present in many forms of connective tissue, and makes up about 25% of the total protein content of the mammalian body.
A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed. The proteins and the body parts they connect are harmed.
CELLS. The common cell types in connective tissue include: fibroblasts, mast cells, plasma cells, macrophages, adipocytes, and leukocytes. Slide 72 Tendon. Fibroblasts are the most common cell type of connective tissue. The most numerous cell types are fibroblasts. In addition, other fibers such as collagen, elastic, and reticular fibers are present. Also, look for this type of connective tissue surrounding blood vessels and underlying the epithelium of the digestive tract.
Reticular connective tissue. Reticular connective tissue consists of reticular cells and the network of reticular fibres formed by them. Most connective tissues contain reticular fibres, but only in reticular connective tissue are they the dominant fibre type. In connective tissues cells typically account for only a small fraction of the tissue volume. The extracellular substance consists of fibres which are embedded in ground substance containing tissue fluid. Fibres in connective tissue can be divided into three types: collagen fibres, reticular fibres and elastic fibres.
CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Connective tissue consists of cells separated by varying amounts of extracellular substance. In connective tissues cells typically account for only a small fraction of the tissue volume. The extracellular substance consists of fibres which are embedded in ground substance containing tissue fluid. Fibres in connective tissue can be divided into three types: collagen fibres, reticular fibres and elastic fibres.