MORGANITE. A member of the beryl family, morganite found its name in 1911 when it drew the attention of one of the world's most esteemed gemstone experts, George Kunz of Tiffany & Co®. He named it in honor of millionaire banker and mineral collector John Pierpont Morgan. 
On October 7th, 1989, one of the largest specimens of Morganite was uncovered. It was found in the Bennet Quarry of Buckfield, Maine, and it was somewhat orangish in hue and about 23 cm long and 30 cm across. This well-formed crystal weighed in at just more than 50 pounds, and was called ‘The Rose of Maine’. Miners discovered the first morganite specimens in Madagascar in 1911.
Morganite, also known as pink beryl and rose beryl, is a rare variety of beryl that ranges in color between yellowish orange, orange, pink, and lilac. Rose, salmon, and peach are words often used to describe the gem s color. Trace amounts of manganese are thought to cause the pink color. 
Morganite belongs to the same gemstone family as emerald, aquamarine, golden beryl and bixbite. Among these beryls, morganite and the raspberry-red bixbite are the rarest. In fact bixbite is only found in the state of Utah in the USA. Morganite is not quite as scarce, but still counts as a rare variety. They include kunzite, the pink variety of spodumene and morganite, the pink variety of beryl. Kunzite was named after the famous American gemologist, George Frederick Kunz, who spent most of his career as the chief gemologist at Tiffany & Co.
Faceted morganite, 2.01ct, Brazil. Morganite. Morganite, also known as pink beryl, rose beryl, pink emerald, and cesian (or caesian) beryl, is a rare light pink to rose-colored gem-quality variety of beryl. Orange/yellow varieties of morganite can also be found, and color banding is common. In December 1910, the New York Academy of Sciences named the pink variety of beryl morganite after financier J. P. Morgan. On October 7, 1989, one of the largest gem morganite specimens ever uncovered, eventually called The Rose of Maine, was found at the Bennett Quarry in Buckfield, Maine, US.
Beryl is often associated with tin and tungsten ore bodies. Beryl is found in Europe in Norway, Austria, Germany, Sweden (especially morganite), Ireland and Russia, as well as Brazil, Colombia, Madagascar, Mozambique, South Africa, the United States, and Zambia. In December 1910, the New York Academy of Sciences named the pink variety of beryl morganite after financier J. P. Morgan. On October 7, 1989, one of the largest gem morganite specimens ever uncovered, eventually called The Rose of Maine, was found at the Bennett Quarry in Buckfield, Maine, US.
Morganite, also known as pink beryl, rose beryl, pink emerald, and cesian (or caesian) beryl, is a rare light pink to rose-coloured gem-quality variety of beryl. Orange/yellow varieties of morganite can also be found, and colour banding is common. 
Click here to see all our Morganite for sale. Morganite, also known as Pink Beryl, Rose Beryl, Pink Emerald and Cesian Beryl, is a light pink to salmon-pink gem quality beryl. Morganite was first recognized as a distinct variety when specimens were first discovered in Madagascar in 1910. The pink beryl was named after J.P. Morgan, the American financier and gemstone collector. With pink a fashion favorite, morganite is a gem that is much in demand. Morganite is occasionally be found in large sizes: the largest faceted morganite is a 598.70-carat cushion-shape from Madagascar in the collection of the British Museum.
Morganite can be found in many locations around the world. The two most significant deposits are found in Brazil and Madagascar. Other notable sources for fine gem-quality morganite include Afghanistan, China, Madagascar, Mozambique, Namibia, Russia, Zimbabwe and the USA (California and Maine).
Morganite deposits are found in Afghanistan, Brazil, China, Madagascar, Mozambique, Namibia, Zimbabwe and the USA (California and Maine). 1  First Published: July-09-2008. 2  Last Updated: June-16-2014. © 3  2005-2015 GemSelect.com all rights reserved. They include kunzite, the pink variety of spodumene and morganite, the pink variety of beryl. Kunzite was named after the famous American gemologist, George Frederick Kunz, who spent most of his career as the chief gemologist at Tiffany & Co.