Photo Credit Lemon and Lime image by ne_fall_photos from Fotolia.com. Candida, a form of yeast, is a fungal overgrowth in your system that can cause fatigue, weight gain, joint pain and symptoms similar to irritable bowel syndrome. Candida live in the digestive system, but can break through the wall of the intestine and get into the bloodstream and spread throughout the body. 
You may blame it on anxiety, allergies, stress, or bad genes—but it could be something else. Candida albicans—tiny yeast organisms like fungi and mold—may seem harmless, but yeast overgrowth (YO) packs a powerful punch and is responsible for issues that affect almost every body system.
Candida is a type of yeast that naturally lives inside the body, but when there is an overgrowth of the yeast it can have a negative impact on the body's immune system and cause various infections. Learn how to deal with stress so that it does not have a negative impact on your immune system. Stress is one of the major ways that the immune system can weaken, making it vulnerable to Candida. Regular exercise will keep you healthy, boost your immune system and is a great way to reduce stress. 1  5 Edit step.
4. Learn how to deal with stress so that it does not have a negative impact on your immune system. Stress is one of the major ways that the immune system can weaken, making it vulnerable to Candida. Regular exercise will keep you healthy, boost your immune system and is a great way to reduce stress. 1  5 Edit step.
The good news is that the healthy bacteria in your gut typically keep your candida levels in check. However, a few factors can cause the candida population to grow out of control: 1  Eating a diet high in refined carbohydrates and sugar. 2  Consuming a lot of alcohol. 3  Taking oral contraceptives. First step: getting rid of the candida overgrowth, which mainly requires switching to a low-carbohydrate diet. Sugar is what feeds yeast. So start by eliminating sugar in all of its simple forms — such as candy, desserts, alcohol and flours. At the same time, cut back to just one cup a day of the more complex carbohydrates, like grains, beans, fruit, bread, pasta and potato
From a holistic approach, yeast overgrowth is considered in relation to these conditions. Basically, it is thought that yeast, often the Candida albicans strain, has overwhelmed the immune system and is now wreaking havoc on the body with a host of systems. It is important to note that everyone has some yeast in their system. The topic of yeast overgrowth in relation to chronic illnesses has been discussed for years. Conventional medicine is slow to agree with yeast as a cause of conditions such as chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia.
4. Support the detox process: Enhanced liver function is imperative at this time. The liver is the body's oil filter and when you get rid of Candida, it has to function optimally to help the body rid itself of the yeast. Too, candida has been shown to damage the liver. My favorite approach to liver support is biotherapeutic drainage, but I also use milk thistle and things like molybdenum. 5. 
The more you see and the faster you see it, the more candida overgrowth there is in your body. If it takes longer than a few minutes for anything to show up, the candida is not as serious. If the saliva just floats on top and the water stays perfectly clear, you most likely don’t have candida overgrowth. 
Candida albicans causes 80% to 90% of vaginal yeast infections. This fungus thrives in the digestive tract, mucous membranes (such as in the vagina, mouth, and nose), and skin. Normally, bacteria in your body keep yeast in check. But when yeast grows too quickly, a vaginal yeast infection can occur. This can happen when you're weakened by illness or upset by stress.