Markel Corporation is a financial holding company serving a variety of niche markets. Their principal business markets and underwrites specialty insurance products. Headquartered in Henrico County, Virginia and founded in 1930, Markel reports in three segments, and their insurance products originate from five divisions. The company’s trading was moved to the NYSE in 1997. Markel gained access to specialty international markets in 2000, when Terra Nova Holdings, Ltd. was acquired and the [London] office opened. Branch offices later opened in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Canada.
Company founder Samuel A. Markel formed the Mutual Casualty Association and established the Mutual Casualty Company in Norfolk, Virginia. The company headquarters later moved to Richmond, Virginia. Sam Markel’s four sons, Lewis, Irvin, Stanley, and Milton, join the growing business in the 1930s, and Markel Service, Inc. is created. The company’s trading was moved to the NYSE in 1997. Markel gained access to specialty international markets in 2000, when Terra Nova Holdings, Ltd. was acquired and the [London] office opened. Branch offices later opened in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Canada.
Moving ahead. One conversation at a time. We are proud to be Markel Global Markel is a dynamic and financially powerful specialty insurance, reinsurance and investment company. At Markel, we are collectively committed to providing disciplined and balanced risk taking, and the hallmark service you have come to expect. 
The company offers its products through a network of insurance agents. Markel Insurance Company, Inc. was formerly known as Rhulen Agency and changed its name to Markel Insurance Company, Inc. in 1989. The company is headquartered in Glen Allen, Virginia. Markel Insurance Company, Inc. underwrites specialty commercial, accident and health, and agriculture insurance products in the United States.
About Us: Markel Products Company has been the choice of professionals since 1921. Today Markel is an industry leader in providing smart choices for any application that requires electric heat, thermostats, controls, industrial fans, commercial fans, or industrial lighting. So for your next comfort conditioning application, call the professionals, call Markel. Click Here For More Info.
Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. Markel Corporation (NYSE – MKL) is the holding company for a number of insurance and investment operations around the world. Based in Richmond, Virginia and founded in 1930, Markel is organized around five insurance segments offering unique solutions to complex risk challenges. 
Moving ahead. One conversation at a time. Markel is a dynamic and financially powerful specialty insurance, reinsurance and investment company. At Markel, we are collectively committed to providing disciplined and balanced risk taking, and the hallmark service you have come to expect. We are proud to be Markel Global Reinsurance.
Markel International. We are an international insurance company which looks after the commercial insurance needs of major businesses, SMEs, professionals and sole traders. We underwrite risks in our syndicates at Lloyd’s, in the London insurance company market and through our Brazilian reinsurance company. 
In 1986, the Markel Corporation is listed on the NASDAQ exchange, with an IPO offered at $8.33 per share. The company’s trading was moved to the NYSE in 1997. Markel gained access to specialty international markets in 2000, when Terra Nova Holdings, Ltd. was acquired and the [London] office opened. Branch offices later opened in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Canada.