For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Patient Accounts Representative in the United States is $35,642, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Patient Accounts Representative in the United States are expected to make less than $35,642. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Patient Accounts Representative that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Patient Accounts Representative are expected to make less than the median
U.S. News and World Report announced this week that five University of Minnesota Health pediatric specialties are listed in its 2015-2016 national rankings, up from three in the previous year’s report. The U.S. News and World Report rankings are based on a number of factors, including reputation, patient outcomes, safety and quality, clinical offerings, and infrastructure.
Efficient. That’s how University of Minnesota Health representatives describe a new, 318,000-square-foot University of Minnesota Health Clinics and Surgery Center. The center, which is still under construction, will open for patients in January 2016. The U.S. News and World Report rankings are based on a number of factors, including reputation, patient outcomes, safety and quality, clinical offerings, and infrastructure.
Average Patient Services Representative salaries for job postings nationwide are 48% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Patient Representative in the United States is $45,674 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Patient Representative in the United States are expected to make less than $45,674. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $45,674. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Patient Representative in the United States.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Patient Representative may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Patient Representative in the United States.
Patient Services Representative Salary. (United States). Women account for the majority of Patient Services Representatives in the United States. The entire group has an average salary of $14.03 per hour. The pay spectrum stretches from $10.69 per hour to $18.34
A physician’s average salary varies. In 2013, a general internist made a median salary of $186,850, according to the BLS. Areas of the country that pay physicians particularly well include Wilmington, North Carolina; Wichita, Kansas; and Tallahassee, Florida.
A patient service representative, also known as a patient care representative, medical secretary, or medical assistant, works as a front desk customer-service agent in a medical office or hospital setting. Though state regulations can influence the extent of a patient service representative's duties, most are responsible for written and verbal correspondence, scheduling, collecting co-payments, maintaining patient charts, verifying insurance coverage, and ensuring overall patient satisfaction.