So let’s shine the light on how much long-term care costs. The cost of a home health aide to help with daily activities such as bathing, dressing, transferring from one place to another in our home and so forth ranges from $18-$27 an hour. Sitters and companions cost less. 
How Much Does Long Term Care Cost? The cost of long term care varies greatly, depending on the type of care, the place provided, and the region where you receive your care. For instance, the average hourly cost of home care ranges from $15 per hour in Montgomery, Alabama, to $24 per hour in Hartford, Connecticut. Once you have determined the cost of long term care in your area, you might want to learn about the options for paying for long term care services.
The cost of long term care insurance will depend on the coverage you choose. Your premium is based in part on your age, the length of time you want to be covered for care, your health, the elimination period, and the maximum dollar amount you will be reimbursed for care. Did you know? According to the Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey, the national median annual cost for long term care ranges from $44,000 to $91,250 1 depending on the type of care needed. Assuming the average stay in a nursing home is three years, costs can easily surpass $270,000 for the entire long term care event.
1 This is the amount available to pay for long-term care costs, either stated in terms of a daily or monthly maximum. 2  For example, a benefit of $100 a day will pay for up to $100 of covered care and services. 3  Benefit Period. 4  This is the length of time a plan will pay the benefit amount. Retired teacher Anne Schuessler decided to purchase Long Term Care Insurance (LTCI) based on the uncertainty of the future. I just wasn't sure of what's ahead for me and I felt this was kind of a safety net, says 66-year-old Schuessler, who lives in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Costs of Care. Some average costs for long-term care in the United States (in 2010) were: 1  $205 per day or $6,235 per month for a semi-private room in a nursing home. 2  $229 per day or $6,965 per month for a private room in a nursing home. 
Long-term care insurance premiums are based on your age and the condition of your health when you purchase a policy. Assume a person is in good health. Consider that the average nursing home stay is 2½ to 3 years. It should be no surprise that a survey of several top insurance companies shows the average long-term care policy purchased contains these benefits: 1  4-year benefit period (equal to $219,000; $150 per day X 1,460 days).
Initial policy benefit for EACH is $164,000 based on a Daily benefit of $150 and 3 year benefit period. Coverage value will increase annually because a 3 percent compound inflation growth option was included. According to the 2012 long term care insurance Price Index the costs for LTC insurance can vary significantly. Only a long term care insurance professional can tell you whether you can health qualify for this protection-and compare current rates from multiple insurance companies to get you the best coverage for the lowest cost.
The cost of long term care can vary greatly by state and vary greatly by your location within that state. We have compiled nationwide cost data for you to use as a guide to gauge long term care costs in your area. 