Science will tell you that yeast prefers a narrow range of temperatures, and that it grows much faster at those temperatures. Experience tells me that unless the water is hot enough to kill the yeast, you have a much wider range of temperatures that are perfectly safe for the yeast. While 95 degrees is the best temperature for yeast to multiply, that’s not quite warm enough for proofing active dry yeast. It needs the extra warmth to dissolve and become active.
Since bread machines use a higher temperature to raise dough, substituting instant for active dry yeast 1:1 may cause bread to over-rise, then collapse. When baking in the bread machine, and substituting instant yeast for active dry, reduce the amount of instant yeast by 25%. 
• Keep Rising Dough Warm: Yeast works best at temperatures between 70°F and 80°F. If your house is cool in the winter, place the bowl somewhere warmer, like the top of a fridge or in a warm (but turned off!) oven. If you put the dough on a heater to rise, insulate the bottom of the bowl with a few fluffy towels. 
If active dry yeast is used in a food processor recipe, it’s common to proof the yeast in a small amount of warm (105-110 degree) water, then add a larger portion of cool (or even cold) water to the food processor after the yeast mixture has been added. While 95 degrees is the best temperature for yeast to multiply, that’s not quite warm enough for proofing active dry yeast. It needs the extra warmth to dissolve and become active.
Factor 1: Temperature. Yeast is extremely sensitive to temperature. Ten degrees difference in the temperature of the dough profoundly affects the growth rate of yeast. The temperature where yeast grows best is around 78 degrees. The temperature of the dough is the result of the temperature of the water that you use, the flour temperature, and the temperature in your kitchen. Water that is 110 to 115 degrees mixed with cooler flour is intended to create a dough temperature close to this 78 degrees. 
For active dry yeast, the water temperature should be between 105 and 110 degrees for proofing. While 95 degrees is the best temperature for yeast to multiply, that’s not quite warm enough for proofing active dry yeast. It needs the extra warmth to dissolve and become active. At cooler temperatures, the yeast doesn’t wake up as well, and it can release a substance that can interfere with gluten formation
When making yeast bread, the kneaded dough has to have some rise time. During rising, the yeast ferments (eats) the sugar and develops the dough. Rising also improves the flavor and texture of the bread. After kneading, round your dough into a ball. Let the dough rise in a warm, draft-free location. Ideal rise temperatures are between 80°F – 90°F; higher temperatures may kill the yeast and keep the dough from rising; lower temperatures will slow the yeast activity which will increase your rise time. Suggested Rising Methods. 1.
80° F90° F (27° C32° C) Optimum temperature range for yeast to grow and reproduce at dough fermentation stage. 70° F80° F (21° C27°C) Recommended water temperature for bread machines. 40° F (4° C) Recommended refrigerator temperature. Used directly from the fridge, yeast is too cold to work properly. 130° F140° F (55° C60° C) Yeast cells die (thermal death point). 120° F130° F (49° C55° C) Water temperature for activating yeast designed to be mixed with the dry ingredients in a recipe. 105° F115° F (41° C46° C) Temperature of water for dry yeast reconstituted with water and sugar. 100° F (38° C) or lower When yeast is mixed with water at too low a temperature, an amino acid called glutathione leaks from the cell walls, making doughs sticky and hard to handle
Proofing Active Dry Yeast. For active dry yeast, the water temperature should be between 105 and 110°F for proofing. While 95°F is the best temperature for yeast to multiply, that's not quite warm enough for proofing active dry yeast. It needs the extra warmth to dissolve and become active. At cooler temperatures, the yeast doesn't wake up as well, and it can release a substance that can interfere with gluten formation. For rapid rise or instant yeast that will be mixed with the flour rather than added directly with the water, the suggested water temperature is significantly warmer. Package directions suggest that water of 120 to 130°F should be added to the flour and yeast mixture.