The River Avon can be used by boats with a maximum length of 70 feet (21 m), beam of 13.5 feet (4.1 m), height of 10 feet (3.0 m) and draught of 4 feet (1.2 m) from Tewkesbury to Evesham. Above Evesham, beam is restricted to 12.5 feet (3.8 m) and draught to 3 feet (0.91 m). Traffic is now exclusively leisure oriented. Avon derives from the British language abona, river, which also survives as a number of other English and Scottish river names, and as modern Welsh afon [ˈavɔn] and Breton avon, river. The river is also known as the Warwickshire Avon or Shakespeare's Avon.
One of the several rivers named Avon, in this case the Warwickshire Avon, flows west through Rugby, Warwick and Stratford-upon-Avon. It is then joined by its tributary the River Arrow, before finally joining the Severn at Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire. The river then discharges into the Bristol Channel which in turn discharges into the Celtic Sea and the wider Atlantic Ocean. The Severn's drainage basin area is 4,409 square miles (11,419 km 2), excluding the River Wye and Bristol Avon which flow into the Severn Estuary.
The river forms part of the Avon Ring, a circular cruising route which is 109 miles (175 km) long, and includes 129 locks. From Tewkesbury it follows the course of the River Severn, the Worcester and Birmingham Canal and the Stratford-upon-Avon Canal to arrive back at the Avon at Stratford-upon-Avon. Avon derives from the British language abona, river, which also survives as a number of other English and Scottish river names, and as modern Welsh afon [ˈavɔn] and Breton avon, river. The river is also known as the Warwickshire Avon or Shakespeare's Avon.
The port of Bristol is on the Severn Estuary, where another River Avon flows into it through the Avon Gorge. The River Wye, from its source in Plynlimon, Wales (2 miles (3 km) from the source of the Severn), flows generally south east through the Welsh towns of Rhayader and Builth Wells. The river then discharges into the Bristol Channel which in turn discharges into the Celtic Sea and the wider Atlantic Ocean. The Severn's drainage basin area is 4,409 square miles (11,419 km 2), excluding the River Wye and Bristol Avon which flow into the Severn Estuary.
The noun RIVER AVON has 2 senses: 1. a river in southwestern England rising in Gloucestershire and flowing through Bristol to empty into the estuary of the Severn. 2. a river in central England that flows through Stratford-on-Avon and empties into the Severn. Familiarity information: RIVER AVON used as a noun is rare.
An information source dedicated to the River Avon which runs from source near Coventry in Warwickshire, through Stratford on Avon, the Vale of Evesham, and joins the River Severn near Tewkesbury in Gloucestershire. The river is managed by the Lower Avon Navigation Trust, their website is www.shakespearesavon.co.uk. The River Avon or Avon is a river in or adjoining the counties of Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire, Worcestershire and Gloucestershire in the midlands of England. It is also known as the Upper Avon, Warwickshire Avon or Shakespeare's Avon. The river has a total length of 154 km (96 miles)
The River Avon or Avon /ˈeɪvən/ is a river in or adjoining the counties of Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire, Worcestershire and Gloucestershire in the Midlands of England. Avon derives from the British language abona, river, which also survives as a number of other English and Scottish river names, and as modern Welsh afon [ˈavɔn] and Breton avon, river. The river is also known as the Warwickshire Avon or Shakespeare's Avon.
In its lower reaches from Bath to the Severn Estuary at Avonmouth near Bristol the river is navigable and known as the Avon Navigation. The Avon is the 19th longest river in the UK at 75 miles (121 km) although there are just 19 miles (31 km) as the crow flies between the source and its mouth in the Severn Estuary. The river Avon had been navigable from Bristol to Bath during the early years of the 13th century but construction of mills on the river forced its closure. The floodplain of the Avon, on which the city centre of Bath is built, has an altitude of about 59 ft (18 m) above sea level.
Here are some facts about the River Avon. 1  The River Avon is the UK’s 19th longest river, at just over 120 km. 2  It flows from its source near Chipping Sodbury in the Cotswolds, to the Severn estuary. 3  The River Avon Trail stretches for almost 40 km from Bath to Pill in north Somerset. 1 The River Avon is the UK’s 19th longest river, at just over 120 km. 2  It flows from its source near Chipping Sodbury in the Cotswolds, to the Severn estuary. 3  The River Avon Trail stretches for almost 40 km from Bath to Pill in north Somerset. 4  The trail can be walked or cycled and some sections allow horse riding.