Geranium. Geranium is a genus of 422 species of flowering annual, biennial, and perennial plants that are commonly known as the cranesbills. They are found throughout the temperate regions of the world and the mountains of the tropics, but mostly in the eastern part of the Mediterranean region. Geranium (noun). a genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, around which the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, or stipules, at the joints. Most of the species have showy flowers and a pungent odor.
The name “cranesbill” derives from the appearance of the seed-heads, which have the same shape as the bill of a Crane. The genus name is derived from the Greek word geranos, meaning ‘crane’. I’ll have to find one of these plants! The Geranium as it is commonly known, is actually of the genus Pelargonium. Geranium is the correct botanical name of the separate genus that contains the related Cranesbills. Both genera are in the Family Geraniaceae
Geraniums will grow in any soil as long as it is not waterlogged. Propagation is by semiripe cuttings in summer, by seed, or by division in autumn or spring. The genus name is derived from the Greek γέρανος (geranos) géranos or (γερανός) ‘geranos’. geranós crane Linnaeus originally included all the species in one genus, Geranium, but they were later separated into two genera by Charles L’Heritier héritier in. 1789 other former members of the genus are now classified in Genus, erodium including the plants known as filarees In North. america
Pelargonium, derived from the Greek word pelargos, which means stork, and Geranium, from the Greek word geranos, meaning crane, share the same singular characteristic common to all these genera -- the fruit resembling a bird's beak. To tackle the complex history of geranium or pelargonium, one has to confront the use of common names versus scientific ones. Scientific names give individuals a common language by which they could communicate with other people, no matter the country they are from or what their mother tongue might be.
The noun BEEFSTEAK GERANIUM has 1 sense: 1. any of numerous usually rhizomatous hybrid begonias derived from an East Indian plant having rough-textured leaves patterned in silver and bronze and purple and red-brown with inconspicuous flowers. Familiarity information: BEEFSTEAK GERANIUM used as a noun is very rare. 
The English name ‘cranesbill’ derives from the appearance of the fruit capsule of some of the species. Species in the Geranium genus have a distinctive mechanism for seed dispersal. Linnaeus originally included all the species in one genus, Geranium, but they were later separated into two genera by Charles L’Heritier héritier in. 1789 other former members of the genus are now classified in Genus, erodium including the plants known as filarees In North. america
Oil extracted in China from this species is considered to be the apt for use in aromatherapy application as it is less sensitizing then other species. History of Geranium: The name geranium is derived from a Greek word ‘geranos’ which means ‘crane’ referring to the seed pods which resemble to the crane’s bills. Out of more than 700 varieties of Geranium only 10 are known to be source of essential oil in viable quantities. The normal geranium plant grown in backyards and garden mostly for its lovely flowers cannot supply much of essential oil.
Geranium is a genus of 422 species of flowering annual, biennial, and perennial plants that are commonly known as the cranesbills. They are found throughout the temperate regions of the world and the mountains of the tropics, but mostly in the eastern part of the Mediterranean region. Linnaeus originally included all the species in one genus, Geranium, but they were later separated into two genera by Charles L’Heritier héritier in. 1789 other former members of the genus are now classified in Genus, erodium including the plants known as filarees In North. america