Although most deserts, such as the Sahara of North Africa and the deserts of the southwestern U.S., Mexico, and Australia, occur at low latitudes, another kind of desert, cold deserts, occur in the basin and range area of Utah and Nevada and in parts of western Asia. 
A desert is a barren area of land where little precipitation occurs and consequently living conditions are hostile for plant and animal life. The lack of vegetation exposes the unprotected surface of the ground to the processes of denudation. About one third of the land surface of the world is arid or semi-arid. In English before the 20th century, desert was often used in the sense of unpopulated area, without specific reference to aridity; but today the word is most often used in its climate-science sense (an area of low precipitation).
A desert is defined as any area that receives less than 250mm, or 10 inches, or precipitation as its annual rainfall. Passionate about all things Australian. A desert is defined as any area that receives less than 250mm, or 10 inches, or precipitation as its annual rainfall. This is why the Antarctic is defined as a desert just as … much as the Sahara Desert.
English desert and its Romance cognates (including Italian and Portuguese deserto, French desert désert And spanish) desierto all come from the Ecclesiastical latin (dēsertum originally an abandoned), place a participle of, dēserere to. abandon In English before the 20th century, desert was often used in the sense of unpopulated area, without specific reference to aridity; but today the word is most often used in its climate-science sense (an area of low precipitation).
Before an in-depth study of the Desert Biome, we need to clarify what exactly a biome is and then what exactly defines a desert. Biome (pronounced BY-ohm) is defined by the World Book Encyclopedia as a community of plants and animals that live in a large geographical area having a similar climate. 
A desert is any extremely dry place. In order for it to be termed  DRY it must have a precipitation less than 50 cm annually,  according to the UC Berkeley Museum of Paleont … ology.   Antarctica's humidity level is less than five percent. Passionate about all things Australian. A desert is defined as any area that receives less than 250mm, or 10 inches, or precipitation as its annual rainfall. This is why the Antarctic is defined as a desert just as … much as the Sahara Desert.
I have also traveled the entire length of the Atacama Desert in Chile by land. A desert is a place that gets less than 25cm (10 in) of rain a year. The evaporation rate is higher than the precipitation the area receives. Passionate about all things Australian. A desert is defined as any area that receives less than 250mm, or 10 inches, or precipitation as its annual rainfall. This is why the Antarctic is defined as a desert just as … much as the Sahara Desert.
I've been writing about deserts for awhile, but it seems that it might be a good idea to define what a desert is. The most basic definition is that a desert is an area that is moisture deficient; more water evaporates than is received. One of the characteristics of deserts is that they have large temperature fluctuations due to the lack of humidity. Daytime and nighttime temperatures may vary by over 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 deg C). (Keep that in mind if you're packing for a trip to the desert!). Deserts are not necessarily hot. Antarctica classifies as a desert because of the small amount of precipitation it receives. In fact, over one-third of the land masses on our planet are considered to be deserts. Sand covers only about 20 percent of deserts, with a variety of soils, bare rock, and even ice constituting the other desert bottoms
A desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area. In English before the 20th century, desert was often used in the sense of unpopulated area, without specific reference to aridity; but today the word is most often used in its climate-science sense (an area of low precipitation).