A nephrologist is a medical doctor who specializes in kidney care and treating diseases of the kidneys. The term nephrologist comes from the Greek word “nephros”, which means kidney or renal and “ologist” refers to someone who studies.
1 Kidney doctors learn the symptoms of these disorders and how to treat them. 2  Hypertension — Hypertension is another word for high blood pressure, and it is the second leading cause of end stage renal disease (ESRD) in the U.S. When kidneys excrete too much of a substance called renin, blood pressure may increase.
If a kidney doctor detects kidney disease, he or she will do tests to determine what stage of kidney disease the patient is in and plan the patient’s treatment. The nephrologist will usually refer the patient to a renal dietitian, renal social worker and renal nurse who will help with the patient’s care.
Call a doctor immediately if you have symptoms that suggest you have a kidney stone, such as: 1  Severe pain in your side, abdomen, groin, or genitals. 2  Blood in your urine. 3  Signs of a urinary tract infection, such as pain or burning when you urinate.
1 Dialysis — Dialysis is the process of cleaning the blood when the kidneys no longer function. 2  Kidney doctors learn about hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis — the two types of dialysis — so they can match their patients with the dialysis treatment that works best for their health and lifestyle.
When To Call a Doctor. Call 911 or other emergency services if you have chronic kidney disease and you develop: 1  A very slow heart rate (less than 50 beats a minute). 2  A very rapid heart rate (more than 120 beats a minute). 3  Chest pain or severe shortness of breath. 4  Severe muscle weakness.
Kidney Stones-When To Call a Doctor. Call a doctor immediately if you have symptoms that suggest you have a kidney stone, such as: 1  Severe pain in your side, abdomen, groin, or genitals. 2  It may get worse in waves. 3  Blood in your urine. 4  Signs of a urinary tract infection, such as pain or burning when you urinate.