The measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine is recommended for all children. It protects against three potentially serious illnesses. It is a two-part vaccination, and in most states, you must prove your children have gotten it before they can enter school.
The MMR vaccine protects against measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles). Many children in the U.S. are immunized as infants and toddlers, but that doesn't guarantee lifetime protection. And not everyone gets vaccinated as a child. Many adults move to the U.S. from countries without immunization programs.
Measles, mumps, and rubella are serious diseases. Before vaccines they were very common, especially among children. 1  Measles virus causes rash, cough, runny nose, eye irritation, and fever. 2  It can lead to ear infection, pneumonia, seizures (jerking and staring), brain damage, and death.
The MMR vaccine is very safe, and it is effective at preventing measles, mumps, and rubella. Vaccines, like any medicine, can have side effects. Most people who get MMR vaccine do not have any serious problems with it.
The three diseases covered by the MMR vaccine -- measles, mumps, and rubella -- are highly contagious. Viruses cause all three of these illnesses, and they spread through the air. They can pass from person to person through coughing, sneezing, or just breathing. Measles.
MMR vaccine. The MMR vaccine contains vaccines that protect against three viral infections: measles, mumps and rubella. It is given as a series of two doses at 12 to 15 months of age and at 4 to 6 years of age.
MMR vaccine does not cause autism (continued) Page 3 of 3 22. Mumps, Measles, and Rubella Vaccine and the Incidence of Autism Re-corded by General Practitioners: A Time Trend Analysis. Kaye JA et al. BMJ 2001; 322:460-63.
MMR vaccine does not cause autism Examine the evidence! www.immunize.org/catg.d/p4026.pdf • Item #P4026 (11/13) More than 20 articles refute a connection between MMR vaccine and the development of autism There is no scientific evidence that MMR vaccine causes autism.