A further important mechanism to protect against pancreatitis is fluid secretion by duct cells to flush zymogens (or active enzymes) out of the pancreas and into the duodenum. Blockage of the pancreatic duct (for instance, by a gallstone) will prevent flow out of the pancreas and can be a cause of acute pancreatitis. Trypsin then activates the other enzymes. (Brush border is another term for the microvilli at the apical surface of enterocytes, where brush border enzymes are located). A dangerous situation occurs if there is inappropriate formation of trypsin in the pancreas.
1. Proteases Digestion of proteins is initiated by pepsin in the stomach, but the bulk of protein digestion is due to the pancreatic proteases. Several proteases are synthesized in the pancreas and secreted into the lumen of the small intestine. Three major groups of enzymes are critical to efficient digestion: 1. Proteases.
1 CCK travels through the bloodstream and binds to receptor cells in the acini of the pancreas. 2  CCK stimulates these cells to produce and secrete pancreatic juice that has a high concentration of digestive enzymes. Digestion. The exocrine portion of the pancreas plays a major role in the digestion of food. The stomach slowly releases partially digested food into the duodenum as a thick, acidic liquid called chyme. The acini of the pancreas secrete pancreatic juice to complete the digestion of chyme in the duodenum.
Bicarbonate and Water. Epithelial cells in pancreatic ducts are the source of the bicarbonate and water secreted by the pancreas. Bicarbonate is a base and critical to neutralizing the acid coming into the small intestine from the stomach. Three major groups of enzymes are critical to efficient digestion: 1. Proteases. Digestion of proteins is initiated by pepsin in the stomach, but the bulk of protein digestion is due to the pancreatic proteases.
Pancreatic juice is composed of two secretory products critical to proper digestion: digestive enzymes and bicarbonate. The enzymes are synthesized and secreted from the exocrine acinar cells, whereas bicarbonate is secreted from the epithelial cells lining small pancreatic ducts. Three major groups of enzymes are critical to efficient digestion: 1. Proteases. Digestion of proteins is initiated by pepsin in the stomach, but the bulk of protein digestion is due to the pancreatic proteases.
The same cells that make trypsin secrete another substance called trypsin inhibitor simultaneously. It prevents activation of trypsin both inside the secretory cells and in the acini and ducts of the pancreas. Trypsin activates most of these other enzymes so the TI prevents their activation until out of the pancreas. 1 The Pancreas as an endocrine gland-Exocrine and Endocrine functions exist!! Anatomy of Pancreas:Exocrine and Endocrine functionsBelow the stomach is the pancreas consisting of a: head, body and a tail. It is considered an accessory gland in digestion due to its exocrine function.
The pancreas also has other protective mechanisms to ensure that these enzymes do not damage it. The cells of the pancreas secrete trypsin inhibitor which ensures that trypsin is not activated within the pancreas and it turn, neither are the other proteases. Action of Trypsin, Chymotrypsin and Carboxypolypetidase. Trypsin and chymotrypsin breaks down protein into peptides. Of these, trypsin is the most abundant. The pancreas do not secrete these enzymes in it active form as this may result in digestion of the pancreas itself. Instead each enzyme is secreted in an inactive form as follows 1  : Trypsin is secreted as trypsinogen.
The islets of Langerhans are the endocrine (endo= within) cells of the pancreas that produce and secrete hormones such as insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. The bulk of the pancreas is composed of “exocrine” cells that produce enzymes to help with the digestion of food. These exocrine cells release their enzymes into a series of progressively larger tubes (called ducts) that eventually join together to form the main pancreatic duct.
Islets of Langerhans. These are the endocrine (endo= within) cells of the pancreas that produce and secrete hormones into the bloodstream. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar in the blood. The sugar, glucose, is used by the body for energy. Acinar cells. These are the exocrine (exo= outward) cells of the pancreas that produce and transport chemicals that will exit the body through the digestive system. The chemicals that the exocrine cells produce are called enzymes.