Yes, fer cryin’ out loud—Coke used to contain cocaine. When Coca-Cola was first sold in 1885, it was marketed as a medicinal tonic. It was held at the time that the extract of coca leaves, kola nuts, and carbonated water were “stimulating” and good for you. But cocaine had a bad name by the turn of the 20th century
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Coca-Cola, like any other soft drink, is very bad for your health because it's full of sugar and caffeine, which could lead to diabetes and tons of other ailments. Even the diet variety contains a sugar replacement, which is also bad for the health. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Coca-Cola, like any other soft drink, is very bad for your health because it's full of sugar and caffeine, which could lead to diabetes and tons of other ailments
Of course, a can of Coca-Cola isn’t going to jump out of the cooler and make you obese, give you diabetes, or rot your molars all on its own. So have a Coke and a smile. But stick to an occasional, small serving so that smile still shows some teeth. (Content By Rich Maloof from MSN Health & Fitness). When Coca-Cola was first sold in 1885, it was marketed as a medicinal tonic. It was held at the time that the extract of coca leaves, kola nuts, and carbonated water were “stimulating” and good for you.
1 A lot of sugar. 2  Coca Cola Life is sweetened with Stevia, but it’s also still sweetened with real sugar to give it the regular taste we’re used to in a coke. 3  Your 500ml bottle of Coca Cola Life contains 34g of sugar, or more than 8 teaspoons of sugar in every bottle. 4  The coloring Caramel E-150d. 1 Your 500ml bottle of Coca Cola Life contains 34g of sugar, or more than 8 teaspoons of sugar in every bottle. 2  The coloring Caramel E-150d. 3  Also called ‘Sulfite ammonia caramel’, Caramel E-150d is basically caramelized carbs, and is subject to health warnings in some places.
1 Sugar. 2  A lot of sugar. 3  Coca Cola Life is sweetened with Stevia, but it’s also still sweetened with real sugar to give it the regular taste we’re used to in a coke. 4  Your 500ml bottle of Coca Cola Life contains 34g of sugar, or more than 8 teaspoons of sugar in every bottle. 5  The coloring Caramel E-150d. 1 Your 500ml bottle of Coca Cola Life contains 34g of sugar, or more than 8 teaspoons of sugar in every bottle. 2  The coloring Caramel E-150d. 3  Also called ‘Sulfite ammonia caramel’, Caramel E-150d is basically caramelized carbs, and is subject to health warnings in some places.
Drinking soda is bad for your health in so many ways; science can’t even state all the consequences. Here’s what happens in your body when you assault it with a Coke: Within the first 10 minutes, 10 teaspoons of sugar hit your system. This is 100 percent of your recommended daily intake, and the only reason you don’t vomit as a result of the overwhelming sweetness is because phosphoric acid cuts the flavor.
There are more than a few things lurking in your soda that aren’t declared on the Coca-Cola nutrition facts. Here’s what might happen to you if you make a habit of drinking Coca-Cola on a daily basis. In addition, Coca-Cola nutrition facts – just like facts for other sodas – don’t tell you everything you need to know. Here’s what you might expect to find in Coca-Cola: 1  Carbonated water. 2  This is the basis of all soda products.
Coca Cola. Previous Next. It's easy to jump on the down with big soda train, seeing as more and more evidence links Coca-Cola, Pepsi, and their thousands upon thousands of products with obesity, aggression, and health problems galore. Coca Cola. When Coca-Cola first appeared on the market in the 1860s, it was marketed nerve tonic, made to help ease the woes of modern civilization. More and more people were displaying signs of what was called neurasthenia, or neurotic and psychosomatic symptoms. Coca-Cola would change all that.
Yes it is very bad for your health Coke NO Wonder coke tastes soooo good. 1. In many states (in the USA) the highway patrol carries two gallons of Coke in the truck to remove blood from the highway after a car accident. 2. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Coca-Cola, like any other soft drink, is very bad for your health because it's full of sugar and caffeine, which could lead to diabetes and tons of other ailments.