The tendency of an organism or cell to regulate the chemical processes that take place internally so as to maintain health and functioning, regardless of outside conditions. The ability to maintain a steady body temperature is an example of homeostasis.
Instructor: Natalia Caporale. Homeostasis can be defined as a property of an organism or system that helps it maintain its parameters within a normal range of values. It is key to life, and failures in homeostasis can lead to diseases like hypertension and diabetes.
How to develop, cultivate and maintain psychological homeostasis. It is very natural for any human being to get their psychological state to be out of synchrony whenever they are consciously or subliminally faced with long term sustained threats and stressfull situations.
Homeostasis is a term that refers to psychological and physiological balance achieved when one's needs and desires have been met. In a physiological context, homeostasis is disrupted by what is referred to as a need state, which is an innate need like hunger.
Psychological Homeostasis is a neural and physical process that maintain the equilibrium of mental states or equanimity that would enable a human to live and perform at normal levels. Psychological homeostasis has evolved over millions of years.
for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Homeostasis can be defined as a property of an organism or system that helps it maintain its parameters within a normal range of values. It is key to life, and failures in homeostasis can lead to diseases like hypertension and diabetes.
In a psychological context, however, the drive state that disrupts homeostasis is a secondary state that is built on learned beliefs and ideas and triggered by arousal. As a result, this makes psychological homeostasis far more complicated to untangle and capable of producing negative outcomes.
In psychological terms, this kind of balance is referred to as homeostasis, which is most easily defined as a psychological and physiological state of stability.
The tendecy of an organism to maintain equilibrium by behavioural processes. See homeostasis. BEHAVIORAL HOMEOSTASIS: The dog used behavioural homeostasis to control his temperature by shivering when cold and panting when hot.. No related posts.