Igneous Rocks Igneous rocks form from the solidification of magma (molten rock). A reminder: magma is molten rock beneath the Earth s surface and lava is magma that is on the Earth s surface. The main characteristics of an Igneous rock are crystal size (grain size) and texture. The crystal size and texture of an igneous rock is dependant on where in the earth the rock formed. Rocks All rocks are formed from minerals. There are 3 main classifications of rocks they are igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. These rocks are formed under different conditions and posses certain characteristics. The characteristics a rock has depends upon the condition in which it
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. 
Common examples of igneous rocks, which are demonstrated for studying rock characteristics include pumice, basalt, granite, gabbro, obsidian and rhyolite. The most abundant rock in the earth's crust is none other than the igneous rock type. It alone accounts to about 90 percent of all rocks in the top layer of the earth's crust. The name igneous is coined after ignis, a Latin word meaning fir
These are called intrusive igneous rocks. The slow cooling formed rocks with large crystals Other rocks formed when the magma erupted from a volcano or reached the earth's surface through long cracks. Magma is called lava when it reaches the earth's surface. Lava cools quickly and forms rocks with small crystals. They are called extrusive igneous rocks. 
Some common mafic igneous rocks include fine grained basalt (see image link) and coarse grained gabbro (see image link). Mafic igneous rocks tend to be dark in color because they contain a large proportion of minerals rich in iron and magnesium (pyroxene, amphiboles, and olivine). Andesite (see image link) and diorite are intermediate igneous rocks that have a chemistry between mafic and felsic (silica amounts between 53 to 65%). These rocks are composed predominantly of the minerals plagioclase feldspar, amphibole, and pyroxene.
Types of Igneous Rocks. The type of igneous rocks that form from magma is a function of three factors: the chemical composition of the magma; temperature of solidification; and the rate of cooling which influences the crystallization process. Magma can vary chemically in its composition. Andesite (see image link) and diorite are intermediate igneous rocks that have a chemistry between mafic and felsic (silica amounts between 53 to 65%). These rocks are composed predominantly of the minerals plagioclase feldspar, amphibole, and pyroxene.
Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks are crystalline solids which form directly from the cooling of magma. This is an exothermic process (it loses heat) and involves a phase change from the liquid to the solid state. The earth is made of igneous rock-at least at the surface where our planet is exposed to the coldness of space.
Gabbro is normally found in the lower parts of oceanic crust and sometimes in relatively small intrusive features in continental crust. Andesite (see image link) and diorite are intermediate igneous rocks that have a chemistry between mafic and felsic (silica amounts between 53 to 65%). These rocks are composed predominantly of the minerals plagioclase feldspar, amphibole, and pyroxene.