People have began to understand life as a spiritual journey. The Sangoma/ Shaman often called at the time of births or death or when people feel they are in spiritual crisis. The Sangoma a healer for mind – body – soul. Mystic visionary messenger, a spirit channel, diviner and sometimes exorcist of people or places. A walker between worlds. Use techniques to heal, diagnosis the living and earthbound. Sangoma of the Soul, disease chaser, the community sage. Sangoma Shaman having survived initiations of all kinds Supernatural is the wounded Healer (see Wound Healer) of mystical phenomena
Connect with Sangoma. The communications landscape continues to grow in complexity, with more devices, networks, clouds and systems needing to communicate. 
Sangomas greeting each other. A sangoma is a practitioner of ngoma, a philosophy based on a belief in ancestral spirits (Zulu: amadlozi; Sesotho: badimu; Xhosa: izinyanya) and the practice of traditional African medicine, which is often a mix of medicinal plants and various animal body fats or skin. There are two main types of traditional healers within the Nguni, Sotho-Tswana and Tsonga societies of Southern Africa: the diviner (sangoma), and the herbalist (inyanga).
(In southern Africa) a traditional healer or diviner. Example sentences. 1  As a sangoma (traditional healer) who is also medically qualified, I see modern approaches to AIDS reaching an invisible limit as they confront the traditional approaches.
Medicine man. Shaman. Soothsayer. Traditional healer is the preferred translation for Sangoma, though soothsayer, spirit mediator or diviner are also used. And then witchdoctor is whispered, so they know what you mean. Being a sangoma is a calling, which often manifests itself as a sickness that resists treatment, or what would in western terms be considered an episode of madness. A sangoma will diagnose this a manifestation of the need to be a sangoma. This illness is called thwasa, and this word also refers to an apprentice Sangoma.
Noun. 1. sangoma-a traditional Zulu healer and respected elder. healer, therapist-a person skilled in a particular type of therapy. sangoma. n. 1. (Anthropology & Ethnology) South African a witch doctor, healer, or herbalist.
A sangoma is a type of traditional South African healer. Frequently, they are also called shamans, though this word is used mostly within North American culture. In keeping with South African tradition, a person cannot choose the occupation of a sangoma. Instead, they are chosen by ancestral spirits who contact individuals in various ways. Working from small huts that are called Ndumbas, those who require the assistance of a sangoma enter into this hut in search of a healer's helping hands. Many different applications are used by healers in order to cure physical illnesses. One of the most popular forms of medicine used by tghese healers is called muti.
1 As a sangoma (traditional healer) who is also medically qualified, I see modern approaches to AIDS reaching an invisible limit as they confront the traditional approaches. Example sentences. 1 
The name given to the shamans or traditional healers of many southern African tribes, including the Zulu, is Sangoma or isiSangoma as they are known in plural. It is a spiritual calling, not a chosen profession. An apprentice sangoma, an itwasa, studies with a mentor for several years and must learn how to connect with her ancestors (amadlozi), prepare herbal medicines (muti), interpret dreams, diagnose illness through divination with bones, and how to heal both physical and spiritual illness.