Osteoporosis Is Autoimmune Disease. Osteoporosis & Autoimmunity. Osteoporosis recognized as an autoimmune process: A report in the New England Journal of Medicine identifies antibodies against osteoprotegerin (a protein that prevents bone breakdown). This protein is responsible for helping maintain bone density. When it is attacked by the body’s immune system, bone loss becomes accelerated leading to osteoporosis.
It is a common thought that osteoporosis associated with celiac disease is a result of malabsorption of vitamins and minerals (mainly vitamin D and calcium). The above report links an autoimmune process of bone loss to gluten sensitivity separate and distinct from gluten induced malabsorption. If osteoporosis has an autoimmune component, then we have to go back and look at gluten as a potential cause as it is the only known cause for any of the autoimmune diseases. That means that everyone with osteoporosis should potentially be screened for gluten sensitivity.
Some osteoporosis cases 'may be caused by autoimmune disorder'. A subset of patients with the bone-thinning disease osteoporosis may have an underlying autoimmune disorder that can be detected by measuring levels of certain proteins, scientists have said. 
New approach to create treatments for osteoporosis, autoimmune diseases. Scientists have developed an approach to creating treatments for osteoporosis and autoimmune diseases that may avoid the risk of infection and cancer posed by some current medications. 
Lupus is an autoimmune disease, a disorder in which the body attacks its own healthy cells and tissues. As a result, various parts of the body—such as the joints, skin, kidneys, heart, and lungs—can become inflamed and damaged. There are many different kinds of lupus. Individuals with lupus are at increased risk for osteoporosis for many reasons. To begin with, the glucocorticoid medications often prescribed to treat SLE can trigger significant bone loss. In addition, pain and fatigue caused by the disease can result in inactivity, further increasing osteoporosis risk. Studies also show that bone loss in lupus may occur as a direct result of the disease
Autoimmune Disorders (Rheumatology). For patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, gout, lupus, and other autoimmune disorders, Hedley Orthopaedic Institute offers aggressive treatment options that may prevent tissue damage and permanent disability while improving quality of life. Lupus occurs when the body’s autoimmune system attacks tissues and organs. While the cause of lupus is unknown, it is believed that certain people may have a genetic predisposition toward the disease, which can be activated by environment. Sun exposure and certain medications are believed to be possible triggers.
Autoimmunity, Gluten, & Osteoporosis | Gluten-Free Society. Tags autoimmune, celiac disease, gluten. A new report in the New England Journal of Medicine identifies antibodies against osteoprotegerin (a protein that prevents bone breakdown) in several patients with celiac disease. This protein is responsible for helping maintain bone density. If osteoporosis has an autoimmune component, then we have to go back and look at gluten as a potential cause as it is the only known cause for any of the autoimmune diseases. That means that everyone with osteoporosis should potentially be screened for gluten sensitivity.
The Link Between Lupus and Osteoporosis. Studies have found an increase in bone loss and fracture in individuals with SLE. In fact, women with lupus may be nearly five times more likely than those without the disease to experience a fracture from osteoporosis. Individuals with lupus are at increased risk for osteoporosis for many reasons. To begin with, the glucocorticoid medications often prescribed to treat SLE can trigger significant bone loss. In addition, pain and fatigue caused by the disease can result in inactivity, further increasing osteoporosis risk. Studies also show that bone loss in lupus may occur as a direct result of the disease