Print Text Size: A A A. A hormone that stimulates insulin secretion in response to meals. The two most important incretin hormones are called glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP). Understanding how these hormones work is helping to yield new treatments for Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Furthermore, scientists have also observed that people with Type 2 diabetes have diminished insulin release in response to meals and have speculated that they may have defects in the release or action of their incretin hormones. GLP-1 is made in the small intestine and colon and is released in response to food.
GLP-1 and DPP-4 inhibitors. Incretins are a group of metabolic hormones that stimulate a decrease in blood glucose levels. Incretins do so by causing an increase in the amount of insulin released from pancreatic beta cells of the islets of Langerhans after eating, before blood glucose levels become elevated. However, oral administration of extracts of intestinal mucosa failed to help several patients with type 1 diabetes. In 1932, La Barre proposed the name incretin for a hormone extracted from the upper gut mucosa, which caused hypoglycemia, and proposed a possible therapy for diabetes.
Abstract. The available evidence suggests that about two-thirds of the insulin response to an oral glucose load is due to the potentiating effect of gut-derived incretin hormones. The strongest candidates for the incretin effect are glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). An impaired secretion of GLP-1, therefore, is likely to contribute to the impaired incretin effect in type 2 diabetes. Regarding the effect of the hormones, another important difference emerges. Nauck et al.
incretin hormones are peptide hormones secreted from the gut that can explain the incretin effect: the augmentation of insulin secretion observed after oral glucose intake compared with that observed after an intravenous infusion of glucose resulting in identical elevations of plasma glucose. An impaired secretion of GLP-1, therefore, is likely to contribute to the impaired incretin effect in type 2 diabetes. Regarding the effect of the hormones, another important difference emerges. Nauck et al.
There are two main incretin hormones in humans, GIP (glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide; also known as gastric inhibitory peptide) and GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide-1). Both hormones are secreted by endocrine cells that are located in the epithelium of the small intestine. Incretin hormone release is regulated in a similar way to other digestive tract hormones. An increase in the concentration of a substance in the lumen of the digestive tract (in this case glucose) acts as the trigger for hormone secretion. The mechanism of incretin action is schematized in the figure below.
Another class of drugs called DPP-IV inhibitors also affect incretin hormone levels. Dipeptidyl peptidase IV (or DPP-IV) is an enzyme that normally breaks down GLP-1 and GIP. DPP-IV inhibitors, which block the action of this enzyme and therefore leave more of the body’s own GLP-1 and GIP in circulation. Furthermore, scientists have also observed that people with Type 2 diabetes have diminished insulin release in response to meals and have speculated that they may have defects in the release or action of their incretin hormones. GLP-1 is made in the small intestine and colon and is released in response to food.
The incretins are hormones that work to increase insulin secretion. The incretin concept was developed when it was observed that there is substantially more insulin secreted in response to oral glucose versus intravenous glucose, as shown in the graph at right. Incretin hormone release is regulated in a similar way to other digestive tract hormones. An increase in the concentration of a substance in the lumen of the digestive tract (in this case glucose) acts as the trigger for hormone secretion. The mechanism of incretin action is schematized in the figure below.
Are there other hormones and mediators beyond GIP and GLP-1 with incretin like activity? Several other peptide hormones, nutrients, bile acids, and lipid amides are also secreted following nutrient ingestion, bind to receptors on islet b-cells and stimulate glucose-dependent insulin secretion. The discovery of a second incretin hormone, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), followed the cloning and sequencing of mammalian proglucagon genes and complementary DNAs (see Glucagon Gene) .
Only two such gut hormones, gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) have been shown to act as physiological incretins. GIP is a 42-amino-acid hormone secreted from K cells of the upper small intestine (Inagaki et al., 1989 and Takeda et al., 1987). 