Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) and related diseases are genetic lysosomal storage diseases (LSD) caused by the body’s inability to produce specific enzymes. Normally, the body uses enzymes to break down and recycle materials in cells. Since 1975 the Society has supported individuals and families affected with MPS and related diseases. We are governed by a member-elected volunteer Board of Directors, many of whom are parents of children
MPS II, Hunter syndrome or iduronate sulfatase deficiency, is caused by lack of the enzyme iduronate sulfatase. Hunter syndrome has two clinical subtypes and (since it shows X-linked recessive inheritance) is the only one of the mucopolysaccharidoses in which the mother alone can pass the defective gene to a son. Although no studies have been done to determine the frequency of MPS I in the United States, studies in British Columbia estimate that 1 in 100,000 babies born has Hurler syndrome. The estimate for Scheie syndrome is one in 500,000 births and for Hurler-Scheie syndrome it is one in 115,000 births.
Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI), also known as Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome, is a progressive condition that causes many tissues and organs to enlarge and become inflamed or scarred. Skeletal abnormalities are also common in this condition. The rate at which symptoms worsen varies among affected individuals. 
MPS and related diseases are hereditary. In nearly all cases a child receives a recessive gene from each parent. MPS II is the only exception where the gene may be passed from a mother to her male children. A couple’s chance of having another child with one of these diseases is 1 in 4 with each pregnancy. Since 1975 the Society has supported individuals and families affected with MPS and related diseases. We are governed by a member-elected volunteer Board of Directors, many of whom are parents of children
Hunter syndrome, also called mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II, is a rare disease that's passed on in families. It usually affects only boys. Their bodies can't break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons, and other tissue. 
Although there is currently no cure for MPS or related diseases, research is making great strides. Carrier detection, the development of replacement enzymes, and the possibility of gene therapy, are among today’s research themes and treatment options. Since 1975 the Society has supported individuals and families affected with MPS and related diseases. We are governed by a member-elected volunteer Board of Directors, many of whom are parents of children
Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a condition that affects many parts of the body. This disorder was once divided into three separate syndromes: Hurler syndrome (MPS I-H), Hurler-Scheie syndrome (MPS I-H/S), and Scheie syndrome (MPS I-S), listed from most to least severe. 
Hunter syndrome has a different form of inheritance from the other MPS diseases as it is sex-linked like haemophilia. Girls may be carriers of the disease but, except in very rare cases, only males will be sufferers. Hunter adults have been known to marry. Their children are unaffected. The MPS diseases are part of a larger group of disorders known as Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSDs). The combined incidence of LSDs in the population is 1 in 5,000 live births.
Sanfilippo syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis III (MPS-III) is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease. It is caused by a deficiency in one of the enzymes needed to break down the glycosaminoglycan heparan sulfate (which is found in the extra-cellular matrix and on cell surface glycoproteins). 
The MPS Diseases. The Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) are rare genetic disorders in children and adults. They involve an abnormal storage of mucopolysaccharides, caused by the absence of a specific enzyme. Without the enzyme, the breakdown process of mucopolysaccharides is incomplete. The MPS diseases are part of a larger group of disorders known as Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSDs). The combined incidence of LSDs in the population is 1 in 5,000 live births.