Besides being a good source of fiber, apples contain vitamins, minerals and other nutrients that help improve your health. Eating apples with their skin benefits your health because much of the fiber and antioxidants are in the skin. Apples in a wire basket on a gardening table. Photo Credit Eddie Granlund/Folio Images/Getty Images. Apples, a member of the rose family, are low in calories and are fat-, sodium-and cholesterol-free. About 2,500 varieties are grown throughout the United States, according to the University of Illinois Extension.
Eating one medium-sized apple provides 8.4 milligrams of vitamin C, according to the USDA. This amount equates to 9 percent of the recommended daily value for vitamin C if you are a man and 11 percent if you are a woman. Apples in a wire basket on a gardening table. Photo Credit Eddie Granlund/Folio Images/Getty Images. Apples, a member of the rose family, are low in calories and are fat-, sodium-and cholesterol-free. About 2,500 varieties are grown throughout the United States, according to the University of Illinois Extension.
Apples have the vitamins: Vitamin A, Vitamin B1(thiamine) & B2(riboflavin), Niacin, Folate, Pantothenic Acid, Vitamin B6, and Vitamins C, E, & K. There are also other vitamins … in an apple, which only contain small amounts. 18 people found this useful. A Keats. One medium apple (about 180 grams) has: 2% of your Vitamin A, 14% of your Vitamin C, 1% of your Calcium, and 1% of your Iron.
Apples are a good source of vitamin C Photo Credit adisa/iStock/Getty Images. An apple a day may not keep any physicians at bay, but apples are very nutritious. They are high in fiber, important for digestive health, and boron, which promotes bone growth. Benefits. Eat the apple peel, as it contains a significant portion of vitamin C within the apple. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin. Vitamin C is important in the development of collagen in your bones, muscles, cartilage and blood vessels. Ascorbic acid also aids in the digestion of iron.
Vitamin C. Enjoying a 3-inch medium apple provides around 10 percent of your daily vitamin C requirement. Even though vitamin C is an immune system booster, it has several other roles in your body. Vitamin C is one of several types of antioxidants that neutralize damaging free radicals. Apples are full of nutrients that keep your body healthy and promote digestion. Red Delicious apples have a mild flavor and soft texture, making them ideal for baking. Fuji and Gala apples have a crisp texture and sweet taste.
1 The phytonutrients in apples can help you regulate your blood sugar. 2  Recent research has shown that apple polyphenols can help prevent spikes in blood sugar through a variety of mechanisms. 3  Flavonoids like quercetin found in apples can inhibit enzymes like alpha-amylase and alpha-glucosidase. 
The main vitamin found in apples is vitamin C, with each medium apple providing 14 percent of the daily value. This vitamin acts as an antioxidant to help prevent cell damage and is essential for healing wounds and forming collagen. An apple also has 5 percent of the DV for vitamin K, as well as smaller amounts of the fat-soluble vitamins A and E and the B vitamins thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, folate and vitamin B-6.
Apples are available in many types and even though all of them contain similar nutritional value they do have their individual characteristic taste and texture. For instance, Red Delicious apples have a soft texture while the Fuji and Gala ones have a slightly crisper texture. Moreover, the flavor of Red apples is mild in nature while that of the other two varieties is a lot sweeter. Apples have a very low calorific value and do not contain cholesterol, fat or sodium. In addition, apples are rich in fiber, minerals and vitamins. It’s best to eat apples with their skin where much of the antioxidants and fiber is present
Consuming apples which are rich in vitamin A, you can improve your eyesight, develop healthier teeth, have strong bones, preserve the freshness of your skin and health of your membranes of hair and mucous. Moreover, vitamin A can keep you safe from measles too. For instance, Red Delicious apples have a soft texture while the Fuji and Gala ones have a slightly crisper texture. Moreover, the flavor of Red apples is mild in nature while that of the other two varieties is a lot sweeter. Apples have a very low calorific value and do not contain cholesterol, fat or sodium.