Viral laryngitis is a medical condition that causes inflammation of the vocal cords. This may cause fever, sore throat, or difficulty swallowing. Other symptoms may include a weak or hoarse-sounding voice. Since this condition is caused by a virus and not bacteria, antibiotics are not an effective treatment method. Exposure to second hand smoke can cause viral laryngitis. Throat lozenges can help keep the throat lubricated when a person has viral laryngitis. A sore throat is a common symptom of viral laryngitis. Gargling with warm salt water may help temporarily soothe a sore throat. Using a humidifier might help relieve the symptoms of viral laryngitis. Inhaling steam can help relieve some symptoms of viral laryngitis
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the larynx. It causes hoarse voice or temporary complete loss of the voice because of irritation to the vocal folds (vocal cords). Dysphonia is the medical term for a vocal disorder, of which laryngitis is one cause. 
The vocal cords are part of the larynx and are needed for speech. Laryngitis means inflammation of the larynx. It usually results in a hoarse or husky voice, or losing your voice for a short time. It is most often due to infection with a virus (viral laryngitis). It is usually due to an infection, most often a virus. You may become hoarse but symptoms usually go within a week or so. See a doctor if symptoms persist. The voice box (larynx) joins the back of the throat to the windpipe (trachea).
Acute laryngitis. The most common cause of laryngitis is a viral infection, often similar to those that cause the common cold or flu. Overusing the voice-cheering at an event, for example-can also cause inflammation of the larynx. In very rare instances, acute laryngitis can be caused by diphtheria, a bacterial infection. 1 Acute laryngitis usually lasts for no longer than 2 weeks. 2  Viral infections such as colds are the most common cause of laryngitis. 3  Other causes of laryngitis include vocal strain (yelling or talking a lot) and bacterial infections, such as diphtheria.
Laryngitis is when the voice box or vocal cords become inflamed from overuse, irritation, or infection. There are two main types of laryngitis: chronic (long-term) and acute (short-term). The inflammation that causes laryngitis can be tied to a variety of conditions. 
If the laryngitis is from a viral or bacterial infection, it is possible that the specific virus or bacteria can be contagious. However, if the laryngitis is from laryngeal cancer or overuse of the voice, it is not contagious. 
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the voice box, or larynx (say LAIR-inks), that causes your voice to become raspy or hoarse. Laryngitis can be short-term or long-lasting (chronic). Most of the time, it comes on quickly and lasts no more than 2 weeks. Chronic symptoms are those that last 2 weeks or longer. Laryngitis can be caused by: 1  Colds or the flu. 2  Acid reflux, also known as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) . 3  Overuse of your voice, such as cheering at a sports event. 4  Irritation, such as from allergies or smoke. 5  Use of inhaled steroid medicines (such as those used to treat asthma). 6  Problems with the way you talk or sing.
Laryngitis is an inflammation of your voice box (larynx). It is usually due to an infection, most often a virus. You may become hoarse but symptoms usually go within a week or so. See a doctor if symptoms persist. The voice box (larynx) joins the back of the throat to the windpipe (trachea).
Causes of acute laryngitis include: 1  Viral infections similar to those that cause a cold. 2  Vocal strain, caused by yelling or overusing your voice. 3  Bacterial infections, such as diphtheria, although this is rare, in large part due to increasing rates of vaccination. 