1 gallium (Ga, 31) – both named after Gallia (Latin for France) and its discoverer, Lecoq de Boisbaudran (le coq, the French word for 'rooster' translates to gallus in Latin). 2  hahnium (105) – Otto Hahn (Dubnium, named for Dubna in Russia, is the IUPAC-accepted name for element 105). 3  lawrencium (Lr, 103) – Ernest Lawrence. 1 samarium (Sm, 62) - The first element named in honor of a person. 2  Samarium is named for its ore, samarskite, which in turn is named for V.E. 3  Samarsky-Bukjovets, the Russian engineer who allowed researchers access to him mineral samples.
Element 114, previously known as ununquadium, has been named flerovium (Fl), after the Russian institute's Flerov Laboratory of Nuclear Reactions founder, which similarly is named in honor of Georgiy Flerov (1913-1990), a Russian physicist. 
Fourteen of the chemical elements are named after scientists. Below is the list of those scientists whose names are used in element nomenclature. Gadolinium, the first element in the list, is naturally occurring. The rest are synthetic elements. 
Answer: There are 14 elements named after people, although only 13 of the names are formally accepted by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). 1  samarium (Sm, 62) - The first element named in honor of a person. 1 samarium (Sm, 62) - The first element named in honor of a person. 2  Samarium is named for its ore, samarskite, which in turn is named for V.E. 3  Samarsky-Bukjovets, the Russian engineer who allowed researchers access to him mineral samples.
Answer: This is an alphabetical list of element toponyms or elements named for places or regions. Ytterby in Sweden has given its name to four elements: Erbium, Terbium, Ytterbium and Yttrium. 1  Americium – America, the Americas. 2  Berkelium – University of California at Berkeley. 1 Copper-probably named for Cyprus. 2  Darmstadtium – Darmstadt, Germany. 3  Dubnium – Dubna, Russia. 4  Erbium – Ytterby, a town in Sweden. 5  Europium – Europe. 6  Francium – France. 7  Gallium – Gallia, Latin for France.
A common source of names both now and historically, over a quarter of the elements are named after a place, often where they were discovered or synthesised. These places range in size from continents (europium) and countries (americium, francium, polonium) to the the Scottish village Strontian (strontium). Sample of chlorine created by Humphry Davy in 1810. It is named after the Greek word for green. Fifty elements were discovered in the 19th Century, the greatest number of any century. By comparison, twenty nine elements were discovered in the 20th Century, and five new ones have been synthesised so far in the 21st.
Mendelevium is a radioactive rare earth metal named after Dmitri Mendeleev, father of the Periodic Table. Mendelevium, the ninth transuranium element of the actinide series to be discovered, was first identified by Seaborg and others in 1955 as a product of the bombardment of the einsteinium isotope 253 Es with helium ions.
How the Chemical Elements Were Named. Many of the elements names are of Greek or Latin origin. These names usually tell us something about the element. The interactive Periodic Table Find out as much as possible about different elemetns and their uses. All of the man-made elements (man-made atoms) have been made as a result of the Nuclear Age.
There is also mendelevium, named after Dmitri Mendeleev, the Russian scientist who established the first periodic table in 1869, and fitted the known elements into their places in the table based on their properties. Sample of chlorine created by Humphry Davy in 1810. It is named after the Greek word for green. Fifty elements were discovered in the 19th Century, the greatest number of any century. By comparison, twenty nine elements were discovered in the 20th Century, and five new ones have been synthesised so far in the 21st.