Top Definition. emoticon. An emoticon, sometimes called a smiley, is a sequence of printable characters such as :) or ^_^, that is intended to represent a human facial expression and convey an emotion. Use in internet forums and instant-messaging. 
A simple smiley. This is a list of notable and commonly used emoticons or textual portrayals of a writer's moods or facial expressions in the form of icons. The Western use of emoticons is quite different from Eastern usage, and Internet forums, such as 2channel, typically show expressions in their own ways. In recent times, graphic representations, both static and animated, have taken the place of traditional emoticons in the form of icons. Western style emoticons are mostly written from left to right as though the head is rotated counter-clockwise 90 degrees. One will most commonly see the eyes on the left, followed by the nose (often not included) and then the mouth.
1 You can also use a nose in emoticons. 2  For example a smiling text emoticon :) just add a hyphen : -) or a circle: o) to display the nose. 3  There are tons of variations and interpretations of single text emoticons. 4  Just be creative and made your own text emoticons. 1 Most image emoticons, are made with pixel art. 2  This means every emoticon is created, pixel by pixel. 3  There are different basic layouts in different sizes, but the most used and best fitted base is the 15×15 pixel body. 4  If you use the 15×15 pixel body you don’t destroy, the flow of reading to much.
A smiley face, also called a text smiley, smiley or emoticon, is ordinary characters used in text-based communications to represent a human facial expression to convey emotion, much in the same way we use facial expressions and different voice tones when we communicate face-to-face with people. How to Make A Text Smiley Face. To create a text smiley face you use standard characters and punctuation marks in sequences that look like human facial expressions. Smiley face text are all sideways. Here are some basics to get you started with understanding what different characters used in smiley faces mean:
Here's the right emoticon for you, whether you're texting or Gchatting. When it comes to emoticons, usually less is more. But it's a whole new ball game when you're trying to get your flirt on. A study of more than 4,000 online daters by Zoosk.com revealed that emoticons really do matter. It is basically the foreplay of the emoticon world. When To Use: Whether you send it first or he does, there is bound to be some naughty action taking place as soon as you are face-to-face. You've been warned. Hot Lips: A less steamy version of Angel Baby, Hot Lips is more appropriate for those with a pre-hookup status.
To use the dictionary definition, an emoticon smiley face fulfills only part of the definition of a word: It is a unit that functions as a principle carrier of communication, but it doesn’t consist of morphemes and cannot be spoken. Emoticons are not words. In this sense an emoticon is a symbol that more or less accurately represenents a facial expression which is just as much language as spoken language or body language. Why not give both the exclamation mark and emoticons the term “emoticons”.
The definition of an emoticon is a sideways facial expression created using keyboard symbols that represent an attitude or a facial expression in e-mail. A typewritten picture of a facial expression to suggest an emotion. It is used in email, in chat rooms, and when communicating with others on the Internet. A popular one is :-), or smile. See Also: Electronic Mail or Email; Internet.
The :-) notation is known as a smiley, and means that the statement it follows was intended as humor. When you tilt your head to the side, you see that: is the eyes, - the optional nose, and) is the mouth. 
noun. The definition of an emoticon is a sideways facial expression created using keyboard symbols that represent an attitude or a facial expression in e-mail. An example of an emoticon is a happy face made by typing a colon and parenthesis :). A typewritten picture of a facial expression to suggest an emotion. It is used in email, in chat rooms, and when communicating with others on the Internet. A popular one is :-), or smile. See Also: Electronic Mail or Email; Internet.