Do not start or stop taking clonazepam during pregnancy without medical advice. If you are pregnant, your name may be listed on a pregnancy registry. This is to track the outcome of the pregnancy and to evaluate any effects of clonazepam on the baby. Clonazepam may pass into breast milk and could harm a nursing baby. You may have increased seizures or unpleasant withdrawal symptoms if you stop using clonazepam suddenly. Ask your doctor how to avoid withdrawal symptoms when you stop using clonazepam. You may need to use less and less before you stop the medication completely.
Read this Medication Guide before you start taking KLONOPIN and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment. KLONOPIN can cause serious side effects. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN.
Clonazepam is the generic form of the brand-name drug Klonopin, prescribed to treat seizures and panic attacks. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company. A: Klonopin (clonazepam) in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam affects chemicals in the brain that can become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Clonazepam is commonly used to treat seizure disorders, panic disorders, and other conditions.
Do not stop taking clonazepam without talking to your healthcare provider first. Stopping clonazepam abruptly may result in one or more of the following withdrawal symptoms: irritability, nausea, tremor, dizziness, blood pressure changes, rapid heart rate, and seizures. If an overdose occurs call your doctor or 911. You may need urgent medical care. You may also contact the poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. Symptoms of overdose include confusion, impaired coordination, slow reflexes, coma, and death. A specific treatment to reverse the effects of clonazepam does exist.
1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN all of a sudden. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop, hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations), shaking, and stomach and muscle cramps. 3  Talk to your doctor about slowly stopping KLONOPIN to avoid getting sick with withdrawal symptoms. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN.
Do not stop KLONOPIN without first talking to a healthcare provider. 51 Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. Stopping. 52 KLONOPIN suddenly can cause seizures that will not stop (status. 53 epilepticus). 3. KLONOPIN may harm your unborn or developing baby. 55 • If you take KLONOPIN during pregnancy, your baby is at risk for serious. 56 birth defects. Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 16. KLONOPIN can cause serious side effects, including: 17. 1. KLONOPIN can slow your thinking and motor skills. 18 • Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities. 19 until you know how KLONOPIN affects you.
Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. KLONOPIN can cause serious side effects, including: 1. KLONOPIN can slow your thinking and motor skills. 1  Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how KLONOPIN affects you. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN.
4. KLONOPIN can cause abuse and dependence. 1  Do not stop taking KLONOPIN all of a sudden. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop, hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations), shaking, and stomach and muscle cramps. 1 Do not stop taking KLONOPIN without first talking to your healthcare provider. 2  Stopping KLONOPIN suddenly can cause serious problems. 3  KLONOPIN tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 4  KLONOPIN wafers can be taken with or without water. 5  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take KLONOPIN.
(Click Clonazepam Withdrawal for more information on what may happen if you stop taking clonazepam too abruptly and to find out what else your healthcare provider may recommend in order to help prevent withdrawal symptoms.). Advertisement. If you abruptly stop taking it, withdrawal symptoms could occur. Stopping clonazepam too quickly (especially if you have been taking high doses of the drug) can lead to withdrawal symptoms such as: 1  Numbness or tingling. 2  Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.