As in a photographic lens, visual acuity is affected by the size of the pupil. Optical aberrations of the eye that decrease visual acuity are at a maximum when the pupil is largest (about 8 mm), which occurs in low-light conditions. Visual acuity is often measured according to the size of letters viewed on a Snellen chart or the size of other symbols, such as Landolt Cs or the Tumbling E. In some countries, acuity is expressed as a vulgar fraction, and in some as a decimal number.
20/20 vision (or really, 20/20 visual acuity) is considered normal vision, meaning you can read at 20 feet a letter that most human beings should be able to read at 20 feet. What 20/20 Vision in an Eye Test Means. In the United States, the standard placement of the eye chart is on a wall that's 20 feet away from your eyes.
If you have 20/20 vision, you can see clearly at 20 feet what should normally be seen at that distance. If you have 20/100 vision, it means that you must be as close as 20 feet to see what a person with normal vision can see at 100 feet. 20/20 does not necessarily mean perfect vision. 20/20 vision only indicates the sharpness or clarity of vision at a
The standard definition of normal visual acuity is the ability to resolve a spatial pattern separated by a visual angle of one minute of arc. Consider a circle which contains 360 degrees. One degree contains 60 minutes. Therefore, a visual angle of one minute of arc is 1/60 of a degree. If you require glasses because your optometrist says you have 20/60 vision, that means you are able to discriminate characters on an eye chart at 20 feet that a person with normal acuity can see at a distance of 60 feet. 6/6 means the same thing only in meters.
Normal visual acuity (in central, i.e. foveal vision) is frequently considered to be what was defined by Hermann Snellen as the ability to recognize an optotype when it subtended 5 minutes of arc, that is Snellen's chart 6/6 meter, 20/20 feet, 1.00 decimal or 0.0 logMAR. Visual acuity is often measured according to the size of letters viewed on a Snellen chart or the size of other symbols, such as Landolt Cs or the Tumbling E. In some countries, acuity is expressed as a vulgar fraction, and in some as a decimal number.
Visual Acuity: What is 20/20 Vision? 20/20 vision is a term used to express normal visual acuity (the clarity or sharpness of vision) measured at a distance of 20 feet. If you have 20/100 vision, it means that you must be as close as 20 feet to see what a person with normal vision can see at 100 feet. 20/20 does not necessarily mean perfect vision.
A visual acuity chart is used to test distance visual acuity. It uses capital letters of different sizes to test vision in literate adults. The test is conducted at 6 metres (20 feet in USA). The test result is given as a fraction that indicates the distance in metres at which that row of the chart can be read by a normal eye. The bottom number represents the size of the letter seen. The larger the bottom number the larger the letter on the chart (E.g. 6/48 indicates a bigger letter than 6/12). Normal visual acuity is recorded as 6/6 (20/20 in USA).
Reading charts are often used to measure visual acuity. Visual acuity measurements evaluate how clearly each eye is seeing. As part of the testing, you are asked to read letters on distance and near reading charts. The results of visual acuity testing are written as a fraction such as 20/40. When testing distance vision, the top number in the fraction is the standard distance at which testing is done, twenty feet. The bottom number is the smallest letter size you were able to read. A person with 20/40 visual acuity would have to get within 20 feet of a letter that should be seen at 40 feet in order to see it clearly. Normal distance visual acuity is 20/20. Preliminary testing may include evaluation of specific aspects of visual function and eye health such as depth perception, color vision, eye muscle movements, peripheral or side vision, and the way your pupils respond to light. 
Visual Acuity (VA) commonly refers to the clarity of vision. Visual Acuity is dependent on optical and neural factors, i.e., (i) the sharpness of the retinal focus within the eye, (ii) the health and functioning of the retina, and (iii) the sensitivity of the interpretative faculty of the brain. Visual acuity is often measured according to the size of letters viewed on a Snellen chart or the size of other symbols, such as Landolt Cs or the Tumbling E. In some countries, acuity is expressed as a vulgar fraction, and in some as a decimal number.