U.S. Assistance to Venezuela. U.S. assistance to Venezuela supports the defense of human rights, the promotion of a vibrant civil society, and the strengthening of democratic institutions. Venezuela is currently subject to certain restrictions on U.S. foreign assistance. Since 2005, the President has annually determined that Venezuela has “failed demonstrably” to adhere to its obligations under international counter-narcotics agreements and to take certain counter-narcotics measures.
Chavez's passing could usher in a new era of peace and prosperity for Venezuela. Free-market economic reforms could see the country following the growth path of regional powerhouse Brazil. And there is no reason to continue with Chavez's destructive, anti-U.S. foreign policy. Like almost all socialist experiments, Chavez's Bolivarian Revolution was pointless and harmful. It has left Venezuela with a basket-case economy. Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, suffers from 20% inflation and has been devalued five times in a decade. Chavez increased economic equality by spreading the poverty around
There is a roaring trade in Venezuelan goods along the country’s border with Colombia. That is in stark contrast to the general malaise of the economy in the rest of the country. By many measures, Venezuela’s economy is the most sickly in the world. From the value of its currency (sinking), to its inflation (scorching) and GDP (shrinking), Venezuela ranks at or near the bottom of just about every important financial indicator out there, performing worse even than Argentina, Greece, or Ukraine. 
Chavez failed Venezuela: Column. Given the unqualified failure of his socialist experiment, dying young was probably the best thing Hugo Chavez could have done for his country. Like almost all socialist experiments, Chavez's Bolivarian Revolution was pointless and harmful. It has left Venezuela with a basket-case economy. Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, suffers from 20% inflation and has been devalued five times in a decade. Chavez increased economic equality by spreading the poverty around
The economy of Venezuela is largely based on the petroleum sector and manufacturing. Revenue from petroleum exports accounts for more than 50% of the country's GDP and roughly 95% of total exports. Venezuela is the fifth largest member of OPEC by oil production. From the 1950s to the early 1980s the Venezuelan economy experienced a steady growth that attracted many immigrants, with the nation enjoying the highest standard of living in Latin America.
Venezuela reels under failing economy with no signs of improvement. A gag in the colors of Venezuela’s flag is an activist’s response to his government’s crackdown. Growing criticism of the Maduro regime has brought repression to Venezuela’s streets. The handpicked successor of former President Hugo Chavez, whose death in March 2013 marked the beginning of Venezuela’s economic downturn, Maduro launched his crackdown with the arrest in February of opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez.
This is why Venezuela has been one of the hawkiest hawks in OPEC, always agitating for tighter quotas and higher prices. A country with falling production doesn't need to worry about tighter quotas. But they do need to worry that lower prices will throw their budget disastrously out of balance. Poverty rates have fallen. This is all genuinely good news that happened on his watch. But in the course of these achievements, he severely compromised the engine of Venezuela's future prosperity: its oil fields. And over the long run, the poor cannot thrive if the economy is failing.
In spite of strained relations between the two countries, the United States is Venezuela's most important trading partner. U.S. exports to Venezuela include machinery, agricultural products, medical instruments, and cars. Venezuela is one of the top four suppliers of foreign oil to the United States. Venezuela is the fifth largest member of OPEC by oil production. From the 1950s to the early 1980s the Venezuelan economy experienced a steady growth that attracted many immigrants, with the nation enjoying the highest standard of living in Latin America.
For Venezuelans, a change in leadership can be accomplished entirely within a constitutional and legal framework. We must advocate for human rights; freedom of expression; the right to property, housing, health and education; equality within the judicial system, and, of course, the right of protest. Los Teques, Venezuela — As I compose these words from the Ramo Verde military prison outside Caracas, I am struck by how much Venezuelans have suffered.