Psittacosis is an infectious disease in humans that has mild, non-specific flu-like symptoms. Psittacosis refers to any infection or disease caused by Chlamydia psittaci, one of several microorganisms in the genus Chlamydia. This disease can be transmitted from infected birds to humans. 
If your bird has been examined by an avian veterinarian and is considered healthy, the risks are significantly reduced. Chlamydiosis (Psittacosis). Chlamydiosis (Psittacosis) is caused by. A great variation in pathogenicity (the ability to cause disease) of various strains exists for humans and birds. Some strains-such as those found in pigeons-may not cause disease in their hosts. Other strains-especially those in psittacines can cause disease in people and birds. People are treated for 3 weeks, while birds are treated for 45 days. Salmonella. Salmonella is a gram negative aerobic rod-shaped bacterium that can infect people, birds, and other animals. It can persist in soil and water for long periods of time.
2013-0702 © 2009 page 1 of 6 Psittacosis/ Avian Chlamydiosis Ornithosis, Parrot Fever Last Updated: June 2009 Humans are readily infected by Importance Avian chlamydiosis is a zoonotic disease of birds caused by the intracellular bacterium Chlamydophila psittaci. This disease is called psittacosis in humans. 
(July 2014). Psittacosis — also known as parrot fever, and ornithosis — is a zoonotic infectious disease caused by a bacterium called Chlamydia psittaci and contracted from parrots, such as macaws, cockatiels and budgerigars, and pigeons, sparrows, ducks, hens, gulls and many other species of bird. In certain contexts, the word psittacosis is used when the disease is carried by any species of bird belonging to the Psittacidae family, whereas ornithosis is used when other birds carry the disease.
In direct zoonosis the disease is directly transmitted from animals to humans through media such as air (influenza) or through bites and saliva (Rabies). In contrast, transmission can also occur via an intermediate species (referred to as a vector), which carry the disease pathogen without getting infected. When humans infect other animals; it is called reverse zoonosis or anthroponosis.
Humans are usually infected by the inhalation of infective particles in the air. The incubation period is 5 to 14 days. Symptoms are generally those of the flu-fever, diarrhea, chills, congunctivitis, and sore throat. A number of tests are available to diagnose the disease in the live bird. People are treated for 3 weeks, while birds are treated for 45 days. Salmonella. Salmonella is a gram negative aerobic rod-shaped bacterium that can infect people, birds, and other animals. It can persist in soil and water for long periods of time.
Zoonotic Diseases Birds Zoonotic diseases Psittacosis (Ornithosis, Chlamydiosis) : Psittacosis is caused by the bacteria Chlamydia psittaci. C. psittaci is common in wild birds and can occur in laboratory bird colonies. Infected birds are highly contagious to other birds and to humans. The organism is spread to humans by aerosolization of respiratory secretions or feces from the infected birds. Campylobacter: Campylobacter species can be found in pet and laboratory animal species. Transmission to humans is by the fecal-oral route and can produce an acute gastrointestinal illness. Symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, nausea, and vomiting.
Psittacosis is an infectious disease usually transmitted to humans from birds in the parrot family, turkeys and pigeons. Birds in the parrot family, or psittacines, include parrots, macaws, budgerigars (parakeets), and cockatiels. The disease is caused by a bacteria called Chlamydophila psittaci. 
Diseases that can transfer between animals and humans are known as zoonotic diseases. Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) is one such disease that potentially threatens millions of people. Effective detection and improved animal health are important aspects of controlling these diseases and is the subject of several ACIAR projects.
Two zoonotic diseases have been the subject of widespread outbreaks, Avian Influenza (bird flu) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). Outbreaks of bird flu amongst poultry have been confirmed in Cambodia, China including Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Pakistan, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam. Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) is one such disease that potentially threatens millions of people. Effective detection and improved animal health are important aspects of controlling these diseases and is the subject of several ACIAR projects.