If you can't log into Facebook and need to reset your password: 1  Go to the Facebook login screen at www.facebook.com. Related topics: I'm not receiving the email to reset my password. I can’t reset my password because I can't access the email address listed on my account. I can't reset my password because I've reached a password reset limit.
1 Step 5: Press Reset Password to require a Facebook password reset Email. 2  Step 6: Click the link in your Email with a six-digit Facebook reset code and answer any security questions by Facebook. 3  This brings back to the Facebook website. 4  Step 7: Enter a new password and then confirm it. 1 Step 4: Identify your account, if the account matched your search, click This Is My Account link. 2  Step 5: Press Reset Password to require a Facebook password reset Email. 3
Click Reset Password to continue. You'll receive a password reset email from Facebook, including the Password Reset Code. Enter the Password Reset Code and click Submit Code. Enter a new password and then confirm it. Click Change Password button. Now you can log in to your Facebook account with your new password. If you can't get to this point then it sounds like the account is no longer associated with your email address (or you don't have access to that mailbox because, well, it isn't your account).
You may be able to get back into your Facebook account by answering a security question, using an alternate email address listed on your account or getting help from friends. Keep in mind that you'll only see these options if you set them up. To see if you have these options: 1  Go to the Facebook login page and click Forgot your password? or Can't login? in the top right. 2  Fill out the form to identify your account. 3  Select I forgot my password on the next page if prompted. 4  Look at the list of email addresses listed on your account. 5  Follow the directions provided to answer your security ... 
Feature. If you want to change your Facebook password without logging into your account, you must do so through Facebook's Forgot Your Password feature. Open a Web browser and navigate to Facebook.com. Locate the spaces for your Facebook login credentials in the upper-right corner of the Facebook home page. Enter the password reset code in the space labeled Password Reset Code and click the Submit Code button. Type your new password in the space labeled New Password and confirm the new password in the space labeled Confirm Password.. Click the Change Password button to change your Facebook password.
Someone may be trying to hack your FB account. ###### is your Facebook Password reset code, or reset your password here: (https://fb.com/……………). To reply send SMS to ############. Safety and security of your Facebook account and information is very important. Facebook is the world’s largest online social network. You may also have got SMS or text messages giving you Facebook password reset code. Facebook sends such a code to your registered mobile phone when you use options like Forgot Password. But you may be getting such text messages without your asking for them! Online Safety
In order to reset your Facebook password, you must have Facebook send a reset code via text message or email. Select the option that you want to use on the Reset Your Password? screen and click the Send Codes button. Open the text message or email you receive from Facebook to obtain your password reset code. Enter the password reset code in the space labeled Password Reset Code and click the Submit Code button. Type your new password in the space labeled New Password and confirm the new password in the space labeled Confirm Password.. Click the Change Password button to change your Facebook password.
1 Step 6: Click the link in your Email with a six-digit Facebook reset code and answer any security questions by Facebook. 2  This brings back to the Facebook website. 3  Step 7: Enter a new password and then confirm it. 4  Click Change Password button. 1 Step 4: Identify your account, if the account matched your search, click This Is My Account link. 2  Step 5: Press Reset Password to require a Facebook password reset Email. 3 