The jumping jack name comes from the traditional toy of the same name, while star jump refers to the person's appearance with legs and arms spread. More intensive versions of this jump include bending down (over) and touching the floor in between each jump. Power Jacks. Power Jacks are similar to jumping jacks, except a person squats lower and jumps as high as possible during each repetition.
jumping jack. n. 1. a firework having a long narrow tube filled with gunpowder, folded like an accordion so that when lit it burns with small explosions causing it to jump along the ground. 2. a toy figure of a man with jointed limbs that can be moved by pulling attached strings. 
The jack jumper ant (Myrmecia pilosula), commonly known as the hopper ant, jumper ant or jumping jack, is a species of venomous ant native to Australia. 
Definition of JUMPING JACK for Kids. : an exercise in which a person who is standing jumps to a position with legs and arms spread out and then jumps back to the original position. Next Word in the Dictionary: jumpingly Previous Word in the Dictionary: jumping hare All Words Near: jumping jack.noun. Tweet. : an exercise in which a standing person jumps to a position with the legs and arms spread out and then jumps back to the original position.ull Definition of JUMPING JACK. 1. : a toy figure of a man jointed and made to jump or dance by means of strings or a sliding stick. 2.
Uploaded on Sep 28, 2008. The jumping jack is a basic exercise that begins with the feet together. Do jumping jacks with tips from a fitness director in this free video on exercise programs. Expert: Les Whitley. Contact: www.velocitysp.com/coolsprings. Bio: Les Whitley is director of Velocity Sports Performance in Franklin, Tennessee. 
The jumping jack is the official state exercise of Missouri, USA as of July 2014. More intensive versions of this jump include bending down (over) and touching the floor in between each jump. Power Jacks. Power Jacks are similar to jumping jacks, except a person squats lower and jumps as high as possible during each repetition.
Variations [edit]. More intensive versions of this jump include bending down (over) and touching the floor in between each jump. Power Jacks. Power Jacks are similar to jumping jacks, except a person squats lower and jumps as high as possible during each repetition. A similar jump exercise is called half-jacks, which were created to prevent rotator cuff injuries, which have been linked to the repetitive movements of the exercise
Jumping jacks are a basic structural workout that almost everyone has done as a child. What most people don’t know is how beneficial jumping jacks can be to their heart and lungs. 
Full Definition of JUMPING JACK. 1. : a toy figure of a man jointed and made to jump or dance by means of strings or a sliding stick. 2. : a conditioning exercise performed from a standing position by jumping to a position with legs spread and arms raised and then to the original position. See jumping jack defined for English-language learners. See jumping jack defined for kids. 
Aerobic Benefits. The primary benefit from doing jumping jacks is that it elevates your heart rate. You breathe more deeply while jumping, which delivers oxygen to your bloodstream and ultimately to your muscles. You burn fat at a rapid rate, promoting weight loss. 