The lactose (lac) operon from Escherichia coli: z, y, and a are structural genes; i is the lac repressor gene; p is the promoter site; and o is the operator site. Activation is believed to arise from the binding of a protein immediately adjacent to the promoter. 
Supplement. The operon acts as a unit of transcription, and functions in a coordinated manner to produce by transcription a single mRNA molecule which codes for more than one protein with related metabolic functions. The first described operon is the lac operon. Related terms: 1  Lac operon. 2  His operon. Operon. Definition. noun, plural: operons. A group of genes or a segment of DNA that functions as a single transcription unit. It is comprised of an operator, a promoter, and one or more structural genes that are transcribed into one polycistronic mRNA.
lac operon (lactose operon) is an operon required for the transport and metabolism of lactose in Escherichia coli and many other enteric bacteria. Although glucose is the preferred carbon source for most bacteria, the lac operon allows for the effective digestion of lactose when glucose is not available. Bacterial operons are polycistronic transcripts that are able to produce multiple proteins from one mRNA transcript. In this case, when lactose is required as a sugar source for the bacterium, the three genes of the lac operon can be expressed and their subsequent proteins translated: lacZ, lacY, and lacA.
op·er·on. n. A unit of genetic material that functions in a coordinated manner by means of an operator, a promoter, and one or more structural genes that are transcribed together. Noun. 1. operon-a segment of DNA containing adjacent genes including structural genes and an operator gene and a regulatory gene. operator gene-a gene that activates the production of messenger RNA by adjacent structural genes.
Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: lac operon. The lac operon is an operon required for the transport and metabolism of lactose in Escherichia coli and some other enteric bacteria. It consists of three adjacent structural genes, lacZ, lacY, and lacA. 
The lactose (lac) operon from Escherichia coli: z, y, and a are structural genes; i is the lac repressor gene; p is the promoter site; and o is the operator site. Activation is believed to arise from the binding of a protein immediately adjacent to the promoter. A group of distinct genes that are expressed and regulated as a unit. Each operon is a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence that contains at least two regulatory sites, the promoter and the operator, and the structural genes that code for specific proteins (see illustration).
operon. a segment of a chromosome comprising an operator gene and closely linked structural genes having related functions, the activity of the latter being controlled by the operator gene through its interaction with a regulator gene. 1  Facebook. 
Operon. A group of distinct genes that are expressed and regulated as a unit. Each operon is a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence that contains at least two regulatory sites, the promoter and the operator, and the structural genes that code for specific proteins (see illustration).
Medical Definition of OPERON. : a group of closely linked genes that produces a single messenger RNA molecule in transcription and that consists of structural genes and regulating elements (as an operator and promoter). Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about operon. : a group of closely linked genes that produces a single messenger RNA molecule in transcription and that consists of structural genes and regulating elements (as an operator and promoter). ADVERTISEMENT.