Manufacturing excellence, then,is the vision of “perfection” that guides an organization’s leader-ship in a relentless drive to improve the core value-creation pro-cess flow, from raw materials to finished product. Step 2: Leadership Work Session to first develop commitmentto a common vision of manufacturing excellence, then to agreeon high-priority improvement areas and develop plans for ad-dressing those areas and for tailoring of pertinent Process Appli-cation Kits (PAKs).
But there is an answer ...MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE is a passionate commitment to variation reduction. It is a dedication to excel at all times – every day, every shift, every shipment; and a recognition that every person is important. Such a culture of individual respect and capability sets a clear standard of leadership.• A full commitment to manufacturing discipline (process control, equipment reliability, safety and 100% on-time shipping). The entire culture of manufacturing excellence can be summed up in two words – variation reduction. This is true on both the mechanical and human side of the performance equation. In its simplest terms; there is only one right way to run a machine
– 6 – implementing manufacturing discipline and performance excellence. Few manufacturing managers have actually run machines, have experienced the importance of equipment reliability and process control, or run a capability study or a statistically designed set of experiments. Such a culture of individual respect and capability sets a clear standard of leadership.• A full commitment to manufacturing discipline (process control, equipment reliability, safety and 100% on-time shipping). The entire culture of manufacturing excellence can be summed up in two words – variation reduction. This is true on both the mechanical and human side of the performance equation. In its simplest terms; there is only one right way to run a machine
Manufacturing Excellence Summary. Manufacturing Excellence (MEX), also known as Lean Manufacturing is more than KPIs and processes, it’s a framework for continuous business and people improvement efforts.
One of the major factors in a successful manufacturing excellence transformation is the ability to successfully define your product families from a “process” perspecti ve rather than a “customer oriented grouping” perspective. No longer can a company be good at one or two things to achieve market supremacy. The competitive landscape is unrelenting with innovations in products, services, process capability, technology, and an improved focus on delivering value to the customer.
Technically, META stands for Manufacturing Excellence Taskforce of Australia. But what we really stand for is sustainable growth. 
The Kepner-Tregoe Approach The foundation for manufacturing excellence, then, lies in a sys-tematic approach to several organization capability and techni-cal systems levers for change, and in the development of a cul-ture moving towards high-performance involvement. Step 2: Leadership Work Session to first develop commitmentto a common vision of manufacturing excellence, then to agreeon high-priority improvement areas and develop plans for ad-dressing those areas and for tailoring of pertinent Process Appli-cation Kits (PAKs).
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2013). Operational Excellence is an element of organizational leadership that stresses the application of a variety of principles, systems, and tools toward the sustainable improvement of key performance metrics. 
That breadth of experience has shaped how I think about manufacturing and, over the years, has culminated in a proven strategy for success. The Strategy - &nbspWe want to be the best in the world at what is important to our customers and shareholders. The Path - &nbspThe 12 Principles of Manufacturing Excellence. The Tools-Lean and Six Sigma. The Culture-Operator-Led Process Control (OLPC). 