Physicians who specialize in this field of medicine are called cardiologists, a specialty of internal medicine. Pediatric cardiologists are pediatricians who specialize in cardiology. Physicians who specialize in cardiac surgery are called cardiothoracic surgeons or cardiac surgeons, a specialty of general surgery. Simplified, the heart is a circuit of the Circulation. While plenty is known about the healthy heart, the bulk of study in cardiology is in disorders of the heart and restoration, and where possible, of function. The heart is a muscle that squeezes blood and functions like a pump.
the study of the anatomy, normal functions, and disorders of the heart. The medical field dedicated to diagnosing and treating diseases of the heart and cardiovascular system. See Interventional cardiology, Nuclear cardiology. A. APC, or atrial premature complex (or beat) is a beat that arise in the atria of the heart from outside the normal mechanism of heartbeats. It's very common and doesn't portend any bad prognosis. It increase with age, smoking, coffee intake, alcohol intake, and stress, and also with heart and lung disease.
A cardiologist is a doctor with special training and skill in finding, treating and preventing diseases of the heart and blood vessels. There are basic questions to remember to ask, in addition to whatever questions are on your mind. For instance, if you have had a coronary angiogram, you may ask to see the pictures of your heart and have your cardiologist explain what they mean.
Cardiologists receive extensive education, including four years of medical school and three years of training in general internal medicine. After this, a cardiologist spends three or more years in specialized training. There are basic questions to remember to ask, in addition to whatever questions are on your mind. For instance, if you have had a coronary angiogram, you may ask to see the pictures of your heart and have your cardiologist explain what they mean.
Cardiology is a specialty of internal medicine. To be a cardiologist in the United States, a three-year residency in internal medicine is followed by a three-year fellowship in cardiology. It is possible to specialize further in a sub-specialty. Simplified, the heart is a circuit of the Circulation. While plenty is known about the healthy heart, the bulk of study in cardiology is in disorders of the heart and restoration, and where possible, of function. The heart is a muscle that squeezes blood and functions like a pump.
Interventional cardiology is a branch of cardiology that deals specifically with the catheter based treatment of structural heart diseases. Andreas Gruentzig is considered the father of interventional cardiology after the development of angioplasty by interventional radiologist Charles Dotter. 
• CARDIOLOGY (noun). The noun CARDIOLOGY has 1 sense: 1. the branch of medicine dealing with the heart and its diseases. Familiarity information: CARDIOLOGY used as a noun is very rare. The branch of medicine dealing with the heart and its diseases. Classified under: Nouns denoting cognitive processes and contents. Hypernyms (cardiology is a kind of...): medical specialty; medicine (the branches of medical science that deal with nonsurgical techniques).
Sometimes heart murmurs or ECG changes need the evaluation of a cardiologist. Cardiologists help victims of heart disease return to a full and useful life and also counsel patients about the risks and prevention of heart disease. There are basic questions to remember to ask, in addition to whatever questions are on your mind. For instance, if you have had a coronary angiogram, you may ask to see the pictures of your heart and have your cardiologist explain what they mean.
Physicians who specialize in cardiology are called cardiologists and they are responsible for the medical management of various heart diseases. Cardiac surgeons are the specialist physicians who perform surgical procedures to correct heart disorders. Some of the major milestones in the discipline of cardiology are listed below: 1628 The circulation of blood was described by an English Physician William Harvey. 1706 A French anatomy professor, Raymond de Vieussens, described the structure of the heart's chambers and vessels.