Leopard Gecko Hibernation. Like just about every reptile or animal on the planet, there’s a hibernation cycle that Leopard Geckos like to follow every single year. It’s a very natural and recurring process
Reptiles do not hibernate, they go through a process known as brumating/brumate Reptiles are exothermic and require a stable ambient temperature to thrive. When a country/re … gion is in it's winter months, where temperatures are slightly lower and the amount of sunlight is cut down, a gecko will go through brumation.
During the hibernation cycle and period, your Leopard Geckos will obviously be far less active and you won’t see them around as much. You’ll notice that they’re eating much less and that they’re drinking much less as well.
If you do choose to feed your Leopard Geckos during their hibernation process, the only do so lightly. Sometimes, the Geckos will just flat out refuse to eat for a long period of time and this is fine, just remove and throw out the crickets they do not eat for your own sanity.
Report Abuse. Yes, leopard geckos can go into hibernation mode, and eating less can be normal if you aren't seeing any other signs of sickness. It sounds like you're taking good care of him, though. :o) Here's a website with interesting information, and there's a small section on hibernation.
Like just about every reptile or animal on the planet, there’s a hibernation cycle that Leopard Geckos like to follow every single year.
HIBERNATION Hibernation is a natural part of the yearly cycle for leopard geckos, but it does not appear necessary for pet geckos to hibernate. It is perfectly fine to keep heat on your geckos throughout the winter season, and they should eat, drink, and be active through the winter.
Reptiles do not hibernate, they go through a process known as brumating/brumate Reptiles are exothermic and require a stable ambient temperature to thrive. When a country/re … gion is in it's winter months, where temperatures are slightly lower and the amount of sunlight is cut down, a gecko will go through brumation.
Best Answer: Yes, leopard gecko's do hibernate. Starting in September you should be upping their fat content a little with wax worms and an occasional pinky mouse (if the gecko is big enough). In late October start reducing the temperature and stop feeding.