A peroxidase is one of a number of enzymes that act as catalysts to allow a variety of biological processes to take place. Specifically, they promote the oxidation of various compounds using naturally occurring peroxides, especially hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2), which are reduced, forming water. In fact, most of the the people that receive positive results on a thyroid peroxidase test (somewhere between 70 -90%) do indeed have chronic thyroidosis, however there are a some auto-immune disorders that can cause a false positive as well.
ROOR' + electron donor (2 e −) + 2H + → ROH + R'OH. For many of these enzymes the optimal substrate is hydrogen peroxide, but others are more active with organic hydroperoxides such as lipid peroxides. Peroxidases can contain a heme cofactor in their active sites, or alternately redox-active cysteine or selenocysteine residues. The nature of the electron donor is very dependent on the structure of the enzyme. 1  For example, horseradish peroxidase can use a variety of organic compounds as electron donors and acceptors
The glutathione peroxidase family consists of 8 known human isoforms. Glutathione peroxidases use glutathione as an electron donor and are active with both hydrogen peroxide and organic hydroperoxide substrates. Gpx1, Gpx2, Gpx3, and Gpx4 have been shown to be selenium-containing enzymes, whereas Gpx6 is a selenoprotein in humans with cysteine-containing homologues in rodents. For many of these enzymes the optimal substrate is hydrogen peroxide, but others are more active with organic hydroperoxides such as lipid peroxides. Peroxidases can contain a heme cofactor in their active sites, or alternately redox-active cysteine or selenocysteine residues.
Thyroid peroxidase (TPO), an enzyme normally found in the thyroid gland, plays an important role in the production of thyroid hormones. A TPO test detects antibodies against TPO in the blood. 
Thyroid peroxidase or thyroperoxidase (TPO) is an enzyme expressed mainly in the thyroid where it is secreted into colloid. Thyroid peroxidase oxidizes iodide ions to form iodine atoms for addition onto tyrosine residues on thyroglobulin for the production of thyroxine (T 4) or triiodothyronine (T 3), the thyroid hormones.
Confidence votes 11. Peroxidase is a group of enymes that are found in human cells that increases the amount of oxidation produced. Oxidation is actually quite bad for the human body because it produces free radicals when produced. These free radicals cause diseases in the body like heart disease. Peroxidase is a group of enymes that are found in human cells that increases the amount of oxidation produced. Oxidation is actually quite bad for the human body because it produces free radicals when produced
(Answer #1). Peroxidase is an enzyme that can act as a nucleophilic acceptor or electrophilic acceptor. So when potatoes are immersed in a pH of 2, this would be the acidic side of the pH scale. Acids are substances that, when mixed with water, dissociate into hydrogen ions (H+). 
Report Abuse. A peroxidase (eg. EC 1.11.1.9) is an enzyme, which may contain heme, that catalyzes a reaction of the form: ROOR' + electron donor (2 e-) + 2H+ → ROH + R'OH For many of these enzymes the optimal substrate is hydrogen peroxide, but others are more active with organic hydroperoxides such as lipid peroxides. Cytochrome c peroxidase is used as a soluble, easily purified model for cytochrome c oxidase. Glutathione peroxidase is a peroxidase found in humans, which contains selenocysteine. It uses glutathione as an electron donor and is active with both hydrogen peroxide and organic hydroperoxide substrates. Amyloid beta, when bound to heme has been shown to have peroxidase. Source(s): http://www.answers.com/peroxidase