Finding cheap airfare to Europe can seem like a daunting task, even in spite of the plethora of Internet travel search engines promising you the “best deals.” These search engines can certainly help, but finding cheap airfare to Europe requires a little more effort than merely that.
Step 1. Search online for flights to Europe as far in advance as possible to lock in the lowest fares. If you’re planning to take your European vacation during busy travel seasons, like from May to September or during the holidays, planning ahead is even more essential to beat the sky-high prices.
While cheap airline tickets to Europe might seem like an anomaly, you can find them as long as you're willing to do the research. You'll need to be patient and flexible on your travel dates and destinations to get the lowest prices.
Using Skyscanner.net -- the best Web site to aggregate flights on Europe's discount airlines -- we turned up a rate of $78 roundtrip for Ryanair flights between London and Berlin (and that's expensive for Ryanair; we've seen rates as low as 20 bucks!).
Pack your bags, book your Europe flights, and get ready for an adventure. Whether you’re looking for an action-packed getaway or a peaceful sojourn, you’ll find countless ways to customize your trip exactly to your liking. Immerse yourself in the culture, from tasting the local cuisine to experiencing the nightlife in.
To find the cheapest flights to Europe: 1  Plan a one-direction trip, such as London to Amsterdam to Madrid. 2  Then buy an open-jaw ticket where you arrive in London and return home from Madrid. 3  Look into a surface-sector ticket if you’re traveling some of the legs of your trip via surface transport.
In America, there are only a handful of budget airlines. In Europe, there are more, and competition has kept prices there low. In Asia, budget airline AirAsia lets you fly lots of places on the cheap. For example, you can find tickets from Bangkok to Kuala Lumpur for $30 USD.
Step 5. Fly stand-by to Europe if you have some leeway with your travel dates, since this can be much cheaper than booking a regular flight. (See Resources for a leading website on stand-by fares). While you won’t be guaranteed a seat on a particular flight, you should be able to fly on the next plane with empty seats.
Step 4. Ask a travel agent about buying a consolidator ticket to your European destination. Consolidator tickets are discount airline fares sold by wholesale vendors who buy up large numbers of airline tickets and resell them at lower prices than airline companies can offer.