For other uses, see LPN (disambiguation) . A licensed practical nurse (LPN) in much of the United States and most Canadian provinces is a nurse who cares for people who are sick, injured, convalescent, or disabled. LPNs work under the direction of registered nurses or physicians. Many LPNs measure and record patients' vital signs such as weight, height, temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory ratA licensed practical nurse (LPN) in much of the United States and most Canadian provinces is a nurse who cares for people who are sick, injured, convalescent, or disabled.
A licensed practical nurse (LPN) is a licensed health care practitioner who provides nursing care under the direction of an RN, CNS, NP, midwife, physician, physician assistant, specialist assistant, dentist or podiatrist. LPNs provide compassionate care that is respectful of each patient’s needs, values and wishes. A registered professional nurse (RN) is a licensed health care professional who helps patients to achieve optimal health and prevent disease or injury. RNs provide compassionate care that is respectful of each patient's
A nurse practitioner (NP) is an RN who has completed advanced nursing education (usually a master’s or doctorate degree) and is certified by the New York State Education Department as a Certified Nurse Practitioner Nurse Practitioner or NP in a specialty area of practice. A registered professional nurse (RN) is a licensed health care professional who helps patients to achieve optimal health and prevent disease or injury. RNs provide compassionate care that is respectful of each patient's values and wishes.
Essential Information. Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) provide basic care to patients in a multitude of health care settings. They maintain and monitor patient health, perform wound care, update patient records, take vital signs and assist patients with personal hygiene. 
1 Take an LPN to RN bridge program. 2  An LPN to RN bridge program is a two-year course that enables LPNs to complete an associate’s degree in nursing (ADN), an alternate path to qualify for RN licensure. 3  Successful completion of the bridge program allows nurses to eligible to sit for the NCLEX-RN and have an RN license. Here’s how: 1 
A: In order to become a nurse practitioner, one must first acquire a nursing degree. You can opt for ADN, LPN or bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN) from a state approved school. After completing a nursing program, candidates must take the licensing examination in their state. A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school.
A nurse practitioner is a registered nurse (RN) who has received advanced training & knowledge through a nursing degree or specialized healthcare training. Most nurse practitioners usually have a Master’s degree and an area of specialization. A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school.
Nurse practitioners get advanced training in nursing so they can take their careers a step farther. By getting graduate-level education, they can operate independently or under the supervision of a physician. To become a nurse practitioner, candidates must earn a graduate degree. Many graduate schools require students to gain a few years of nursing experience before being accepted into their nurse practitioner programs.
Nurse Practitioner Career Basics. Nurse practitioners (NPs) are a type of Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN) whose specialized education and clinical training allow them to provide higher levels of care and perform a variety of tasks that RNs are not licensed to do. To become a nurse practitioner, candidates must earn a graduate degree. Many graduate schools require students to gain a few years of nursing experience before being accepted into their nurse practitioner programs.