Obsession: The Women's Business Council said a generation of children were leaving school with little or no real experience of the workplace. It used to be commonplace for children to do part-time jobs while they were at school, but this trend has now been overtaken by many parents’ obsession with academic excellence. Parents are too obsessed by their children doing brilliantly in exams and are over-looking the importance of them getting a job, according to the Government-backed Women’s Business Council.
1 Children, ages 14 and15, may work at non-hazardous jobs for three hours on school days, eight hours on non-school days, 18 hours during a school week and 40 hours during a non-school week. 2  Children aged 15-and-older, teens may perform any non-hazardous job for any number of hours. 1 They may work only between 7am and 7pm during the school year and until 9pm in the summer. 2 
That’s why employers are eager to hire teens for part-time and summer jobs. But your age will affect which jobs you can apply for. We’ll tell you where to find the best jobs for 16- and 17-year-olds. A lot of jobs have the minimum age as 16. I am 15, and I too am having a hard time. So, i am going to wait for 6 months until I turn 16 to get a job. But, you keep looking, you may have better luck than I do.
Know the laws about teen jobs. First, if you’re under 18 you need to know that federal laws regulate the type of work you can do. Non-agricultural jobs require you to be at least 14 years of age. Fourteen-and 15-year-olds may not work more than three hours a day and 18 hours a week during the school year. During the summer and on school holidays, you can work eight hours a day and 40 hours a week, but there are time limits. A lot of jobs have the minimum age as 16. I am 15, and I too am having a hard time. So, i am going to wait for 6 months until I turn 16 to get a job. But, you keep looking, you may have better luck than I do.
Full-time work. Children can only start full-time work once they’ve reached the minimum school leaving age-they can then work up to a maximum of 40 hours a week. Once someone reaches 16, you may need to pay them through PAYE. Once someone reaches 18, adult employment rights and rules then apply.
Kids can learn responsibility and earn their own money by working at part-time jobs. They also learn the value of saving and the importance of working hard. Parents who wish to teach these important lessons can help their kids find a way to make money, even if they are under the age of 16. Here are some part-time job ideas parents can use to help their kids learn the value of a dollar. Tutoring. If your child is a whiz at certain school subjects, he or she can earn money with a part-time job tutoring other kids. Whether your child excels at English, math, science, or a foreign language, he or she can cash in on that talent by teaching others.
'Parents should urge children to get a part-time job rather than doing well in exams', business leaders warn. 1  Said too many children leaving school with no experience of the workplace. 2  Women's Business Council said part-time work teaches pupils to 'multi-task'. Parents are too obsessed by their children doing brilliantly in exams and are over-looking the importance of them getting a job, according to the Government-backed Women’s Business Council.
When they are young, it is also extremely useful for a child to get a part-time job, such as working in a local shop on a Saturday, it said. Sue O’Brien, from the Women’s Business Council, who is also chief executive of the recruitment company Norman Broadbent, said there has been a ‘huge change’ over the last decade. Parents are too obsessed by their children doing brilliantly in exams and are over-looking the importance of them getting a job, according to the Government-backed Women’s Business Council.
Even if you could give your children everything they ask for, you know that when they earn their own money, they learn valuable lessons about finances and life in general. While older teens can hunt for jobs at the mall or a fast-food joint, 12- to 15-year-olds must be more creative when seeking part-time work. Numerous jobs are ideal for kids who love animals. For example, your child could start a lucrative business walking neighborhood dogs, petsitting for vacationing family and friends, or setting up a dog wash in the backyard.
By age 15, nearly two-thirds of American teens have had some kind of employment. By the time teens graduate from high school, 80% will have held a part-time job at some time during the school year. The average high school student works 20 hours per week, and about 10% work full time (35 hours or more).