Let the steak fry for another 6 to 8 minutes. Use an instant-read meat thermometer to check for doneness, and remove the steak from the pan when it's still 5 or so degrees below the temperature you want. Medium rare is 145 degrees Fahrenheit; medium is 160 and well done is 170 degrees Fahrenheit. You can tell exactly when your steak is done by taking its temperature with a kitchen thermometer. Slide the probe into the side of the steak until it reaches the middle. A rare steak cooks to 140 degrees; medium rare to 145, medium to 160, and well done cooks to 170 degrees. Pull your steak when it’s five degrees below the desired temperature and let it rest for 10 minutes to get the perfect degree of doneness
You could try to cook the steak medium-well, which is one notch less done than well-done, and hope they can't tell the difference. A medium-well steak is cooked to an interior temperature of around 150° to 155°F. The interior will be mostly gray but with just a faint streak of pink at the very center. If you dim the lights when you serve it, they might not notice. Even if you could get away with it, though, this is still a waste of a good steak.
Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling. The cooking temperature of the grill, thickness of the steak and time spent on the grill all combine to create a steak grilling temperature that results in a rare, medium or well-done steak.
Well cooked refers not only to a perfectly grilled T-bone but also to a desired internal temperature of steak. Medium-well indicates a steak cooked until all the pink is gone, which is achieved by reaching a temperature of 150 to 155 degrees. Anything cooked over a temperature of 160 is considered well done. Well Done. 
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
Internal Temp 140 F, 60 o C Medium Rare Approx. Internal Temp 145 o F, 63 o C Medium Approx. Internal Temp 160 o F, 71 o C o Medium Well Approx. Internal Temp 170 F, 77 o C Well Done Approx. Internal Temp 180 F, 82 o C Before cooking your steaks, you should bring a thawed steak to room temperature. In order to cook steaks properly, you will need a meat thermometer to measure the internal temperature of the steaks while it is cooking
 Suggested cooking times for steaks 1.25 - 1.5 thick (total cooking time):  Very Rare 4-5 minutes  Rare 5-6 minutes  Medium Rare 6-8 minutes  Medium 7-10 minutes  Well Done Not Recommended Porterhouse Steak  This extra heavy cut is a combination of a Fillet Mignon and a juicy New York Strip. Internal Temp 145 o F, 63 o C Medium Approx. Internal Temp 160 o F, 71 o C o Medium Well Approx. Internal Temp 170 F, 77 o C Well Done Approx. Internal Temp 180 F, 82 o C Before cooking your steaks, you should bring a thawed steak to room temperature.
A well-done steak is defined as a steak that's been cooked to an interior temperature of 160°F or higher. What happens when a steak — any steak — is incinerated to that extent is that it becomes tough and chewy and devoid of any juiciness whatsoever. It could be the finest, dry-aged, lusciously marbled USDA Prime beef. A medium-well steak is cooked to an interior temperature of around 150° to 155°F. The interior will be mostly gray but with just a faint streak of pink at the very center. If you dim the lights when you serve it, they might not notice. Even if you could get away with it, though, this is still a waste of a good steak.