When you breathe in, or inhale, your diaphragm contracts (tightens) and moves downward. This increases the space in your chest cavity, into which your lungs expand. The intercostal muscles between your ribs also help enlarge the chest cavity. They contract to pull your rib cage both upward and outward when you inhale. Breathing Out (Exhalation). When you breathe out, or exhale, your diaphragm relaxes and moves upward into the chest cavity. The intercostal muscles between the ribs also relax to reduce the space in
ALS and Your Lungs. When you breathe in and out you need to be able to expand and relax the muscles in your chest. The diaphragm is a large dome-shaped muscle that separates your lungs from your abdomen (stomach). The muscles between the ribs are also involved in the breathing process. When the diaphragm moves down and the muscles of the rib cage contract, air will move into your lungs. The movement of air in and out of your lungs is called “ventilation.”. When you exercise, the muscles in the body use more oxygen. Therefore, the muscles of ventilation must also work harder to supply more oxygen to the muscles. If your respiratory muscles are weak, you may not be able to keep up with the demand.
The human diaphragm is a muscular sheet that contracts and relaxes to enable the movement of the air through the lungs. It sits at the base of the lungs and separates the thoracic (chest) cavity from the abdominal cavity. Some diseases that affect the muscles of the body may also involve the diaphragm. These conditions are not specific for the diaphragm and there may be other areas affected with muscle weakness or even paralysis.
As the external intercostals & diaphragm contract, the lungs expand. The expansion of the lungs causes the pressure in the lungs (and alveoli) to become slightly negative relative to atmospheric pressure. As a result, air moves from an area of higher pressure (the air) to an area of lower pressure (our lungs & alveoli). 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The movement of the diaphragm affects the size of the chest cavity by when you inhale the chest cavity enlarges, but when you exhale the chest cavity becomes smaller. 
To move the air into or out of your lungs the relationship between the air pressure in the lungs and atmospheric air pressure is changed. These changes are brought about by movements of your ribs, which you can see and feel, and by movements of your diaphragm which you can’t. The breathing movements change the volume of your chest, which in turn affects the air pressure inside the lungs and cause air to move passively into and out of your lungs. The diaphragm contracts and flattens. This increases the volume of the chest so the air pressure in the lungs decreases. As a result atmospheric pressure forces air into the lungs until the pressure inside and outside the chest is equal again.
The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity containing the heart and lungs, from the abdominal cavity and performs an important function in respiration: as the diaphragm contracts, the volume of the thoracic cavity increases and air is drawn into the lungs. The superior surface of the dome forms the floor of the thoracic cavity, and the inferior surface the roof of the abdominal cavity. As a dome, the diaphragm has peripheral attachments to structures that make up the abdominal and chest walls.
No. The diaphragm is a muscle below the lungs that aids in drawing in air to the lungs more completely when you take a deep breath. A strong diaphragm also aids in breath cont … rol, especially in athletes and singers. Deep breathing is good for everybody, and should be practiced for optimal lung expansion. Making the world better, one answer at a time. when the diaphragm contracts down it flatten the thoracic cavity floor thus expanding the lungs in a inferior direction.
In this way the each side of the diaphragm affects the corresponding lung (left or right). When the diaphragm contracts, it increases the negative pressure around the lungs in the pleural cavity. The elastic lungs are forced to expand and air is drawn in – inspiration. When the diaphragm relaxes, it returns to its dome-shaped state thereby reducing the negative pressure. Some diseases that affect the muscles of the body may also involve the diaphragm. These conditions are not specific for the diaphragm and there may be other areas affected with muscle weakness or even paralysis.
190 Followers. A. Asthma causes a narrowing of the breathing airways, which interferes with the normal movement of air in and out of the lungs. Asthma involves only the bronchial tubes and does not affect the air sacs or the lung tissue. 