A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ. While cancer is by definition malignant, a tumor can be benign, precancerous, or malignant. The terms mass and nodule are often used synonymously with tumor. Generally speaking, however, the term tumor is used generically, without reference to the physical size of the lesion.
Cancer, also known as a malignant tumor or malignant neoplasm, is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Not all tumors are cancerous; benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body. 
The major types of cancer are carcinoma, sarcoma, melanoma, lymphoma, and leukemia. Carcinomas -- the most commonly diagnosed cancers -- originate in the skin, lungs, breasts, pancreas, and other organs and glands. Lymphomas are cancers of lymphocytes. Leukemia is cancer of the blood. Diagnosis and Treatment. Prevention. Benign, or noncancerous, tumors -- such as freckles and moles -- stop growing, do not spread to other parts of the body, and do not create new tumors. Malignant, or cancerous, tumors crowd out healthy cells, interfere with body functions, and draw nutrients from body tissues.
Tumor is not synonymous with cancer. While cancer is by definition malignant, a tumor can be benign, precancerous, or malignant. The terms mass and nodule are often used synonymously with tumor. Generally speaking, however, the term tumor is used generically, without reference to the physical size of the lesion.
A tumor is an abnormal growth of cells that serves no purpose. A benign tumor is not a malignant tumor, which is cancer. It does not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body the way cancer can. In most cases, the outlook with benign tumors is very good. But benign tumors can be serious if they press on vital structures such as blood vessels or nerves. Although not common, this type of tumor can become malignant. In the colon, less than 1 out of every 10 adenomas become cancerous. Fibromas (or fibroids) are tumors of fibrous or connective tissue that can grow in any organ.
Overview. Malignant mesothelioma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the thin layer of tissue that covers the lung, chest wall, or abdomen. Health Professional version. Malignant mesothelioma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the thin layer of tissue that covers the lung, chest wall, or abdomen.
These are some of the most common types of benign tumors: Adenomas are benign tumors starting in the epithelial tissue of a gland or gland-like structure. The epithelial tissue is the thin layer of tissue covering organs, glands, and other structures. A common type of adenoma is a polyp in the colon. Although not common, this type of tumor can become malignant. In the colon, less than 1 out of every 10 adenomas become cancerous. Fibromas (or fibroids) are tumors of fibrous or connective tissue that can grow in any organ.
Figure 4.6 below lists the types of invasive breast cancer. The most common type is invasive ductal carcinoma (also called infiltrating ductal carcinoma and less commonly, invasive carcinoma of no special type or invasive carcinoma not otherwise specified). Invasive ductal carcinoma accounts for 50 to 75 percent of all breast cancers [ 17 ].