A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up.
When you convert after-tax money from a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, the amount is tax-free because you have already paid taxes on those funds. The earnings, however, must be treated as ordinary taxable income. With Roth IRAs there are no required minimum distributions (RMDs) at age 70.5, the money grows tax-deferred and qualified distributions are tax-free. One drawback is that you must treat the taxable amount of the conversion as ordinary income for the year the conversion occurs.
Withdrawals made after age 59 and 1/2 are normal retirement withdrawals and are not taxed. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged. Withdrawals of contributions are tax-free
Roth IRA contributions are not taxed at the time you contribute the funds to your Roth IRA. However, your contributions come from post-tax income. You pay taxes on your income today, but not in the future. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged.
With a Roth IRA, you can withdraw your contributions at any time, free of tax or penalty. Earnings are income tax-free if you've held the account for five years or more and you’re age 59 1/2 or older. Earnings are also income-tax-free if made on account of disability/first home buyer/death. 
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. No age limit. Contributions to a Roth IRA don't have to stop when you reach age 70½, the cut-off for a traditional IRA. You can put money in your account for as many years as you want, as long as you have earned income that qualifies.
A Roth IRA is a special retirement account where you pay taxes on money going into your account and then all future withdrawals are tax fee. Like beauty, the benefit of a Roth IRA is in the eye of the beholder and it all depends on the beholder’s tax bracket--both now and when he or she retires. Although there is no up-front tax deduction for Roth IRA contributions as there is with a traditional IRA, Roth distributions are tax-free when you follow the rules.
For 2015, you can contribute the maximum $5,500 to a Roth IRA ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older by the end of the year) if you are single or the single head of a household and your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) is less than $164,000. Although there is no up-front tax deduction for Roth IRA contributions as there is with a traditional IRA, Roth distributions are tax-free when you follow the rules.
For many, this is a good tax move. With Roth IRAs there are no required minimum distributions (RMDs) at age 70.5, the money grows tax-deferred and qualified distributions are tax-free. One drawback is that you must treat the taxable amount of the conversion as ordinary income for the year the conversion occurs.
With a Roth IRA, you make contributions with money on which you've already paid taxes. Your money can then potentially grow tax-free, with tax-free withdrawals in retirement, provided that certain conditions are met. 1. 