The main component is calcium carbonate. There are several types of lime. You can determine which one you need with a soil test. Lime with a high calcium content is referred to as calcitic lime and has the added benefit of adding calcium to the soil. Some limestone contains a significant amount of magnesium and is referred to as dolomitic lime. 
Dolomitic lime is made from dolomite, a type of rock very similar to limestone except it also contains magnesium. In North Carolina, dolomite is found only in the mountains. Both types of lime provide calcium for plants, but dolomitic lime also supplies magnesium, a nutrient often low in soils in our area. 
In horticulture, dolomite and dolomitic limestone are added to soils and soilless potting mixes as a pH buffer and as a magnesium source. Home and container gardening are common examples of this use. Dolomite is also used as the substrate in marine (saltwater) aquariums to help buffer changes in pH of the water. The mineral dolomite crystallizes in the trigonal-rhombohedral system. It forms white, tan, gray, or pink crystals. Dolomite is a double carbonate, having an alternating structural arrangement of calcium and magnesium ions. It does not rapidly dissolve or effervesce (fizz) in dilute hydrochloric acid as calcite does.
Dolomitic limestone is a type of rock that includes up to 50% dolomite. Normal limestone is primarily made up of calcite and aragonite, but dolomite forms in the stone when the calcium ions in the calcite part are replaced by magnesium ions — this process is called dolomitization. Dolomitic limestone is occurs naturally and is mined in the same areas as dolomite and limestone individually. The stones that are not used for agricultural purposes are often crushed down and used as filler in the manufacturing of pavement and concrete.
Dolomite differs from Lime sand and Limestone in that it contains magnesium as well as calcium. It is used to supply both of these elements and is a very effective neutralizing agent. It is a carbonate limestone type product that should contain between 8-12% Magnesium as Mg and 18-22% Calcium as Ca. In WA the focus has been to alter the pH of the soil, generally by applying calcium in the form of lime sand or limestone. However we believe that the pH of the soil is like a temperature gauge – it tells you the acidic state of the soil, but it doesn’t tell you what is causing the problem.
Pros. Although both agricultural lime and dolomitic lime are able to successfully raise the pH levels of acidic soil, dolomitic lime is generally chosen for pastures that have a history of grass tetany to raise forage magnesium levels or in fields, gardens and lawns where the soil is particularly magnesium deficient. It’s important to keep in mind that, as stated above, dolomitic lime is really intended only for soil that has a magnesium deficiency. As a general rule of thumb, soil should always have a calcium to magnesium ratio of between 7:1 (for sandier soils) and 10:1 (for more clay-based soils).
What It Contains. Dolomite is a limestone compound that contains calcium and magnesium. The best mixtures contain 8 to 12 percent magnesium and 18 to 22 percent calcium. These elements help influence the pH of the soil and provide valuable nutrients to plants. Tomato vines benefit from the nutrients in dolomite. Dolomite, a type of limestone, provides valuable nutrients to plants and helps change the pH of the soil by raising it to match the plants' needs. It's sometimes called dolomitic lime or dolomitic limestone, and provides more nutrients than straight lime. It's often used in addition to balanced fertilizers, particularly with seeding fruit
Dolomite is best used to change the acidity, or pH, of the soil. Start with a soil pH test, which you can buy at garden centers, to determine the existing pH. Most plants do best with a pH of 6.0 to 7.4. Tomato vines benefit from the nutrients in dolomite. Dolomite, a type of limestone, provides valuable nutrients to plants and helps change the pH of the soil by raising it to match the plants' needs. It's sometimes called dolomitic lime or dolomitic limestone, and provides more nutrients than straight lime. It's often used in addition to balanced fertilizers, particularly with seeding fruit
Dolomite, also known as dolostone and dolomite rock, is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of the mineral dolomite, CaMg(CO 3) 2. Dolomite is found in sedimentary basins worldwide. It is thought to form by the postdepositional alteration of lime mud and limestone by magnesium-rich groundwater. 