Just open it and restore your draft as normal. How to recover deleted draft Apple Support Communities: I had saved the email as a draft. Today, I accidentally I got into this mess because I was just looking at the mail, not intending to edit. So, I didn’t open the I would REALLY like to recover this draft email. A lot of w. You cannot open a draft email message after Outlook crashes in: This issue occurs because the draft that was being edited is not saved correctly when Outlook To recover any draft email messages, follow these steps:.
It's the first place to look if you're trying to find an item that was deleted. If the item is there, here's how to recover it: In Outlook, go to your email folder list, and then click Deleted Items. When you find the message, right-click it, and then click Move Other Folder. To move the message to your inbox, click Inbox, and then click OK. Here's how to recover items from the Recoverable Items folder: In Outlook, go to your email folder list, and then click Deleted Items. Make sure Home is selected, and then click Recover Deleted Items From Server. Important If Recover Deleted Items From Server is grayed out or isn't there: You might be working in offline mode
In case if your draft mail is unavailable in the deleted Items folder then you can try to run the demo version of Remo Repair Outlook software which is available for you 24/7. It is a perfect email recovery tool which retrieves your emails within seconds. 
KA. Just now, I was working on a draft on outlook.com. I saved the draft and then started composing a new email. I finished sending the email and then went back into my Drafts to look at the draft I was previously working on. It has disappeared and is not to be found in any of the other folders either
When you continue working on a draft email and send it afterwards, this email will be remove from the draft folder and will appear on your sent items instead. The Draft folder is used for keeping work in progress. Meaning, all the unsent emails that is saved are the only one that is stored in it. As soon as the email is sent, it will be removed from that folder. Kindly go to your Sent items folder and check if the email that you've sent is saved on it. Just now, I was working on a draft on outlook.com. I saved the draft and then started composing a new email. I finished sending the email and then went back into my Drafts to look at the draft I was previously working on. It has disappeared and is not to be found in any of the other folders either
In the folder from where you deleted the item, or in the Deleted Items folder, click Recover Deleted Items on the Tools menu. The Recover Deleted Items command is missing. You must use an Exchange account for this command to appear. Click an item and then click Recover Selected Items. Tip To select multiple items, press CTRL as you click each item. Each recovered item is restored to the folder from which it was deleted. Note You cannot recover an item if it does not appear in the Recover Deleted Items dialog box.
Many email programs automatically save your work periodically in case of a crash or an accidental closure. When you re-open the program, you can recover the message up to the point when it was last auto-saved.. You can find it in the Drafts folder or something comparable. If you accidentally discarded an email message, you may be able to recover it in a Discard, Trash or Deleted messages folder if your program has one.
As you edit your email, you’ll notice a. How to Recover an Email Draft: How to Recover an Email Draft. You typed an email, saved it but can’t find it to send it. Microsoft Outlook, Gmail and Hotmail all have a Saved Drafts folder that. How to recover deleted emails from gmail: Once the undo link vanishes, discarded drafts can not be recovered. Re: How to Also, C Man, I think he means emails that he didn’t delete, technically saved. So, I didn’t open the I would REALLY like to recover this draft email. A lot of w. You cannot open a draft email message after Outlook crashes in: This issue occurs because the draft that was being edited is not saved correctly when Outlook To recover any draft email messages, follow these steps:.