Though no dog breeds are perfect for people who have dog allergies, many people have found that their symptoms are less extreme with these breeds than with other dog types, such as the Golden Retriever, which is known to be especially bad for people who are allergic to dogs. The Yorkshire Terrier is well-liked by those with allergies because shedding is not an issue with this tiny breed. A Shih-Poo has hypoallergenic qualities. People with allergies might do well with a Shih Tzu. There are some dogs that are less likely to cause trouble for people who are allergic to them.
Recent statistics show that approximately 15% of people have allergies to pets, and dog allergies are among the most common. People who have these allergies generally have bad reactions to either the dog's saliva or dander from the skin; the allergy is rarely from the dog's fur. The Yorkshire Terrier is well-liked by those with allergies because shedding is not an issue with this tiny breed. A Shih-Poo has hypoallergenic qualities. People with allergies might do well with a Shih Tzu. There are some dogs that are less likely to cause trouble for people who are allergic to them.
Confidence votes 9.7K. In some cases. Most people with dog allergies are allergic to the dog's spit and/or dander (white skin flakes). The nice thing about a properly maintained coat on a Lab is that the skin and coat are quite oily and shiny, so there is much less flaking of dander than in some other breeds. 
If your allergist told you your allergic to dog dander than no a Golden would not be good for you. If your allergist told you have allergies to other things not dog dander than a Golden will be just fine. Now bring a cat near me and my eyes swell up and I cant breath through my nose. Golden retrievers shed a lot!!!! If your alergies aren't too bad, then you might be all right with a lab (they have shorter hair and shed less) But you'll probably want something like a poodle, or a poodle mix that are hypoallergenic. altaira · 8 years ago.
F1- The first generation is called an F1. This is the result of crossing a Standard Poodle with a Golden Retriever to create a Goldendoodle. They can shed and puppies within the same litter can vary greatly. They are a good choice for most people with mild allergies. Their coats can be wavy, slightly curly or smooth (looking more like a Golden Retriever). 
Goldens are not ideal dogs for children with allergies; dogs with oily coats like Labrador retrievers actually slough off less dander/skin than dogs like goldens. If you already have the dog and the child together, remove carpets from the child's room and make sure the dog is not allowed in the child's room. 1 Golden Retriever Golden Retrievers are one of the most popular of all dog breeds. 2  Featured heavily in movies and commercials, the Golden Retriever is known for its distinctive golden coat. 3  In…. 4  Signs, Symptoms and Treatment of Rabbit Allergy Although it is rare, some people can be very allergic to certain animals.
The goldendoodle is usually tolerable for people with allergies, especially a goldendoodle with a completely non-shedding coat. The goldendoodle may shed less than a golden retriever, but the degree of shedding will vary from dog to dog. 
People with allergies may do well with a Poodle. A Maltese is a good choice for people with allergies because it doesn't shed very much. A Shnauzer doesn't shed much. A Soft-Coated Wheaten Terrier doesn't shed very much and may make a suitable companion for individuals with allergies. The Yorkshire Terrier is well-liked by those with allergies because shedding is not an issue with this tiny breed. A Shih-Poo has hypoallergenic qualities. People with allergies might do well with a Shih Tzu. There are some dogs that are less likely to cause trouble for people who are allergic to them.
I wouldn't really suggest a golden retriever.. They cause as much allergies as a non-hypoallergenic dog. I would suggest getting a hypoallergenic dog, but there usually small, you could get a basenji which is like the largest hypo allergenic dog i believe. The length of the hair has nothing to do with the allergies.. Golden retrievers shed a lot!!!! If your alergies aren't too bad, then you might be all right with a lab (they have shorter hair and shed less) But you'll probably want something like a poodle, or a poodle mix that are hypoallergenic. altaira · 8 years ago.
Yes. Golden Retrievers are one of the few dogs that people with allergies have. Something about them isn't allergy causing-so I think that it would be fine for someone who has asthma too. Leila A · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 