The word Hindu is a secular word and literally translated it means Indian and the word Hinduism denotes any religion or religions that are practiced by the multitude of people living in the land beyond the river Indus. In today's India, the word Hindu is most misunderstood and misused. Interestingly the word Hindu came into existence because of mispronunciation of a Sanskrit word by the ancient Persians some 3000 to 4000 years ago. The word Hindu is not a Sanskrit word. It is not found in any of the thousands of native dialects and languages of India. Neither it is a religious word. It is a secular word whose origin is rooted in the language of the ancient Persians, who supposedly shared some common ancestry with the ancient Indians
Veda; Vedic literature ((from the Sanskrit word for 'knowledge') any of the most ancient sacred writings of Hinduism written in early Sanskrit; traditionally believed to comprise the Samhitas, the Brahmanas, the Aranyakas, and the Upanishads). Mimamsa ((from the Sanskrit word for 'reflection' or 'interpretation') one of six orthodox philosophical systems or viewpoints on ritual traditions rooted in the Vedas and the Brahmanas as opposed to Vedanta which relies mostly on
The word 'hindu' is a non-Indian word, it's origin is Persian/Arabic. It's original meaning is 'dog,' 'low life' or 'slave'.. The word 'Hindu' is not found in any Hindu religious text or any other ancient writing. People who lived on the western side of Hindu Kush (killers of Hindus) mountains gave this name to the natives of India. The word Hindu means black, slave, robber, thief and a waylayer
A sense of Hindu identity and the term Hindu appears in some texts dated between the 13th-and 18th-century in Sanskrit and regional languages. The 14th-and 18th-century Indian poets such as Vidyapati, Kabir and Eknath used the phrase Hindu dharma (Hinduism) and contrasted it with Turaka dharma (Islam). Starting with the Persian and Greek references to India in the 1st millennium BCE through the texts of the medieval era, the term Hindu implied a geographic, ethnic or cultural identifier for people living in Indian subcontinent around or beyond Sindhu river.
The word Hindu is derived from the Indo-Aryan and Sanskrit Sanskrit word Sindhu, which means a large body of water, covering river, ocean. It was used as the name of the Indus river and also referred to its tributaries. Starting with the Persian and Greek references to India in the 1st millennium BCE through the texts of the medieval era, the term Hindu implied a geographic, ethnic or cultural identifier for people living in Indian subcontinent around or beyond Sindhu river.
It should be noted that Hindu is NOT a religious word at all. There is no reference of the word hindu in the Ancient Vedic Scriptures. It is said that the Persians used to refer to the Indus river as Sindhu. Indus is a major river which flows partly in India and partly in Pakistan. In India, some politicians use the the words Hindu and Hindutva with communal overtones either to promote or oppose some ideology or party. To the rest of the world, Hindu and Hinduism refer to a set of people belonging to definite religious system.
Many people have no idea how the word originated. In India, some politicians use the the words Hindu and Hindutva with communal overtones either to promote or oppose some ideology or party. To the rest of the world, Hindu and Hinduism refer to a set of people belonging to definite religious system. The fact is that the BOTH the words Hindu and India have foreign origin. The word Hindu is neither a Sanskrit word nor is this word found in any of the native dialects and languages of India
Riya is not a Hindi or Sanskrit word, though some people name their daughters with this name. However, a close Hindu name is 'Priya', which means 'the loved one'. Goddes of th … e trees. It also says that a Hindu is a follower of Hinduism, but the name Hinduism came after Hindu so I am not in full agreement with that either. I would say it doesn't really have a definition that isn't circular so it can't really be defined.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Scitrs. Confidence votes 412. The word Hindu came from the word Sindhu which meant those who lived on the other side of the Indus river. The Persian pronounced the Sindhu as Hindus, and all people living on the other side of the river Sindhu were called by them as Hindus. It also says that a Hindu is a follower of Hinduism, but the name Hinduism came after Hindu so I am not in full agreement with that either. I would say it doesn't really have a definition that isn't circular so it can't really be defined.