Albany’s working definition of upstate New York is based on what lies outside the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s commuter rail area, like the Adirondack Mountains. Credit Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times. Albany’s working definition of upstate New York is based on what lies outside the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s commuter rail area. Besides New York City and Long Island, it excludes Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam and Dutchess Counties. 
If you say the words “New York” to someone downstate, it means New York CITY. If you say “New York” to someone upstate, it means New York STATE. That is the crucial difference between upstaters and downstaters – the people in New York City believe the city is the center of the universe.
Upstate New York is the region of the U.S. state of New York generally north of New York City. Often referred to as simply Upstate, the region includes all of the state of New York, excluding New York City and its environs, as well as Long Island, though the precise boundary is debated. Upstate New York includes the major cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Albany, and Syracuse. Before the American Revolutionary War, Upstate was populated by Native Americans, and was home to the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy. Upstate New York is well known for its cold and snowy winters, particularly in comparison to the more temperate climate of downstate New York. The snowy reputation is especially true for the cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Oswego and Syracuse, and is largely due to lake-effect snow from Lake Ontario and Lake Erie.
Downstate New York is a term denoting the southeastern portion of New York State, United States, in contrast to Upstate New York. The term Downstate New York has less currency than its counterpart term Upstate New York. The Downstate region contains the largest population concentration in the state, unlike Upstate, an area which forms the vast majority of the state's land area yet has a smaller population.
New York City exurbs which are rural in character but arguably still within the New York City sphere of influence (Downstate). The Downstate region contains the largest population concentration in the state, unlike Upstate, an area which forms the vast majority of the state's land area yet has a smaller population.
There is no clear official boundary between Upstate New York and Downstate New York. The broadest usage of the term Upstate New York excludes only New York City and Long Island, which are always considered to be part of Downstate New York. Upstate New York is well known for its cold and snowy winters, particularly in comparison to the more temperate climate of downstate New York. The snowy reputation is especially true for the cities of Buffalo, Rochester, Oswego and Syracuse, and is largely due to lake-effect snow from Lake Ontario and Lake Erie.
Many times you hear the expressions, upstate New York and downstate New York. Downstate is basically New York City and the immediate surrounding area. Downstate also includes Long Island. The rest of the state is called Upstate New York! We will look at major cities in both upstate and downstate New York! Upstate Cities. As you can see from the above map, upstate New York's three big cities are far apart.
There is no “Downstate New York”. Part of the problem with defining these areas is that “Downstate” New York doesn’t actually exist. All over pop culture you see New York City natives saying “upstate”. It’s in cop shows, reality TV and even movies. Nobody in Albany says their friends live “downstate”. The picture above shows New York broken up into 3 areas. Upstate, downstate and central New York. This is how an out-of-stater might see those regions (as well as most central New Yorkers). To them upstate and downstate are 2 regions based solely on geographic position relative to the whole state.
The divide between upstate and downstate NY. #TDR50 New York takes a closer look at the political divide in New York State and tries to figure out exactly where downstate ends and upstate begins. ... more Duration: {{video.duration.momentjs}}
New York City is most definitely downstate as well. Once you leave New York City, things get a little more unclear. Westchester and Rockland County often get included as downstate. Once you get into Putnam and Orange County, it’s up for debate. 