Energy stored in a capacitor. The energy stored in a capacitor is the same as the work needed to build up the charge on the plates. As the charge increases, the harder it is to add more. Potential energy is the charge multiplied by the potential, and as the charge builds up the potential does too.
The energy stored in a capacitor is: U = 1/2 C V2. Capacitors have a variety of uses because there are many applications that involve storing charge. A good example is computer memory, but capacitors are found in all sorts of electrical circuits, and are often used to minimize voltage fluctuations. The energy stored in a capacitor is the same as the work needed to build up the charge on the plates. As the charge increases, the harder it is to add more. Potential energy is the charge multiplied by the potential, and as the charge builds up the potential does too.
A supercapacitor (SC) (sometimes ultracapacitor, formerly electric double-layer capacitor (EDLC)) is a high-capacity electrochemical capacitor with capacitance values greater than 1,000 farads at 1.2 volt that bridge the gap between electrolytic capacitors and rechargeable batteries. 
In an electronic circuit, a capacitor is shown like this: When you connect a capacitor to a battery, here's what happens: 1  The plate on the capacitor that attaches to the negative terminal of the battery accepts electrons that the battery is producing. 2  The plate on the capacitor that attaches to the positive terminal of the battery loses electrons to the battery. 
Capacitor vs Battery. Capacitor and battery are two electrical components used in circuit design. Battery is an energy source, which injects the energy into to circuit, whereas capacitors are passive devices, which draw energy from the circuit, store and then release. Capacitor. Capacitance of a capacitor is known as the capability to store electric charges, and it is measured in the unit called Farad (F). However in practical circuits, capacitors are available in the ranges of micro Farads (µF) to pico Farads (pF). Battery. Batteries are used as energy sources in electrical circuits.
A capacitor and a battery both store energy, but they are only superficially similar. A battery tries to be a constant voltage source, but in reality ends up being more like a constant voltage source in series with a resistor. A capacitor is nowhere near a constant voltage source. A battery stores energy in a chemical medium, while a capacitor stores it in an electric field. Now you could argue on deep principles that the chemical medium is just storage in the position of electrons in the material, but as we commonly understand it they are quite different.
I can see lot of similarities between capacitor and battery. In both these charges are separated and When not connected in a circuit both can have same Potential difference V. The only difference is that battery runs for longer time but a capacitor discharges almost instantaneously. Charged to the same nominal voltage of the cell, 1.5$V$, the energy stored is just over 1mJ. That's 6 orders of magnitude less. Put another way, to store the same amount of energy at 1.5$V$ as the AAA battery would require a capacitor of about 4400$F$(!!!).
In a way, a capacitor is a little like a battery. Although they work in completely different ways, capacitors and batteries both store electrical energy. If you have read How Batteries Work, then you know that a battery has two terminals. Inside the battery, chemical reactions produce electrons on one terminal and absorb electrons on the other terminal. A capacitor is much simpler than a battery, as it can't produce new electrons -- it only stores them. In this article, we'll learn exactly what a capacitor is, what it does and how it's used in electronics. We'll also look at the history of the capacitor and how several people helped shape its progress.
Wire the battery and capacitor together with a resistor between them. Connect the positive side of the battery to the positive side of the capacitor. Then, connect the negative side of the battery to the negative side of the capacitor. The positive symbol is a plus sign, and the negative symbol is a minus sign. Most batteries and capacitors already have these signs to show their positive and negative sides
1. Battery is a source of energy for a circuit, whereas capacitor is a passive element, which draws energy from the circuit, store and release it. 2. Usually battery is a DC component, whereas capacitor is mostly used for AC applications. It is used to block DC components in circuits. 3. Battery provides a relatively constant voltage when discharging, whereas discharging voltage gets rapidly decreased for capacitors. The battery cells create a voltage difference between the terminals of each cell and hence to its combination in battery. When an external electrical circuit is connected to the battery, then the battery drives electrons through the circuit and electrical work is done.