cyclops (n.). (plural cyclopes), 1510s, from Latin, from Greek kyklops, literally round-eyed, from stem of kyklos (see (n.)) + -ops (see (n.)). One of a race of one-eyed giants who forged thunderbolts for Zeus, built the walls of Mycenae, etc
The Cyclops, or the Cyclopes (plural, Greek: κύκλωπες), are a member of a primordial race of giants, each with a single eye in the middle of its forehead.. In English, the plural cyclopses is also used. The name means round- or wheel-eyed. They are characters of Greek mythology. Greek and Roman writers like Hesiod, describe the Cyclops as been a group or family of three brothers who were primordial members of the giants.
By N.S. Gill. Definition: The Cyclops were represented as strong, one-eyed giants in Greek mythology. Their name is also spelled Cyclopes, and, as usual with Greek words, the letter K may be used in place of the C. According to the Greek epic poet Hesiod, the Cyclops were the sons of Uranus (Sky) and Gaia /Ge (Earth). 
In a famous episode of Homer 's Odyssey, the hero Odysseus encounters the cyclops Polyphemus, the son of Poseidon and Thoosa (a nereid), who lives with his fellow Cyclopes in a distant country. The connection between the two groups has been debated in antiquity and by modern scholars. Various ancient Greek and Roman authors wrote about cyclopes. Hesiod described them as three brothers who were primordial giants. All the other sources of literature about the cyclopes describe the cyclops Polyphemus, who lived upon an island (often identified by ancient authors with Sicily) populated by the creatures.
The name Cyclops IS Greek. The plural is Cyclopes. The name translates roughly as circle (cycl-think cycle) eyed (ops-think optical). The original three Cyclopes (sons of O … uranos and Gaea) were Brontes (Thunder), Steropes (Lightning) and Arges (Brightness). 
A cyclops (/ˈsaɪklɒps/ SY-klops; Ancient Greek: κύκλωψ, Kuklōps; plural cyclopes /saɪˈkloʊpiːz/ sy-KLOH-peez; Ancient Greek: κύκλωπες, Kuklōpes), in Greek mythology and later Roman mythology, was a member of a primordial race of giants, each with a single eye in the middle of his forehead. Various ancient Greek and Roman authors wrote about cyclopes. Hesiod described them as three brothers who were primordial giants. All the other sources of literature about the cyclopes describe the cyclops Polyphemus, who lived upon an island (often identified by ancient authors with Sicily) populated by the creatures.
Noun. 1. Cyclops - (Greek mythology) one of a race of giants having a single eye in the middle of their forehead. Greek mythology-the mythology of the ancient Greeks. giant-an imaginary figure of superhuman size and strength; appears in folklore and fairy tales
Definition of CYCLOPS. 1. plural cy·clo·pes \sī-ˈklō-(ˌ)pēz\ capitalized: any of a race of giants in Greek mythology with a single eye in the middle of the forehead. 2. plural cyclops [New Latin, genus name, from Latin] : any of a genus (Cyclops) of freshwater predatory copepods having a single median eye. See cyclops defined for kids. 
a member of a primordial race of giants, each with a single eye in the middle of his forehead. The name is widely thought to mean circle-eyed. Hesiod described one group of cyclopes and the epic poet Homer described another; other accounts were... en​.wikipedia​.org​/wiki​/Cyclops. any copepod of the genus Cyclops, characterized by having one eye | [classical mythology] one of a race of giants having a single eye in the middle ...