LASIK could probably correct your distance vision fully in the right eye; but it would be a stretch to use LASIK to get a 100 percent correction in the left eye.  Dr. Caster. Q: My son is 14-1/2, and his vision has been steady for the last couple of years. He has a +8.25 prescription in both eyes. A: LASIK will not stop the eyes from changing, so if your eyes change a little after LASIK the vision will be slightly less than perfect. Only rarely does that cause headaches.  Dr. Caster. Q: I have vision of -3.75D to roughly -4D in both eyes, and I am planning to get LASIK.
Many people considering the procedure ask this question. On average, LASIK eye surgery is considered to be a permanent way to reshape your cornea and thus correct your vision. That’s fairly incredible, given the procedure takes roughly 30 minutes total. LASIK eye surgery typically does not correct the need for reading glasses. There is an option of having monovision, which produces the ability to read close-up and far away. Some people test monovision eye surgery by using monovision contact lenses and find they don’t like this type of vision correction.
The excimer laser has been used for over 15 years and received FDA approval in 1998. Eye surgeons have been creating a protective flap of tissue for over 30 years. These two techniques were first combined in 1991 to create a new form of refractive surgery known as LASIK. The cornea looks untouched to the trained eye after a year. Most patients will not need any additional surgery in the decades to come after LASIK. However, 1 to 2 percent of people may have a natural drift in their need for glasses and may require a “redo” after five to ten years.
For these people, reading glasses might be needed in their later years as eyes change with age. Just as you may have had minor changes in your glasses prescription over time, you may have slight changes in your vision over time after laser eye surgery. Because of these natural changes, a person may need an enhancement, or a touch-up procedure, after LASIK eye surgery. LASIK eye surgery typically does not correct the need for reading glasses. There is an option of having monovision, which produces the ability to read close-up and far away. Some people test monovision eye surgery by using monovision contact lenses and find they don’t like this type of vision correction.
Like other types of refractive surgery, the LASIK procedure reshapes the cornea to enable light entering the eye to be properly focused onto the retina for clearer vision. In most cases, laser eye surgery is pain-free and completed within 15 minutes for both eyes. How LASIK Works. Before your surgery begins, numbing eye drops are applied to your eye to prevent any discomfort during the procedure. Your doctor may also give you some medication to help you relax. Your eye will be positioned under the laser, and an instrument called a lid speculum is used to keep your eyelids open.
The best way to determine if you are a candidate for laser vision correction. In general, you must be at least 18 years old, have healthy eyes and a stable eye prescription for the last twelve months. Those with certain medical conditions and women who are pregnant or nursing (within the last 3 months) are not the best candidates.
Other Articles of Interest About LASIK Surgery, questions about LASIK, how to find out if you are a good candidate for LASIK Eye Surgery and how to find the best lasik eye doctors who are specialist laser eye surgery doctors. 
LASIK costs are calculated depending on your prescription. The costs include the surgery, post-op medications, follow-up care for one year and any enhancement treatments, if necessary, during the first 12 months. It does not include the cost of temporary glasses. The cornea looks untouched to the trained eye after a year. Most patients will not need any additional surgery in the decades to come after LASIK. However, 1 to 2 percent of people may have a natural drift in their need for glasses and may require a “redo” after five to ten years.
A: Monovision PRK may be possible in your situation, which would adjust one eye to read newspapers while the other eye remains for distance. Testing will determine if this is the right solution for you.  Dr. Caster. Q: I had LASIK surgery done on both of my eyes 11 years ago. A: LASIK will not stop the eyes from changing, so if your eyes change a little after LASIK the vision will be slightly less than perfect. Only rarely does that cause headaches.  Dr. Caster. Q: I have vision of -3.75D to roughly -4D in both eyes, and I am planning to get LASIK.
To find out if LASIK surgery is the best option for you, or if you have more LASIK questions, schedule a consultation with Dr. Walter, Dr. Giegengack or Dr. Patel through our website, or simply call our office at 336-716-4091. The cornea looks untouched to the trained eye after a year. Most patients will not need any additional surgery in the decades to come after LASIK. However, 1 to 2 percent of people may have a natural drift in their need for glasses and may require a “redo” after five to ten years.