This can help prevent any further damage and allow the tendon to heal. Some form of support, such as a bandage, splint or brace, may help prevent the affected body part moving. How long you need to rest for depends on which tendon is affected and how severely it's damaged.
A wrist tendon injury is a problem with the muscles and tendons in your wrist. Tendons are bands of strong tissue that attach muscle to bone. You use the tendons and muscles in your wrist to move your wrist in all directions. Tendons can be injured suddenly or they may be slowly damaged over time. You can have tiny or partial tears in your tendon. If you have a complete tear of your tendon, it is called a rupture. Wrist tendon injuries can be caused by: 1  Overuse of the tendon from a sport or work activity that involves moving your wrist, such as throwing, catching, bowling, hitting a tennis ball, typing, or sewing. 2  A sudden activity that twists or tears your tendon, such as falling and landing o
1 Tendons require weeks of additional rest to heal. 2  You may need to make long-term changes in the types of activities you do or how you do them. 3  Apply ice or cold packs as soon as you notice pain and tenderness in your muscles or near a joint. 4  Apply ice 10 to 15 minutes at a time, as often as twice an hour, for 72 hours. 1 Apply ice 10 to 15 minutes at a time, as often as twice an hour, for 72 hours. 2  Continue applying ice (15 to 20 minutes at a time, 3 times a day) as long as it relieves pain. 3  Although heating pads may feel good, ice will relieve pain and inflammation. 4  Take pain relievers if needed.
Wrist Tendonitis: Symptoms, Treatment and Recovery. Your wrist is a complex structure consisting of 8 small bones, ligaments, tendons, and muscles which enable you to perform a range of motions. When the tendons or synovium (the sheath surrounding the wrist) are injured or inflamed, it may lead to wrist tendonitis. 
The tendon sheath itself with probably be injured as the tendon swells, increasing the pain of the condition. When treating the wrist tendon(s), rest the area, apply cold compression for 10-20 minutes at a time for at least 3 times a day. Do this to the injured area for the first day to 3 days of inflammation. 
5. Wear a supportive brace. If the tendonitis involves your knee, elbow or wrist, then consider wearing a flexible neoprene sleeve or more supportive nylon / Velcro brace in order to help protect the area and limit movement. Another method of combating the inflammation of tendonitis is by the use of over-the-counter non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve) help control the body's inflammation reaction, which reduces swelling and pain.
Tendonitis is a strain of the tendon. The healing time depends on which tendon you may have strained. For the first 24 hours, you will want moist heat and after that ice. You will want to stretch the area and massage the area often. Best Answer: Tendinitis never fully heals, but it can get better with management, and with better management, it took mine only 5-6 months to feel healed. I have Tendinitis in both hands and also in my elbows.
1 If the inflammation is in smaller, more exposed tendons / muscles (such as the wrist or elbow), then apply the ice for about 10 minutes. 2  If it's a larger or deeper tendon / muscle (such as the shoulder or hip), then leave the ice on for closer to 20 minutes. Another method of combating the inflammation of tendonitis is by the use of over-the-counter non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve) help control the body's inflammation reaction, which reduces swelling and pain.
To keep swelling down and help relieve pain: 1  Put an ice pack, gel pack, or package of frozen vegetables wrapped in a cloth on the area every 3 to 4 hours for up to 20 minutes at a time. 2  Do ice massage. 3  Keep your wrist up on a pillow when you sit or lie down. 4  Take nonprescription pain medicine, such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or naproxen. Wrist tendon injuries can be caused by: 1  Overuse of the tendon from a sport or work activity that involves moving your wrist, such as throwing, catching, bowling, hitting a tennis ball, typing, or sewing. 2  A sudden activity that twists or tears your tendon, such as falling and landing on your wrist.
How long you suffer with hand tendonitis depends on several factors. Tendonitis in the hand occurs because the tendon tissues become inflamed. The inflammation can be the result of repetitive strain or trauma. However, repetitive strain, such as long hours of typing and playing golf, is the primary cause of tendonitis today