Definition of Fable. The word fable is derived from a Latin word “ fibula ” which means a story that is a derivative of a word “ fari ” which means to speak. Fable is a literary device which can be defined as a concise and brief story intended to provide a moral lesson at the end. In literature, it is described as a didactic lesson given through some sort of animal story.
The copyright in a compilation or derivative work extends only to the material contributed by the author of such work, as distinguished from the preexisting material employed in the work, and does not imply any exclusive right in the preexisting material. A typical example of a derivative work received for registration in the Copyright Office is one that is primarily a new work but incorporates some previously published material. This previously published material makes the work a derivative work under the copyright law.
a. Also called: differential coefficient or first derivative the change of a function, f(x), with respect to an infinitesimally small change in the independent variable, x; the limit of [f(a + δ x)-f(a)] / δ x, at x = a, as the increment, δ x, tends to 0. Symbols: df(x)/d x, f'(x), Df(x): the derivative of xn is nxn-1. In calculus, the slope of the tangent line to a curve at a particular point on the curve. Since a curve represents a function, its derivative can also be thought of as the rate of change of the corresponding function at the given point.
derivative work. Artistic or literary work derived from one or more existing works which, to be copyrightable, must contain sufficient element of originality that makes it a new work in its own right. Nearby Terms. 1  derivative acti... 2  derivative cont... 3  derivative cont... 4  derivative poss... 5  derivative prod... 6  derivative prod... 7  derivative secu... 8  derivative trus... 9  derivative work. 10  derived demand. 11  derived value. 12  dermal exposure. 13  dermal toxicity. 14  dermatitis. 15  derogation. 16  derogatory info... 17  desalination.
A derivative work is a work based upon one or more preexisting works, such as a translation, musical arrangement, dramatization, fictionalization, motion picture version, sound recording, art reproduction, abridgment, condensation, or any other form in which a work may be recast, transformed, or adapted. Derivative works walk a fine line between copyright infrigement and eligibility for copyright protection. Generally, the test will be whether there is sufficient originality in the alleged derivative work; that it constitutes an original work in its own right.
The Berne Convention on Copyright at Article 2(3) defines derivative works as translations, adaptations, arrangements of music and other alterations of a literary or artistic work, which shall be protected as original works without prejudice to the copyright in the original work. By definition, derivative works are substantially similar to the original work because a work is not derivative unless it has been substantially copied from a prior work. The Copyright Act defines a derivative work as a work based upon one or more preexisting works.
Derivative work is an artistic or literary work derived from one or more pre-existing original works. A derivative work must contain sufficient original elements that would make it a new work in order to get a copyright. By definition, derivative works are substantially similar to the original work because a work is not derivative unless it has been substantially copied from a prior work. The Copyright Act defines a derivative work as a work based upon one or more preexisting works.
Definition of Zoomorphism. Zoomorphism is a derivative of a Greek word zōon that means animal and morphē means form or shape. It is a literary technique in which the animal attributes are imposed upon non-animal objects, humans, and events and animal features are ascribed to humans, gods and other objects. 
In copyright law, a derivative work is an expressive creation that includes major copyright-protected elements of an original, previously created first work (the underlying work). The derivative work becomes a second, separate work independent in form from the first. A typical example of a derivative work received for registration in the Copyright Office is one that is primarily a new work but incorporates some previously published material. This previously published material makes the work a derivative work under the copyright law.