Summarize Main Idea and Supporting Details. By (date), after reading a grade-level text, (name) will write a summary of the text in (3-5 sentences) including the main idea and an explanation of how (2) key details support the main idea as measured by a (teacher-made rubric). Strategies for Representation. 1  Instead of students reading the text, then extrapolating the main idea and key details on their own, teachers could read the text aloud with the students. 2  As they read together, teachers can help students by highlighting main ideas and key details.
Ask and answer such questions as who, what, where, when, why, and how to demonstrate understanding of key details in a text. RI.2.2. Identify the main topic of a multiparagraph text as well as the focus of specific paragraphs within the text. 1 Introducing a main idea can focus young or struggling readers on the central facet of the text. 2  Teachers can reinforce key ideas and details with carefully placed questions. 3  Teachers can model attending to key ideas and details by using think-aloud technique during or after reading.
Home » Teachers » Common Core Standards » Concept organizers » Reading for Literature Key Ideas and Details. Appreciation of literature requires the reader to gain an understanding of printed text by identifying the central meaning and facts of the text. “Key Ideas and Details” emphasizes the importance of understanding the specifics that are explicitly written in a text. Ask and answer such questions as who, what, where, when, why, and how to demonstrate understanding of key details in a text. RL.2.2. Recount stories, including fables and folktales from diverse cultures, and determine their central message, lesson, or moral. RL.2.3.
This means I can listen to a speaker and identify the key ideas. Reasoning 4.SL.3 I can identify the reasons and evidence that support the speaker's key points. Knowledge 4.SL.4 I can identify: * a topic * a text * facts * descriptive details. Knowledge 4.SL.4 I can identify an recall an experience.
1 By (date), after reading a grade-level text and taking notes with a graphic organizer, (name) will verbally identify the main idea, (3) key details, and describe in (2-3) sentences how the key details support the main idea in (4 out of 5) trials as measured by (teacher observation). Strategies for Representation. 1  Instead of students reading the text, then extrapolating the main idea and key details on their own, teachers could read the text aloud with the students. 2  As they read together, teachers can help students by highlighting main ideas and key details.
1 Instead of students reading the text, then extrapolating the main idea and key details on their own, teachers could read the text aloud with the students. 2  As they read together, teachers can help students by highlighting main ideas and key details. Strategies for Representation. 1 
RL.2.1. Ask and answer such questions as who, what, where, when, why, and how to demonstrate understanding of key details in a text. RL.2.2. Recount stories, including fables and folktales from diverse cultures, and determine their central message, lesson, or moral. RL.2.3.
Being detail oriented means that you pay attention to the little things, such as punctuation in reports, making sure that all possibilities are considered before making a de … cision, making sure nothing is left off an important list etc. 13 people found this useful. I means to use a lot of detail. Almost like details about a detail. For example, instead of A cat ran in front of me you could say for descriptive detail, . The cat with bla … ck, silky fur that shined in the moonlight zoomed across the street with amazing speed
Definition of KEY. 1. a: a usually metal instrument by which the bolt of a lock is turned b: any of various devices having the form or function of such a key. 2. a: a means of gaining or preventing entrance, possession, or control b: an instrumental or deciding factor. 3.