A 'dicot' or dicotyledon is a flowering plant which has two cotyledons. The plants in this category have broad leaves with branched veins. Their flowers are arranged in fours … and fives or multiples of four and five. Some examples are: Buttercups, sunflowers, roses and fruit trees. Here are five examples each of monocot and dicot plants:    Monocot plants: grass, lillies, corn, dates, and bamboo.    Dicot plants: sunflower, daisy, bean, car … rot, pear.
When we're talking about flowering plants, there are two main types: Monocots and Dicots. Some examples of monocots are corn, grass, and palm trees. Dicots include oak trees, daisies, and roses. There are Five Signs that a plant is either a monocot or a dicot.
Another example of a monocotyledon plant is the spiderwort. If you examine this plant, you will see flower parts in multiples of three and veins inside of the leaves that run parallel to one another. Tulips are classic examples of monocotyledons. One characteristic of monocotyledon plants is adventitious roots. Definition of Monocotyledon Plants. Cotyledons are a significant part of the embryo found in a seed. They are the first parts of a seedling to emerge from the soil when it germinates. Monocotyledons are plants that have only one cotyledon.
Diffen › Science › Biology › Botany. Flowering plants are divided into monocots (or monocotyledons) and dicots (or dicotyledons). This comparison examines the morphological differences in the leaves, stems, flowers and fruits of monocots and dicots. 
Monocots have their flower parts in threes or multiples of three; example the tulip and lily (Lilium). Dicots have their flower parts in fours (or multiples) or fives (or multiples). Examples of some common dicot flowers include the geranium, snapdragon, and citrus. Monocot (left) and dicot (right) flowers. Note the typical monocot arrangement of flower parts in 3's or multiples of 3. Lilium flower. Monocot leaves have their leaf veins arranged parallel to each other and the long axis of the leaf (parallel vennation). An common example of this is the husk of corn or a blade of grass (both are monocots). Dicot leaves have an anastamosing network of veins arising from a mid-vein termed net vennation.
According to the IUCN there are 59,300 species of monocots. The largest family in this group (and in the flowering plants as a whole) by number of species are the orchids (family Orchidaceae), with more than 20,000 species. Description [edit]. The monocots are one of the major divisions of the flowering plants or angiosperms. They have been recognized as a natural group since at least the work of the English botanist John Ray in the 17th century.
Submit. Many of the most important food crops are examples of plants with monocot seeds including wheat, rice, and corn. Monocots have one cotyledon or embryonic leaf in their seeds differentiating them from dicots that have two. Monocot flowers have floral parts grouped in threes: parallel leaf veins, pollen grains with one pore or furrow and vascular bundles throughout the stem's tissue. 
Monocots, or monocotyledons, are a class of the flowering plants, or angiosperms. Monocots are named for and recognized by the single cotyledon, or seed leaf, within the seed. Leaves of monocots have parallel veins, as seen in grass. The roots of monocots also differ from other flowering plants. In monocots, the first root to emerge from the seed dies off, and so no strong, central tap root forms. Instead, monocots sprout roots from shoot tissue near the base, called adventitious roots
A 'dicot' or dicotyledon is a flowering plant which has two cotyledons. The plants in this category have broad leaves with branched veins. Their flowers are arranged in fours … and fives or multiples of four and five. Some examples are: Buttercups, sunflowers, roses and fruit trees. Here are five examples each of monocot and dicot plants:    Monocot plants: grass, lillies, corn, dates, and bamboo.    Dicot plants: sunflower, daisy, bean, car … rot, pear.