Your credit score is a very important number that you should always be aware of. It’s a measure of your financial responsibility–the higher your score, the more willing lenders and creditors will be to lend you money. One of the best things you can do before applying for a loan is to check your credit report and score.
Your credit score is very important but it is only one factor in a mortgage application. Lenders also consider your income, employment history, your current monthly debts, the size of the loan and your down payment. If your credit score isn't where you want it to be, you can improve it over time.
So, yes, your credit score is important, much like saving for retirement or creating a spending plan. Still, if your credit scores have been damaged as a result of the economic downturn of the past few years, don’t beat yourself up. Over time, financial wounds can heal and the scars on your credit will disappear.
A credit score is a three-digit number that measures how likely you are to repay a loan on time. It uses information from your credit report to predict the risk of you not paying that loan back 24 months after scoring. A credit report is an explanation of your credit history.
Credit Reports and Credit Scores Your credit history is important to a lot of people: mortgage lenders, banks, utility compa-nies, prospective employers, and more. So it’s especially important that you understand your credit report, credit score, and the companies that compile that information, credit bureaus. This brochure provides answers to some of the most common, and most important, ques-tions about credit.
Using that calculator today, for example, the average monthly payment on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage of $250,000 is $1,077 for someone with a FICO credit score above 760. For someone with a credit score of 680-699, however, the payment is $1,133.
So, yes, your credit score is important, much like saving for retirement or creating a spending plan. Still, if your credit scores have been damaged as a result of the economic downturn of the past few years, don’t beat yourself up.
The Equifax® Credit Score is based on an Equifax Credit Score model and is not the same as scores used by 3rd parties to assess your creditworthiness. 1. Get your Equifax Credit Report and Score for $15.95.