An average person's IQ is around 120 130+ is for smart people 160+ are geniuses Just heard it from my friend. So in terms of 'evidence based research' this is not a very high grade. I am only pretty sure that a person's IQ is around 120. A bit fuzzy about the 130+ and 160+ well just saying I could be wrong. The average IQ is by definition 100; scores above 100 indicate a higher than average IQ and scores below 100 indicate a lower that average IQ.
Report Abuse. I don't know what the average IQ is for a person but I took a free IQ test online. There was only 20 questions and after I answered them all it gave me my results and said that my IQ was 144. So I'm gonna say that is average. I didn't do well in school and I didn't pay attention in classes. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: IQ stands for intelligence quotient. Supposedly, it is a score that tells one how “bright” a person is compared to other people. The average IQ is by definition 100 --------------------------------------... The average IQ is by definition 100; scores above 100 indicate a higher than average IQ and scores below 100 indicate a lower that average IQ.
An IQ score of 115 means performance one standard deviation above the median, a score of 85 performance one standard deviation below the median, and so on. The average IQ is 100. Most IQ tests are constructed so that there are no overall score differences between females and males. An intelligence quotient, or IQ, is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence.
2. In the last several years, the average IQ of a person with Down syndrome has increased. In people with Down syndrome, 39.4% are in the mild intellectual disability range of 50-70, and 1% in the borderline intellectual function range of 70-80 (average IQ in the general population is 70-130). 3. 1. Today the average lifespan of a person with Down syndrome is approximately 60 years. 1  As recently as 1983, the average lifespan of a person with Down syndrome was 25 years. 2  The dramatic increase to 60 years is largely due to the end of the inhumane practice of institutionalizing people with Down syndrome.
IQ is a number meant to measure people cognitive abilities (intelligence) in relation to their age group. An I.Q between 90 and 110 is considered average; over 120, superior. Roughly 68% of the population has an IQ between 85 and 115. The average range between 70 and 130, and represents about 95% of the population. A score below 70 may indicate problems in understanding the iQ questions or soem type or retardation, and a score above 130 may indicate intellectual giftedness. 1% of the population has an IQ of 136 or higher.
Above 100 will indicate that a person may be above average or has better or superior intelligence, while below 100 scores are classified as below average. Even further below may indicate some form of mental problem or retardation. In this context, an average IQ refers to intelligence scores of about 100. One person may have higher IQ than another, but that alone does not guarantee success in life. Based on statistics, about half of the population are said to have “Average IQ”. 17% of people are classified either above or below the average level. 2.2% are considered very superior and intelligent and another 2.2% comprises those with possible mental problems
I.Q. (intelligence quotient) in general, is an assessment of your ability to think and reason. IQ score is a standardized way of comparing this ability with the majority of people the same age as you are. A score of 100 means that compared to these people in your general age group that you have basically an average intelligence. Additionally, IQ is not the be all end all of a person's abilities in life. IQ score fails to measure things such as manual dexterity (obviously), musical talent, and a slew of other abilities that may lead one to many different success
IQ or Intelligence Quotient refers to a score or a measure of a person’s intelligence. To get a person’s IQ, he/she must submit to some testing. There are various IQ tests available to determine a person’s score with regards to the general population. One person may have higher IQ than another, but that alone does not guarantee success in life. Based on statistics, about half of the population are said to have “Average IQ”. 17% of people are classified either above or below the average level. 2.2% are considered very superior and intelligent and another 2.2% comprises those with possible mental problems