Distance Matters in Running Dreams. If, in your dream you are running away from something or someone that usually means that you are avoiding or putting distance between something you fear or makes you uncomfortable. It could mean that you are skirting your responsibilities or you feel guilty about something. 
America n, Unitarianism G. H. Miller. Dream ing of running in company with others, is a sign that you will participate in some festivity, and you will find that your affair s are growing towards fortune. The real-life activity, such as in a dream where you're exploring something that happened on an actual run or other recent event ... Running is a traditional symbol of health and vitality in addition to being a means of fleeing potential danger.
run•ning. 1. the act of one that runs. 2. management; direction: the running of a business. 3. an act or instance of racing: the 113th running of the Kentucky Derby. 4. the condition of a track or surface to be run or raced on. 5. the amount, quality, or type of a liquid flow. 
run down or run down (something) or run (something) down. a: to use up or cause (something) to use up all of its power. The clock ran down. [=the clock slowed down and stopped working because it did not have any more power]. The watch's battery ran down. Turn off the radio so you don't run down the batteries. Don't keep running yourself down like that: you have a lot to offer! [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 5. run down (something) : to say or repeat (a list of people or things) from the beginning to the end. — see also rundown. Let me just run down all the things we need to do.
Definition Of: To dream of running in company with others, is a sign that you will participate in some festivity, and you will find that your affairs are growing towards fortune. Dream Dictionary. To dream of running in company with others, is a sign that you will participate in some festivity, and you will find that your affairs are growing towards fortune. If you stumble or fall, you will lose property and reputation.
Nearby Terms. 1  runaround system. 2  rung. 3  run-in-place. 4  runner. 5  running. 6  running bond. 7  running foot. 8  running ground. 9  running inch. 10  running mile rate. 11  running mold. 12  running screed. 13  running shoe. 
hit the ground running. Seize an opportunity; begin at full speed. For example, As soon as the front office gave its approval for the new department, we hit the ground running. to be ready to work immediately on a new activity His previous experience will allow him to hit the ground running when he takes over the Commerce Department. 
adverb. noun. The definition of running is moving, flowing or operating. An example of something running is a train that is operating. Running is defined as done consecutively
run foul /afoul of. 1. To run into; collide with: a sloop that had run foul of the submerged reef. 2. To come into conflict with: a pickpocket who ran foul of the law. run out of gas /steam Slang. 1. To exhaust one's energy or enthusiasm. 2. To falter or come to a stop because of a lack of capital, support,