The Three Mile Island Unit 1 is a pressurized water reactor designed by Babcock and Wilcox with a net generating capacity of 852 MWe. The reactor core of TMI-2 has since been removed from the site, but the site has not been decommissioned. Three Mile Island is so named because it is located three miles downriver from Middletown, Pennsylvania.
The Three Mile Island accident was a partial nuclear meltdown that occurred on March 28, 1979, in one of the two Three Mile Island nuclear reactors in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, United States. It was the worst accident in U.S. commercial nuclear power plant history. The Three Mile Island accident inspired Charles Perrow 's Normal Accident Theory, in which an accident occurs, resulting from an unanticipated interaction of multiple failures in a complex system.
Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station (TMI) is a nuclear power plant located on Three Mile Island in the Susquehanna River, south of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania in Londonderry Township. It has two separate units, TMI-1 and TMI-2. The reactor core of TMI-2 has since been removed from the site, but the site has not been decommissioned. Three Mile Island is so named because it is located three miles downriver from Middletown, Pennsylvania.
An island in the Susquehanna River in southeast Pennsylvania southeast of Harrisburg. It was the site of a major nuclear accident on March 28, 1979, when a partial meltdown released radioactive material and forced the evacuation of thousands of nearby residents. 
An island in the Susquehanna River in southeast Pennsylvania southeast of Harrisburg. It was the site of a major nuclear accident on March 28, 1979, when a partial meltdown released radioactive material and forced the evacuation of thousands of nearby residents. 
The Three Mile Island accident is one of the factors cited for the decline of new reactor construction. According to the IAEA, the Three Mile Island accident was a significant turning point in the global development of nuclear power. The Three Mile Island accident inspired Charles Perrow 's Normal Accident Theory, in which an accident occurs, resulting from an unanticipated interaction of multiple failures in a complex system.
The 2010 U.S. population within 10 miles (16 km) of Three Mile Island was 211,261, an increase of 10.9 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S. Census data for msnbc.com. The 2010 U.S. population within 50 miles (80 km) was 2,803,322, an increase of 10.3 percent since 2000. The reactor core of TMI-2 has since been removed from the site, but the site has not been decommissioned. Three Mile Island is so named because it is located three miles downriver from Middletown, Pennsylvania.
1 Three Mile Island Alert, the watchdog group that warned the public for nearly two years that reactor No. 2 was dangerously faulty. 2  What's wrong with the fact sheet purports to correct errors in the NRC report. The Three Mile Island accident inspired Charles Perrow 's Normal Accident Theory, in which an accident occurs, resulting from an unanticipated interaction of multiple failures in a complex system.
1 Three Mile Island: meaning and definitions-Three Mile Island: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Nuclear and Chemical Accidents-Nuclear and Chemical Accidents Though nuclear power is a good source of energy and is generally not ... On Mar. 28, 1979, failure of the cooling system of the No. 2 nuclear reactor led to overheating and partial melting of its uranium core and production of hydrogen gas, which raised fears of an explosion and dispersal of radioactivity.