1 The Amur Leopard One of the world's most endangered animals is the reclusive and beautiful Amur Leopard (Panthera pardus, orientalis). 2  Only around 30 of these unique cats still live in the wi…. Currently, the Amur Leopard is considered to be the single most  endangered wild cat in the world. There are less than 50 of these  leopards in the wild and efforts to help … bring the population up  have been difficult.
The Amur Leopards are endangered because people want their fur which is sold for $500 to $1,000. But this is illegal so you should not do this. Some people in small villages rely on the Amur Leopards for their food. 
The Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis) is one of the world's most endangered cats. It is a solitary, nocturnal leopard that lives in the Amur River basin of eastern Russia. Between 1970 and 1983, 80 percent of the Amur leopard's habitat was lost due to logging, forest fires, and agricultural land conversion projects (this loss of habitat also affected the leopard's prey species, which have become increasingly scarce as well).
The Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis) is a leopard subspecies native to the Primorye region of southeastern Russia and the Jilin Province of northeast China. It is classified as Critically Endangered since 1996 by IUCN. In 2007, only 19–26 wild Amur leopards were estimated to survive. 
Tags: animals in crisis, nature, save the planet, saving endangered animals & plants, working together. The Amur Leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis) is critically endangered. It is one of the rarest big cats in the world with an estimated 35 solitary individuals left in the wild. Their main prey includes roe and sika deer, along with hares and badgers. 
This article illustrates some of the most significant amur leopard facts. Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis) is one the critically endangered species that is endemic to the southwestern region of Russia. A survey conducted in 2007 which reveals that only 30 – 40 adults and 5 – 6 cubs have been left. Amur leopards reside in North Korea, Russia, China and Japan. Amur Leopard facts about its habitat show that these animals are found in the sea coast of Japan and northern Suchan Basin. Hermann Schlegel was the first explorer to discover these animals back in 1857.
The Amur leopard, Panthera Pardus Orientalis, is the rarest big cat in the world and yet is still a relatively unknown species of leopard outside of its homeland in Russia. Al … so known as the Far Eastern leopard the approximate population stands at about 35 individuals remaining in the wild. a few reasons why the Amur leopard is endangered...... ~ Forest fires ~ poaching for their unusual spotted coats ~ illegal trade ~ prey is scarce Humans are the biggest preda … tors of the Amur leopard. people are moving in on land for farming. Fewer then 40 are said to exist