If you have Cataracts, the cost of Cataract Surgery and Cataract removal should not be a substantial barrier to gaining access to the care that you need to regain useful vision. If you are considering Cataract Surgery to remove a Cataract you should become familiar with the range of costs, how much you might need to pay out of pocket, what deductibles might apply, what co-pays might apply and what services might not be covered or require additional payment.
For Query or Appointment-Write to us. To avoid any spam using query box, please enter the characters as shown in the image right side. Cataract Surgery is approved under various Insurances, TPA, CGHS, ECHS, Corporates and other government panel under mediclaim, either Cashless or one can go for reimbursement. To know more, one can contact, their Insurance Company, TPA or Medical Cell to take the benefit.
A cataract is a painless, cloudy area in the lens of the eye. The lens is enclosed in a lining called the lens capsule. Cataract surgery separates the cataract from the lens capsule. In most cases, the lens will be replaced with an intraocular lens implant (IOL). If an IOL cannot be used, contact lenses or eyeglasses must be worn to compensate for the lack of a natural lens. Some complications can be treated and vision loss reversed, but others cannot. Complications that may occur with cataract surgery include: 1  Infection in the eye (endophthalmitis). 2  Swelling and fluid in the center of the nerve layer (cystoid macular edema). 3  Swelling of the clear covering of the eye (corneal edema).
This assessment of cataract surgery is supported by the Clinical Practice Guideline No. 4, Cataract in Adults: Management of Functional Impairment of the Cataract Management Guideline Panel of the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR, 1993). 
When you visit your Cataract Surgeon and schedule your Cataract Surgery, a member of the staff will review the details of your insurance coverage and let you know right up front what your coverage is and what out of pocket expenses, if any, will be required of you. If you are considering Cataract Surgery to remove a Cataract you should become familiar with the range of costs, how much you might need to pay out of pocket, what deductibles might apply, what co-pays might apply and what services might not be covered or require additional payment.
(In 2010 the average was about $3,279, in 2011 it was $2,699, in 2012 it was $3,429 and in 2013 it was $3,230.). If you want a high-tech, presbyopia-correcting intraocular lens for your cataract procedure, then costs would increase to an average of about $4,591 per eye (vs. $4,461 in 2010, $4,337 in 2011, $4,269 in 2012 and $4,350 in 2013). 1 An average additional charge of $2,188 per eye for a premium, presbyopia-correcting IOL, if you already have Medicare coverage for basic cataract surgery costs. 2  An average additional charge of $607 per eye, if you need an extra surgical procedure to correct mild astigmatism.
Private insurance for Cataract Surgery is usually quite comprehensive but also quite variable. In most instances private insurances covers a portion, if not all, of the Cataract Surgeon Fee, the Facility Fee, the cost of a Monofocal Lens Implant and the necessary follow up care after your Cataract Surgery. If you are considering Cataract Surgery to remove a Cataract you should become familiar with the range of costs, how much you might need to pay out of pocket, what deductibles might apply, what co-pays might apply and what services might not be covered or require additional payment.
Star Health Senior Citizen Red Carpet Insurance Plan is a comprehensive health insurance policy for senior citizen which covers medical expenses incurred by a person due to any illness, disease sickness, injury or accidents. This plan of Star health which is specially designed for senior citizen is very popular because it covers pre-existing diseases from the second policy year. Key Features of Star Health Senior Citizen Red Carpet Insurance Plan. 1  Specially for individuals between the age group of 60 and 74 years.
Medicare for Cataract Surgery is also quite comprehensive. Medicare covers a portion, in not all, of the Cataract Surgeon Fee, the Facility Fee, the cost of a Monofocal Lens Implant and the necessary follow up care after your Cataract Surgery. If you are considering Cataract Surgery to remove a Cataract you should become familiar with the range of costs, how much you might need to pay out of pocket, what deductibles might apply, what co-pays might apply and what services might not be covered or require additional payment.