Turkish masculine name meaning bard, poet. PAPATYA f Turkish. Means daisy in Turkish. PARLA f Turkish. Turkish feminine name derived from the word parlamak meaning flash, shine, beam, sparkle, glow, blaze or parıldamak meaning shine, glitter, glimmer, sparkle, twinkle, gleam. Turkish form of the feminine given name Nawal. NEVIN f Turkish. Turkish feminine name of Persian origin meaning new; the new(est) one.... [more]. NEVZAT m Turkish. NIHAL m & f Turkish. Originally of Arabic origin meaning joyous, or successful... [more]. NILAY f Turkish. Moon over the Nile...
Turkish has a rich variety of swear words and other types of slang. Because of words with multiples meanings even a simple word could mean seriously vulgar in different circumstances. 
Turkish (Tuerkce (türkçe·help)), info also referred to As Istanbul, turkish is the most widely spoken of The turkic, languages with around–10 15 million native speakers In Southeastern (europe mostly In European) turkey and–55 60 million native speakers In Western (asia mostly In Asian). turkey Turkish is a member of the Oghuz group of languages, a subgroup of the Turkic language family. There is a high degree of mutual intelligibility between Turkish and the other Oghuz Turkic languages, including Azerbaijani, Turkmen, Qashqai, Gagauz, and Balkan Gagauz Turkish.
Turkish and Azerbaijani form of ALI (1). ALİM m Turkish. Turkish form of ALIM. ALİYE f Turkish. Turkish form of ALIYAH (1). ALP m Turkish. Means hero in Turkish. ALTAN m Turkish. Means red dawn in Turkish. EREN m Turkish. Means saint, holy person in Turkish. ERHAN m Turkish. From Turkish er brave man and han, which is from the title khan meaning leader. ERKAN m Turkish. From Turkish er brave man and kan blood. ERKİN m Turkish. Means free in Turkish. EROL m Turkish. Means brav
Turkish (Tuerkce) türkçe is the most-widely spoken of The turkic languages and is the official language of The republic Of turkey and a secondary language Of cyprus only spoken and useful In turkish Speaking Northern. Cyprus it is also a recognized minority language In, Kosovo, macedonia And. romania Turkish phrasebook. Turkish (Tuerkce) türkçe is the most-widely spoken of The turkic languages and is the official language of The republic Of turkey and a secondary language Of cyprus only spoken and useful In turkish Speaking Northern. cyprus
Turkish unisex name derived from the words yurda meaning home and nur meaning light. ZAFER m & f Turkish. Means victory in Turkish. ZEESHAN m Turkish, Persian, Pakistani. This does not cite any references or sources. Turkish form of the feminine given name Nawal. NEVIN f Turkish. Turkish feminine name of Persian origin meaning new; the new(est) one.... [more]. NEVZAT m Turkish. NIHAL m & f Turkish. Originally of Arabic origin meaning joyous, or successful... [more]. NILAY f Turkish. Moon over the Nile...
The list gives the Ottoman Turkish word, the modern spelling of the word in Turkish (as suggested by TDK), the modern Turkish equivalent, and its meaning in English. * Old words that are still used in modern Turkish together with their new Turkish counterparts. 
Familiarity information: TURKISH used as a noun is very rare. • TURKISH (adjective). The adjective TURKISH has 1 sense: 1. of or relating to or characteristic of Turkey or its people or language. Familiarity information: TURKISH used as an adjective is very rare.
İLHAMİ m Turkish. Turkish form of ILHAM. İLHAN m Turkish. From the Mongolian title il-Khan meaning subordinate Khan , which was first adopted by Genghis Khan's grandson Hulagu, who ruled a kingdom called the Ilkhanate that stretched from modern Iran to eastern Turkey. EREN m Turkish. Means saint, holy person in Turkish. ERHAN m Turkish. From Turkish er brave man and han, which is from the title khan meaning leader. ERKAN m Turkish. From Turkish er brave man and kan blood. ERKİN m Turkish. Means free in Turkish. EROL m Turkish. Means brav