Environmentally friendly, cost-effective and safe, the regenerated polyester fiber is made from recycled plastic water bottles and performs equally as well as 100% virgin polyester for fills which are 3 denier and larger. 
Top 6 Toxic Fabrics. 1. Polyester is the worst fabric you can buy. It is made from synthetic polymers that are made from esters of dihydric alcohol and terpthalic acid. 2. Acrylic fabrics are polycrylonitriles and may cause cancer, according to the EPA. 
Polyester is machine washable, quick-drying and wrinkle-resistant. A synthetic, naturally bright fiber, polyester modifies easily to meet various strength and size needs. It is strong and durable with shape retention compared to other fibers that may flatten with extended use. Industrial clothing requires the long-lasting wear polyester gives. Some polyester fabrics are fire retardant, but as a rule, they dissolve at a certain temperature.
Assorted fabrics in a store. Photo Credit paulprescott72/iStock/Getty Images. Polyester fabric has a variety of beneficial uses with limited health and safety concerns. Polyester is extensively used in clothing and is commonly blended with cotton, rayon or wool. It is strong and durable with shape retention compared to other fibers that may flatten with extended use. Industrial clothing requires the long-lasting wear polyester gives. Some polyester fabrics are fire retardant, but as a rule, they dissolve at a certain temperature.
Good question. For next to the skin layer polyester is not recommended if you are prone to eczema or allergies (polyesters are derived from petroleum). The positive side of polyester is durability and lack of hydrophilicity (i.e., it does not retain water), and so it makes for good outer/active wear. 
Report Abuse. Yes, it is safe. In fact most people prefer using a polyester fiber fill because it is more comfortable. Often times it more comfortable to sleep on, because there is a little GIVE to the pillow. For example arc4life's linear gravity pillow is composed of fiber fill
Polyester is a synthetic fiber derived from coal, air, water, and petroleum. Developed in a 20th-century laboratory, polyester fibers are formed from a chemical reaction between an acid and alcohol. In this reaction, two or more molecules combine to make a large molecule whose structure repeats throughout its length. 
At last there’s a practical replacement for traditional foam and steel innersprings that performs just as well, but is safe, non-toxic and made of recycled polyester. The Evergreen mattress is a breakthrough in fiber technology because it eliminates the need for wire innersprings. 
Industrial polyester fibers, yarns and ropes are used in tyre reinforcements, fabrics for conveyor belts, safety belts, coated fabrics and plastic reinforcements with high-energy absorption. Polyester fiber is used as cushioning and insulating material in pillows, comforters and upholstery padding. Polyester fabrics are highly stain-resistant— in fact, the only class of dyes which can be used to alter the color of polyester fabric are what are known is disperse dyes. Polyester fibers are sometimes spun together with natural fibers to produce a cloth with blended properties.
Polyester blends have been renamed so as to suggest their similarity or even superiority to natural fibers (for example, China silk, which is a term in the textiles industry for a 100% polyester fiber woven to resemble the sheet and durability of insect-derived silk). Polyester fabrics are highly stain-resistant— in fact, the only class of dyes which can be used to alter the color of polyester fabric are what are known is disperse dyes. Polyester fibers are sometimes spun together with natural fibers to produce a cloth with blended properties.