Your body will sometimes use calcium to narrow your blood vessels and this can raise your blood pressure. Calcium-channel blockers (CCBs) lower your blood pressure by blocking the effects of calcium on your blood ­vessels. This helps your blood vessel walls relax and widen, making it easier for blood to flow through.
The notion of blood pressure control through supplements was tested in a 1998 study of 300 nurses who didn't normally consume a lot of calcium or potassium in their diets. A study that focused just on the DASH diet found that it lowered blood pressure for just. about everybody who tried it, regardless of gender, race, weight, hypertension status, or physical activity level. A Potassium-Rich Diet. It's known that potassium-rich foods can help control high blood pressure.
1 Taking other blood pressure medications in combination with a calcium channel blocker may cause a sudden drop in blood pressure. 2  Discuss with your doctor the best way to take the medication if you are taking other drugs. A. A. Calcium channel blockers are drugs used to lower blood pressure. They work by slowing the movement of calcium into the cells of the heart and blood vessel walls, which makes it easier for the heart to pump and widens blood vessels. As a result, the heart doesn't have to work as hard, and blood pressure lower
Treating High Blood Pressure and Diabetes. Potassium and calcium and are minerals that may be key to preventing hypertension (high blood pressure) or lowering it if your blood pressure is already elevated. A study that focused just on the DASH diet found that it lowered blood pressure for just. about everybody who tried it, regardless of gender, race, weight, hypertension status, or physical activity level. A Potassium-Rich Diet. It's known that potassium-rich foods can help control high blood pressure.
Research into the relationship between calcium and blood pressure at the University of Texas Health Science Center showed that 800 mg of calcium a day reduced mild to high blood pressure in 20% of subjects by a dramatic 20 to 30 points. Most, however, had small drops and, oddly, blood pressure went up in about 20%. Vitamin D aids the absorption of calcium from the small intestine and it controls the deposition of calcium in bones. One study supplemented women 1200 mg of calcium for blood pressure. When they added 800 IU of vitamin D, systolic blood pressure decreased an average of 9.3%.
Another more complex explanation is that when calcium levels in the blood drop, parathyroid hormone (PTH) is released, which, in turn, causes calcium to be released from the bones to increase calcium blood levels and PTH can raise blood pressure. Whatever the reason, in some people calcium does reduce blood pressure. Vitamin D aids the absorption of calcium from the small intestine and it controls the deposition of calcium in bones. One study supplemented women 1200 mg of calcium for blood pressure. When they added 800 IU of vitamin D, systolic blood pressure decreased an average of 9.3%.
In fact, a secret weapon against high blood pressure may be calcium-rich foods. Some experts contend that high blood pressure is more likely due to a calcium deficiency than a surplus of sodium and that adequate calcium intake can cancel the blood-pressure-raising effects of sodium in some people. Vitamin D aids the absorption of calcium from the small intestine and it controls the deposition of calcium in bones. One study supplemented women 1200 mg of calcium for blood pressure. When they added 800 IU of vitamin D, systolic blood pressure decreased an average of 9.3%.
If you have high blood pressure and are pregnant or breastfeeding you could also be given a CCB. One calcium-channel blocker called verapamil has the added effect of slowing your heart rate. You may be given this medicine if you have angina or an irregular heart beat in addition to high blood pressure. Calcium-channel blockers (CCBs) lower your blood pressure by blocking the effects of calcium on your blood ­vessels. This helps your blood vessel walls relax and widen, making it easier for blood to flow through.
The mineral elements sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium play a central role in the normal regulation of blood pressure. In particular, these mineral elements have important interrelationships in the control of arterial resistance. 