A noun phrase or nominal phrase (abbreviated NP) is a phrase which has a noun (or indefinite pronoun) as its head word, or which performs the same grammatical function as such a phrase. Noun phrases are very common cross-linguistically, and they may be the most frequently occurring phrase type. Noun phrases often function as verb subjects and objects, as predicative expressions, and as the complements of prepositions. Noun phrases can be embedded inside each other; for instance, the noun phrase some of his constituents contains the shorter noun phrase his constituents
Full Definition of NOUN PHRASE. : a phrase formed by a noun and all its modifiers and determiners; broadly: any syntactic element (as a clause, clitic, pronoun, or zero element) with a noun's function (as the subject of a verb or the object of a verb or preposition) —abbreviation NP. See noun phrase defined for English-language learners.
Definition. A noun phrase is word group with a noun or pronoun as its head. The simplest noun phrase consists of a single noun, as in the sentence  Bells were ringing.. The head of a noun phrase can be accompanied by modifiers, determiners (such as the, a, her), and/or complements, as in 
You could say, I met Joan .. In this sentence the word Joan is a noun. You could replace Joan with a group of words (a phrase) and say, I met your sister .. Your sister is a phrase (a group of words without a finite verb), and it functions as a noun in the sentence. So we call it a noun phrase. Additional noun phrases examples (the noun phrase is in bold):
Whereas a noun or pronoun can sometimes stand alone as a single-word, simple noun phrase, a determiner such as the article (a, the etc) cannot stand alone and is defined by its function in relation to the item it determines. The noun or pronoun is therefore regarded as the HEAD of the noun phrase. Our house is empty. 
A noun clause is a dependent clause that acts as a noun. Noun clauses begin with words such as how, that, what, whatever, when, where, whether, which, whichever, who, whoever, whom, whomever, and why. Noun clauses can act as subjects, direct objects, indirect objects, predicate nominatives, or objects of a preposition. 
My definition is: A noun phrase is either a pronoun or any group of words that can be replaced by a pronoun. For example, 'they', 'cars', and 'the cars' are noun phrases, but 'car' is just a noun, as you can see in these sentences (in which the noun phrases are all in bold). 
A noun phrase is a phrase that plays the role of a noun. The head word in a noun phrase will be a noun or a pronoun. In the examples below, the whole noun phrase is shaded and the head word is in bold. Compare the three examples above to these: In these three examples, the words in bold are all pronouns. Click on the one with a noun phrase in bold: NOUN CLAUSES, NOUN PHRASES, AND SINGLE WORDS. Not all grammarians agree on the definitions of clauses and phrases. For some, the term phrase covers everything. In other words, for them, a clause is a type of phrase, and a single word is just a short phrase.