Delhi. Chandigarh, Chennai, Mumbai (Bombay). Kolkata is one of the most populated cities in the world. Country: Searchable map/satellite view of India. India Country Profile. States and Union Territories of India. Map of India. India in numbers. India Key Statistical Data. Kolkata is also known as the City of Palaces, it was the capital of India during the British Indian Empire (British Raj) until 1911. Just zoom in (+) to see Victoria Memorial Hall and its garden. The Victoria Memorial is one of Kolkata's tourist attractions, it serves as a museum for the history of the city
The Calcutta Cup is made from melted down silver rupees. This money was what was left of the funds of the Calcutta Rugby Club when it was disbanded in 1878. The club had been … formed in 1873, but lack of players hastened it's demise. During the period of the British East India Company, the Britishers made their headquarters in Calcutta (now Kolkata), as a result Calcutta also became India's capital. Later … the capital was transferred to Delhi by King George 5 to crush nationalist feelings.
Kolkata is one of the four metropolitan cities in India. The city, formerly known by the name of Calcutta has undergone a sea change in a very short span of time. During the period of the British East India Company, the Britishers made their headquarters in Calcutta (now Kolkata), as a result Calcutta also became India's capital. Later … the capital was transferred to Delhi by King George 5 to crush nationalist feelings.
Kolkata is located in the eastern part of India. It has spread linearly along the banks of the Hooghly River. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has an area of 185 square kilometres. The city is near sea level, with the average elevation being 17 feet. The whole area is in the Ganges Delta and is monotonously plain. The Bay of Bengal coastline is about 60 miles to the south
The Calcutta Cup is made from melted down silver rupees. This money was what was left of the funds of the Calcutta Rugby Club when it was disbanded in 1878. The club had been … formed in 1873, but lack of players hastened it's demise. During the period of the British East India Company, the Britishers made their headquarters in Calcutta (now Kolkata), as a result Calcutta also became India's capital. Later … the capital was transferred to Delhi by King George 5 to crush nationalist feelings.
Satellite view is showing Kolkata (formerly known as Calcutta), a major river port and the third most populous city in India. The city is located near the Bay of Bengal in the north east of the country on the banks of the Hooghly River, a tributary of the Ganges. Kolkata is also known as the City of Palaces, it was the capital of India during the British Indian Empire (British Raj) until 1911. Just zoom in (+) to see Victoria Memorial Hall and its garden. The Victoria Memorial is one of Kolkata's tourist attractions, it serves as a museum for the history of the city
Print this map. The ancient diamond shaped country of India, the largest region of the Indian Subcontinent, extends from the Himalayan Mountains in the north and south into the tropical reaches of the Indian Ocean. With a population of 1,220,800,359 (2013 est). 
UTC+5:30. Kolkata (Bengali:কলকাতা) [1] (formerly Calcutta) is the capital of West Bengal and the second largest city in India (after Mumbai). If Bangalore is the Seattle of India, than Kolkata is the sub-contintent's London. It is an 'in your face' city that shocks and charms the unsuspecting visitor. Abject poverty mixes inexplicably with crumbling British Raj-era gems, sprawling gardens and historical colleges. 1 Hotel Aston, 3, Aston Road, Kolkata - 700 020, India, ☎ 091-033-24863145, [25]. 2  Hotel Aston is strategically situated in the heart of Kolkata, India, close to the city center. 3  It is 20 km from the Dumdum Airport and 6 km from the Howrah Railway Station.