Time the Hens Set   It only takes 21 days for fertile eggs, properly incubated by a hen or in an incubator, to hatch. Note that this number begins not when the first egg … in the clutch is laid, but when the hen stops laying and begins the setting process.
Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions.
A chicken may take from about 5 minutes to an hour to lay her egg.  She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes  about 20 hours for an egg to be made … inside her body. That's why  she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg.
1 With natural hatching, failure is to be expected. 2  Not all clutches will hatch, and even when a broody hen goes the distance and sits on the eggs for 21 days, not all eggs will hatch into viable chicks. 3  Expect some to die emerging from the egg, or before-you may have eggs that simply don't hatch, ever.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It takes 20 day for a mother hen to hatch her eggs, and 21 days if your using an incubator.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances.
1 So, you'll need at least one rooster per twenty hens to get a good amount of fertilized eggs for your broody to hatch. 2  With natural hatching, failure is to be expected. 3  Not all clutches will hatch, and even when a broody hen goes the distance and sits on the eggs for 21 days, not all eggs will hatch into viable chicks.
21 days. She makes a clutch because if she just kept laying eggs and sitting on them, the chicks would all hatch … on different days. Eggs can keep for quite a while, while the hen is making a clutch.   How long does it take for her to make a clutch?   A clutch takes however long she'd like it to take lol.