A barnacle is a type of arthropod constituting the infraclass Cirripedia in the subphylum Crustacea, and is hence related to crabs and lobsters. Barnacles are exclusively marine, and tend to live in shallow and tidal waters, typically in erosive settings. They are sessile (nonmotile) suspension feeders, and have two nektonic (active swimming) larval stages. Around 1,220 barnacle species are currently known. The name Cirripedia is Latin, meaning curl-footed. The order Pedunculata ( goose barnacles  and others) attach themselves by means of a stalk. Free-living barnacles are attached to the substratum by cement glands that form the base of the first pair of antennae; in effect, the animal is fixed upside down by means of its forehead.
There are 6 pairs of cirri in a goose barnacle Pollicipes polymerus. Cirri IV-VI are large, of similar size, and form the feeding basket or net. Each cirrus is biramous so the entire basket is made up of 24 units or rami. Research study 5. Juvenile goose barnacles Pollicipes polymerus use a different mode of feeding from adults. Instead of holding their cirri out into the water flow the way the adults do, the juveniles slowly beat their cirri in the manner of acorn barnacles.
They receive minimal exposure to water; at the most, once a day. They are most often found within cracks and crevices in rocks to minimize their exposure to sunlight, which helps prevent desiccation. Pollicipes polymerus is most commonly found in colonies of many other gooseneck barnacles. Pollicipes polymerus is a hermaphrodite, meaning it is equipped with both male and female reproductive organs. These organs mature at relatively the same rate in the gooseneck barnacles. Although it is hermaphroditic, it usually will not self-fertilize unless there are no other barnacles within about eight inches.
As the barnacle larvae are so tiny, they float around with the plankton in the water. Once the barnacle is older and has it's tough outer shell, few predators can actually eat it. Humans are known to eat goose barnacles (the only edible species of barnacle) in parts of Europe like Spain and Portugal. The shell of the barnacle is made up of a number of plates (usually 6), with feathery leg-like appendages that draw water into their shell so that they can feed.
The heart-shaped shell, or ‘capitulum’, is a chalky-white in colour and has black lines, which were thought to resemble the head of the barnacle goose Branta leucopsis. Because barnacle geese rarely nest in Britain no-one had ever seen their eggs or nests. If barnacles grow in sufficient numbers on the hull of a ship, they increase the vessel’s drag though the water and have to be removed when the ship is dry-docked. However, they were considered a great delicacy in some parts of the world.
Barnacles attach themselves to animals when they are very young and in the larvae stage of their lives. Once the baby barnacle has effectively glued itself to something hard, a thin layer of flesh wraps around the barnacle and an outer shell is produced. The shell of the barnacle is made up of a number of plates (usually 6), with feathery leg-like appendages that draw water into their shell so that they can feed.
NOTE the video replays automatically. A 26-mo study on growth and reproduction of goose barnacles Pollicipes polymerus at 2 sites in San Juan Island, Washington shows that growth is fast during the first year, to a rostrum-carina length of 17mm, but subsequently slows to 2mm. yr-1. Breeding in this area occurs in late April to early October. Research study 5. Juvenile goose barnacles Pollicipes polymerus use a different mode of feeding from adults. Instead of holding their cirri out into the water flow the way the adults do, the juveniles slowly beat their cirri in the manner of acorn barnacles.
Description [edit]. Barnacles are encrusters, attaching themselves permanently to a hard substrate. The most common, acorn barnacles (Sessilia), are sessile, growing their shells directly onto the substrate. The order Pedunculata ( goose barnacles  and others) attach themselves by means of a stalk. Free-living barnacles are attached to the substratum by cement glands that form the base of the first pair of antennae; in effect, the animal is fixed upside down by means of its forehead.
Learn more about this article. Lepas anatifera is made up of two parts; the capitulum, 4-5 cm long, bears the feeding tentacles and body of the barnacle, and the peduncle, 4-85 cm long, which is a flexible, contractile stalk that attaches the barnacle to floating objects. 
Barnacle is a small but a hardy saltwater animal belonging to Arthropoda phylum along with being put in the class Crustacea and the order Cirripedia. Barnacles are usually found attached to ships, rocks, wharves, marine animals and to other hard surfaces. Acorn barnacle, Brown Buckshot barnacle, Goose barnacle and Thatched barnacle are some common types of barnacle. Barnacles are closely related to lobsters and crabs as they too have a hard outer cover.