crush_star. Since the doctors are not the stuff of lenscrafters, the cost of eye exam at lenscrafters are different, depending on the place that lenscrafters located and the doctor you choose. Well, the average cost of getting an eye text at lenscrafters ranges from $50 to $100 without insurance. If you want to get eye exam at lenscrafters at a cheaper price, you can search lenscrafters eye exam coupon online to get discount, maybe sometimes you can get a free exam. The cost of basic eye exam is between $50 to $100, if you don't have insurance. In fact, the price depends on places because different places charge different prices since the doctors at lenscrafters are not work for lenscrafters directly. Also, you can get eye exam at Costco, Walmart, etc. good (0) Report Abuse.
1 Glasses can cost just $8 or up to $600 for those without insurance. 2  For name brands, prices can range between $50 and $1,000 or more. 3  At an eye doctor's clinic, prices for eyeglasses will vary depending upon the frames, lenses and region of the country. 1 Prices vary tremendously, depending upon the type of frame, lenses and type of retailer. 2  Glasses can cost just $8 or up to $600 for those without insurance. 3
The doctor located next lenscrafters will set the price. So if you want to know how much does an eye exam will cost in the store you choose, you may need to call the store for more information. And they will charge you extra money for you don't have insurance. I think may be the total price is around $100. Good luck!
The basic eye exam at lenscrafters would cost you $59. However, if you need to get a comprehensive eye exam, you should pay more $35 for your eye exam. But You may find the price of the eye exam different in different places. Some optomologists at Lenscrafters would charge you about $75 for the exam. So if you want to know how much does an eye exam will cost in the store you choose, you may need to call the store for more information. And they will charge you extra money for you don't have insurance. I think may be the total price is around $100. Good luck!
Generally, eye exam costs can range from less than $50 (usually at a retail store or optical chain) to $100 or more (usually at a medical clinic or private eye doctor's office). Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. 
Eye Exam Costings. You obviously got to this page to find out Lenscrafters eye exam cost. The Lenscrafters eye exam cost for a basic exam sits at around $60 mark. This price is slightly pricier than at other chains, but also cheaper than some others. Also, this cost does not take into account things such as coupons. Lenscrafters Eye Exam Cost. When you need an eye exam, lets face it, there are so many different options of eye care chains in America, each with their own advantages and disadvantages. You have Lenscrafters, Pearle Vision, America’s Best, and many, many more.
Best Answer: My eye exam at LensCrafters about 3 weeks ago was $75. I have progressive lenses, and I chose the featherweight plus package. Total cost of lenses $315. Cost will vary depending on what you choose in your package. 
If you are just having the very basic exam, the Lenscrafters eye exam cost is approximately $60 USD. This is a fairly standard price for an eye exam, although if they have a coupon for eye exams the price paid will then drop. 