Here you will probably actually work just 40 hours a week. These jobs rarely require excessive unpaid overtime and extraneous obligations. But the salaries are lower. Federal government law jobs may pay you closer to $54,000, and state attorneys may make only $30,000 per year. If you work at a large firm, you are more likely to end up working those 66 hour + weeks (remember, since that was an average, that means a lot of people work more than 66 hours per week). If you work at a medium sized firm on the other hand, you will probably work closer to 42-54 hours per week.
Hours Per Work Week. Prosecutors are employees of state, local or federal government and are paid based on an eight-hour work day. According to the American Prosecutors Research Institute, however, many prosecuting attorneys are logging between 10-30 hours of overtime on a regular basis. 
The normal, legal working hours is 8 hours per day, or 48 hours a week. Employees can work up to 6 days per week and must get at least one full day (24 hours) off per week, and this should normally be a Sunday. Enterprises have the right to limit the working hour but not in contrary to what the law say.
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not limit the number of hours per day or per week that employees aged 16 years and older can be required to work. 
If your employees are salaried, how many hours can they work? And are salaried workers ever entitled to overtime pay? The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not limit the number of hours per day or per week that employees 16 years and older can be required to work, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.
If your company employs youth workers, you are bound by federal and state child labor laws. Federal law limits the number of hours you can require 14- and 15-year-olds to work. When school is in session, these children cannot work more than three hours per day. When school is out, they can't work more than eight hours per day. Check your state law for overtime rules, because many of them require overtime payment based on hours worked per day. For example, California employers must pay time and a half when an employee works more than eight hours in a day and double time for more than 12 hours in the workday.
The working hours of lawyers in the US vary depending on the kind of work they are doing and their position in their law firm. Junior associates in large firms may work 15 or more hours per day. Senior partners may put in 6-8 hours, or more or less, depending on age, stamina, and interest. I would doubt that any lawyer only works 40 hours a week and some may work around the clock or 80 hours a week. But there's no set time frame that's standard for lawyers.
These employees do not qualify for overtime pay under federal or state law, and many of them are paid on a salary basis. Salaried exempt employees are not paid based on hours worked, but you may require that they work a specific number of hours per week, such as eight hours per day and 40 hours per week.
How is the maximum number of hours a person should work? The normal, legal working hours is 8 hours per day, or 48 hours per week. The maximum number of overtime is 2 hours per day. Therefore, the maximum number of hours a person should be employed, according to the law, is 10 hours per day. Employees can work up to 6 days per week and must get at least one full day (24 hours) off per week, and this should normally be a Sunday. Enterprises have the right to limit the working hour but not in contrary to what the law say.
Overtime Pay. Under federal law, when your hourly employees work more than 40 hours in a workweek, you must pay them at least one and a half times their regular hourly rate. Check your state law for overtime rules, because many of them require overtime payment based on hours worked per day. For example, California employers must pay time and a half when an employee works more than eight hours in a day and double time for more than 12 hours in the workday.