Pleasing to the ear; soft; melodious; harmonious; as, the sweet notes of a flute or an organ; sweet music; a sweet voice; a sweet singer. To make his English sweet upon his tongue. 1. Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; - opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges. 2. Pleasing to the smell; fragrant; redolent; balmy; as, a sweet rose; sweet odor; sweet incense. The breath of these flowers is sweet to me. - Longfellow
1. That which is sweet to the taste; - used chiefly in the plural. 2. That which is sweet or pleasant in odor; a perfume. 3. That which is pleasing or grateful to the mind; as, the sweets of domestic life. A little bitter mingled in our cup leaves no relish of the sweet. - Locke. 1. Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; - opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges. 2. Pleasing to the smell; fragrant; redolent; balmy; as, a sweet rose; sweet odor; sweet incense. The breath of these flowers is sweet to me. - Longfellow
sweetie. Informal. A person who is much loved: beloved, darling, dear, honey, love, minion, precious, sweet, sweetheart, truelove. Idiom: light of one's life. 
adjective. noun. The definition of sweet is a description for a person who is nice or for something that tastes good and that is usually sugary. 1  An example of sweet is the way you describe a generally nice girl that everyone likes. 2  An example of sweet is the way you would describe the taste of cake or candy
Definition of SWEETY. British spelling of sweetie 1. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
noun. 1  affectionate form of address or reference for one's significant other. 2  See more words with the same meaning: boyfriend, girlfriend, boo, significant other. 
sweet. adj. 1. (Cookery) having or denoting a pleasant taste like that of sugar. 2. agreeable to the senses or the mind: sweet music. sweet. adj. sweet·er, sweet·est. 1. Having the taste of sugar or a substance containing or resembling sugar, as honey or saccharin. 2. a. Containing or derived from sugar. b. Retaining some natural sugar; not dry: a sweet wine. 3. a. Pleasing to the senses; agreeable: the sweet song of the lark; a sweet face