It is almost impossible to define what wootz is. There is much debate between scholars and smiths (and between smiths themselves) over this subject. Some say it is any carbon steel made in a crucible, others say that it must have a destinct pattern. 
Definition of WOOTZ. : a steel made anciently in India by crude methods in small crucibles according to the oldest known process for making fused steel. wootz or wootz steel. ADVERTISEMENT. perhaps a mistranscription of wook, borrowed from Kannada urku, ukku “ something melted, fused metal, steel ”. 
Ofcourse if you ask 3 different people what wootz steel is, you will more than likely recieve 3 different answers ! I will explain what i believe to be is the idea of wootz steel and how it comes to be. Wootz is firstly a crucible steel. The steel is born by putting the charge ingredients in a cup like vessel called a crucible. Wootz Ingredients. The wootz ingredients that i like to use are simply a pig iron of a known 3% to 4% carbon, and clean low carbon iron plate. A ratio of pig iron to low carbon iron is used so that the final carbon level of the melted charge will be above 1.5% C and bellow 1.9%.
We will have to wait and see on that one. So, that's great that I can make wootz, but what exactly IS it. Wootz is unlike practically any steel in use today, in some cases being closer in composition to cast iron than it is to most cutlery and tool steels. 
Wootz steel is a steel characterized by a pattern of bands or sheets of micro carbides within a tempered martensite or pearlite matrix. It is the pioneering steel alloy matrix developed in South India in the sixth century BC and exported globally. It was also known in the ancient world as Seric Iron. Oral tradition in India maintains that a small piece of either white or black hematite (or old wootz) had to be included in each melt, and that a minimum of these elements must be present in the steel for the proper segregation of the micro carbides to take place.
The Wootz steel originated in South India. There are several ancient Tamil, Greek, Chinese and Roman literary references to high carbon Indian steel since the time of Alexander's India campaign. Oral tradition in India maintains that a small piece of either white or black hematite (or old wootz) had to be included in each melt, and that a minimum of these elements must be present in the steel for the proper segregation of the micro carbides to take place.
Definition: Wootz is the name given to an exceptional grade of iron ore steel first made in southern and south central India and Sri Lanka perhaps as early as 300 BC. Wootz is formed using a crucible to melt, burn away impurities and add important ingredients, and it contains a high carbon content (nearly 1.5%). The term 'wootz' appears in English in the late 18th century, and is probably derived from ukku, the word for crucible steel in the Indian language Kannada, and possibly from 'ekku' in old Tamil.
Wootz steel is the result of a complex process of smelting and forging, with varied ingredients used in the crucible stage. Mechanical manipulation of the steel (bending, twisting, folding) in the forging process resulted in a variety of patterns that today we call wootz. Both wootz steel and pattern-welded steel are called Damascus steel, but despite the superficial decorative features they are quite different.
The word wootz appears to have originated as a mistranscription of wook, an anglicised version of ukku, the word for steel in the Kannada language. According to one theory, the word ukku is based on the meaning melt, dissolve; other Dravidian languages have similar sounding words for steel. Oral tradition in India maintains that a small piece of either white or black hematite (or old wootz) had to be included in each melt, and that a minimum of these elements must be present in the steel for the proper segregation of the micro carbides to take place.
The secret is in the steel structure. Wootz Steel consist of relatively soft and very tough matrix saturated with fine grains of very hard and abrasive particles called cementite (in some cases carbides). The matrix make the blade very tough. It is hard to break a wootz blade. Quite often wootz is called Wootz Damascus. This is not an accurate definition. It is based on the visible pattern on the polished and etched steel that may resemble some Damascus patterns. The main differences in genuine Wootz Steel and Damascus Steel are the technology and the steel composition.