A diagram of the knee, showing the anterior cruciate ligament. Damage to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) can occur when the knee is injured by a sudden, direct blow. An anterior cruciate ligament tear is common among athletes and can cause severe pain and swelling.
The anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments cross over one another inside the knee. The anterior and posterior ligaments are responsible for maintaining the correct anatomical position of the femur and tibia. Another function of the anterior cruciate ligament is to allow stable rotation of the knee joint. Damage to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) can occur when the knee is injured by a sudden, direct blow. An anterior cruciate ligament tear is common among athletes and can cause severe pain and swelling.
The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is a ligament within the knee. Ligaments are tough bands of tissue that connect bones. The PCL -- similar to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) -- connects the thigh bone (femur) to your shin bone (tibia). Although it is larger and stronger than the ACL, the PCL can be torn. PCL tears make up less than 20% of injuries to knee ligaments.
Anterior and Posterior Cruciate Ligament Injuries. The anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments are important to the stability of the knee joint. They make the joint stable and yet are configured in such a way as to allow for more than 90 degrees of flexion of the knee. Posterior cruciate ligament tears involve the exact grades as noted above with ACL ligamentous injuries. One big difference between PCL and ACL tears is that most PCL tears are only partial tears whereas the ACL tears are usually complete.
The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the four main ligaments of the knee, and the ACL provides 85% of the restraining force to anterior tibial displacement at 30 degrees and 90 degrees of knee flexion. Posterior aspect. An anterior view of the right knee, showing anterior cruciate ligament with anteromedial (AM) and posterolateral (PL) bundles. Anterior cruciate ligament (surrounded by synovium) during knee arthroscopy. Lateral epicondylus of the femur can be seen to the right.
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of a pair of cruciate ligaments (the other being the posterior cruciate ligament) in the human knee. They are also called cruciform ligaments as they are arranged in a crossed formation. Posterior aspect. An anterior view of the right knee, showing anterior cruciate ligament with anteromedial (AM) and posterolateral (PL) bundles. Anterior cruciate ligament (surrounded by synovium) during knee arthroscopy. Lateral epicondylus of the femur can be seen to the right.
The PCL is an intracapsular ligament along with the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) because it lies deep within the knee joint. They are both isolated from the fluid-filled synovial cavity, with the synovial membrane wrapped around them. The PCL gets its name by attaching to the posterior portion of the tibia. The function of the PCL is to prevent the femur from sliding off the anterior edge of the tibia and to prevent the tibia from displacing posterior to the femur. The posterior cruciate ligament is located within the knee.
They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee. This type of sprain is most commonly referred to as a complete tear of the ligament. The ligament has been split into two pieces, and the knee joint is unstable. Partial tears of the anterior cruciate ligament are rare; most ACL injuries are complete or near complete tears.
One of the most common knee injuries is an anterior cruciate ligament sprain or tear. Athletes who participate in high demand sports like soccer, football, and basketball are more likely to injure their anterior cruciate ligaments. This type of sprain is most commonly referred to as a complete tear of the ligament. The ligament has been split into two pieces, and the knee joint is unstable. Partial tears of the anterior cruciate ligament are rare; most ACL injuries are complete or near complete tears.
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a band of tough, fibrous connective tissue in the middle of the human knee joint. It is one of four main ligaments in the knee. The anterior cruciate ligament is connected to both the tibia, or shin bone, and the femur, or thigh bone. Three other ligaments also connect to the tibia and femur. The medial collateral ligament runs along the inside of the knee joint and prevents it from bending inward. Damage to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) can occur when the knee is injured by a sudden, direct blow. An anterior cruciate ligament tear is common among athletes and can cause severe pain and swelling.