Balfour Declaration was announced by the then foreign minister of Britain,Earl Balfour in the year 1916.By this declaration the British lodged their support in favor of establ … ishing an independent state of Israel for the Jews.
The Balfour Declaration was issued in the form of a letter from the British Foreign Secretary, Lord Arthur James Balfour, to Lord Rothschild. It was delivered to Chaim Weizmann, a Zionist activist, expressing British support for a Jewish national home in Palestine.
The Balfour Declaration was a November 2, 1917 letter from British Foreign Secretary Arthur James Balfour to Lord Rothschild that made public the British support of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. The Balfour Declaration led the League of Nations to entrust the United Kingdom with the Palestine Mandate in 1922.
The Balfour Declaration (1917) was a promise to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine. The document was a letter sent by UK Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour to Baron Rothsc … hild, for transmission to the Zionist Federation of Great Britain and Ireland. 26 people found this useful.
On November 2, 1917, Foreign Secretary Arthur James Balfour writes a letter to Britain’s most illustrious Jewish citizen, Baron Lionel Walter Rothschild, expressing the British government’s support for a Jewish homeland in Palestine.
Alhough Balfour, himself, was in favor of a Jewish state, Great Britain particularly favored the declaration as an act of policy. Britain wanted the United States to join World War I and the British hoped that by supporting a Jewish homeland in Palestine, world Jewry would be able to sway the U.S. to join the war.
Though the Balfour Declaration went through several drafts, the final version was issued on November 2, 1917, in a letter from Balfour to Lord Rothschild, president of the British Zionist Federation. The main body of the letter quoted the decision of the October 31, 1917 British Cabinet meeting.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Balfour Declaration (1917) was a promise to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine. The document was a letter sent by UK Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour to Baron Rothschild, for transmission to the Zionist Federation of Great Britain and Ireland.
Galilee C. international disapproval of Anti-Semitism D. Palestinian support of the creation of a Jewish state near the Dead Sea. Balfour Declaration announced A. British support in establishing a Jewish homeland in Palestine.