Different Kinds Of Moths. Atlas Moth. This moth is considered to be the largest in the world and is commonly found in the tropical and subtropical forests of Southeast Asia and the Malay Archipelago. Other Types Of Moths include: White Witch moth or Thysania Agrippina is said to have the biggest wingspan. Madagascan Sunset moth or Chrysiridia rhipheus is considered to be one of the most impressive and beautiful in the Lepidoptera family.
Moths and butterflies usually stay close to the food plants used by their young. However, there are so many kinds of moths, and they eat so many kinds of plants and plant parts, that different species can be found in almost all land habitats. Moth and butterfly caterpillars are usually found on or near their food. Moths and Butterflies are found all around the world. Some species live only in a small area, but many are found all across a continent. There are more than 12,000 species of moths and butterflies known just in the U.S., and probably more than 2,000 species in Michigan.
If you have ever seen the different types of moths that exists you have probably thought that they look a lot like a butterfly. However, you should remember that you can tell the difference between a moth and a butterfly because most moths will come out at night. However, some moths are farmed. An example of these types of moths includes the silkworm. It is farmed because it produces silk in their cocoons and that is what the farmers want. Other types of moths that are farmed for their silk include the Chinese oak silkmoth and the Japanese silk moth.
One of the easiest ways to tell the difference between a butterfly and a moth is to look at the antennae. Butterflies and moths have many things in common, mainly scales that cover their bodies and wings. These scales are actually modified hairs. 1 Butterflies and skippers (hooked-shaped antennae) make up 6 to 11 percent of Lepidoptera order, while moths make up 89-94 percent of the Lepidoptera order. 2  It is not true that if you touch a butterfly’s wing and the ‘powder’ rubs off that the butterfly will not be able to fly.
Types Of Moths. A moth is an insect often confused with a butterfly and belongs to the order Lepidoptera. Moths form the majority of this order and consist of over 150,000 to 250,000 different species. In general, moths are nocturnal with traces of crepuscular and diurnal species among them. Other Types Of Moths include: White Witch moth or Thysania Agrippina is said to have the biggest wingspan. Madagascan Sunset moth or Chrysiridia rhipheus is considered to be one of the most impressive and beautiful in the Lepidoptera family.
The largest types of moths in the world are atlas moths. However, the moth that has the largest wingspan is the white witch moth. One certain type of moth has been known to make appearances in movies and art as well. This is the death’s-head hawkmoth and it is often associated with the supernatural and evil. However, some moths are farmed. An example of these types of moths includes the silkworm. It is farmed because it produces silk in their cocoons and that is what the farmers want. Other types of moths that are farmed for their silk include the Chinese oak silkmoth and the Japanese silk moth.
These types of moths may be found in your home in the kitchen or in areas where food is stored such as a pantry. Because there are so many different types of moths you may be wondering what types you have in and around your home. You can always research them online or in your local library. However, some moths are farmed. An example of these types of moths includes the silkworm. It is farmed because it produces silk in their cocoons and that is what the farmers want. Other types of moths that are farmed for their silk include the Chinese oak silkmoth and the Japanese silk moth.
For other uses, see Moth (disambiguation) . Moths comprise a group of insects related to butterflies, belonging to the order Lepidoptera. Most lepidopterans are moths and there are thought to be approximately 160,000 species of moth, many of which are yet to be described. Most species of moth are nocturnal, but there are also crepuscular and diurnal species. 
More fascinating facts about butterflies and moths. 1  There are many more species of moths than butterflies. 2  Butterflies and skippers (hooked-shaped antennae) make up 6 to 11 percent of Lepidoptera order, while moths make up 89-94 percent of the Lepidoptera order. 1 Butterflies and skippers (hooked-shaped antennae) make up 6 to 11 percent of Lepidoptera order, while moths make up 89-94 percent of the Lepidoptera order. 2  It is not true that if you touch a butterfly’s wing and the ‘powder’ rubs off that the butterfly will not be able to fly.