Tours: A tour of Camden Yards is a great way to get an up close and personal look at the stadium. Tickets are $9 for adults, $6 for children 14 and under and seniors 55 and older, and free for kids 3 and younger. Opened in 1992, the park ushered in a new era of retro-ballparks in urban areas. With its signature warehouse and gorgeous location near the Inner Harbor, Oriole Park at Camden Yards remains one of baseball's best ballparks.
Some of the best value seats in Orioles Park on a night in and night out basis are lower reserved sections 55 – 65 and 7 - 17. They go for about $19 for a standard game, which is $13 less than the seats directly in front of you. In lots F, G, and H you can park for $8, (relatively cheap), and you have a pretty easy in and out as well. You will have a fair walk from here, as the lot is just east of the Raven’s stadium. There are other unofficial lots nearby which will cost you around $10, and that is as cheap as it’s going to get, unfortunately.
The subway in Baltimore costs about $3.20 for a round trip ride, and they have a page set-up specifically for Camden Yards here. Most of the parking lots really close to Orioles Park are reserved, and not open to those without passes. In lots F, G, and H you can park for $8, (relatively cheap), and you have a pretty easy in and out as well. You will have a fair walk from here, as the lot is just east of the Raven’s stadium. There are other unofficial lots nearby which will cost you around $10, and that is as cheap as it’s going to get, unfortunately.
The park is situated in downtown Baltimore, a few blocks west of the Inner Harbor in the Camden Yards Sports Complex. The Orioles celebrated the ballpark's 20th anniversary during the 2012 season and launched the website CamdenYards20.com as part of the celebration. Camden Yards was built on land that once served as the rail yard for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad 's Camden Station. The view from much of the park is dominated by the former B&O Warehouse behind the right-field wall.
Oriole Park at Camden Yards is one of the best examples of a retro ballpark in a modern city setting. This charming ballpark in Baltimore is home to the Baltimore Orioles baseball team and is located right next to the Ravens Stadium. 
Subject to availability, limited parking may also be offered in Lot B and C on a first-come, first-served basis. Off-site, over 30,000 spaces are located in secure garages and open lots throughout the downtown/Inner Harbor area within a short walk of Oriole Park. Accessible parking. Accessible parking spaces have been reserved for disabled season ticket holders utilizing equal access seating. The remaining accessible parking spaces are available on a first-come first-served basis. Spaces are located in Lots A & B and are clearly marked.
By Steve Kilar. Eighteen years after Oriole Park at Camden Yards opened in Baltimore to universal praise — and seasons of sold-out games — baseball fans continue to visit the brick-and-steel park that is often credited with rejuvenating ballpark design. However, the city pays out $1 million per year toward the debt on Oriole Park, as required by Maryland law, and will continue to do so through the end of the stadium lease in 2021. Once the $1 million is subtracted from the admission tax revenue, the city nets an average of $38,681 a year from the Orioles.
Though no longer the newest kid on the block, Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore remains the jewel of baseball's so-called new generation of stadiums. Opened in 1992, the park ushered in a new era of retro-ballparks in urban areas. With its signature warehouse and gorgeous location near the Inner Harbor, Oriole Park at Camden Yards remains one of baseball's best ballparks.
However, parking would be available on Lot A. Lots B and C DAILY Parking Monday – Friday before 2pm = $8.00 per carParking Monday – Friday after 2pm = $10.00 per carAll day Saturday and Sunday = $10.00 per carOVERSIZED VEHICLES = daily fee of $25.00*Lots B&C will not be available on March 5, 2008. Additional Parking InformationParking: Following are the rates available for parking lots in Camden Yards.•Parking will NOT be available on Lots B OR C on March 5th.
The Orioles’ assertion is supported by a 2006 study published by the Stadium Authority that estimated Oriole Park at Camden Yards produced approximately $7.5 million in local taxes – including income, amusement, parking and hotel taxes – for that year. But some still believe the city has been shortchanged. However, the city pays out $1 million per year toward the debt on Oriole Park, as required by Maryland law, and will continue to do so through the end of the stadium lease in 2021. Once the $1 million is subtracted from the admission tax revenue, the city nets an average of $38,681 a year from the Orioles.