The majority of what we know as plastic today is made from materials that are extracted from crude oil. Often the same type of crude oil that is used to produce the fuels for cars. There are many other types of polymer, both natural and synthetic: cellulose, starch, silicones, teflon, PVC, etc. Each kind of plastic has a different raw material; generally it's  fairly obvious from the name of the plastic (for example: the raw  material for poly (vinyl chloride) is v … inyl chloride, IUPAC name  chloroethene).    A lot of them are ultimately based on petroleum (crude oil)  derivatives
Plastics are derived from organic products. The materials used in the production of plastics are natural products such as cellulose, coal, natural gas, salt and, of course, crude oil. Crude oil is a complex mixture of thousands of compounds. To become useful, it must be processed
Plastic resins are, in turn, used to produce many different types of plastic. The majority of what we know as plastic today is made from materials that are extracted from crude oil. Often the same type of crude oil that is used to produce the fuels for cars. There are many other types of polymer, both natural and synthetic: cellulose, starch, silicones, teflon, PVC, etc. But for the most part the raw material of plastic is hydrocarbons found naturally in oil. Take cellulose acetate--a very popular polymer, used mostly in thin films. It's made from cotton. Some rubbers are made from the sap of a tree.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The raw material for plastics is hydrocarbons. These have come from petroleum. However, they can be made from other sources. Recycling of the present plastics is of course important. I have some plastic bags and a cup made fro corn. There are packing peanuts made of corn.
Many are made from crude oil and NGLs-natural Gas Liquids and other hydrocarbons. Other materials such as chlorine to make PVC, are obtained from electrolysis of seawater. Cellulosic polymers are made wood and plant materials. Quite a few rubbers are tapped from the rubber tree. Each kind of plastic has a different raw material; generally it's  fairly obvious from the name of the plastic (for example: the raw  material for poly (vinyl chloride) is v … inyl chloride, IUPAC name  chloroethene).    A lot of them are ultimately based on petroleum (crude oil)  derivatives
Plastic is a material consisting of any of a wide range of synthetic or semi-synthetic organics that are malleable and can be molded into solid objects of diverse shapes. Plastics are typically organic polymers of high molecular mass, but they often contain other substances. 
Plastics are everywhere. While you're reading this article, there are probably numerous plastic items within your reach (your computer, your pen, your phone). A plastic is any material that can be shaped or molded into any form -- some are naturally occurring, but most are man-made. Plastics are made from oil. Oil is a carbon-rich raw material, and plastics are large carbon-containing compounds. They're large molecules called polymers, which are composed of repeating units of shorter carbon-containing compounds called monomers. 
The chemical composition of plastics is different depending on what type of plastic your dealing with. But for the most part the raw material of plastic is hydrocarbons found naturally in oil. Take cellulose acetate--a very popular polymer, used mostly in thin films. It's made from cotton. Some rubbers are made from the sap of a tree.