The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and … lat er they can also Choose, German spanish Or. french The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and … lat er they can also Choose, German spanish Or. French. answered
As already mentionned: swedish but you've asked your question for SWITZERLAND (the small country in the heart of Europe/famous for it's chocolate,cheese,mountains,banks etc.) and there they speak 4 languages which are: Swiss German French Italian Rumantsch. madonna_toller · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: You do know that Sweden and Switzerland isn't the same place, don't you? They speak Swedish in Sweden and Swiss German,French Italian, and Romansh (or Rumantsch) in Switzerland.
Sweden's main language is Swedish. Most people in Sweden also speak English, as children learn it as a second language from the beginning of grade school. The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and … lat er they can also Choose, German spanish Or. French. answered
The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and … late r they can also Choose, German spanish Or. french Swedish is the national language, and there is five miority languages: Finnish, Sapmi, Mienkaeli, Mienkäli, Jiddish. Romuva but there are several opressed languages In sweden in THE un. Definition those Are, Skanish, Skånish pijmal Älvdalska. jaemtish jämtish and aelvdalska älvdalska
That's different from Sweden. So, I've answered the question to both. In Switzerland, they speak French, German Italian and Romansh In Sweden, they speak Swedish I've also included the wikipedia links to both countries. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweden#Lang... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_o... Alex B · 9 years ago. 
The Kingdom of Sweden is a nation-state for the Swedish people, and as such, their national language is held in very high regard. Of Sweden's roughly nine million people, almost all speak Swedish as at least a second language, and the majority as a first language (7,825,000, according to SIL's Ethnologue). In medieval Sweden, the Low German language had a very important role as a commercial language and the lingua franca of the Hanseatic league. As such, the Low German language influenced Swedish and other languages in the region considerably. In medieval Stockholm, half of the population were Low German speakers.
The official languages are 4: 1. Swedish 2. Swedish sign language 3. Finlands-svenska-Finnish-Swedish which is a the Swedish the Finnish Swedes in Finland speaks where … Swedish is one of the official languages. During the 1900's 200 000 Fins emigrated to Sweden and they passed on the language to their kids as well so that is one of the reasons It is also a official language of Sweden. 5. The minority languages of Sweden are: samiska, tornedalsfinska, Finnish, Romani chib and Jiddisch. Swedish is the national language, and there is five miority languages: Finnish, Sapmi, Mienkaeli, Mienkäli, Jiddish. Romuva but there are several opressed languages In sweden in THE un. Definition those Are, Skanish, Skånish pijmal Älvdalska. jaemtish jämtish and aelvdalska älvdalska
Finnish was the majority language of Sweden's eastern parts, though it was used almost exclusively as a spoken language. These areas were also home of a significant Swedish-speaking minority. Finnish became a minority language in the west as well since many Finnish speakers migrated there (mostly for economic reasons). In medieval Sweden, the Low German language had a very important role as a commercial language and the lingua franca of the Hanseatic league. As such, the Low German language influenced Swedish and other languages in the region considerably. In medieval Stockholm, half of the population were Low German speakers.
The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And. Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and later they can also Choose, German spanish Or. french The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and … lat er they can also Choose, German spanish Or. French. answered
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Swedish is the official language of Sweden and is spoken by the vast majority of the nine million inhabitants of the country. It is a North Germanic language and quite similar to its sister Scandinavian languages, Danish and Norwegian. In medieval Sweden, the Low German language had a very important role as a commercial language and the lingua franca of the Hanseatic league. As such, the Low German language influenced Swedish and other languages in the region considerably. In medieval Stockholm, half of the population were Low German speakers.