First, the light from a laser contains exactly one color or wavelength rather than a lot of different wavelengths. Scientists say that laser light is  monochromatic , meaning of one color. Flash is required to view this animation. Second, all the wavelengths are in phase. That is, they are all waving together, like a well-timed audience wave at a football game. All the wave crests (high points) and troughs (low points) are lined up. Scientists say the laser light is  coherent ..
Monochromatic. The light emitted from a laser is monochromatic, that is, it is of one wavelength (color). In contrast, ordinary white light is a combination of many different wavelengths (colors). Coherent. The light from a laser is said to be coherent, which means the wavelengths of the laser light are in phase in space and time. These three properties of laser light are what make it more of a hazard than ordinary light.
White light is a mixture of many waves of different links called frequency, it's like musical instruments playing different notes, but the light from a laser contains waves of … one light only which make a single color. 2- It is coherent, that is, the waves of light of the laser are in phase. Just like two sea waves when they are both at their maximum height, all waves of the light in a laser are exactly at the same amplitude, all time. 3- It is highly directional. Laser light is emitted as a narrow beam in a specific direction.
A laser is different in three main ways: 1- The light emitted from a laser is monochromatic, that is, it only has one wavelength (color). Ordinary light on the other hand, i … s a combination of many different wavelengths (colors). 2- It is coherent, that is, the waves of light of the laser are in phase. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. White light is a mixture of many waves of different links called frequency, it's like musical instruments playing different notes, but the light from a laser contains waves of one light only which make a single color.
Laser light is monochromatic and coherent and the beam does not diverge significantly. White light is a mixture of all the colours and is not coherent. I don't know what you mean by 'stronger'. The energy density of a laser beam is greater than the energy density of a white light beam. Retsum · 7 years ago.
Laser light is coherent and monochromatic, whereas natural light is not coherent and is polychromatic. . Monochromatic means all the light is an exact color-in fact, an exac … t wavelength, whereas natural white light comprises a random assortment of all colors (all visible wavelengths). Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. White light is a mixture of many waves of different links called frequency, it's like musical instruments playing different notes, but the light from a laser contains waves of one light only which make a single color.
Laser light is very different from normal light. Laser light has the following properties: 1  The light released is monochromatic. 2  It contains one specific wavelength of light (one specific color). 3  The wavelength of light is determined by the amount of energy released when the electron drops to a lower orbit. 
A laser is different in three main ways: 1- The light emitted from a laser is monochromatic, that is, it only has one wavelength (color). Ordinary light on the other hand, is a combination of many different wavelengths (colors). 2- It is coherent, that is, the waves of light of the laser are in phase. Just like two sea waves when they are both at their maximum height, all waves of the light in a laser are exactly at the same amplitude, all time. 3- It is highly directional. Laser light is emitted as a narrow beam in a specific direction.
Laser light is monochromatic, directional, and coherent Monochromatic: The light emitted from a laser is monochromatic, that is, it is of one wavelength (color). In contrast, ordinary white light is a combination of many different wavelengths (colors). Directional: Lasers emit light that is highly directional. That is the only characteristic of laser light. Ordinary light has a bunch of light waves where the timing of the waves has no relationship from wave to wave, so it is not coherent. Let me touch on why what other people have said is not right.