Introduction. Actinomycosis is a rare type of bacterial infection caused by a group of bacteria called actinomycetaceae. Most bacterial infections are confined to one part of the body because the bacteria are unable to penetrate the body's tissue. Oral cervicofacial actinomycosis is where the infection develops inside the neck, jaw or mouth. In the past, if the condition developed in the jaw it was known as lumpy jaw. Most cases of oral cervicofacial actinomycosis are caused by dental problems, such as tooth decay or a jaw injury.
Actinomycosis is caused by a species of bacteria known as actinomyces, which live harmlessly in the lining of the mouth, throat, digestive system and women´s vagina. Unlike other infections, actinomycosis is able to move gradually and infiltrate the body's tissue, causing swelling and inflammation. Eventually there is tissue damage and scaring, pus-filled abscesses appear in the mouth, lungs, or gastrointestinal tract.
Actinomycosis is an infection primarily caused by the bacterium Actinomyces israelii. Infection most often occurs in the face and neck region and is characterized by the presence of a slowly enlarging, hard, red lump. Description. Actinomycosis is a relatively rare infection occurring in one out of 300,000(1/300,000) people per year. It is characterized by the presence of a lump or mass that often forms, draining sinus tracts to the skin surface.
Back to Top Causes. Actinomycosis is usually caused by an anaerobic bacteria called Actinomyces israelii, which is a common and normally not disease-causing (nonpathogenic) organism found in the nose and throat. Because of the bacteria's normal location in the nose and throat, actinomycosis most commonly appears in the face and neck. 
Actinomycosis is a rare type of infectious bacterial disease. Unlike other infections, actinomycosis is able to move gradually and infiltrate the body's tissue, causing swelling and inflammation. Eventually there is tissue damage and scaring, pus-filled abscesses appear in the mouth, lungs, or gastrointestinal tract.
Actinomycosis is primarily caused by any of several members of the bacterial genus Actinomyces. These bacteria are generally anaerobes. In animals, they normally live in the small spaces between the teeth and gums, causing infection only when they can multiply freely in anoxic environments. Actinomyces bacteria are generally sensitive to penicillin, which is frequently used to treat actinomycosis. In cases of penicillin allergy, doxycyclin is used. Sulfonamides such as sulfamethoxazole may be used as an alternative regimen at a total daily dosage of 2-4 grams.
Actinomycosis is an infectious bacterial disease caused by Actinomyces species such as Actinomyces israelii or A. gerencseriae. It can also be caused by Propionibacterium propionicus, and the condition is likely to be polymicrobial aerobic anaerobic infection. Actinomyces bacteria are generally sensitive to penicillin, which is frequently used to treat actinomycosis. In cases of penicillin allergy, doxycyclin is used. Sulfonamides such as sulfamethoxazole may be used as an alternative regimen at a total daily dosage of 2-4 grams.
Actinomycosis is a long-term infection that causes sores, or abscesses, in the body’s soft tissues. Actinomycosis is usually found in the mouth, nose, throat, lungs, stomach, or intestines. It rarely appears elsewhere in the body, but usually only if there is a break in the skin. 
MICROBIOLOGY. Actinomycosis is an uncommon, indolent, progressively invasive bacterial infection caused by organisms of the Actinomyces species, which are non-motile, filamentous, branching, gram-positive and predominantly anaerobic bacteria. 
Actinomycosis is a rare infectious bacterial disease caused by Actinomyces species. The majority of bacterial infections remain in one area of the body-the body's tissues stop the infection from spreading. In cases of actinomicosis the bacteria do gradually spread through tissue to other parts of the body. 