Regular or viscose rayon is the most prevalent, versatile and successful type of rayon. It can be blended with man-made or natural fibers and made into fabrics of varying weight and texture. It is also highly absorbent, economical and comfortable to wear. Regular viscose rayon does have some disadvantages. It's not as strong as many of the newer fabrics, nor is it as strong as natural cotton or flax.
It would depend on what made up the other 7% of the fabric. A fibre like lycra would cause the fabric to have stretch. If the garment is cut on the bias (with the grain of the … fabric running at a 45 degree angle to each part of the garment) that allows the garment to drape and stretch more. Also if the material is a knit (rather than a woven) it will have at least some stretch. 3 people found this useful.
· just now. Report Abuse. If it really is viscose rayon, it's probably labeled dry clean only -- and if you wash it, it's likely to turn into a limp rag. It may also stretch instead of shrink. See: http://www.apparelsearch.com/Education/O... If you want to make a piece of clothing more closely fitting, then alter it. 
More Info: Regular rayon is stretchy but can be produced to be less so during the drawing process of production. High-tenacity rayon fabrics are twice as strong as regular rayon and have two-thirds of the stretch. Medium tenacity rayon is also produced and though still stretchy, it is less that of regular rayon. 
Viscose is the name for a type of bio-based textile made from  regenerated cellulose fiber, using a wet-spin process. Viscose  fabric is a part of the rayon family. If a twill fabric has extra give so that it can expand (stretch), it is a stretch twill. Stretch twill often refers to the fabric having a small percentage of lycra/spandex in it, usually 2-4%. + 26 others found this useful. Lightning Dave.
It would depend on what made up the other 7% of the fabric. A fibre like lycra would cause the fabric to have stretch. If the garment is cut on the bias (with the grain of the … fabric running at a 45 degree angle to each part of the garment) that allows the garment to drape and stretch more. If a twill fabric has extra give so that it can expand (stretch), it is a stretch twill. Stretch twill often refers to the fabric having a small percentage of lycra/spandex in it, usually 2-4%. + 26 others found this useful. Lightning Dave.
Not as warm as wool, can irritate the skin. Viscose or rayon. Viscose is a viscous organic liquid used to make rayon and cellophane. Viscose is becoming synonymous with rayon, a soft material commonly used in shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear. Viscose rayon has a silky appearance and feel, breathable similar to cotton, inexpensive. 
Of all the fibers, rayon is probably the most perplexing to consumers. It can be found in cotton-like end uses, as well as sumptuous velvets and taffetas. It may function successfully in absorbent hygiene and incontinence pads and equally well providing strength in tire cords. It can be blended with man-made or natural fibers and made into fabrics of varying weight and texture. It is also highly absorbent, economical and comfortable to wear. Regular viscose rayon does have some disadvantages. It's not as strong as many of the newer fabrics, nor is it as strong as natural cotton or flax.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Viscose isnt stretchy, that is why the spandex was added. If you get the small it will likely cling to your torso so if you tend to wear close fitting tops then go for the small. Viscose does not shrink so getting a large could backfire in that throwing it in the wash wont make it any smaller. Good luck. Source(s): I am from a family of seamstresses.
Viscose is similar to rayon. Hand wash in cool water. Do not wring  it out. To remove excess water, wrap the article in a bath towel,  then remove immediately. Hang to dry. If a twill fabric has extra give so that it can expand (stretch), it is a stretch twill. Stretch twill often refers to the fabric having a small percentage of lycra/spandex in it, usually 2-4%. + 26 others found this useful. Lightning Dave.