Obelisk at Axum, Ethiopia. Niall Crotty. Aksum (also spelled Axum) is the name of a powerful, urban Iron Age Kingdom in Ethiopia, that flourished in the centuries before and after the time of Christ. The modern city of Aksum is located in the northeastern portion of what is now Ethiopia, on the horn of Afric
The Kingdom of Aksum or Axum, also known as the Aksumite Empire, was a trading nation in the area of northern Ethiopia and Eritrea pre-Islamic Arabs, which existed from approximately 100–940 AD. Covering parts of what is now northern Ethiopia and Eritrea, Aksum was deeply involved in the trade network between India and the Mediterranean (Rome, later Byzantium), exporting ivory, tortoise shell, gold and emeralds, and importing silk and spices.
Under Ezana (fl. 320–360) Aksum adopted Christianity. In the 7th century, early Muslims from Mecca also sought refuge from Quraysh persecution by travelling to the kingdom, a journey known in Islamic history as the First Hijra. Covering parts of what is now northern Ethiopia and Eritrea, Aksum was deeply involved in the trade network between India and the Mediterranean (Rome, later Byzantium), exporting ivory, tortoise shell, gold and emeralds, and importing silk and spices.
The town has a population of 56,500 residents (2010), and is governed as an urban waeraeda. Wäräda the original capital of The kingdom Of, aksum it is one of the oldest continuously inhabited places In. Africa axum was a naval and trading power that ruled the region from about 400 bce into the 10th. century Axum was the center of the marine trading power known as the Aksumite Kingdom, which predated the earliest mentions in Roman era writings. Around 356 CE, its ruler was converted to Christianity by Frumentius.
While most of the empire was west of the Red Sea in the Horn of Africa, at times Askum also held portions of the Arabian Peninsula to the east of the Red Sea. The kingdom covered much of the current day country of Eritrea as well as northern Ethiopia, Sudan, Yemen, and southern Saudi Arabia. 1 The city of Axum still exists in northern Ethiopia. 2  It is a fairly small city with a population of just over 50,000 people. 3  It is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in Africa.
The Kingdom of Aksum was an ancient kingdom of Africa. It is sometimes called the Kingdom of Axum or Ancient Ethiopia. 1 The city of Axum still exists in northern Ethiopia. 2  It is a fairly small city with a population of just over 50,000 people. 3  It is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in Africa.
The original capital of the Kingdom of Aksum, it is one of the oldest continuously inhabited places in Africa. Axum was a naval and trading power that ruled the region from about 400 BCE into the 10th century. Axum was the center of the marine trading power known as the Aksumite Kingdom, which predated the earliest mentions in Roman era writings. Around 356 CE, its ruler was converted to Christianity by Frumentius
Its ancient capital, also called Aksum, was in northern Ethiopia. The Kingdom used the name Ethiopia as early as the 4th century. It is also the alleged resting place of the Ark of the Covenant and the purported home of the Queen of Sheba. Covering parts of what is now northern Ethiopia and Eritrea, Aksum was deeply involved in the trade network between India and the Mediterranean (Rome, later Byzantium), exporting ivory, tortoise shell, gold and emeralds, and importing silk and spices.