Smoking cigarettes is by far the most common cause of emphysema. And emphysema is by far the most common cause of giant bullae in the lungs. There are limited cases of bullae appearing in the lungs as a result of bronchial illnesses from high air pollution levels, or occupational exposure to chemical fumes. On its way to becoming a giant bulla, however, the air pocket in the lung doesn’t show symptoms beyond what the patient is experiencing from the underlying emphysema. Symptoms from a giant bulla can include: 1  Pressure in the chest. 2  Difficulty drawing breath. 3  Soreness.
Pulmonary bullous disease occurs in association with emphysema, a gradual loss of elasticity in the lungs characterized by the enlargement of the internal air spaces. Pulmonary bullous disease involves the presence of what the Mayo Clinic calls holes in the normal lung tissue.
Diagnosis. Patients previously diagnosed with emphysema or fibrosis of the lungs present a risk of pulmonary bullous disease. Doctors use CT image scans of the chest to detect the presence of bullae in the lungs, looking for telltale signs--such as compression of surrounding lung tissues. Pulmonary bullous disease involves the presence of what the Mayo Clinic calls holes in the normal lung tissue.
Causes. Pulmonary bullous disease occurs in association with emphysema, a gradual loss of elasticity in the lungs characterized by the enlargement of the internal air spaces. This condition causes the lungs to lose their efficiency in expanding and contracting. Pulmonary bullous disease involves the presence of what the Mayo Clinic calls holes in the normal lung tissue.
Bullous lung disease Save this for later. 5. 5. Bullous lung disease, or bullous emphysema, is a long-term progressive disease of the lungs characterized by single or multiple bullae. Bulla is a blister more than 5 mm (about 3/16 inch) in diameter with thin walls that is full of fluid or air. Bullae on the pleura, the membrane that covers the lung, are also called blebs. Pulmonary bulla is a thin air sack filled with air and very fragile to burst
Penetration vs Aspiration. A Matter of Degree: When a bolus moves past the base of the tongue and downward into the pharynx during a swallow, the normal path is toward the esophagus. However, if the bolus enters the glottis (opening to the trachea) and moves as far as the vestibule above the true vocal folds, this is termed “penetration” . 
Idiopathic giant bullous emphysema. Dr Henry Knipe ◉ and Dr Bruno Di Muzio et al. Idiopathic giant bullous emphysema (or vanishing lung syndrome (VLS)) is characterised by giant emphysematous bullae, which commonly develop in the upper lobes and occupy at least one-third of a hemithorax. It is a progressive condition that is also associated with several forms of emphysema. 
Food bolus obstruction is most commonly caused by Schatzki rings, which are mucosal rings of unknown cause in the lower esophagus. Foodstuff jams into the esophagus due to the narrowing caused by the ring. 
Advertisement. Bullous lung disease is a lung disorder, which causes a patient to suffer from shortage of breath. It results due to the formation of bullae in the lungs of an individual. Bullae are thin-walled, air-filled cystic spaces that exceed 1 cm in diameter and are found within the lungs. The formation of bullae in the lungs may take a bad shape and result in dyspnea. Treatment. The first step towards the treatment of this disease is to quit smoking. Patients are asked not to indulge into sports or any such physical activity that could cause exertion.
 Pneumatocoele: space in the lung developing in association with acute pneumonia, usually staph, and usually transient.  Cavity: gas-containing space in the lung having a wall.  Cyst: thin-walled, air-or fluid-filled, with a wall that contains respiratory epithelium, cartilage, smooth muscle and glands.  Bleb: intrapleural cystic space, uncommon.