Red maple is one of the most abundant and widespread hardwood trees in North America (Figure 3.8). Probably no other species of forest tree, certainly no hardwood, can thrive on a wider variety of soil types and sites.
There are thirteen native maple species in North America (Table 3-1). While most of these species are probably tapped to some extent, at least by hobbyists, sugar and black maple, along with red maple (Acer rubrum), provide most of the commercial sap.
Sugar Maple (hard maple, rock maple) Sugar maple (Acer saccharum) is the most abundant of the seven maple species found in New York State, and is common throughout New England, the Lake States, Mid-Atlantic states, and several Canadian provinces.
Sugar maple is one of the first species to start stem elongation in the spring, and red maple starts only a few days later. In one study, red maple stem elongation was one-half completed in 1 week. Growth then slowed and was 90 percent completed in 54 days (27).
Q: I planted a Northwood red maple two years ago as a bareroot tree. The first year it seemed fine, but really didn't do much and the leaves seemed a little pale. This year the leaves opened, but are noticeably yellow with a thin line of green along the veins. Some of the leaves are turning brown.
Q: I have a variegated maple planted in my yard. We have had the tree for 10 to 12 years. About four years ago, it started getting a few solid green branches mixed in with the variegated ones. This year, three-fourths of the tree is solid green.
Its historical and economical importance, both in the production of maple syrup and as a timber species, has earned sugar maple its status as the official state tree of New York. The sugar maple leaf on the Canadian flag is evidence of this species' importance in Canada.
Distinguishing maples from other trees – opposite leaves and branches: All maple leaves and twigs come in pairs that are opposite each other on the branch. This is uncommon among native trees in the Northeast, where most trees have alternating leaves and twigs.
This entry was posted on July 14, 2015 by Chris Link. The maple tree root system is one of the most important factors to consider before planting a maple tree in a home garden. Different types of maple trees have different types of root systems.