Acrylates contain vinyl groups, that is, two carbon atoms double bonded to each other, directly attached to the carbonyl carbon. Acrylates and methacrylates (the salts and esters of methacrylic acid) are common monomers in polymer plastics, forming the acrylate polymers. Acrylates are the salts, esters, and conjugate bases of acrylic acid and its derivatives. They are also known as propenoates (since acrylic acid is also known as 2-propenoic acid). The acrylate ion has the molecular formula C H 2 =CHC OO − 
Acrylamide is a chemical that can form in some foods during high-temperature cooking processes, such as frying, roasting, and baking. Acrylamide in food forms from sugars and an amino acid that are naturally present in food; it does not come from food packaging or the environment. High temperature cooking, such as frying, roasting, or baking, is most likely to cause acrylamide formation. Boiling and steaming do not typically form acrylamide. Acrylamide is found mainly in foods made from plants, such as potato products, grain products, or coffee.
About ACRYLATES COPOLYMER: Acrylates copolymer is composed of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid building blocks. Function(s): Adhesive; Artificial Nail Builder; Binder; Film Former; Hair Fixative; Suspending Agent-Nonsurfactant; ANTISTATIC; BINDING; FILM FORMING. 1 products. tanning oil. 1 products. cuticle treatment. 1 products. Show all 1,822 recent products that contain ACRYLATES COPOLYMER. EWG provides information on personal care product ingredients from the published scientific literature, to supplement incomplete data available from companies and the government.
Ethyl acrylate is an organic compound with the formula CH 2 CHCO 2 CH 2 CH 3. It is the ethyl ester of acrylic acid. It is a colourless liquid with a characteristic acrid odor. It is mainly produced for paints, textiles, and non-woven fibers. It is also a reagent in the synthesis of various pharmaceutical intermediates.
Acrylates copolymer improve the absorption of surrounding ingredients into the skin (this is a negative quality when used in formulas that contains chemicals). Contains other chemical irritants such as dipropylene glycol, diethylene glycol, and dibenzoate. 
Use restrictions. About ACRYLATES/ C10-30 ALKYL ACRYLATE CROSSPOLYMER: This ingredient is a polymer of actylic acid and related chemicals. Function(s): Emulsion Stabilizer; Viscosity Increasing Agent-Aqueous; Viscosity Increasing Agent-Nonaqueous; EMULSION STABILISING; FILM FORMING; VISCOSITY CONTROLLING. Show all 1,206 recent products that contain ACRYLATES/ C10-30 ALKYL ACRYLATE CROSSPOLYMER.
gel. Acrylates are a family of polymers, which are a type of vinyl polymer. Acrylates are of course made from acrylate monomers, and it's about time we explained what those are. Acrylate monomers are esters which contain vinyl groups, that is, two carbon atoms double-bonded to each other, directly attached to the carbonyl carbon. 
Acrylates Copolymer is a general term for copolymers of two or more monomers consisting of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid or one of their simple esters. 