The hallmark of allergic bronchitis is a chronic, dry hacking cough, which can come on slowly or suddenly. Other common signs include: 1  Respiratory distress (difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, wheezing, dyspnea). 2  Open-mouth breathing. 3  Cough (dry, hacking). 4  Pale mucous membranes (blue-ish gums). 5  Lethargy. 6  Exercise intolerance. 7  Lack of appetite. 8  Weight loss. It usually includes wheezing and shortness of breath due to spasms and constriction of the large upper airways (the trachea and bronchi). Dogs, like people, can develop asthma, although in dogs the disorder typically is referred to as allergic bronchitis.
Canine asthma symptoms. The symptoms of asthma in dogs are very similar to the symptoms seen in humans. Symptoms will include wheezing, shortness of breath, rapid and shallow breathing, loss of appetite and lethargy. If your dog develops a bad case of Asthma during an episode the gums may appear purplish in color. Canine Asthma occurs when there is a spasmodic contraction of your dog or puppy’s bronchi. This condition can come on suddenly causing extreme distress including rapid or shallow breathing that can last for a few minutes at a time. This is a serious condition and in some cases it can be fatal.
Two typical symptoms that indicate a dog may have asthma are coughing and wheezing. The cough can be a dry cough, but sometimes the dog may cough up some phlegm. Coughing is usually triggered by excitement and exercise. In addition, dogs with asthma also show some of the following signs: 1  Sneezing. 2  Appetite loss. 3  Lethargy. 4  Weight loss. ( 5 In extreme cases) Dog's tongue or gums may turn blue.
Symptoms of Asthma in Dogs. The cough may or may not be productive and is often triggered and worsened by exercise and excitement. A coughing episode may also end up with gagging and retching. Wheezing is the result of a narrowing of the airways so that oxygen has to squeeze its way through. Common conventional treatment for asthma in dogs is the use of two classes of medications: Bronchodilators (theophylline, aminophylline, pentoxifylline, and terbutaline) and corticosteroids (prednisolone, prednisone, and methylprednisolone).
Please try again later. Symptoms of asthma in dogs include heavy breathing, panting, use of chest muscles to breathe, odd gum color and lethargy. Learn about treating an asthmatic dog with help from a staff veterinarian in this free video on dog health and pet care. Expert: Dr. James Talbott. 
About Signs and Symptoms of Asthma. Common signs and symptoms of asthma include: 1  Coughing. 2  Coughing from asthma often is worse at night or early in the morning, making it hard to sleep. 3  Wheezing. 4  Wheezing is a whistling or squeaky sound that occurs when you breathe. 5  Chest tightness. 6  This may feel like something is squeezing or sitting on your chest. 
Asthma in dogs, like human asthma, causes difficulty breathing and wheezing. The shortness of breath is because of constriction of the upper airways. 
Although some cases of asthma in dogs are preceded by infectious disease such as kennel cough, in most cases, asthma is an allergic reaction in the dog's airways triggered by some airborne pollutants and irritants, such as exhaust gas, cigarette smoke, house dust, pollens, and so on. Common conventional treatment for asthma in dogs is the use of two classes of medications: Bronchodilators (theophylline, aminophylline, pentoxifylline, and terbutaline) and corticosteroids (prednisolone, prednisone, and methylprednisolone).